responsibility annual report financials governance Purpose of the report Contents What responsibility means to us 3 The 2019 corporate responsibility report is a statement Targets and performance 5 of Elisa’s non-financial information. It is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards’ core We enable a safe digital environment 7 requirements. We act with empathy and promote equality 11 The assured report is part of Elisa’s annual report, and it is connected to the annual report, administration and Value for society 16 the financial statements. We promote smart use of resources 21 Global megatrends that influence Elisa’s business and Description of the report 24 the business model are described under Annual Review Independent Assurance Report 25 2019 in the annual report. Signatures to the corporate Elisa’s public commitments, policies and indexes can be responsibility and non-financial report 27 found on the corporate responsibility website. GRI index and GRI data 28 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY What responsibility means to us Elisa’s mission is a sustainable future through digitalisation. We use Macrotrends Ageing population The future of work digitalisation to resolve issues that are important to people, society Secure connected Sustainability Artificial world intelligence and sustainable development. These include safety, equality and determined action to help limit Customers Employees climate change. Stakeholders Partners and Public authorities Our vision is to become a model of excellence, and our suppliers strategy focuses on persistent development of the customer experience and quality. Our responsibility is based on our Shareholders NGOs strategy, values and business model. In our main market areas, Finland and Estonia, we are a critical part of the functioning of society. Our business segments are Consumer Customers and Corporate Customers, and we Code of Conduct serve more than 2.8 million customers. We provide digital Security policies Principles on purchasing Ethical principles for Artificial services of the future also on the international market. Ethics Intelligence Human rights policy Anti-corruption Conflict of Intrest Data Protection Principles Elisa Responsibility 2019 3 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Financial and environmental We can provide sustainable solutions for society and Digital responsibility Social responsibility responsibility a variety of industries. Our business model, based on unlimited data, clearly improves the opportunities of people We enable safe We act with empathy and We act responsibly, in Finland and Estonia to use digital services and improve digital environment for promote equality ethically and promote wise the competitiveness of their businesses. The established everyone resource usage pillars of corporate responsibility are social, financial and environmental responsibility. In addition to these, we have identified digital responsibility as a key part of our business, which is why we review it as a separate sector. We have been We co-operate with We do activities to We improve our energy providing reports on our digital responsibility since 2017. stakeholders to make digital ensure especially youth and effiency in networks and environment safe. senior people working environments. Together with our stakeholders, we have determined Elisa’s incluusion in digital key responsibility themes that allow us to help implement We increase awareness of environment. We use carbon free the UN Sustainability Goals (SDGs) either through our own digital safety. electricity. actions (footprint) or through services developed for our We support workforce customers and other stakeholders (handprint). We do co-creative service adaption to digital We make economic design to ensure accessible workplace. contributions to society and safe servicecs. through investments, taxes, Goals and performance 2019 We do responsible sales employment, sponsoring Responsibility is one of Elisa’s strategic goals and one of our and customer and charity. scorecard indicators. We have also determined corporate communication. goals and indicators for the different responsibility sectors, We recycle devices safely. which we report annually in our responsibility report. Elisa Responsibility 2019 4 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Targets and performance in 2019 Corporate citizenship Digital Social Trustworthy and human corporate Information security and privacy Responsible employer and personnel well-being citizenship Responsible customer communication Safeguarding functioning society, accessibility Ethical business and anti-corruption and ease of use of our services Sustainable supply chain Target: • We enable a safe digital environment for everyone • We act with empathy and promote equality • We act responsibly, ethically and promote wise resource usage Target: Performance: Target: Performance: 100% of Elisa employees have 98% share of employees in teams having Target year: Continuous Performance: 3.4/5 completed dataprotection training Target year: Continuous 67% employee satisfaction higher than ≥ 3.5 Target year: 2021 90% Target: Performance: 72% Economic Cyber security in relation to cyber Target: Performance: security index Customer satisfaction in relation to NPS 93% Sustainable value for the society Target year: Continuous (30) target Target: Target year: 2019 Elisa’s medium term financial targets Target: Performance: Reducing the number of disturbances Target: Performance: 71% Target year: 2021 All 100% of Elisa employees have Performance: www.elisa.com/investors Target year: 2020 conducted Code of Conduct trainings Target year: Continuous 63% Environmental responsibility and climate change mitigation Target: Performance: Target: Performance: Target: Performance: Development of sustainable supply Supply chain audits; CO2 emissions savings 96% subcontractor OHS reScience Based Target (SBTi) chain 100% Environment porting development (T1) Target year: 2019 Target year: Continuous Target year: 2025 Elisa Responsibility 2019 5 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Governance • Establishing an anti-bribery policy training programme Responsibility aspects and materialty analysis results are for our employees regularly discussed and approved by Elisa’s Corporate • Publishing a human rights policy as part of due diligence Responsibility Executive Board, Elisa’s Executive Board and • Renewing our whistleblowing channel the Board’s audit committee. Elisa’s Board of Directors • Aligning our compliance policies with Polystar after a approves and signs the corporate responsibility report. In company acquisition 2019, a representative of Elisa’s business in Estonia was added as a member of the Corporate Responsibility ExecuElisa was invited by FIBS to sign the CEO Guide to Human tive Board which met five times during the year. Materiality Rights from the World Business Council for Sustainable analysis results were reviewed in autumn 2019 in Elisa’s Development. This allows us to set an example to support Executive Board and Board’s audit committee. the promotion of responsibility for human rights in Finnish companies. In addition to the UN Global Compact, we have made the following international and national commitments: In 2019, our employees participated in Elisa’s responsibility • UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) development workshops, which were arranged in collab• Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) oration with universities in Finland and Estonia. The most • Commitment 2050 notable issues that came up included the importance of • Energy efficiency agreement responsibility to the employees, identifying with the company and committing to it, as well as the employees’ role in awareness among our employees about energy-saving ways In Finland, we are a member of the FIBS Pro programme communicating responsibility issues to external stakeholders, of working and participated in a quiz called Energiavartti. for active developers of sustainable business, as well as the and thus their input in the development of the company’s Our determined work to develop the quality of our work was Finnish corporate responsibility team of the International result. recognised with the Finnish Excellence Award from Excellence Chamber of Commerce and the Global Compact network in Finland in January 2019. For more information on stakeholder Finland. In addition, we have joined the Climate Leadership Development areas identified in the workshops included dialogue, corporate responsibility management, assessments Coalition (CLC). We are involved in an ICT and commuinternal communication about responsibility and engaging and external initiatives, please visit our responsibililty website. nications technology working group preparing a climate the employees. Members of Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility and environmental strategy, convened by the Ministry of Executive Board measured their own carbon footprints Risk management Transport and Communications. Furthermore, we engage in and committed themselves to personal actions to reduce Risk management, including the management of responsibility stakeholder dialogue through a variety of associations. All of their footprints, as well as challenged all elisians to reduce risks, is integrated into Elisa’s business and management. The our memberships are listed on the Elisa website. their own carbon footprints. In a video statement published key corporate responsibility risks are described separately for on United Nations Day, Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility each sector in this responsibility report. In 2019, we continued with our development actions based Executive Board demonstrated how the business functions More information on Elisa’s risk management can be found on our compliance program. The key actions were: can concretely promote the UN Sustainable Development in Elisa’s annual report’s Governance section and in Elisa web Goals. During Energy Saving Week in Finland, we increased pages. Elisa Responsibility 2019 6 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Digital responsibility We enable a safe digital environment for all For us, it is important to ensure that everybody can use digital services and stay safe in the digital environment. Our customers, legislation and our We verify the functionality and safety of the digital environment using a variety of means, business impose information security such as utilising the latest technology, maintaining our employees’ top-class expertise requirements, and information and continuously developing the security of our devices and services. security is a key part of our operations In our information security policy and safety management model, we define the and the quality of our services. principles, roles and responsibilities that we follow in the development, maintenance and monitoring of security and data protection. The policies in different sectors are binding on Elisa’s employees, on our subsidiaries and, via agreements, also on Elisa’s A variety of information security threats affect suppliers and subcontractors. all of our stakeholders, our customers, public organisations, companies and our employees. Privacy protection We have identified our information security and In our operations, we handle the personal data of our customers, employees, partners privacy protection risks, which include, in particular, personal and stakeholders. We offer them communication services, which is why data protection data leaks, phishing and information security breaches involving and confidential communications are of utmost importance in our operations. We personal data, as well as risks associated with the safety of guarantee a high level of data protection in all our operations. products and services. 7 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY We offer our customers an easy way to review what personal expanded to Cyber Security & Service Operations Center. In data about them we process. In 2019, Elisa received more 2015 we opened Elisa Cyber Security Centre for corporate than 16,000 personal data enquiries. Data protection customers. It is a service independent of operators and principles guide all the stages of all of our operations that device manufacturers and monitors the IT environments of require the processing of personal data. several major Finnish organisations 24/7. Over the course of the year, we reacted to 13,616 incidents, informing our Our employees and partners have received training on how customers when needed along with instructions on what to to take data protection into account in their work, and we do. are all obligated to process as confidential any information included in the scope of privacy protection. We maintain and We have anticipated the quickly growing number of cyberpromote the expertise of our employees through our Data attacks, such as Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks Protection Ambassador organisation and by means of data and vulnerabilities, by automating the management of our protection training, which is mandatory for all employees. cybersecurity environment. This has contributed to the We have developed our partners’ data protection operations successful reduction of disturbances in our network. in cooperation with them, utilising agreements, training and technical tools. We have continued to boost and improve security at the customer interface. We have been measuring malware We continued blocking child abuse material (CAM) in the Elisa found in customers’ devices since 2015 to assist in removing network. This procedure was introduced in 2018. In addition, malware from the digital environment. In 2019, we further we inhibit online piracy based on information security and improved our customers’ information security by introducing court rulings. Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC), which In addition to online courses, our employees receive training help to prevent domain name scams. through simulated phishing exercises, for example. Our Information security security training is aimed at improving our corporate safety Information security is a key part of our operations and We continued with our Bug Bounty programme, where we culture and the safety of our employees at work, as well as the quality of our services. We have obtained information give hackers the chance to search for vulnerabilities in our ensuring that we process customer data in compliance with security certificates for all of our key operations. This is an digital services. A total of 21 hackers who found vulnerabilities the law. indication of Elisa’s investments, expertise and commitment have been rewarded. We maintain up-to-date information to developing information security. security instructions on our customer service website. A total of 6,279 employees and partners participated in the simulation over the course of the year. According to As a pioneer in cybersecurity monitoring in Finland we We regularly arrange security and data protection training for the results, the ability of our employees to detect phishing established our internal CERT team back in 2004, and it has our employees and the partners involved in our processes. attempts is up to 40 per cent higher than the international average. Digital responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 8 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Developing network The introduction of 5G technology has given rise to concerns The digital environment offers major social and financial about the safety of mobile technology. Decisions made by opportunities for society. To take advantage of these Finnish and Estonian authorities on the use of technology opportunities, we need a continuously developing and are based on the results of international academic research. secure communication network. Elisa has an important role According to the research results, base stations do not in promoting both connections and services to its customers, exceed the limit values set for electromagnetic radiation. the authorities and other stakeholders. Elisa complies with all regulations from the Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) and other authorities. We also play a key role in ensuring the operational reliability of society in Finland and Estonia. We ensure compliance We cooperate closely with experts on electromagnetic fields with industry regulatory obligations and targets. Most of our and other operators in the industry, and we invest in careful investments are targeted at the functionality of our network, planning of the placement of our base stations. For more new technologies, energy efficiency and improved availability. information about network management and the safety of mobile networks, please visit our responsibility website. In 2019, we introduced the first 5G subscriptions and services to our customers in our mobile network. When constructing our network, we use micro-trenching, which speeds up the work and reduces the disturbance to residents and traffic. We ensure that all connections and services are functional by means of active 24/7 monitoring, prediction We increased automation of our fixed and elimination of faults, and network modifications. and mobile networks. Smart Elisa network incident management development Due to automation, there are significantly fewer disturbances automation allows us to decrease in the Elisa network, despite the fact that the traffic volumes capacity during periods of slow traffic. have increased many times over. According to the latest 300,000 90 75 This saves energy while retaining the statistics from the Finnish Transport and Communications 250,000 Agency (Traficom), there were 12 severe (class A) distur200,000 60 high service quality.” bances in Finnish communications networks, none of which 150,000 45 occurred in Elisa network. Proactive and comprehensive 100,000 30 customer communication about modifications and distur50,000 15 SIMON HOLMBACKA / data scientist bances is part of our way of working. 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incidents, pcs Preventive incidents, % Digital responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 9 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Services to society entertainment, information and communication services for In addition to automation, machine learning and artificial child patients in the New Children’s Hospital in Helsinki. Over intelligence (AI) offer huge opportunities to develop the course of the year, children used the apps and games operating models, the use of data, services and the service more than 140,000 times. The system’s chat feature was used experience. We have implemented more than 300 AI and in communication between healthcare professionals and automation projects to benefit our customers, society and families more than 30,000 times in the Family Nest Hotel of the environment. Helsinki’s Women’s Hospital. We are also developing solutions utilising AI for our Elisa’s certified Elisa Navitas system, which is connected customers through our digital management applications, to Finland’s Kanta patient information service, is used by the Elisa IoT platform, the Elisa Smart Factory platform and healthcare professionals to add information into new patient machine-to-machine interfaces. In order to learn, we are data systems, such as the Apotti system. Hundreds of continuously implementing pilot projects where we study, for thousands of patient records are retrieved with Elisa Navitas instance, opportunities to improve the user experience for each month. our customers with AI-based applications and services. For example, we ran a pilot project in collaboration with Estonian Digitalisation can also be used in helping to prevent social authorities on using AI and biometric identification to aid in exclusion. Elisa and the city of Turku have launched a project secure electronic identification. based on the opportunities offered by 5G technology, in which innovative services are being developed in cooperation With AI and digitalisation, Furthermore, we have identified the inherent challenges of AI with local companies. The first experiments included virtual we are better equipped to and introduced Elisa’s Ethical AI Principles, which are used in walks along the banks of the Aurajoki river for the elderly, the development of AI applications and in AI training. realised using 5G technology. face changes in our operating environment and threats, and In the field of health care, we have been providing digitalThe winner of a 5G hackathon arranged by Elisa and the city we will promote Elisa’s digital isation solutions to facilitate the everyday lives of patients of Turku was an app called Know Your Hood. The app can and healthcare professionals for a long time now. We be used to suggest new hobbies to young people in danger leadership as a provider of a provide positioning solutions to improve personal safety and of becoming socially excluded or to present the facilities and sustainable future and better condition monitoring, as well as entertainment, information services at local day-care centres to immigrant mothers, for services.” and communication solutions for hospital environments. example. We also provide remote monitoring services to improve By cooperating with the local associations of the Federation KARTIK SHARMA / data and analytics treatment and enable self-care. A practical example of these of Finnish Enterprises, we assist entrepreneurs in taking solutions is Elisa Monipalvelujärjestelmä, which consists of advantage of the opportunities provided by digitalisation to reach their goals. Digital responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 10 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility We act with empathy and promote equality For us, social responsibility means being fair and equal when interacting with our customers, employees and partners. By collaborating to develop services, Pioneer in changing working culture We are a pioneer in promoting a flexible way of working, which is a key part of our customer interaction and social projects, working culture: Elisa Ideal Work. Working life is continuously changing, and we we can make our work more effective. have identified the related effects on our employees, as well as challenges involving wellbeing at work and occupational health and safety. Flexible ways of working allow for alternation between work and free time. We We have a major impact on support this approach by means of varied, eco-friendly working solutions and society in Finland and Estonia. facilities. The changing nature of work requires continuous development, taking We employ thousands of care of your own wellbeing, trust, open interaction and clearly defined goals. professionals and work with our extensive network of Our management principles are based on shared values and targets, clearly defined international partners to serve our broad and diverse clientele. For goals and a training approach. Daily management and regular discussions between us, the key issues from the viewpoint of these stakeholders include supervisors and employees are key parts of management at Elisa. the protection of human rights, equality, diversity, good management, wellbeing at work, as well as occupational health and safety. We also participate in projects to prevent social exclusion. 11 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY As an indication of our good people management, the We continued to develop our diversity management We offer health care services to all our employees. Content development of our management culture and the promotion principles in our equality and non-discrimination workgroup. of health care services in Finland exceeds considerably the of flexible working solutions, the Estonian Human Resource Already in 2018, we dropped all questions regarding date of Finnish statutory occupational health care requirements. To Management Association PARE named Kaija Teemägi from birth and gender from our recruitment process to ensure support our employees in taking care of their wellbeing, we Elisa Estonia as Estonia’s most influential HR manager. that all applicants are treated equally. We invest in always offer varied sports and cultural activities, as well as training including diversity in our recruitment communications. and other activities. Equality We are engaged in persistent work to promote equality, and We developed our reporting on equality, and improved We want people to retain and develop their professional we are one of the world’s most gender-equal listed compaawareness of diversity among our employees, e.g. by skills when they are working at Elisa, and we take care of the nies. We are committed to the UN Women’s Empowerment involving personnel in diversity workshops arranged by FIBS. employability of our employees. For more information on Principles, and we signed up to the FIBS Diversity Charter in the support provided by Elisa during changes, please see the 2014. Safe working environment personnel review section of the annual report. Our employees and partners have the right to work in a Equileap’s Gender Equality Global Report and Ranking 2019 healthy and safe working environment. Hence, all of us are investigated gender equality in 3,000 listed companies in 23 responsible for the work community. Our employees can countries. Elisa was the second best among Finnish listed notify risks through risk announcement channel (Riski-imuri), companies, ranked 36th. We have consistently been close to which also works as one of the tools in development of the top of the top 100 since 2017. Elisa was also selected for working environment. the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) in 2019. Elisa personnel internationally We have a zero-tolerance approach towards workplace 31 December 2019, headcount We assess the achievement of our equality and non-discrimharassment and discrimination. We promote wellbeing at Finland 4,319 Germany 4 ination goals with an annual equality and non-discrimination work and occupational health and safety by means of daily Estonia 1,008 Singapore 12 survey. The result of the survey was 4.56 (4.52) on a scale of management and early intervention. We cooperate with our Spain 52 Italy 2 one to five. Almost 90 per cent of Elisa’s employees feel that partners and other companies in the industry to improve Great Britain 40 Norway 1 Elisa treats people equally and that they can be themselves occupational health and safety, particularly in maintenance Russia 9 Canada 8 at work. We promote an equal recruitment and working tasks related to data communication. France 5 USA 5 culture by, for instance, offering training to supervisors who Sweden 145 Australia 3 handle recruitment and by increasing awareness of the Hong Kong 3 New Zealand 1 culture of diversity. Social responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 12 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Voluntary work by Elisa employees Customer understanding provides better services Our employees continued with their active voluntary work. All In order to develop our services and operations, we Elisa employees have the option of doing voluntary work for continuously request feedback from our customers through one working day annually. customer satisfaction surveys. We also use regional panels operating in Finland. They consist of representatives of our Over the course of the year, Elisa employees volunteered at stakeholders and offer us valuable feedback for the developthe Walkers Cafes of Children of the Station (an organisation ment of our operations. helping to prevent marginalisation among Finnish young people), in events run by the Mannerheim League for Child A profound understanding of the needs of our diverse Welfare, at Sophie Mannerheim’s Shelter, at clothes sorting clientele is a prerequisite for the continuous development of stations run by Hope (an association providing help to our services, and for us to be able to react to the changing families) and assisting with arrangements for a Pride parade, needs of our customers. The current social changes impose for example. requirements on our services, products and communication at the customer interface. Such changes include multiculturI volunteered with Elisa employees also participated in a variety of ways in the alism due to globalisation, the ageing population, sustainarrangements for Red Nose Day: they could do voluntary ability requirements and the increasingly rapid changes in other Elisa employees work or use their Competitiveness Pact hours to answer media and communication services caused by digitalisation. at a Walkers Cafe. I have been phones and accept donations. doing voluntary work for two years In addition to privacy protection, the responsibility risks Our employees have the option of donating their birthday at the customer interface involve non-discrimination, now, thanks to the spark initiated and work anniversary bonuses to charity. In 2019, the the availability of services and customer communication, by my employer.” donations went to the Tukikummit Foundation and Hope. including erroneous or insufficient communication. A Christmas drive where Elisa employees could purchase Successful customer interaction and secure services that are a present for a child or young person named by the assoeasy to use are key issues when developing the customer SAKU SEPPÄLÄ / development manager ciation was arranged again together with Hope. For more experience. Key themes in 2019 included quick service, the information on the activities of the personnel in 2019, please see the personnel review section of the annual report. Social responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 13 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY functionality and reliability of Elisa’s network, sufficiently fast Key goals in our service design include easy access to connections, suitable products and pricing, caring for existing services, accessibility, security, profitability and experiences. customers and ensuring easy commissioning of services. We aim to design services based on the needs of the most challenging customer in order to ensure that the services are We developed our operating models at the customer accessible to everybody (Design for All). interface by simplifying access to our services and expanding our expertise in customer interaction. We introduced an We regularly assess the ways in which customers use our AI-based chat feature. Combined with personal service, the services and analyse the challenges of a multi-channel chat feature allows us to reduce waiting times for customers. service environment (phone, online, stores). We obtain more Elisa OmaYhteisö is a discussion forum – a place where you information and increase our understanding by, for example, can ask for help and help others. interviewing customers of different ages (18 to 70+) at our stores to allow them to participate in the development of our The remote support feature of our Omaguru service offers services. our customers assistance in setting up and troubleshooting all of their devices. Our new shared store concept allows In 2019, we conducted an accessibility survey to develop our us to better serve our consumer and corporate customers. OmaElisa service. On the basis of the survey results, we will Furthermore, we have reduced the proportion of temporary improve accessibility, navigation and the colour palette of workers by transferring some functions back to Elisa. the service. The positive development was reflected in our customer satisfaction indicator NPS (Net Promoter Score). Due to defects detected in telesales we implemented Elisa’s NPS improved yet again from the previous year to 28.0 corrective actions at the beginning of 2020 to ensure that (25.4). all customer contacts are conducted according to the Elisa Code of Conduct and company values. Social responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 14 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Collaboration increases effectiveness We were involved in the World Summit of Students for Participating in social dialogue is important for Elisa. We Climate by offering the event special online connections are engaged in persistent work towards the wellbeing of and by broadcasting the launch of the students’ Climate young people, in particular. Our 2019 campaign #aidostiminä Action Plan live on Elisa’s YouTube channel and on Facebook. (“truly me”) was a continuation to the #sananvastuu (“take Sponsoring the event was a way to concretely support young responsibility for what you say”) campaign we started in 2018. people from all around the world when they were meeting in The goal is to start a discussion on the fact that everybody is Finland to help curb climate change. good enough as they are, also in the digital world. We have been a partner of Red Nose Day, a charity for More than 2,000 children have already studied the wonders children, for eight years now. We offered connections for of the digital world and learned the basics of programming donation calls and text messages for the main Red Nose Day at our digital schools, which were held at 12 locations this event and donated EUR 10 for each phone sold during the year. We expanded the digital school idea to senior citizens day to the charity. by events were arranged at Elisa Kulma, for example. We encourage girls to study technology and science (the STEM We continued our cooperation with Guides and Scouts of subjects) by, for instance, offering students the opportunity Finland by means of management training with the theme to do their thesis or practical training at Elisa. We also of responsibility. We participated as a trainer in a leadership sponsored a Soroptimist International Girls’ Day at the event and a value-based leadership programme arranged by Finnish Science Center Heureka. Guides and Scouts of Finland. Elisa Kulma We work in close cooperation with Children of the Station We were involved in a campaign on online empathy, Empatiaa nettiin, which challenged all Finns to prevent online in central Helsinki was to help prevent young people from being marginalised. We also have a major role in the operations of ShedHelsinki. harassment and make the web a more empathetic place. transformed into Red Read more about our social projects from our responsibility In ShedHelsinki’s Christmas musical, almost a hundred young people between the ages of 8 and 21 participated yet website. Nose Corner for a week in again in the preparation of a musical theatre performance. November. Yle and the Red We donated tickets to the musical to Hope ry. Instead of sending season’s greetings by post, we donated money to Nose Foundation arranged live ShedHelsinki. programme. Social responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 15 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Financial responsibility Value for society We develop services for the future through international research and cooperation By operating in a responsible and profitable manner, we provide value with startups. for Finnish society in many ways. Investments, employment, the taxes we pay and the dividends we pay to Financial effects 2019 (2018), EUR million our owners, as well as payments to our partners, increase financial wellbeing. Net Sales 1,844 (1,832) As a Finnish company, Elisa has a key role as part of society in our main market areas, Finland and Estonia. Continuous improvement of the customer Suppliers and Salaries Dividends and Corporate Capital experience and quality is a key part of our corporate partners paid interests taxes paid expenditure culture. investments Increasing productivity, expanding our digital services internation868 320 301 68 256 ally and creating value with data, as well as our strong investment (890) (311) (288) (66) (254) capability, enable the creation of value, of which a major part is redirected to benefit society. 16 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Largest operator investor in Finland Important producer of Finnish cultural content We are the largest Finnish operator investor, and we develop Nowadays, we are one of the most important producers, vital data communication infrastructure in Finland and financiers and distributors of Finnish TV series. Elisa Viihde Estonia for the growing needs of the digitalising society. publishes unique, original Finnish series, which have received 5G several international awards and have been sold to dozens We annually invest some 12 per cent of our revenue in of countries. These original series are available in Aitio, the networks and services. In 2019, our capital expenditure Elisa Viihde streaming service. investments totalled EUR 256 (254) million. In 2019, we launched four new TV series and three new in 13 cities We also made major investments in our new digital services. seasons for already existing series. In 2019, our calculated The focus areas of our digital service business utilise the cultural footprint amounted to some EUR 40 (40) million capabilities of our vital business functions and offer us an (including direct content purchases, mainly from Finnish opportunity to aim for international growth. . parties, and payments to producers, authors and copyright organisations). Financial responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 17 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY We employ people and pay our taxes in Finland we are one of the most important payers of corporate Elisa is Finland’s ninth largest We directly employ thousands of people in Finland and income taxes in many locations. Elisa paid EUR 68 (66) million internationally. In 2019, we paid EUR 320 (311) million in in corporate income tax (according to the confirmed tax data taxpayer. By paying taxes salaries and social security expenses. for 2018). and other public levies, we The taxes paid and accounted for by us in 2019 totalled EUR We are compliant with all laws and regulations by paying participate in the development 457 (439) million. Our share of all the corporate taxes paid by direct and indirect taxes in all our operating countires. In of society as a whole. telecom operators in Finland is 71 per cent (according to the Estonia, which is part of our main market area, companies confirmed tax data for 2018). only pay corporate income tax if they pay dividends to their owners. Elisa’s subsidiaries in Estonia have not paid any Elisa’s profit has a nationwide impact, as the municipal share dividends to the parent company. of corporate income tax is divided among municipalities based on how many employees work in each municipality. More than 40 per cent of the corporate income tax we pay goes to almost 40 municipalities outside the Helsinki metropolitan area. Due to our extensive network of offices, Elisa’s capital expenditure 2019 Elisa's taxes EUR million 13 13 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 300 215 255 2019(* 246 254 256 250 236 2018 193 202 191 196 204 200 2017 183 190 150 101 102 94 100 65 66 68 50 19 20 22 16 16 10 0 Corporate Value-added tax Income tax and Statutory Public fees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tax withholding tax employer’s social insurance payments and Capital expenditure, EUR million other taxes CAPEX/revenue, % *)Unconﬁrmed tax information 2019 Financial responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 18 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Finns also benefit from Elisa’s profits in the form of dividends. conditions and labour law, environmental issues, bribery, Elisa has some 180,000 owners, more than half of which are human rights and compliance. Finnish households and institutions. Our largest owner is Solidium Oy, a company owned by the Finnish state. In 2019, In 2019, we joined the international Joint Audit Cooperation we paid EUR 1.75 (1.65) per share or a total of EUR 280 (264) (JAC) of telecom operators. The JAC aims to improve responmillion in dividends to our owners. sibility and transparency in supply chains by means of social and environmental responsibility audits and supply chain Responsible procurement and partnerships audits performed in accordance with jointly specified criteria. Responsible purchases and procurement are an important part of our responsibility work. We work with close to 5,700 The JAC and our local procurement office in Hong Kong suppliers and subcontractors. Most of them are from the EU, promote the management of supplier relations, our auditing but some are from outside the EU. Most of our purchases capability and our knowledge of the industry’s best supply involve electronics or devices, network construction equipchain responsibility practices. ment and a variety of services. A total of 116 responsibility audits were performed during the Responsible A key part of Elisa’s purchases goes to our comprehensive year, one by our self and 115 as part of JAC cooperation. The procurement is network of suppliers and subcontractors. Out of 80 per cent audits did not lead to any partners being rejected. No severe of purchases come from Finland. In 2019, we paid EUR 868 faults requiring immedient actions were observed during being developed by members of (890) million in fees to our suppliers and subcontractors. the audits. Development targets involved e.g. occupational JAC by means of sharing social health and safety, working time entries and pay. Monitoring responsibility audit results in a joint In responsibility issues related to procurement, we have of related development actions will take place in accordance identified risks associated with social problems, such as child with the JAC operations model. service, reviewing development labour, poor working conditions and forced labour. Particular areas together and, above all, environmental risks include excessively high manufacturing We use subcontractors in building networks in Finland engaging in development work emissions and the processing of waste. Business ethics risks and Estonia. We manage and improve occupational health involve corruption, in particular. and safety practices and working conditions together with together with suppliers and the our subcontractors among all by using supplier portal. In community.” In high-risk countries, we have performed corporate Finland, we collaborate with other parties in the industry responsibility audits for new suppliers, covering the issues to improve guidelines and regulations. Over the course of specified in Elisa’s general Code of Conduct, ethical procureSUSANNA KRAFT / procurement director ment principles and human rights policy, such as working Financial responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 19 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY the year, 41 accidents took place during construction and Renewal through startup partnerships maintenance by our main partners. These accidents led to New innovative startups will reshape the future. At Elisa, 57 days of absence from work. For more information on we have been pushing the limits of this change and have the management of responsible procurement and Elisa’s launched many innovations together with startups. ethical procurement principles, please see our responsibility website. In 2019 we had more than 100 ongoing partnerships with startups. With the aim of having business that benefits both International research cooperation parties, we can be an early-phase customer or distribute We believe that successful and sustainable services and startups’ products or services through our sales channels. digital society can be built through collaboration between startups and academia. Elisa’s newest startup partners highlight Elisa’s commitment to sustainability and social responsibility. We were the In 2019, we started active cooperation with a programme first to launch on the market a smartphone based on run by the Finnish Center for Artificial Intelligence. The goal ethical sourcing. Created by a social enterprise startup is to use high-class research to realise the world’s best AI which designs and produces smartphones with minimal solutions, which are a critical part of our business. environmental impact. Elisa and a 360 virtual reality startup were also together creating virtual riverside walks in Turku Elisa has always been interested – and will continue to be in for elderly people with poor mobility. the future – in cooperation with international research teams to promote a variety of academic practices that may be Further Elisa is committed to being an approachable and significant for Elisa’s goals and vision. agile partner for all startups. We continuously collect feedback from startups and over 67% of those we met are In addition, through the HPY Research Foundation, we promoting Elisa as a potential partner to other startups. Our support scientific research, teaching and development work Net Promoter Score, which measures startup satisfaction, in telecommunications technology, telecommunications and and whether or not they would recommend our services to data communications. By 2019, the HPY Research Foundation other startups, increased to 57.6 (1-100), which is the highest had granted a total of EUR 1,078,710 in scholarships, result in our history. mainly to researchers preparing dissertations and theses at different universities. The library of the HPY Research With the launch of commercial 5G, Elisa has focused on Foundation consists of 126 dissertations and theses. partnering with startups to build 5G services. The annually run Elisa Co-Creation Challenge kicked-off with startups mapped out their 5G plans together with Elisa. Now Elisa has built new 5G services with 13 startup partners. Solutions range from virtual reality broadcast with quality of human eye resolution to remote diagnosis during surgery. Financial responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 20 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility Elisa's carbon footprint Energy eﬃciency of tCO₂ mobile data transfer kWh/GB We promote smart Our consumption of energy to transfer 9,480 13,142 use of natural mobile data has been 4,811 5,544 4,806 0.6 resources 0.5 on the decrease for the 0.3 0.2 0.2 past five years. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our persistent environmental responsibility work focuses on The mediumand long-term climate risks that have the most impact on our climate and energy. We promote operations involve, in particular, the reliability of our services as extreme weather the achievement of a carbon-neutral conditions become more common. We have taken these risks into account by, for instance, ensuring a stable supply of electricity and considering floods caused by society. We are committed to the heavy rainfall when planning our production operations. climate targets of the Paris Agreement Elisa’s actions to help curb climate change and to becoming carbon-neutral The ICT industry is a key player in the mitigation of climate change and in making the during 2020. operating methods of society more environmentally friendly. As services become digital, we can reduce traffic emissions and optimise logistics and production in terms of the use of energy and raw materials. This will allow us to use resources more We offer sustainable digital services that assist smartly and be part of the circular economy. On the other hand, digitalisation will our customers in using natural resources in a enormously increase the volume of data used. Elisa’s main market areas, Finland and smarter and more climate-friendly manner. In Estonia, are already some of the top countries in terms of the use of data. addition to helping to curb climate change, work to reduce the impact of climate risks and to increase resilience The use of 5G technology enables the transfer of a larger volume of data in mobile is important. networks. Even though new, modern devices are clearly more energy-efficient than 21 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY old ones, the growing volume of data will increase the Results of the persistent work can be seen demand for energy. We are continuously working to make Thanks to new technology and the optimisation of our our use of electricity more efficient and to use new, more mobile networks, we have clearly increased the effectiveness energy-efficient operating methods. Furthermore, all of the of our electricity consumption: we have reduced the electricity we use comes from renewable sources in both electricity consumption per data bit by approximately 65 per Finland and Estonia. cent (from the level of 2015). We are committed to aiming for carbon neutrality during We continuously optimise and renew our network, and 2020 by continuing our persistent energy efficiency work, we purchase zero-emission energy to minimise our own and by emission compensation (Reducing deforestation with carbon footprint. Our carbon footprint (Scopes 1 and 2) has improved cook stoves in Uganda project, Gold Standard). decreased by approximately 63 per cent since 2016. Elisa was one of the first Finnish companies to determine its We continued modernising our mobile network equipment goals in compliance with the requirements of the Science to increase the energy efficiency of the networks, and we Based Targets initiative. It has been confirmed that the goals improved utilisation of their electricity saving potential. We have modernised are in line with the goals agreed at the UN Climate Change base stations and Conference in Paris. Our target is to reduce 50 per cent of By utilising waste heat from data centres in district heating our energy consuption carbon footprint by 2025 (from the and by using district cooling to cool our facilities, we can improved the energy efficiency of 2016 level). promote the circular economy and smarter use of resources. our networks.” In addition to the recovery of waste heat from our data So far, a total of fifteen Finnish companies have committed centre in Espoo and our head office, we started a recovery to the Science Based Targets. They have set, or are in the project in Säteri. We have also implemented updates to our KAUR PÄRNA / head of site operations process of setting, science-based emission reduction targets lighting systems to improve our energy efficiency. and maintenance, Elisa Estonia for themselves. Elisa is one of the leading companies, with the most ambitious targets in line with limiting warming to Our employees can influence their own emissions and 1.5°C. Elisa’s emissions as a whole by making smart choices when commuting, travelling on business and having their lunch. We have signed the Finnish energy efficiency agreement. Elisa Ideal Work enables both efficient travelling and the reduction of emissions. Elisa employees worked remotely for 53 days and participated in 431,285 virtual conferences. Environmental responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 22 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY In the Helsinki metropolitan region, we tested the use of Services for customers to help curb climate change In 2019, we were the first Finnish operator to introduce a city bikes for commuting in an attempt to reduce the use We assist our customers in reducing their CO2 -emissions mobile phone that takes into account environmental and of private cars. We also studied how we could increase the by offering services that help our customers act effectively social effects throughout the product lifecycle (Fairphone). amount of responsibly sourced raw materials in our lunch and in an environmentally friendly manner. Elisa Videra’s For several years now, we have offered device repair restaurants and launched a campaign together with our virtual interactive services allow our customers to reduce services to our customers. Furthermore, we sell recycled service provider to promote more sustainable eating at our their travel time. With Elisa Automate, network devices of our smartphones. We encourage our customers to recycle their lunch restaurants. operator customers will not remain on unnecessarily and phones through the Elisa Kapulanvaihto practices, where waste electricity. Elisa Smart Factory allows our customers to we provide them compensation for their device and recycle We annually report our carbon footprint with the CDP improve the energy and material efficiency of their operating the device in a secure manner, either to be reused or to be questionnaire aimed at international investors. We achieved units. delivered to a WEEE point for recycling. Our sales personnel a result of Ain the CDP climate change assessments. are provided with additional training on recycling. Thousands of companies from all around the world particiSustainable devices, recycling and other environpate in the annual CDP climate reporting. mental effects We also provide recycling instructions and motivation A significant part of the ICT industry’s environmental impact through our updated video tutorials. See how you can comes from the manufacture of devices. As a service recycle: provider, we can reduce the environmental effects caused • Recycling used electronic devices by devices by, for instance, paying attention to sustainable • Recycling used phones device solutions, by promoting the repair and reuse of devices, as well as by effectively and appropriately recycling We generate waste when we build and maintain our used devices. networks, offices and stores. We reuse and recycle equipment together with service providers to reduce the volume of waste generated. We handle our liability obligations as a producer in cooperation with the ICT Producer Co-operative and Finnish Packaging Recycling RINKI Ltd. For more information on the calculation basis of Elisa’s CO2 -emission indicators and environmental policy. Environmental responsibility | Elisa Responsibility 2019 23 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description of the report Elisa’s annual report consists of four parts: the financial The starting point for the reporting is the same scope as for The previous reports are available at www.elisa.com/ statements, annual review, corporate governance statement the financial reports (the Elisa Group). For some indicators, investors. Prior to 2013, we compiled an index describing and responsibility report. The annual report is published the scope has been limited due to a lack of reliable inforresponsibility measures based on the GRI’s sustainable in Finnish and English at www.elisa.com/annualreport. The mation. Any deviations from the limitations are indicated in development reporting guidelines in 2011 and 2012. The different sections can be downloaded as interactive PDF files. connection with the indicators. We will continue to develop publication date for the 2019 report is 11 March 2020. the coverage of our reporting in these respects. The financial This is Elisa’s seventh assured responsibility report, published information is from the consolidated financial statements, Contact information as part of the annual report. The responsibility report is also and it complies with IFRS accounting principles. a statement of Elisa’s non-financial information. This report Elisa Corporation has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: With regard to environmental indicators, the most significant Ms Minna Kröger Core option, and the Nasdaq Nordic ESG Reporting Guide environmental effects of the parent company and its Director, Corporate Responsibility has also been taken into account when preparing the report. subsidiaries have been calculated in accordance with the GRI tel. +358 50 572 7620 The reporting period is the calendar year 2019. The Global guidelines. The calculation of carbon dioxide emissions is minna.kroger@elisa.fi Reporting Initiative index for 2019 is part of this report. based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). The figures for Scope 3 are reported Sustainabile business Elisa’s management has decided to have the responsibility according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain https://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/ report assured by a third party. The 2019 corporate responstandard. The reporting of Scope 2 emissions takes into sibility report is assured by KPMG Oy Ab. The assurance account GHG Protocol Scope 2 instructions. For a description Investor Relations covers the responsibility section of Elisa’s 2019 annual report. of the calculation method, please see our corporate https://corporate.elisa.com/investors/investor-relations/ The reporting of key aspects covers all of the business units responsibility website. With regard to personnel, figures for and subsidiaries included in Elisa’s consolidated financial both the parent company and subsidiaries are included. statements: Consumer Customers, Corporate Customers, Structural changes in the Group are presented in more detail Production, Support Services and the subsidiaries. in the annual report. The responsibility report is published annually. Elisa Responsibility 2019 24 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Independent Assurance Report to the Management of Elisa Corporation This document is an English translation of the Finnish (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as assurance report Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by appropriate. These procedures included for example: the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board • Interviews with members of Elisa’s senior management; We were engaged by the Management of Elisa Corporation IAASB. That Standard requires that we plan and perform the • An assessment of conformity with the reporting (hereafter “Elisa”) to provide limited assurance on corporate engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the principles of GRI Standards in the presentation of the responsibility information presented in Elisa’s Annual Corporate Responsibility Information is free from material Corporate Responsibility Information; Report’s Responsibility section (hereafter the Corporate misstatement. • Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing Responsibility Information) for the year ended Dec 31, 2019. the Corporate Responsibility Information; KPMG Oy Ab applies International Standard on Quality • An assessment of data management processes, Management’s responsibilities Control ISQC 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive information systems and working methods used to The Management of Elisa is responsible for the preparation system of quality control including documented policies and gather and consolidate the Corporate Responsibility and presentation of the Corporate Responsibility Information procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Information; in accordance with the reporting criteria GRI Sustainability professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory • A review of the presented Corporate Responsibility Reporting Standards, and the information and assertions requirements. Information with an assessment of information quality contained within it; for determining Elisa’s objectives in and reporting boundary definitions; respect of sustainable development performance and We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Account• Assessment of data accuracy and completeness through reporting, including the identification of stakeholders ants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board a review of the original documents and systems on a and material issues; and for establishing and maintaining for Accountants IESBA, which is founded on fundamental sample basis and; appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence • A site visit conducted to one of Elisa’s sites. is derived. and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engageOur responsibilities Procedures performed ment vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance A limited assurance engagement on Corporate Responsibility than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work Information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance performed. We conducted our assurance engagement on responsible for the preparation of information presented engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that the Corporate Responsibility Information in accordance in the Corporate Responsibility Information, and applying would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements engagement been performed. Elisa Responsibility 2019 25 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Inherent limitations Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the selective testing of the information being examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the assurance engagement is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. Helsinki, 11 March 2020 KPMG OY AB Toni Aaltonen Tomas Otterström APA Partner, Advisory Elisa Responsibility 2019 26 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial report Helsinki, 5 March 2020 Anssi Vanjoki Clarisse Berggårdh chairman of the board Petteri Koponen Leena Niemistö Seija Turunen Kim Ignatius Antti Vasara Veli-Matti Mattila CEO Elisa Responsibility 2019 27 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY GRI content index and data GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Investors/ Financial report 2019/Publications/Accounting Elisa Corporation x principles. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual report 2019; Elisa in brief; brands: Elisa, Elisa Elisa Corporation x Saunalahti, Elisa Videra, Elisa Santa Monica, Elisa Automate and Elisa Smart Factory. 102-3 Location of headquarters Basic information on the Group. Elisa Corporation x 102-4 Location of operations Annual report 2019; Elisa responsibility 2019/ Social Elisa Corporation x responsibility/ Equality, p.12. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Investors/ Shareholder structure. Elisa Corporation x 102-6 Markets served Investors/2019 Financial statements. Elisa Corporation x 102-7 Scale of the organization Investors/2019 Financial statements. Elisa Corporation x 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Elisa responsibiliy 2019; GRI data. Elisa Corporation x 102-9 Supply chain Elisa responsibility/Social responsibility/Partners; Elisa Elisa Corporation x responsibility 2019, Responsible procurement and partnerships, p.19. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Investors/2019 Financial statements. Elisa Corporation x 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Investors/ Risk management and control; Elisa responsibility/ Elisa Corporation Foundation, Risk management; Corporate Governance Statement 2019, III Descriptions of internal control procedures and main reatures of risk management systems, p.13. 102-12 External initiatives Elisa responsibility/Policies and guidelines; Indecies and Elisa Corporation commitments. 102-13 Membership of associations Elisa responsibility/Stakeholder dialogue. Elisa Corporation 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Annual report 2019, CEO's review. Elisa Corporation x 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Elisa responsibility 2019, Responsibility at Elisa, p.6., Digital Elisa Corporation x responsibility, p.7., Social responsibility p.13., Environmental responsibility p.21., Financial responsibility, p.19.; Corporate Governance Statement 2019, p.13.; GRI data. Elisa Responsibility 2019 28 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact 3. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Elisa Oyj/On Elisa/Code of conduct; Elisa values. Elisa Corporation x 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Elisa Oyj/Code of Conduct/Whistleblowing. Whistleblow Elisa Corporation x -channel taken into use during 2019. Reporting under development. 4.Governance 102-18 Governance structure Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Management and targets, Elisa Elisa Corporation x Oyj/Investors/Governance structure; Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Governance structure, p.5. 102-19 Delegating authority Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Management and targets, Elisa Elisa Corporation x responsibility 2019, p.4. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Elisa responsibility 2019, p.6. ;Elisa responsibility/Foundation/ Elisa Corporation x Management and targets; Elisa Oyj/Investors/Governance structure, Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Governance structure, p.5. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Stakeholder dialogue; Elisa Elisa Corporation x responsibility/Social responsibility/Customer interaction. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Elisa Oyj/Investors/Governance structure; Corporate Elisa Corporation x Governance Statement 2019, Governance structure, p.5.; GRI 102-22 omission (vii.). 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Elisa Oyj/Investors/Governance structure; Corporate Elisa Corporation x Governance Statement 2019, Governance structure, p.9. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Elisa Oyj/Investors/Governance structure; Corporate Elisa Corporation x Governance Statement 2019, Governance structure, p.4.; GRI 102-24 omission (iv.). 102-25 Conflicts of interest Elisa Oyj/ Investors/ Governance/Insider and related party Elisa Corporation x policy; Corporate Governance Statement 2019, p.14. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Charter of the Board Elisa Corporation x of Directors, p.7.; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.6. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Governance Elisa Corporation x structure, p.3., General meeting, p.4.; GRI 102-28 omission (d.). 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Elisa Oyj/Investors/Governance/Risk management and control; Elisa Corporation x Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Corporate Governance Statement 2019/ Auditing committee, p.7.p.8. Elisa Responsibility 2019 29 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Statement 2019, III Descriptions Elisa Corporation x of internal control procedures and main features of risk management systems, p.13.; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.36.; Elisa responsibility/Environmental responsibility; Elisa Oyj/Investors/Risks; Investors/investor facts/ sustainable investment. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Management and targets; Elisa Elisa Corporation x responsibility 2019, p.6. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Elisa responsibility 2019, Signatures to the corporate Elisa Corporation x responsibility and non-financial report, p.27. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Elisa Oyj/Code of Conduct/Whistleblowing. Whistleblow Elisa Corporation x -channel taken into use during 2019. Reporting under development. 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Remuneration Elisa Corporation x statement, p.16. p.20.; GRI 102-35 omission (a.iii. v., b.). 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Remuneration Elisa Corporation x statement, p.4.,p.8., p.16. p.20.; GRI 102-36 omission (b., c.). 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Corporate Governance Statement 2019, Remuneration Elisa Corporation x statement, p.16.; GRI 102-37 omission (b.). 5. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Stakeholder dialogue; Key Elisa Corporation x topics and stakeholders. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI data. Elisa Corporation x 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Stakeholder dialogue; Key Elisa Corporation x topics and stakeholders. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Stakeholder dialogue; Elisa Corporation x Customer interaction. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Stakeholder dialogue; Elisa Corporation x Customer interaction; Partners. 6. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Elisa responsibility 2019, Elisa Corporation Description of the report, p.24. 102-47 List of material topics Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Material issues, Stakeholders, Elisa Corporation GRI data. 102-48 Restatements of information Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation Changes to previous year reporting noted with relevant indicator. Elisa Responsibility 2019 30 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact 102-49 Changes in reporting Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation 102-50 Reporting period Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation x 102-51 Date of most recent report Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation x 102-52 Reporting cycle Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation x 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Elisa responsibility; Elisa responsibility 2019, Reporting and Elisa Corporation x contact information, p.24. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24. Elisa Corporation x 102-55 GRI content index Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24., GRI Elisa Corporation x content index, GRI data. 102-56 External assurance Elisa responsibility 2019, Independent assurance report, Elisa Corporation x Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial report. TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH (GRI 103, 2016 standard) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Elisa responsibility 2019, Description of the report, p.24., Elisa Elisa Corporation responsibility/Foundation/Material issues; Stakeholders; GRI index. 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components; Evaluation of the Elisa responsibility/Foundation. management approach Indirect economic impacts, DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Financial responsibility; Elisa Corporation x Research and development; Management and targets. Energy, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Elisa Corporation x Management and targets. Emissions, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Elisa Corporation x Management and targets. Products and services, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Elisa Corporation x Management and targets. Effluents and waste, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Elisa Finland x Management and targets. Compliance, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Responsibility at Elisa; Code of Elisa Corporation x Conduct. Marketing Communications , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Social responsibility/Customer Elisa Corporation x interaction ; Digital responsibility/Ease of use; Management and targets. Customer privacy, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation, Management and targets; Elisa Corporation x Digital responsibility/Data security and privacy; Targets and performance. Elisa Responsibility 2019 31 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact Customer Health and Safety , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Digital responsibility/Extensive Elisa Corporation x and safe network and services; Elisa responsibility 2019, Digital responsibility, p.7.p.9. Employment, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Responsible employer; Targets Elisa Corporation x and performance. Diversity and Equal Opportunity , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Responsible employer; Targets Elisa Corporation x and performance. Occupational Health and Safety , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Responsible employer; Elisa Corporation x Personnel review; Targets and performance. Training and Education , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Elisa annual review, Personnel Elisa Corporation x review; Targets and performance. Non-discrimination , DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Responsible employer; Elisa Elisa Corporation x Oyj/On Elisa/Code of conduct; Targets and performance. Security Practices, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Data security and privacy; Elisa Corporation x Targets and performance. DMA, Anti-corruption Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Partners ; Elisa Oyj/On Elisa/ Elisa Corporation x Code of conduct; Anti-corruption and bribery policy; Targets and performance. Public Policy, DMA Elisa responsibility/Foundation; Stakeholder dialogue; Elisa Elisa Corporation x Oyj/On Elisa/Code of conduct. GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 201, 2016 standard) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI data. Elisa Corporation 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change GRI data. Elisa Corporation GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (GRI 203, 2016 standard) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI data; Elisa responsibility/ Digital responsibility; Elisa Elisa Corporation responsibility 2019, p.7., p.8., p.9. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts On Elisa/Research and development; Elisa responsibility/ Elisa Corporation Extensive and safe network and services. GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (GRI 205, 2016 standard) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Elisa responsibility/Foundation/Policies (public policy); GRI Elisa Corporation x data, training partly reported. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI data. Elisa Corporation x Elisa Responsibility 2019 32 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact GRI 302: ENERGY (GRI 302, 2016 standard) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x 302-3 Energy intensity GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Finland x 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x GRI 305: EMISSIONS (GRI 305, 2016 standard) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation, more x detailed definition in indicator. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI data; Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019. Elisa Corporation x GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (GRI 306, 2016 standard) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI data; Elisa responsibility/Environmental responsibility; Elisa Finland x Elisa responsibility/Environmental responsibility/Recycling and other environmental impacts. Elisa has used its own waste breakdown. 306-3 Significant spills GRI data. Elisa Finland x GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (GRI 307, 2016 standard) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI data. Elisa Corporation x GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (GRI 401, 2016 standard) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover GRI data. Elisa Corporation x 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI data. Elisa Corporation or part-time employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 403, 2018 standard)1 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation safety. Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12., p.19. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12., p.19, GRI 403-2 omission (b.-d.). 403-3 Occupational health services Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation health and safety safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12. Elisa Responsibility 2019 33 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Description Name Scope UN Global Compact 403-6 Promotion of worker health Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly Elisa responsibility/Responsible employer; Wellbeing and Elisa Corporation linked by business relationships safety; Elisa responsibility 2019, p.12.; GRI 403-7 omission (a. products or services and related hazards and risks) 403-8 Workers covered by and OHS management system (%) GRI data; Elisa is reporting this indicator in its own way; GRI Elisa Corporation 403-8 omission (a. ii.iii., b.c.) 403-9 Work related (occupational) inuries.Type of injury and rates of injury, GRI data; GRI 403-9 omission (a. iv.v., b. iv.v., c.d., f.g.). Elisa Corporation occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender. 403-10 Work related (occupational) diseases. GRI data; GRI 403-10 omission (a.iii, b.ii.iii, c.e.). Elisa Corporation 1 Elisa is developing reporting GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (GRI 404, 2016 standard) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI data. Elisa Corporation x 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Elisa annual report/Personnel review. Elisa Corporation 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career GRI data. Elisa Corporation x development reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (GRI 405, 2016 standard) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GRI data. Elisa Corporation x GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION (GRI 406, 2016 standard) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI data. Elisa Corporation x GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES (GRI 410, 2016 standard) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI data. Elisa Finland x GRI 414 SUPPLY CHAIN1 414-1 414-1 Suppliers that were screened using social criteria GRI data. Elisa Finland 414-2 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI data. Elisa Finland 1Elisa reports these indicators its own way. Elisa joined JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) operators in September 2019. JAC audits (115) in addition to own audits (1). Correction actions JAC (567), own (17). GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY (GRI 415, 2016 standard) 415-1 Political contributions GRI data. Elisa Corporation x GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 416, 2016 standard) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of GRI data. Elisa Corporation products and services GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI data. Elisa Corporation GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (GRI 418, 2016 standard) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and GRI data,GRI 418-1 omission ( a.i., b.,c.). Elisa Corporation losses of customer data Elisa Responsibility 2019 34 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Economic responsibility indicators 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2017 2018 2019 Net sales, EUR million 1 1,787 1,832 1,844 Suppliers and partners 881 890 868 Personnel remuneration 304 311 320 Dividends and interests 263 288 301 Taxes and other public obligations 65 66 68 Capital expenditure investments 2 246 254 256 Taxes, EUR, million3 408 439 457 Corporate tax 65 66 68 Value-added tax 215 236 255 Income tax and withholding tax 94 101 102 Statutory employer’s social insurance payments and other taxes 19 20 22 Public fees 16 16 10 1 Incl. financial incomes 2 Capital expenditure investments differs from GRI definition.Investments excluding shares, licenses and rental agreements (IFRS 16) 3 Corporate tax based on Local GAAP, final amount will be confirmed by tax decision. Elisa Responsibility 2019 35 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Risk Description Impact assesment Risk management/opportunity International agreements The New Paris agreement strive for limit average temperature Estimated cost for Elisa of carbon pricing is EUR 100,000-200,000. We have set Science based target, which is in line with Paris to 1.5°C and to update national targets every five years to keep Estimated implications are less than 1% of operational costs agreement´s targets. We use renewable energy so that our raising ambition customers could use lowcarbon connections. We have also signed Commitment 2050 and are involved in Finland’s energy efficiency agreement. Fuel/energy taxes and Changes caused either directly or indirectly by climate change in Average electricity price is expected to grow 18% by 2030 Elisa has group wide energy efficiency working group which regulations the taxation of electricity, taxation of transmission of electricity compared to 2010 levels mainly due regulation e.g. requirements manages energy and CO2emission saving activities. and any possible carbon dioxide tax concerning renewable energy production shares. 18% increase in Elisa´s electricity cost is about EUR 5.4m. General environmental The European Commission has introduced The European Green It will potentially increase the need for even more detailed We are constantly working on better measurement and regulations Deal – a roadmap which evaluates and changes, in case needed, measurement and monitoring of energy consumption. This also calculations, using renewable energy and we have set more climate and/or energy regulation. Finnish national Climate change adds pressures to more ambitious carbon target setting and ambitious middle – and long term target to reduce our carbon act provides for climate policy planning system and monitoring carbon pricing. footprint.We aim at carbon neutrality during 2020 with energy the achievement of climate change goals. The taxonomy by efficiency actions and emission compensations (scope1, scope 2, European Commission and Parliament is a tool for sustainable commuting and business travels). financing and investment and will have an impact on investors preferences. There will most probably be more new regulation related to greenhouse gas reduction. Extreme weather phenomena Climate change causes extreme weather phenomena that are a The increase in the number of disruptions causes higher Elisa has in place a real-time, comprehensive monitoring threat for Elisa's mobile networks. Storms cause power failures personnel costs and costs incurred in replacing broken system for network disturbances. This enables identification of and interruptions in Elisa's services. Impacts of climate change equipment.Estimated costs are based on one actual severe disturbances and rapid repairs.We are estimating that demand globally might as well bring general uncertainty in countries where disruption event. Cost may vary from 200,000 to EUR 2m, for real-time measurement and monitoring services will increase Elisa operates. depending on overall circumstances. in the future. Changes in average Rising average temperatures and heat waves will increase the Costs will increase due to the increased electricity consumption Elisa has a data centre in Espoo and center of Helsinki, that uses temperature need for cooling in Elisa's telecommunications and data centres incurred from investments in cooling devices.We estimate heat loss energy generated by the data centre servers for district and facilities. that the implication could be about 1% growth in electricity heating in the region. We have increased our heat loss energy consumption which equals about EUR 96,000 (EUR 35/MWh). usage also in our office environments. Growing environmental Climate change increases the environmental awareness of Elisa's The risk impacts to the demand of Elisa´s services. According to Elisa's services make it possible to build a lower carbon society. awareness of our stakeholders stakeholder groups. Reporting to stakeholders is increasing, as Sustainable Brand Index report 2019 36% of the consumers are Growth in Elisa's business such as virtual services business and are the requirements for climate-friendly operations. willing to pay 10% more for sustainable products and services. If other ICT -services may also create new business. For example Elisa fails to take advance of that potential, that could result 3.6% our new Elisa Automate, Elisa Smart Factory and Elisa Videra decline in future consumer business revenue (approximately EUR business can bring means for our customers to reduce their own 10.7m/quarter). carbon footprint. Elisa Responsibility 2019 36 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 2017 2018 2019 Capital expenditure, EUR million1 246 254 256 CAPEX/revenue, %2 13 12 12 1) Investments are mainly commerical investments 2) 2019 figure does not include rentals nor shares Social responsibility indicators Own indicator : Mobile works solutions and CO2 savings in Elisa 2017 2018 2019 Virtual meetings 1 268,586 289,380 431,285 Distance working days/person/year 2 75 72 53 Carbon dioxide savings (tCO2) 5,606 6,338 5,708 1 Calculation changed, includes MS Teams meetings 2 Calculation changed in 2019 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes No incidents in 2019. 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes No incidents in 2019. Investigation of one incident started in the beginning of 2020. 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data One regulatory body request for clarification which have been responded in 2019. Elisa Responsibility 2019 37 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 102-8 Total Number of Employees by Employment Contract, Employment Type, Region and Gender 2017 2018 2019 Personnel in total, 31.12.2019 5,152 5,468 5,617 Permanent contract 5,008 5,335 5,515 Finland 4,009 4,236 4,267 Estonia 888 989 962 Other countries 111 110 286 Men 3,283 3,572 3,773 Women 1,725 1,763 1,742 Temporary contract 144 133 102 Finland 70 85 52 Estonia 71 46 46 Other countries 3 2 4 Men 80 65 50 Women 64 68 52 Fulltime employees 4,291 4,464 4,553 Finland 3,302 3,427 3,377 Estonia 888 936 908 Other countries 101 101 268 Men 2,773 2,924 3,045 Women 1,518 1,540 1,508 Part-time employees 861 1,004 1,064 Finland 777 895 942 Estonia 80 99 100 Other countries 4 10 22 Men 590 713 778 Women 271 291 286 Elisa Responsibility 2019 38 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 102-41 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 2017 2018 2019 78% 77% 76% 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region1 2017 2018 2019 New employee hires 1,396 1,517 1,264 Finland 1,123 1,138 964 Estonia 232 338 249 Other countries 41 41 51 Men 989 1,034 882 Women 407 483 382 Under 30 years 843 976 898 30-39 years 415 357 216 40-49 years 98 138 106 Over 49 years 40 46 44 Terminated employments 1,433 1,418 1,267 Finland 966 1,095 958 Estonia 400 310 269 Other countries 67 13 40 Men 863 883 829 Women 570 535 438 Under 30 years 832 851 745 30-39 years 316 256 278 40-49 years 164 165 133 Over 49 years 121 146 111 1) Elisa has reported the indicator its own way: Empolyee turnover is missing. Elisa Responsibility 2019 39 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Based on collective agreements our occupational health, insurance, parental leave or pension benefits are not dependent on the duration or part-time nature of employment. 403-8 Workers covered by an OHS management system Percentage (%)1 2017 2018 2019 1 Elisa is reporting this indicator in its own way. Share (%) of employees coverd by OHS management system is reported. 98% 98% 95% 403-9, 403-10 Work related (occupational) inuries and ill-health. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender1 1 2019 reporting is based on GRI OHS2018 standard. (2018 and previous years used GRI OHS2016 standard.).Used1000 000 working hours (rate). 2017 2018 2019 Injury rate (IR) Finland Commuting injuries 8.0 6.2 6.6 Working time injuries 3.9 4.5 5.1 Estonia Commuting injuries 0 0 0.6 Working time injuries 0 0 0.6 Other Countries Commuting injuries 6.3 0 2.7 Working time injuries 0 5.7 2.7 Lost day rate (LDR) Finland 98.1 39.6 27.2 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Occupational diseases rate (ODR) Finland 0.2 0 0 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Elisa Responsibility 2019 40 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Absentee rate (AR) Finland 3.7% 2.6% 2.6% Estonia 7.8% 6.2% 6.6% Other Countries 0.5% 0.1% 0.2% Commuting reported injuries 48 40 44 Finland 47 40 42 Estonia 0 0 1 Other Countries 1 0 1 Contractors 0 Work time injuries (reported) 23 30 34 Finland 23 29 32 Estonia 0 0 1 Other Countries 0 1 1 Contractors 39 Occupational diseases (reported) 1 0 0 Finland 1 0 0 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Lost day incidents 72 34 23 Finland 72 34 23 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Contractors 57 Absentees 50,416 42,193 39,704 Finland 32,055 26,435 25,010 Estonia 18,258 15,743 14,609 Other Countries 103 15 85 Elisa Responsibility 2019 41 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Work related severe injuries 0 0 0 Finland 0 0 0 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Contractors 2 Work related fatalities (due to injuries or occupational ill-health) 0 0 0 Finland 0 0 0 Estonia 0 0 0 Other Countries 0 0 0 Contractors 0 Note! Main contractors covering >80% of telecom network maintenance contracting in Finland and Estonia. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 2017 2018 2019 Gender Men 9 19 8.1 Women 9 20 10.6 Gender not reported N/A N/A 0.4 Employee category Senior management 9 35 5.2 Middle management 15 17 13.7 Other employees 7 19 8.1 404-3 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 76% 70% 79% Men 2,282 2,508 2,850 Women 1,304 1,340 1,421 Senior management 124 121 150 Middle management 754 802 887 Other employees 2,708 2,925 3,234 Elisa Responsibility 2019 42 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 2017 2018 2019 Elisa's Executive Board 10 10 11 Women 2 2 2 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 3 3 2 Over 49 years 7 7 9 Board of Directors 7 7 7 Women 3 3 3 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 1 1 1 Over 49 years 6 6 6 Management teams of business units 75 84 85 Women 27 33 31 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 11 10 6 40-49 years 37 46 42 Over 49 years 27 28 37 Managerial board for corporate responsibility 9 9 11 Women 4 4 6 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 1 2 1 40-49 years 5 4 6 Over 49 years 3 3 4 Breakdown of personnel by gender Men 65% 67% 68% Women 35% 34% 32% Elisa Responsibility 2019 43 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Breakdown of personnel by age Under 30 years 26% 26% 30% 30-39 years 31% 33% 25% 40-49 years 25% 24% 18% Over 49 years 18% 17% 27% HUMAN RIGHTS 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents in 2019. 410-1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the oraganization´s human right policies or procedures that are relevant to operations All security personnel working permanently in Elisa (100 %) have conducted statutory training according to Finnish law and in addition they have been trained to Elisa Code of Conduct. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2017 2018 2019 Code of conduct training (share of employees who have conducted training). 72% 65% 63% 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No confirmed incidents in 2019. SUPPLY CHAIN1 2017 2018 2019 414-1 Suppliers that were screened using social criteria n/a n/a 116 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken n/a n/a 584 1 Elisa reports these indicators its own way. Elisa joined JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) operators in September 2019. JAC audits (115) in addition to own audits (1). Correction actions JAC (567), own (17). SOCIETY 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary No political contributions in 2019. Elisa Responsibility 2019 44 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY Environmental reponsibility indicators 102-11 Whether and How the Precautionary Approach or Principle is Addressed by the Organization The precautionary principle has been taken into account in accordance with statutory requirements. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (GJ, gigajoule) 2017 2018 2019 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Usage of diesel and petrol 2,174 1,830 5,275 Usage of oil 3,596 4,264 4,088 Total direct energy consumption 5,770 6,094 9,363 Purchased renewable energy 0 0 0 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Electricity 963,845 1,053,189 1,160,177 Heating 53,331 48,434 51,797 Cooling 23,977 41,233 41,588 Total indirect energy consumption 1,041,153 1,142,856 1,253,563 Renewable energy (electricity)1 901,620 975,600 975,600 Total energy consumption within organization2 1,046,923 1,148,950 1,262,962 1 Hydropower 2 More information and calculation principles: Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclusure 2019 302-3 Energy intensity1 2017 2018 2019 Mobile networks electricity consumption per transferred Gigabyte (kWh) 0.3 0.2 0.2 1 Figures have been revised retrospectively to year 2017 Elisa Responsibility 2019 45 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 302-4 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (GJ, gigajoule)1 2017 2018 2019 Ideal work office spaces (electricity and heating) 56,830 71,176 16,621 Reuse of server generated heat (electricity) 18,669 41,234 41,588 Energy efficiency in mobile networks (electricity) 23,666 29,946 27,240 Total 99,164 142,356 85,449 1 Additional information Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019 at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 305-1 and 305-2 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2)1 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1, Direct greenhouse gas emissions 409 433 650 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, market based 4,402 5,111 4,156 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, location based 71,225 68,957 71,701 1 Additional information Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019 at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility Elisa Responsibility 2019 46 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 305-3 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2, tonnes of carbon dioxide)1 Sources of Scope 3 emissions 2017 2018 2019 Description: Figure includes Purchased good and services 73,431 72,991 85,447 Relevant, calculated Elisa Corporation and Elisa Videra: Purchased products to sell and services Capital goods 35,631 30,797 39,901 Relevant, calculated Elisa Corporation and Elisa Videra Purchased basestations and other network equipments Fuel-and energyrelated activities 3,146,3 3,134 3,480 Relevant, calculated Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia: Emissions of fuel production of electricity used Upstream transportation and distribution 1,022 680 209 Not relevant, calculated Transportation of goods to Elisa and to our customers Waste generated in operations 683 720 772 Not relevant, calculated Elisa Finland waste and sewage water Business travel 1,201 1,194 2,659 Relevant, calculated Elisa Employee commuting 3,186 4,523 2,180 Relevant, calculated Elisa Upstream leased assets, 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Consumption in rented sites is calculated in Scope 2. provided Upstream transportation 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, Elisa is not selling transportation services provided Processing of sold product 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, no processing of products provided Use of sold product 8,211 7,886 12,450 Relevant calculated Energy consuption of customer´s devices.Electricity consumption of services is reported in Scope 2. End-of-life treatment of sold products 305 306 344 Relevant calculated End of life treatment of Elisa´s sold products Downstream leased assets 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Consumption of leased operators is calculated in Scope provided 2. We purchase renewable electricity. Franchising 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, no franchising provided Investment 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, no significant investment and financing provided activities, investments in production reported separately. Total 126,816 122,231 147,442 1 Additional information Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019 at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility Elisa Responsibility 2019 47 RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GRI INDEX AT ELISA RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 and 2 emissions per revenue (KgCO2/EUR) 0.003 0.003 0.003 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)1 2017 2018 2019 Emission reductions in own operations 1 112,400 113,193 88,349 Ideal work solutions, scope 3 5,606 6,338 6,084 Emission savings in mobile network, scope 2 2,268 2,670 1,640 Use of renewable energy, scope 2 2 104,526 104,185 80,625 1 Additional information Elisa energy and CO2 -emission disclosure 2019 at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 2 Hydropower 306-2 The overall weight of waste by type and disposal method (tonnes)1 2017 2018 2019 Total waste amount 2 1,017 1,070 1,014 Hazardous waste2 177 208 242 WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment)2 302 339 302 Recycling % 99% 94% 98% Recovery % 0.7% 1.9% 0% Landfill % 0% 0.7% 0% 1 Elisa has used its own waste breakdown 2 Amounts not available for Elisa Estonia 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills No spills in 2019. 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No non-compliances in 2019. Elisa Responsibility 2019 48
