Message of Continued Support to Global Compact Little did we imagine that the Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak that started in Wuhan, China in December 2019 would turn into a global pandemic, disrupting the economy and taking away the lives of thousands of people around the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30th January 2020 and recognized it as a pandemic on 11 th March 2020. Dealing with Covid-19 has become a tough test for all us. The pandemic is not only testing our medical care capacity, strength of our governance, endurance of our society and the capacity of our economy but also individual will and perseverance. The pandemic will pose many more challenges in the months to come. Covid-19 will also force everyone to confront profound questions of human existence. Questions of wrong and right are expected to bother us too. What is right and what is wrong? What can individuals expect from society and what can society expect from them? What can employees expect from their organisations and what can the organisation expect from them? Is it right to set an economic limit to fight this war? There will be a great sense of unease everywhere for a greater period of time. Markets worldwide have crashed and helicopter money from the central banks is being poured into the system to negate the terrible economic forecasts associated with this pandemic. It is highly likely that the world will slip into a recession. We are staring at a situation, where both demand and supply will shrink. Businesses, cutting across sectors, will shrink. Consumers will curb all discretionary spending. This will set off another chain of problems. For our country, the single largest worry could be job losses and its socio-economic impact. The lockdown period has impacted us hugely and our understanding of its economic and social impact is limited by only initial data. We can state with reasonable confidence that we will have a ‘disrupted’ economy for the next six months to one year or may be even more. The slowdown is going to be across sectors and the visible impact will be strong on the financials. We have to be prepared for difficult times ahead and have to work very hard towards reconstruction of the economy. As a Company we are resilient and are putting in that extra effort and going that extra mile to ensure safety of our employees and business continuity, our top two priorities at this juncture. Our Company has contributed Rs 1,28,25,899.00 to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. Balmer Lawrie allocated Rs 1 crore from its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Fund and the rest of the amount was voluntary contribution of one day’s salary by the employees of the Company. Our Communication of Progress (COP) report for the year 2019-20 captures our endeavours and accomplishments in furthering our sustainability objectives. We furthered the various initiatives in line with the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and Skill India Mission. The Swachh Bharat activities were particularly focused on banning single use plastic. As a member company of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOPNG), Govt. of India, we contributed Rs 300 Lakh for the Skill Development Institutes (SDIs) at Ahmedabad, Rae Bareilly, Guwahati, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Bhubaneswar. We will continue to focus on our triple bottomline, while we proactively work towards restoration of the economy and thereby ensure sustenance and growth of our businesses and the organisation. Prabal Basu Chairman & Managing Director Pg. 1 of 22 Communication on Progress (CoP) Report – 2019-20 This Report on Communication of Progress (COP) represents our assessment and perspective on the manner in which the principles of Global Compact have been taken forward in our organisation through various initiatives. The accompanying statements attempt to capture the achievements vis-à-vis the principles pursuant to the actions taken during the past, including the year under report, in brief. For more details, please contact the Corporate Communications Department at the Company’s Corporate Office or send an email to corpcomm@balmerlawrie.com Principles Relating to Human Rights Principle # 1 & 2: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights / Not be complicit in human right abuses Balmer Lawrie remains committed to uphold and strives to further the cause of human rights in all aspects of its business and ensures that neither the Company nor any of its business partners indulge in any human rights violation or are complicit in any human rights abuse in any manner. The various actions taken and the status are as under: • The Company has duly constituted Internal Committees (as per the Prevention of sexual harassment of women at the workplace Act) at the Corporate Office and the Regional offices, which can be approached by women employees in case of any harassment. The Internal Committees hold quarterly review meetings. • The Company has constituted committees to ensure that the employees are able to work in a positive atmosphere free from physical or psychological threat, abuse or sexual harassment. The committees meet periodically to identify and address issues, if any, that are of concern. • The Company does not, as a matter of principle, deal with any party with history of human rights abuse. • The Company consciously works towards the development of the society at large and provides financial support for community development projects. These include programs aimed at ameliorating the problems of the socially and economically downtrodden and the weaker sections of the society and improve their social and economic status. • All legal and statutory obligations towards employees, shareholders, clients, customers, associates and the society at large are complied with. Periodic audits are undertaken and reports on compliance are submitted to the Board of the Company. Action Taken Reports (ATRs) against Non-Compliance Reports (NCRs) are also reported to and reviewed by the Board. Principles Relating to Labour As reported in the previous COPs, Balmer Lawrie recognizes and respects the dignity of labour and strives to ensure that there is total freedom of association and no discrimination whatsoever in matters of employment. The Company provides safe and healthy working conditions, pays competitive wages much above the minimum levels and at times best in the industry / region that it operates in, and provides the best of health care and other welfare Pg. 2 of 22 facilities to its employees. In all matters pertaining to labour, it follows conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation. Further, it abides by all regulatory provisions governing the employment in the organisation and strives to enhance the quality of work-life of its employees. To be more specific, the present status, including the actions taken, is detailed in the ensuing paragraphs. Principle # 3: Uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • The Company strongly believes in and supports the employees’ right to association. As of now, there are 6 Unions and 1 Association representing different sections of employees in the Company. • Settlements on terms and conditions of service of unionized employees are arrived at through the process of collective bargaining. All the commitments made to the collective are implemented in letter and spirit. • In the previous COP it was reported that Balmer Lawrie Workmen’s Union signed the Long Term Settlement (LTS) with the Management of the Company on 14th November, 2017 towards their Pay Revision effective 01st January, 2014 for a period of 5 years. Balmer Lawrie Employee’s Union, CCDC signed the LTS with the Management of the Company on 23rd October, 2017 towards their pay revision effective 01 st April, 2014 for a period of 5 years. The LTS of LI, Mumbai was signed on 6th July 2017 in Mumbai, the LTS of the Establishments in Chennai and Bangalore was signed on 23rd April 2018 and the LTS of Establishments in Delhi was signed on 11th September 2018. • The Company continues to follow the policy of non-discrimination of bargaining agents based on political affiliation or any other extraneous considerations. Principle # 4: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour • Employment in the Company is on free volition of the employees. No form of forced or bonded labour exists or is allowed. • Employees are free to terminate the contract of employment by giving notice as stipulated in their appointment letters. • All forms of employment are governed by Letters of Appointment / Engagement and are subject to acceptance by the prospective employees. Principle # 5: Abolition of Child Labour • The Company policy does not permit employment of any person below the age of 18, directly or through contractor, in any of its businesses. To ensure this, the age of all candidates for employment is verified at the time of recruitment and recruitment rules ban employment of persons below 18 years. • It also does not buy goods/products from agencies that use child labour. Principle # 6: No Discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • The Company does not practice any form of discrimination or bias in matters related to hiring of employees, their career planning, training and development, promotion, transfers, or on remuneration and perquisites. All sections of employees, including women, are given equal opportunities and the Human Resource Policy is to advance the cause of meritocracy and foster development of employees, including learning and growth. Pg. 3 of 22 • The Company does not practice any discrimination, in matters relating to recruitment, compensation, promotion, training on the basis of religion, caste, region, political affiliation or sex, excepting positive discrimination in hiring of employees to give effect to constitutional guarantees for socially backward / underprivileged groups like SC / ST / OBC / Minorities / Persons with Disability. • In all recruitments where there are candidates from SC / ST / Minority communities, the Selection Committee has a member from the said community to ensure that the interest of these communities is safeguarded. Principles Relating to Environment Principle # 7: Environmental Protection The Company gives highest priority to protect the environment. Towards this end, precautionary measures have been put in place with regard to storage, collection and disposal of hazardous wastes. Recycling of water is being done in various plants to minimise water consumption. LED lights and energy efficient machines are installed in the plants and establishments to minimise our carbon footprint. • The Silvassa plant of SBU: Industrial Packaging (IP) installed a RO System to process and reuse the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) treated water in the drum manufacturing process. This has reduced water consumption of the plant significantly. • Water-based grease is being used in the manufacturing processes of IP Manali, Chennai, which helps in reducing generation of hazardous waste in the plant. • IP Manali, Chennai recollects and reuses paint sludge thus, reducing the generation of hazardous waste. Separate area for hazardous waste storage at IP – Taloja • IP Taloja, Navi Mumbai has constructed a separate area for storage of hazardous waste in the plant. Pg. 4 of 22 Thermal label printing at G&L – Manali, Chennai • At G&L Manali, Chennai, for labelling lubricant drums / packaging, screen printing has been replaced with thermal label printing thereby reducing the usage of solvent inside the plant. Principle # 8: Promoting greater environmental responsibility • G&L Silvassa replaced 12 nos. of 800W lamps at the High Mast Lighting tower by 350W LED lights. With this initiative, carbon emission was reduced by 19T and power consumption was reduced by 23650 units approximately. 33 trees have also been planted in the factory premises, as a green initiative. • G&L Manali (Chennai), G&L – Silvassa and G&L Kolkata installed Occupancy Sensors to automatically control office lighting. Fume Extraction System at IP – Silvassa • IP Silvassa installed a new Fume Extraction System, which improves the plant air quality significantly. • At IP Silvassa, productivity improvement and significant improvement in operational efficiency have reduced electricity consumption by 3%. This in turn has reduced the carbon footprint of the plant. Pg. 5 of 22 LPG being used as fuel in baking oven at IP – Kolkata • IP Kolkata replaced HSD by LPG as fuel for its baking oven and this has reduced the energy consumption of the plant significantly. • CFS Navi Mumbai, IP Taloja (Navi Mumbai), G&L Manali (Chennai), G&L Kolkata, IP Kolkata, IP Chittoor, Temperature Controlled Warehouses (TCWs) at Hyderabad and Patalganga (Navi Mumbai), IP Vadodara and other establishments across India planted large number of trees during the last financial year (2019-20). This creation of green cover aims to reduce the overall carbon footprint. Pre-coated galvanized iron roof sheets at IP Silvassa • Asbestos roof sheets were replaced with pre-coated galvanized iron roof sheets at IP Silvassa and G&L Kolkata thereby improving the work environment and reducing health risk hazards. • The Company has till date installed solar plants with a total capacity of 526 KWp in five different sites at Asaoti, Navi Mumbai, Chennai, Patalganga and Rai. Out of this, 33 KWp solar power plant has been commissioned in the current financial year at TCW Patalganga, Navi Mumbai. This helps Balmer Lawrie to offset 800 tons of carbon dioxide per year from its manufacturing and cold chain operations. • Various manufacturing plants of Balmer Lawrie have installed LED lights replacing conventional lights thus, reducing electrical consumption. Pg. 6 of 22 Atomizer tap controller • Many plants of the Company installed atomizer tap controller thus, reducing water consumption of the plants significantly. • Single use plastic is banned in all the plants and establishments of the Company. Principle #9: Development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies • The Company has continued its efforts at technological up-gradations in its manufacturing processes to ensure that adverse impact of our operations in the environment are minimised. • IP Silvassa installed inverter based 3 phase welding machine replacing the old 2 phase welding machine which has helped in reducing power consumption from 250A to 80A. Active Harmonics Filters at auto welder, IP Taloja • IP Taloja installed 120A capacity Active Harmonics Filters at auto welder to mitigate the harmonics. This reduces electrical energy consumption and carbon footprint of the plant. • IP Chittoor installed IGBT type welding machine controller reducing power consumption of welding machine by 40%. Pg. 7 of 22 Dust collector at the Lithium Hydroxide dosing area, G&L – Manali • At G&L Manali (Chennai), dust collector at the Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH) dosing area at kettle has reduced emission of LiOH dust particles in the plant. This has improved air quality of the plant significantly. • Our R&D team continuously works to identify raw materials, processes and technologies, which will have minimum impact on the environment. The Application Research Laboratory (ARL) of SBU: Greases & Lubricants has made significant progress in developing a number of biodegradable lubricants and environment friendly tribological solutions. Continuous trainings are being imparted to our workforce on the latest development in the lubricant industry. To enhance our R&D initiatives the newly modernised ARL at Kolkata was inaugurated on 20th July 2019. Principles Relating to Ethics & Transparency Principle # 10: Elimination of corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Transparent policies and systems have been put in place to ensure ethical behaviour of Balmer Lawrie employees, and we expect our employees to behave in conformity with these principles. As a matter of policy, the Company regularly interacts with clients, customers and associates to get their views / suggestions. • Issues relating to corruption, dishonesty or unethical behaviour are looked down upon and any instance of such nature is dealt with expeditiously for corrective and preventive action, including disciplinary action against erring employees. There is a Vigilance department in the Company to deal with such matters in an organised and systematic manner. The Vigilance department proactively works along with the Businesses / Functions to enhance transparency and good governance in the organisation. • Balmer Lawrie has institutionalised its “Fraud Prevention Policy”. The policy provides for detection, reporting and prevention of fraud, whether committed or suspected. This has been done in pursuance of the Company’s motto to nurture a culture of zero tolerance for fraud or fraudulent conduct. • Balmer Lawrie has also institutionalised the “Whistle Blower Policy” to develop a culture where it is safe for all employees to raise concerns about any irregular, undesirable or unacceptable practice and any event or incident of misconduct. Pg. 8 of 22 • In order to ensure greater transparency in respect of all procurement actions through tendering, all tenders are now hosted on Company’s website, Government e-Marketplace and the Public Procurement Portal. Further, it was decided by the Company in December 2012 that all procurements above Rs 5 lakhs need to be carried out through the eprocurement mode. • A Handbook on “Public Procurement” was published by the Vigilance Department, with the aim of assisting all Executives in understanding the procurement process well. • The Company has a practice of conducting internal and external audits by experts. • All the employees have been advised to take the integrity pledge released by the Central Vigilance Commission. • Purchases are being made on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal and procurement of approximately Rs. 5 crore has been done till date. Sustainabiliy Efforts HSE: The full-fledged Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Department institutionalises a proactive HSE culture in the organisation. Balmer Lawrie published its Sustainability Report and Business Responsibility Report for the year 2018-19 and it has been uploaded on the Company’s website. Corporate HSE carried out HSE audits in all units across all SBUs, conducted trainings / workshops on Behaviour Based Safety, Process Safety, Sustainable Development and CSR for employees and other stakeholders, and General Planned Inspections at different units on a daily basis. Process Safety Audits were also carried out for the Temperature Controlled Warehouses at Rai and Patalganga and IP Vadodara in 201920. World Environment Day was observed with much fervour at various units / establishments of the Company on 5th June 2019. An online quiz on Environment was organised on an all India basis. Saplings were planted in various units and establishments as part of our green effort. The 49th National Safety Week was observed from 4th to 10th March 2020 in all units / establishments across locations. The week commenced on 4 th March, observed as National Safety Day, with the administering of the safety pledge and reading out of C&MD's message. In line with the theme, various programs were organized over the week. The programs included extempore, quiz, skit, spot the hazard contest, mock drills, safety slogan & essay writing competitions. Balmer Lawrie achieved Zero LTI [Lost Time Injury] for the last three consecutive financial years that is from 1st April 2017 till 31st March 2020. Environmental Sustainability: Environmental Sustainability aligned to business is the need of the hour and towards this a long-term Sustainability Development Plan was developed for the Company in association with E&Y. Balmer Lawrie published the Sustainability Report on triple bottomline for the year 2018-19. Industrial Packaging, Taloja (Navi Mumbai) participated in the India Green Manufacturing Challenge organised by International Research Institute for Manufacturing in December 2019 and Balmer Lawrie was categorised as a Gold standard company for its green initiatives. Manali, Chennai (manufacturing units) was awarded a 4-star rating for commitment to EHS Practices in the CII-SR EHS Excellence Awards for the year 2018-19 given away by Confederation of Indian Industry. Pg. 9 of 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a transformational practice by the business corporations in India, mandated by the Government. CSR programs aim at transforming the lives of the under-privileged and enhance collective community well-being, besides the broader goal of driving sustainable development and growth of all stakeholders. In line with this, the Company has been driving various CSR projects independently around its units and establishments across the country and has also been supporting various programs initiated by the Government of India like the Clean India Mission and Skill Development Institutes. The Company is responsive to the needs of the society at large, and its socio-economic goals are well aligned with the business objectives. Balmer Lawrie’s CSR initiatives are driven by two Flagship Programs Balmer Lawrie Initiative for Self Sustenance [BLISS] and Samaj Mein Balmer Lawrie [SAMBAL]. While the first Program is directed at providing and improving the long-term economic sustenance of the underprivileged, the second Program aims at improving the living standards and quality of life of population in and around the Company’s work-centers. In pursuance of these Programs, the Company has undertaken several community development projects, partnering with various agencies. The focus areas for the schemes under the programs, amongst others, have been on education, healthcare, sanitation, integrated village development, and environmental protection. CSR efforts are channelized on the above-mentioned thematic focus areas and target groups like children, women, youth, elderly and differently abled people. Through the various CSR programs, the Company has constantly endeavored to integrate the interest of the business with that of the communities that form part of the areas it operates. With the advent of the various National flagship programs launched by the government, we as an organisation take pride in furthering the initiatives, which comes under the purview of CSR by engaging specialized agencies, and in keeping with the DPE guidelines, the Companies Act 2013 and Schedule VII of the Companies Act. A total sum of Rs. 514.00 Lakhs was spent during the year 2019-20, towards CSR activities’ expenses. Evaluation: The Company’s CSR activities were evaluated and social impact assessment was done for the projects carried out in the years from 2016 to 2018. (The report is available on the Company’s website www.balmerlawrie.com) The following activities / initiatives were undertaken during the year under report, i.e. FY 2019-20. i. Education & Child Sustenance 1. Two classrooms are being sponsored under the “Corporate Leverage and Support Scheme” (CLASS) of Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy (IICP) for supporting the differently abled, particularly children suffering from cerebral palsy. In all 30 children are being supported. Balmer Lawrie associated with 'Hope Cup 2020', a charity golf tournament in aid of IICP, as a tee sponsor. The tournament was organised by IICP along with Tollygunge Club at the Tolly Golf course on 24th & 25th January 2020. Pg. 10 of 22 Classrooms are sponsored by Balmer Lawrie in the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy 2. Our Company extended support to projects focused on the upliftment of the tribal students, run by Friends of Tribal Society known as EKAL Vidyalayas. Balmer Lawrie sponsored Rs. 10 lakhs for these vidyalayas catering to the tribal populace. Ekal Vidyalaya 3. Aspirational district development program was taken up as per the guidance of DPE and Niti Aayog during the year. An MoU was signed between the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu and our Company for making model Aanganwadi Kendras in the tribal district of Visakhapatnam. Pg. 11 of 22 4. Under the Swachh Vidyalaya: Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, toilets were constructed in the states of West Bengal, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Haryana for the students of primary government schools to avail facilities of toilets. It was committed by Balmer Lawrie that the Company would maintain the toilets for at least 5 years. Therefore, our Company is maintaining the toilets as per need in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. This year being the end of five years, our Company also carried out intensive repair and maintenance work wherever needed, including repair of tube wells as the summer season is approaching. Toilet maintenance in a Government school in West Bengal ii. Health 1. The Balmer Lawrie sponsored Mobile Health Van run by Helpage India at Manali, Chennai to provide medical care especially for the elderly people, caters to 12,000 patients annually. In the financial year 2018-2019 a new van was provided to Helpage India to further the initiative. Pg. 12 of 22 Mobile Health Van at Chennai 2. Our Company contributed Rs 25 Lakh each to the Corpus fund of Narayana Hrudayalaya Charitable Trust and Saroj Gupta Cancer and Research Institute located at Kolkata for treatment of poor patients affected with critical diseases. iii. Skill Development Skill Development Institutes (SDI) are being set up at various places in the country by the member companies of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOPNG), Govt. of India. As a member Company, Balmer Lawrie contributed Rs 300.00 Lakhs for the institutes at Ahmedabad, Rae Bareilly, Guwahati, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Bhubaneswar as per the funding module set by the MOPNG. SDI at Bhubaneswar iv. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan / Clean India Mission As part of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (SBA), the Swachh Bharat Pakhwada (Fortnight) was celebrated from 1st to 15th July 2019. The SBA, India's largest cleanliness campaign till date, was launched by Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi on 2 nd October 2014. Since then, millions of Government employees, students and other citizens from all walks of life became a part of this campaign. During the Pakhwada, the Swachhta pledge was administered and various programs were organised in units and establishments across the Pg. 13 of 22 country. A host of activities were initiated to further the 'Clean India' movement not only in our plants and offices but also in the communities residing close to our establishments. CLEANLINESS DRIVE Cleanliness Drives were organised in plants and offices of Balmer Lawrie across the country, in which employees participated with much enthusiasm. IP, Kolkata IP, Asaoti Pg. 14 of 22 TCW, Rai TREE PLANTATION DRIVE In the tree plantation drives organized across locations, G&L Kolkata planted around 240 saplings in and around the factory premises. Tree saplings were also planted in IP Kolkata, CFS Kolkata, G&L Silvassa and Manali, Chennai. G&L – Kolkata CFS, Kolkata Pg. 15 of 22 G&L, Silvassa Manali, Chennai Pg. 16 of 22 ENGAGEMENT WITH COMMUNITY Various activities were organised for students of Government schools in Kolkata, Silvassa and Chennai. In Dara, West Bengal drawing competition, workshops, sapling distribution and cleanliness drives were organised in the Government schools. Pg. 17 of 22 In Silvassa, workshops were conducted in schools, covered as part of the capacity building project on health and hygiene and swachhata kits were distributed. Drawing competition and cleanliness drives were also organised. In Chennai, a workshop on “Importance of Sanitation during Menstruation” was organised for the girl students of Manali High School. Ms. Valarmathi, Manager [SCM CAPEX & Projects] Pg. 18 of 22 and Ms. R Sandhya, Jr. Officer [HR]-SR, addressed the students on the topic. During the event sanitary napkins were distributed to all the girls in the school. An awareness program for the contract labourers engaged in Manali Industrial Complex was organised during the pakhwara. Dr. K. Manivarma, Lecturer in Madras Medical College conducted the training session on health and hygiene and other related facts. 43 contract workmen participated in the program. SWACHHATA HI SEVA An Awareness session on harmful effects of single use plastic was organized at the Community Hall in Khadoli, Silvassa and jute bags were distributed to the school children. District Magistrate of the Dadra & Nagar Haveli along with NGO, Swadeep Shikshan Vikas Sanstha, the school children and the large number of community members from the village of Khadoli attended the program to take forward the Mission of the Government to eliminate single use plastic. Pg. 19 of 22 An awareness generation camp was organised for the teachers of Dara Adarsha Bidyamandir and Dara High School, Upo-Pradhan of Rajapur, Karabeg Anchal located in Sundarban area. All the participants were of the opinion that use of plastic items are required to be stopped immediately as these are polluting our environment in many ways. Large number of of students as well as the community members were present in the camp. Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) Ballygunge, Kolkata organised the Fit India Plogging Run on 2nd October 2019. The chief guest of the program was Hon’ble Member of Parliament and BJP State President, West Bengal Shri Dilip Ghosh. Present on the occasion were dignitaries from Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd. and other eminent personalities from the city. The rally was flagged off by the chief guest. The plogging run started from AJC Bose Road and culminated at Ballygunge Circular Road covering more than 2 kms. Students, parents, NCC Cadets, teachers and all other stakeholders of KV Ballygunge participated in the plogging run. The event was sponsored by Balmer Lawrie. Pg. 20 of 22 CAPACITY BUILDING ON HEALTH & HYGIENE PROJECT AT SILVASSA The capacity building on health & hygiene project initiated at Sayali village in Silvassa in the month of December 2018 as part of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was taken forward with great enthusiasm. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) was signed between Balmer Lawrie as sponsor, Swadeep Shikshan Vikas Sanstha, Ahmedabad, the Implementation Partner and the Collector District Magistrate, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Silvassa, the Operating Partner. Though children of the village and primary schools comprise the major target group, school teachers, Anganwadi workers and staff, parents and the school management committee of the respective schools are also involved in the various activities. Training sessions and workshops on health, hygiene and nutrition were organised in the Anganwadis and primary schools. Also, personal hygiene kits, sanitation kits, dustbins and Anganwadi vessel kits were distributed. The objective of the project is to ensure sustainable development by promoting good health, quality education, clean water and sanitation in Sayali village. This project addresses three sustainable development goals (3 SDGs) and is being carried out to meet twin objectives: a. Ensuring that children in the preprimary schools and in the primary schools are provided with understanding on personal hygiene that over a period of time will help in behavior change modification among them, thereby impacting the issue of Stunting and reducing the Under Five Mortality rates. b. Parents, teachers and the workers associated with these centers are to be involved in the community connect initiative so that they play an important role in ensuring better and improved hygiene standards. Pg. 21 of 22 Project Health and Hygiene Apart from the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and Swachhta Hi Seva initiatives, toilets were constructed at a Government School in Manali, Chennai and a public toilet was sponsored in the Botanical Garden at Noida in association with Sulabh International and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). To give impetus to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan activities, a Social Media Consultant was engaged to run a campaign #AbNahiTohKab on the Company’s Facebook and Twitter pages focusing on elimination of single use plastic. Pg. 22 of 22
