Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Table of contents 3 The year in brief 4 This is Axis 6 CEO's statement 8 Business model 10 Trends 12 Market presence 14 Innovation SUSTAINABILITY 17 Sustainability strategy 20 The value chain 22 Responsible business conduct 24 Anti-corruption 26 IT security and protection of customer privacy 30 Protecting privacy 32 Customer satisfaction 34 Environmental responsibility 35 Beat climate change 38 Carbon offsets Contact for the Annual review and 38 Protect natural resources sustainability report 40 Protect ecosystems Björn Hallerborn, PR & Corporate Communications Manager 42 Supply chain Tel: +46 46 272 1800 45 Conflict minerals Email: pressoffice@axis.com 46 Social responsibility Axis AB submits the 2019 Annual review and sustainability 46 Employees report for the entire Group. 51 Women in Security EMEA Advisor and copywriter: 52 Social responsibility and initiatives Lof Group Sustainability and Communications Graphic design: Axis Communications 55 Risk management Translation: Tecla Communications Printing: Exakta Print 58 Sustainability notes Photos and illustrations: Axis Communications / Lars Owesson 70 GRI content index Spoon Publishing AB / David Axelsson / Navigator / Pizzuti Studios Photography / Cameralink: Andreas Lind / Getty Images iStockphoto / Shutterstock 72 Financial summary 2019 76 Corporate governance 77 Board of directors 78 Group management The year in brief Sales increased to SEK 11.8 billion Operating margin of 13.6 percent Continued global expansion 8 new offices 2 new configuration and logistics centers Investments in R&D corresponding to 18 percent of sales Launch of more than 100 high-quality products, applications and accessories Launch of ARTPEC-7, which is the seventh generation of the company's chipset Developed a new code of conduct, with the aim of clarifying the company’s values and ethics. It will be implemented in 2020. Compulsory training in anti-corruption was provided for all employees in 2019 Proactive, systematic work to strengthen IT security aimed at providing effective protection for products, solutions and systems Initiatives aimed at increasing equality and diversity, particularly in recruitment efforts A new goal was set for employee wellness, which is to promote and support healthy and sustainable living. Various activities and initiatives got underway during the year aimed at achieving that goal. A global satisfaction survey was carried out during the year across 56 countries. The overall Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) was 77 (max 100), which indicates that the majority of Axis partners are very satisfied. New long-term environmental goals were established A new travel policy was launched aimed at lowering the amount of business travel Several new PVC-free cameras and the two first cameras that are entirely BFR/CFR-free were launched Lowered CO2 emissions from operations during the year from 36,704 (2018) to 35,014 tons CO2e 4 Årsredovisning Annual review & sustainability report 2019 This is Axis A smarter, safer Vision world. Innovating for a smarter, safer world. We enable a smarter and safer world by creating network solutions that improve security and inspire Mission new ways of doing business. Together, While security is still our main focus, we are we pioneer gradually expanding into related markets with video surveillance, audio, and access control intelligent network products and solutions. We back these with support technology and an extensive range of training programs. creating unique The goal of making life better guides everything possibilities for we do at Axis. For us, innovation has always been about how we can add new dimensions partners, end users to society. To make a positive difference, we trust and employees. in each other’s initiative and imagination, share knowledge, and build close relationships with our partners and end customers. Revenue per region 2019 AMERICAS 57% 1984 founded in Sweden EMEA 11.8 billion SEK in sales* 31% 3,646 employees in 51 countries 179 countries with local presence via an extensive partner network 12% APAC Axis Group companies: Citilog and 2N Part of Canon Group EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa * Sales 2019 1.3 billion USD APAC: Asia Pacific 6 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 A decade of strong growth with focus on innovation and sustainability 2019 was another stable year for Axis, with both healthy growth and profitability. Thanks to a responsible development of technology and innovation and with the confidence that our employees, customers, partners and other stakeholders have in Axis, we have been able to run the business successfully and sustainably. We strive to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders by taking long-term social and environmental responsibility and applying good business ethics. As we enter into 2020, we can look back on the We are convinced that trust will become an even Sustainability in the entire value chain 2010s as a strong decade. During this period, our more important factor for success over time. Trust Sustainability is an integral part of our operations total number of employees and sales have grown and ethics will become increasingly important and it is essential to our continued growth and by a factor of five. 2019 was another good year for factors in buying decisions. successful development. As the company grows, so Axis. Overall growth has been close to 15 percent, does the importance of sustainability in that Axis but there were significant variations between Focus on cybersecurity will have a bigger impact on its stakeholders and regions. At the same time, our profitability has Cybersecurity and personal privacy go hand-inmust, accordingly, take greater responsibility. remained strong. We have had a high rate of hand. Cybersecurity will become ever-more critical innovation, developing smart products and with the increasing use of advanced analytics and We apply a structured, focused approach solutions in collaboration with our partners that machine learning in connected devices. Protecting for managing sustainability risks and raising contribute to a higher level of safety and security customer information and personal privacy has awareness. It applies not only to our own in society. For network cameras, Axis has had the highest priority at Axis and we continued organization, but also others in the value chain, robust growth that has exceeded the expected putting much focus on this during the year. such as our suppliers, distributors, partners and general market growth. Our overall rate of growth end customers. Our stakeholders appreciate and has also been fueled by the addition of new Responsible use of technology value that Axis actively pursues sustainability product areas. The rapid development of Artificial Intelligence issues. (AI) and machine learning is generating many During the year, we launched more than 100 benefits and opening up amazing opportunities. Axis became a signatory of the UN Global high-quality products, applications and At the same time, however, ethical principles Compact in 2007 and it bases its sustainability accessories including ARTPEC-7, which is the and behavior must never be compromised. work on those ten principles. Since then, the seventh generation of the Axis chipset. We only develop commercial offers for principles have guided us in how we work with user scenarios we believe in and we always sustainability. Axis supports the UN 2030 Agenda Long-term responsibility and trust communicate clear intent with our innovations, and actively strives to contribute to the Global Interest in topics having to do with cybersecurity, solutions and offerings. We provide training and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). responsible use of technology and personal privacy knowledge-sharing opportunities for employees, is growing in society. The same applies to issues distributors, partners and suppliers to ensure Dedicated employees such as social responsibility, carbon footprint compliance and disseminate information on Naturally, our success depends on our highly and business ethics. Openness, transparency our attitudes and approach. This includes skilled, dedicated and motivated employees. and acknowledging our responsibility are very explaining the complexity of ethical aspects. I am truly impressed and proud of what they have important to Axis. In our experience, it builds trust It also includes expectations on our partners to achieved during the year. and ensures that our employees, end customers, fully support the intended use of our offerings. distributors, partners, suppliers, owner and society will continue to have confidence in us. We continued recruiting at a quick pace and at Responsible business conduct Axis has always taken its responsibilities seriously the end of the year, the total number of employees We are working diligently to always apply good and will continue to do so. Trade conflicts and at Axis was 3,646. It means that on average, we business ethics and counteract corruption in our protectionism are worldwide trends that are on the recruited more than one new employee every own operations and in those of our suppliers, rise, which creates both challenges and business single day last year! distributors and other partners. For example, opportunities. Here, Axis has certain advantages compulsory training in anti-corruption was stemming from our independence and the trust Recruiting and maintaining the best talent in provided for all employees in 2019, together with that our stakeholders have in us. However, at the market is a challenge for every employer. signing a document stating that they comply with the time of writing, the COVID-19 pandemic We offer an attractive workplace where our the anti-corruption policy. is generating uncertainty across the globe, employees thrive, and everyone is given ample affecting us as well as other companies. We are opportunities for career and skill development. Sustainable business model for a smarter, constantly monitoring the development and taking We have a strong global presence with employees safer world appropriate actions. in 51 countries, which enhances our attractiveness We are committed to maintaining our role as an employer. In order to be successful in our as a leader in development, with a focus on Our agenda is both long-term and ambitious. recruiting efforts, we must genuinely run the innovation and sustainability. At Axis, we listen We are working continually, and in a goal-oriented business with high ethical standards. Social and to our customers and partners with the aim of way, to further integrate sustainability into all environmental sustainability are also key and our strengthening their offerings, generating more aspects of our operations, while striving to ensure comprehensive sustainability efforts provide Axis value and helping them improve and streamline that the same standard is maintained at all links with competitive advantages. We have a thorough their operations. in the value chain. In this way, we run the business strategy for onboarding, which is essential to with long-term success and sustainability as the our ability to remain innovative and promote a Together with our partners, we have a strong top priority. We are well-positioned for future company culture that fosters entrepreneurship, global presence and our aim is to continue sustainable and profitable growth. openness and taking responsibility. growing in both mature and growth markets. Our talented employees and partners work as a More diversity and inclusion We expect continued positive development for team to tackle global challenges. Each one of us Axis has been persistent in its efforts to push our core products and solutions. As the market for is committed to developing, manufacturing and the boundaries for more equality, diversity our core products has gradually matured, we have distributing products and solutions that are both and inclusion in all teams and functions. One succeeded in taking new steps. We are expanding innovative and reliable, thereby helping to create successful initiative was our Women in Security the product portfolio beyond network cameras a smarter, safer world. EMEA Conference. Goals of the conference were and into new categories. Adding more software to to, for example, increase awareness of diversity cameras also fuels growth. and inclusion, while creating a forum for women to meet and network. We are also very mindful We look forward to the future with confidence, to of our recruiting process. an ever-changing, yet exciting world that is full of technical possibilities. Another reason to celebrate is that, once again, the results from our annual employee satisfaction survey were very favorable. Employees rank Axis as a very good workplace. Smaller carbon footprint Awareness of climate change is increasing all the time. Axis is striving to lower the environmental impact of its own operations and those of its suppliers, along with developing products and solutions that are both environmentally sustainable and energy efficient. Continual improvement During the year, we established new long-term environmental goals as part of our effort to Beat climate change, Protect natural resources and Protect ecosystems. We are continuing the phaseout of hazardous substances like PVC, while striving to use more recycled material in both Ray Mauritsson products and packaging. President & CEO 8 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Axis go-to-market model End customers System integrators Resellers A business model based on innovation and collaboration Distributors Axis’ successful growth results from a strategy of global market presence with strong local ties, longterm partnerships and continual development of Axis Communications innovative products and solutions. There are three important cornerstones to Axis’ The open dialog that occurs within the partner Knowledge-sharing and dialog with end strategy: global presence; sales via partners who network facilitates quick identification of new customers and partners also occurs at Axis have strong ties and are experts in their local customer segments and business opportunities. Experience Centers, helping Axis gain a better markets; and continual renewal and expansion of understanding of their needs. Axis strives to the offering of innovative products and solutions. Long-term collaboration and continual dialog offer the best possible technical support via its This is how Axis creates long-term value for Axis engages in a continual dialog with its highly-trained and available staff, professional partners and end customers. partners and end customers aimed at remaining and knowledgeable service, flexibility and high on the cutting-edge of technology and creating delivery precision. The company also continually Global market presence with strong local ties new, innovative products and solutions that makes investments to enhance quality and ensure As a leading market player, Axis has a strong meet its customers’ various and changing needs. that its products and solutions are easy to install. position in each market where the company has These long-term, loyal partnerships facilitate an All of this creates value for both partners and end operations. The company has its own offices in 51 exchange of knowledge that everyone benefits customers, who remain loyal and satisfied over the countries. It also has a global network of partners from. It also helps align efforts to develop the long term. Surveys that Axis regularly conducts and retailers in 179 countries. This provides end market in a beneficial way. verify that the customer loyalty of its partners users across the world with access to products and is very high. Please read more about customer solutions that offer a higher level of safety and Continual knowledge-sharing loyalty on page 32. security, smart technologies and which opens up Axis supports its customers by providing expertise new business opportunities. and sharing knowledge. The company provides Innovation for continued growth information and offers training to its partners Many Axis products and solutions are created in Expansion occurs by creating a greater presence on such things as IT security and cyber security. collaboration with partners. Frequently, in fact, in existing markets, stronger ties with partners Training for distributors, partners and end the initiative comes from partners concerning and through recruiting efforts. Axis widens the customers occurs primarily within the scope of desired functions, products or solutions. scope of its offering by expanding to new areas Axis Communications Academy and the Axis One example of this was collaboration with such as audio for security and physical access Certification Program as classroom lessons distributors aimed at making it easier for them to control. Axis is also expanding in growth markets and web-based training for solutions, products repackage and distribute Axis products globally. and establishing a presence in new geographic and technologies. During the year, more than markets. 40,000 distributors, partners and end customers As a leading market player and innovative force, participated in Axis training. Since its inception Axis strives to influence rapid global development In collaboration with its partners, Axis is offering in 2005, more than 97,000 individuals have in network-based security solutions. It is a wider range of end-to-end video surveillance participated in classroom training. In 2019, continually adding new products, accessories and solutions. It is doing so in both existing and new approximately 31,000 individuals participated holistic solutions that satisfy customer needs. sectors, for large and small customers and in new in web-based training and almost 10,000 in Axis keeps innovating for a smarter, safer world, areas of application. classroom courses. Almost 13,000 individuals thereby generating growth and long-term value to have become certified via the Axis Certification its customers and partners. Program since its start in 2011. Circular business model Supplier Resources Reuse Repair Producer Recycle Residual waste User Project for transitioning to a circular, biobased economy Axis is participating in a research project aimed at surveying the entire product life cycle, identifying challenges and coming up with proposals for finding new working methods that are consistent with a circular, biobased economy. Among other things, the results show that producers need to take more responsibility. For companies that develop and manufacture Among the areas that the project has studied Other conclusions are that product labeling electronics, there is a huge gap and significant included material flow chain, product design for needs to be improved with a listing of the changes need to be made before we will achieve recycling and recycling of electronic waste. The contents, sorting instructions, the estimated a truly circular economy. Challenges include development project has been financed by the lifespan and an index of repairs. Doing so would understanding how new working methods that Swedish innovation agency, Vinnova. facilitate material flows for cleaner production. keeps materials and products in use, designs Furthermore, modularity, with the ability to out waste and promotes regeneration of natural Among other things, the results show that update, could be one way of extending the systems can be implemented in real life. producers need to take more responsibility. lifespan of electronics. Incentives, clarity and both financial support The goal of the research project is to come up and additional knowledge are required from with several concrete examples that can be decision authorities such that there is also used by Axis in general, along with benefiting economic justification for choosing sustainable other companies. It also aims to identify the alternatives. stepwise changes required for achieving a circular system and clarify the concept of a circular product life cycle. 10 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Trends that impact Axis Higher need for security This includes expectations on Axis’ partners to With edge computing, data is processed where it Safety and security are fundamental needs for fully support the intended use of the company’s is generated, which for example can help prevent everyone in society, i.e., individuals, companies products and solutions. Axis’ innovations help incidents. For Axis, “where it is generated” means and every other type of organization. There is create a smarter, safer world, while always striving inside the camera itself. also a growing demand from governments and to balance the need for making societies more companies for video monitoring systems that secure with the need to protect privacy. AI can be used to protect both people and critical The concept of embedded AI in the form of infrastructures. Another trend is the growing Cybersecurity machine learning and deep learning computation acceptance and willingness to use cameras to help Cybersecurity will become increasingly important will become more prevalent over time. Machine solve crimes. as devices are used to process and analyze learning and deep learning have dramatically an ever-increasing amount of data. This is improved the ability to correctly identify, classify Axis provides innovative, long-term, sustainable particularly critical with the growing use of and process real events, actions, people and solutions for more effective monitoring that helps advanced analytics and machine learning in vehicles. For example, Axis’ video analytics for fight crime, improve crisis preparedness, make connected devices. monitoring roadway traffic can differentiate schools and workplaces safer and numerous other Axis works proactively and systematically with IT between actual accidents and the kinds of things benefits. security in accordance with a focused strategy and that generate false alarms. structured method for protecting products and Trust solutions from both intrusion and damage. Axis Environment and climate change Trust throughout the entire value chain is vital collaborates with its partners to ensure as far as The awareness and concern for climate change in and the importance of this is increasing all the possible that there is a high level of IT security society is increasing, along with an understanding time. For example, customers as well as citizens throughout the entire value chain. that everyone (individuals, companies, and individuals must be able to trust that organizations and governments alike) must organizations collect and use data responsibly, Digitalization take responsibility to lower their own negative that devices and data are protected from IoT is fueling industrial digitalization, whereby environmental impact. Technology will also be an cybercriminals, that data is accurate and that more and more devices are being connected important part of the equation. The demand for technology functions as intended. to collect and transfer data over the internet. products and solutions that are environmentally Entirely new business opportunities are opening sustainable and energy efficient is increasing. Business customers will increasingly be up because of this trend. Axis is developing Connected sensors of all types, including those considering trust and ethical factors as network cameras with increasingly higher levels found in Axis’ surveillance cameras, can, for decision parameters for their buying decisions. of innovative functionality and the company example, help manage resources and energy in Furthermore, in order to successfully recruit and strives to continually meet customer needs more urban environments and buildings more efficiently. retain employees, companies must be able to efficiently and effectively. This trend, however, demonstrate that they are credible and ethical, as involves greater vulnerability and security risks. Urbanization and smart cities well as socially and environmentally sustainable. It also puts higher requirements on protecting More than half of the world’s population lives in IT systems, processes, products and solutions, cities, with this number predicted to increase to Privacy along with the information generated by them. more than 60 percent by 2030*. And, more than Technologies such as dynamic anonymization Axis offers solutions that address each of these 150 new cities with at least 1 million residents are and masking can be used to protect privacy. challenges. expected to be added globally between 2018 and However, attitudes and regulations on this vary 2030, along with an additional 10 new megacities significantly across regions and countries. Axis The edge (population exceeding 10 million). Using always conforms with the prevailing international Edge computing is the practice of processing technology to improve urban livelihoods and make legal framework. Axis respects human rights data near the edge of your network, where the cities more sustainable and resilient will thus and opposes behavior such as discrimination data is being generated. Doing so improves become critical. Densely populated cities also have and inequality. Furthermore, the company only response times in that you can immediately get a greater need for solutions that improve safety develops commercial offerings for user scenarios a sense of what is happening, decide what to do and security. Axis’ intelligent solutions do just that that it believes in. Axis always communicates clear and then take appropriate action. Sending data by, for example, protecting vital infrastructures intent with its innovations, solutions and offerings across networks for processing and analysis in and making them more efficient, improving traffic to employees, customers and partners. a centralized data-processing warehouse, then, flows and helping facilitate a quicker response to waiting for a response, can simply take too long. accidents. * Source: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2018). The World’s Cities in 2018—Data Booklet (ST/ESA/ SER.A/417). 11 Citilog and Axis have used AI and deep learning capability to reduce the number of false alarms— resulting in a smarter and safer journey With AI and deep learning, the smart traffic This then facilitates the immediate appropriate solutions provided by Citilog* and Axis are response and quick action to remedy the problem. helping increase traffic safety and lower the Thus, when traffic authorities have the ability to environmental impact of traffic on society. respond quickly, it lowers the risk that difficult situations will escalate and more importantly it Citilog has launched a traffic monitoring solution also helps save lives. that uses Axis’ network cameras and applies deep learning to automatically detect incidents on Enormous quantities of data are required in road infrastructures. The new addition of deep order to apply deep learning effectively. Axis and learning drastically reduces the number of false Citilog’s intelligent solutions for traffic monitoring alarms, which means that for the traffic operators, and higher traffic safety have been used to the costs and time associated with dealing with analyze traffic flows for many years. Now, Citilog false alarms are dramatically reduced. Secondly, has succeeded in using some of these to train a the increased operational efficiency resulting neural network how to distinguish between actual from this new solution also positively impacts incidents/accidents and the types of things that the environment, as more appropriate and timely generate false alarms. responses to actual traffic events reduce both the build up of congestion and traffic jams . It is A reliable, credible solution an improvement that indirectly lowers both fuel It’s important to point out that Citilog’s solution consumption and emissions. using Axis’ network cameras is only used to identify objects, with a size similar to a vehicle. Compared to traditional video detection It is not possible to identify people's faces or applications, this new solution dramatically reduces vehicle license plate numbers, so no data that the number of false alarms by 90 percent**. could be linked to individuals private information is captured. False alarms: a difficult challenge In the field of video analytics for traffic incident “Traffic surveillance cameras are typically installed management false alarms have previously been a approximately 12-15 meters above ground and difficult challenge. The reason for this is because they can capture events that occur up to 200-300 both objects and events are frequently interpreted meters away, which means at that distance, it is as accidents in automatic incident detection not possible to see the detail of faces or license systems. Examples of this range from shadows plate numbers,” says Jean-Marie Guyon. from cloud formations, infrastructure or buildings to reflections in water, high winds or heavy rain In the past, this type of solution has successfully and snow. worked in tunnels, where the need for safety is very high since the risks and consequences of an “Automatic incident detection systems have been accident can be extremely serious. In addition, in around for many years and false alarms have been terms of video analytics, a tunnel environment is a recurring problem...until now,” says Jean-Marie stable, because it is protected from the types of Guyon, VP Sales and Marketing, Citilog. Citilog has visual effects that can trigger a false alarm, such come up with a solution using artificial intelligence as shadows, rain, wind, etc., which are commonly and deep learning to train a neural network how to encountered on open sections of road. distinguish between events that are actual vehicles/ accidents and events that are not. “Now, we have a solution that can generate reliable alarms even outside of tunnels. We can “We’ve come up with a unique software solution apply this technology on all types of roads where that uses applied deep learning and we’ve there is a need for quick notification and response integrated it into Axis network cameras,” says to accidents,” says Jean-Marie Guyon. Jean-Marie Guyon. Future plans include applying this solution to If a vehicle suddenly stops on the highway, or situations involving vehicles and pedestrians in if there is an accident, the traffic operator is more urban environments. There are both financial immediately notified and can view high-quality and environmental gains to be achieved by doing video and images of what exactly has happened. so. But above all else, it can help save lives. * Note: Citilog is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Axis. ** Citilog’s internal audits carried out on different test sites over the last 12 months. 12 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Global market presence Axis is a market leader, with its own offices in 51 countries. It also has a global network of distributors and partners in 179 countries. During 2019, there was robust growth for network cameras in particular, but performance was also strong for audio products and solutions. Axis strengthened its global presence in 2019 by increasing its collaboration with existing partners and setting up additional sales offices. Axis has a strong position in each market where the company has business operations. Its strategy for expansion has become more region-focused and, as before, it always prioritizes quality, creating value and being a trusted partner. Efforts center around developing a local presence in growth markets and expanding into more mature markets. Axis has strengthened its presence in existing markets by hiring additional employees. The global video surveillance market (not including China) is forecast to grow 6.3 percent during the period 2019-2023 (IHS Video Surveillance Intelligence Service)*. Areas that are expected to grow the most are network cameras, particularly those with audio capability and video analytics applications. Analog cameras like HD CCTV are expected to decline the most, along with encoders. * 2018 Market & Market Forecasts 2019-2023 World excl. China, Products and Technologies. Source: IHS Video Surveillance Intelligence Service 2019 13 Americas Europe, Middle East Asia Pacific and Africa The Americas region is Axis’ largest Axis has a leading position in the Growth in this region was good during market. For Axis, growth has been strong EMEA region, even though growth the year for Axis. China is the region’s in all the countries of this region, with a during the year didn't live up to largest market and it accounts for high level of demand from many of its expectations. EMEA is a region that is approximately almost half of the total major customers. Axis has retained its highly fragmented. It means that there global market for network cameras. position as a leading market player in are considerable variations in both The Chinese market is dominated by the Americas. demand and the types of challenges domestic players and, as with the rest of that exist in different parts of the region the region, competition is fierce. The highest growth rate occurred in Canada. regarding such things as customers, And, in both Canada and USA, the areas where legislation and geopolitical conditions. Growth was good during the year in sectors such growth was strongest were retail, commercial and as critical infrastructure and transportation. There critical infrastructure. In Latin America, growth Axis has had solid development in its most has also been strong demand from global end was strongest for city surveillance. Growth is significant customer categories. Critical customers, particularly within IT and data centers. fueled by establishing strong partnerships with infrastructure and city surveillance had The demand for audio from within the retail and major local system integrators and by having close particularly good development. education sectors has also been strong. ties with very large end customers. Axis always strives to develop and expand its collaboration Looking more closely at specific geographic In this region, a clear trend prevails of strong with distributors, system integrators and other markets, growth has been strong in France, demand for intelligent solutions that include partners over time. Benelux, Ireland and Central Europe. Growth surveillance. Growth has been strong in Japan, was somewhat weaker, however, in some of the India and South East Asia, for example. Axis One of the biggest challenges in the Americas is sub-markets in the Middle East and Eastern has also noticed that major investments in downward pressure on prices from competitors. Europe due to geopolitical and macroeconomic infrastructure projects are being made in Another challenge is successful expansion into uncertainty. Australia. new areas like access control, audio and intercom, which makes both sales and training more Axis has retained its focus on end-to-end Axis has continued its recruiting efforts and is complex for the Axis sales team. solutions and expanding its offering beyond the looking at ways of speeding up and improving scope of camera solutions. There has been a lot of the recruiting process. Axis has a strong local The importance of physical security is increasing interest in audio for security solutions. presence and network of partners. for many end customers. There is also a growing interest in working more closely with technology Axis has attracted much interest due to its good The company has kept its focus on end-to-end manufacturers. Axis has continued pursuing its cybersecurity and ambitious sustainability agenda. solutions and gaining a better understanding strategy of working more closely with customers of the market’s needs to determine how it can and it now has eight Experience Centers in the The company continually invests in training to deliver the most value. Efforts have centered region where it can engage with customers to help its partners successfully sell increasingly around developing the business, working more share ideas and learn more about their needs. complex solutions. Axis is also developing its closely with customers, establishing closer ties In addition, Axis has expanded its training ability to better understand customer needs. with end users and strengthening the partner programs offered through Axis Academy, which Its focus remains on markets with high growth network to meet the demand in local markets. helps spark more knowledge sharing among potential, along with developing its collaboration partners in the region. with global partners and global end customers. 14 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Innovations for better sustainability, safety, security and value to customers Innovation is a fundamental component of Axis company culture and it occurs in all parts and at all levels in the company. This is how creative ideas are captured so that Axis can continue developing and providing groundbreaking products and solutions for areas such as network video, access control, and audio. It is essential for meeting the various needs and challenges of Axis customers and partners, long-term competitiveness and future growth. Axis’ innovation work is run from several In 2019, Axis invested approximately 18 percent of Innovation at all levels aspects and dimensions, based on the technical the Group’s net sales in research and development Axis promotes work methods that create flexible, possibilities and a focus on customer needs. of both hardware and software. Axis pursues an innovative ways of working. Axis applies a holistic Innovation helps create a smarter, safer world and active patent strategy. Axis currently has 505 approach and its innovation work occurs at all it is based on good intentions. It should benefit active patents and registered design families. stages of a product’s life cycle. society, keeping it safe and secure, without During 2019, the patent portfolio grew, 213 infringing individual privacy and with respect for national patents and several registered design Both time and resources are invested such that human rights. were granted and additional patent applications employees can generate their own ideas. Many are pending. During the year, applications for 19 of the departments at Axis have days devoted to Dynamic company culture new design families and 61 new patent families innovation, where employees get to work with Prominent characteristics of the Axis company were filed, chiefly related to camera technology. their own creative projects, which often results in culture are entrepreneurial spirit, openness and new innovations. taking responsibility. It permeates all aspects The goal of research and development is to further of the organization. The company culture has strengthen Axis’ position globally as a leading Innovation is also an important component of always been, and still is, fundamental to thriving market player in network video. Among others, the the Axis leadership program and the introduction innovation in a rapidly growing organization like aim is to make the products even easier to use, process for new employees. A great deal of Axis. Employees are trusted to make decisions install and integrate, thereby lowering the costs inspiration comes from the surrounding world and and take responsibility, which promotes both for customers and partners alike. Innovations Axis is constantly monitoring trends. Please read innovation and creativity. should also lower the environmental impact and more on page 10. help customers become more innovative and Employees are inquisitive and interested, dare to sustainable. Sustainable innovation think in new ways and with a desire to constantly Continuous innovation is a prerequisite for quality, develop their skills and abilities and to challenge Create value stability and long-term competitiveness. themselves. Innovation is a collaborative process The point of departure for Axis innovations Axis also continually works to further improve that occurs across departments, where employees and product development is customer needs, energy efficiency in surveillance systems, while share their ideas. challenges and requirements. Axis always strives retaining functionality. to understand how customers think and act, how Research and development primarily take place the technology, products and solutions create One important innovation, from an environmental at Axis’ head office in Lund. Approximately 1200 value for them and how their needs might change perspective, is Axis Zipstream technology. It employees (corresponding to about one-third in the future. efficiently compresses video data to significantly of the total number of employees) work in R&D, lower bandwidth and storage requirements, developing new products and solutions. without compromising important image details. It results in substantial costs savings, lower energy consumption and a lower environmental impact. 15 20 years with ARTPEC In 2019, Axis launched ARTPEC 7. It is the seventh generation of its chip, which lies at the heart of the company’s business. The in-house developed ARTPEC chip is the foundation for Axis’ highly advanced network cameras and product capabilities. ARTPEC chips are optimized for efficient image processing and compression. The chips have been integrated into the majority of Axis’ products. The camera’s most important component At the time of its launch, in 1999, the ARTPEC chip revolutionized the way video is transferred and thus became a game-changer for the surveillance industry. The ARTPEC chip provides the basis for essential product capabilities enabling Axis to design advanced network cameras with high image quality, high The second generation, Zipstream 2.0, was cities smarter and safer with the help of video performance, efficient utilization of bandwidth launched during the year. Likewise, Axis surveillance products and solutions. and powerful edge analytics. Because it is Lightfinder technology also helps to lower both developed in-house, Axis has the necessary environmental impact and costs, as it enhances Furthermore, Axis supports research knowledge to adapt the chip to each camera and performance of cameras, resulting in sharp color collaborations, which is a way of gaining access to thereby the different needs and requirements of images even in very low lighting conditions, new ideas and knowledge. Axis has supported for customers. without any need for additional external lighting example EASE (The Industrial Excellence Centre or a flash. for Embedded Applications Software Engineering) Due to the ever-increasing importance of IT and a collaboration directly with the Faculty of security, the ARTPEC chip has, for many years, Other innovations in 2019 include ARTPEC-7, Engineering, LTH, Lund University concerning been designed with both current and future which is the seventh generation of the company's research, knowledge exchange and improvements cybersecurity threats in mind. Axis owns the chipset (see separate article). in how Axis works with master's theses. design, which means that it also has full control over all stages – from the architecture to Cybersecurity Another ongoing example is Wallenberg Artificial finished product. Cybersecurity is a very important subject of Intelligence, Autonomous Systems and Software innovation work and it applies to everything from Program (WASP), which carries out research on AI Two decades of new possibilities the design stage to how the products are used. and autonomous systems. Axis is also employing ARTPEC has enabled Axis to develop completely Besides technology development, it also has to do an Industrial PhD student who is conducting a new technologies, such as Wide Dynamic with making existing products even more reliable WASP research project. The project focuses on Range (WDR)Forensic Capture. Cameras with and secure, along with educating the market on resource allocation in distributed networks to this technology generate sharp images even how to create safe systems. Axis also works with ensure that available resources are dynamically in challenging lighting conditions. Another tools that facilitate efficient system management and optimally allocated at all time (bandwidth, example is Axis Zipstream technology, which and administration. storage, computing power). efficiently compresses video data to significantly lower bandwidth and storage requirements. Collaboration for cutting-edge innovation In addition, Axis collaborates with Software Over the years, the chip has become increasingly Axis engages in continual dialog with its suppliers, Center, where companies and universities are advanced. One significant advancement with distributors and other partners to share knowledge working together to accelerate the adoption of ARTPEC 7 is Axis Lightfinder 2.0. It is a feature and exchange ideas on product development. It novel approaches to software engineering. that delivers more realistic and saturated colors is essential that Axis understands its customers’ even in extremely low lighting. The images needs and challenges. Relevant solutions rely, for There is also collaboration with universities and are also sharper. These technologies are also example, on an understanding of how the product colleges by offering students the opportunity to beneficial from an environmental perspective. will be used and the environment where it will be conduct their thesis projects at Axis. The students ARTPEC 7 has been specifically developed for installed. For instance, Axis is collaborating with focus on specific issues, which helps provide the video surveillance and it has over 50 times the cities and municipalities to find new ways to make company with new perspectives. performance of the first chips. 16 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Sustainability 2019 17 Sustainability strategy Sustainability is an important, natural part of Axis operations. Sustainability shall be an integral part of all activities and business processes where Axis develops and provides innovative, long-term sustainable, safe and reliable products and solutions for a smarter, safer world. Sustainability is a prerequisite for Axis being able All suppliers are expected to sign the Axis supplier to generate steady growth and profitability over code of conduct, comply with Axis requirements, time, while continuing to develop smart, safe take social and environmental responsibility for products and solutions. their operations and counteract corruption. Axis’ active sustainability efforts involve running Responsible and innovative business operations the business in an efficient way, improving its Axis shall run responsible and innovative business innovativeness and competitiveness and also operations aimed at achieving long-term, strengthening the brand. Doing so generates value sustainable growth. For Axis, this means efforts to the company and its various stakeholders. to fight climate change, protect natural resources Axis creates value for suppliers, distributors, and ecosystems, provide a safe and healthy partners, end customers, employees and its owner, workplace where there is gender balance, diversity Canon. It also supports and participates in various and non-discrimination along with creating a initiatives to benefit society. company culture that promotes innovation and taking responsibility. Business shall be conducted Axis takes long-term responsibility in the in an ethical, responsible and transparent way. economic, environmental and social spheres, and strives to apply good business ethics throughout Trusted partner the value chain. This requires the company to Both internal and external business relations have a broader perspective, taking responsibility shall be managed in an ethical and responsible beyond its own direct impact. Axis endeavors to way. Axis shall counteract corruption in its own be a driving force in the industry when it comes business operations, as well as in its relationships to technological innovations and prioritizing with suppliers, distributors and other partners. sustainability. As a leading market player, Axis Axis shall have the best possible IT security for acts from a position of strength, with the best its products, solutions and IT systems in order intentions of making a positive impact in the to protect the privacy of its partners and end surrounding world as regards sustainability issues. customers. Furthermore, as the company grows, so does Axis products and solutions shall meet customer the importance of sustainability in that Axis has needs, helping them to become more sustainable, a bigger impact on its stakeholders and must, improve their businesses, conduct smarter accordingly, take greater responsibility. During the businesses and, together with partners, help make year, Axis initiated work to clarify its sustainability people’s lives simpler and safer. strategy by creating a group-wide sustainability framework. This will be further developed during Responsible use of products and solutions 2020. Axis strives to achieve sustainable behavior Axis shall strive to ensure that its products and throughout the entire value chain. solutions are used in the right way, with respect for both human rights and personal privacy. Responsible and innovative supply chain The purpose for which the solutions and the All manufacturing of products shall occur in an company's technology are used shall be both environmentally, socially and ethically sustainable decent and responsible. way that is both responsible and innovative. 18 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Focus areas Economic responsibility Responsible business conduct Achieving its financial targets and a satisfactory level All business and business relations shall be conducted of sustainable profitability is very important to Axis in a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent and its stakeholders. It provides the foundation for the way. Axis maintains close interaction with its suppliers, company’s long-term sustainability efforts. distributors and other partners. Such continual, longterm collaboration helps ensure that there is transparency Sustainable profitability and financial stability and good business ethics throughout the entire value enable Axis to continue being a long-term stable chain. and trusted partner to its distributors, partners and suppliers; pay wages to employees; purchase materials Axis applies the highest ethical standards in its business and services from suppliers; and pay taxes. Tax is an dealings and has zero tolerance for all forms of bribery important component of taking responsibility in that it and other forms of corruption. The company works contributes to development in the countries where Axis proactively and systematically to counteract such operates. Axis pays taxes in accordance with applicable behavior in its own operations, as well as in its relations laws and regulations. with suppliers, distributors and other partners. Axis continually works with, and invests in, various measures to ensure that its products, solutions and IT systems are equipped the best possible IT security. This is a prerequisite for Axis being a trusted, responsible business partner, having satisfied customers and being able to protect its partners’ and end customers’ privacy when the company’s products and solutions are used. Environmental responsibility Social responsibility Environmentally sustainable development is crucial Axis has great influence on people’s lives and wellto the future development of our planet. Axis shall being. The company creates jobs and is an important be perceived as a leader in the industry by both new employer in local markets. Axis’ products and solutions and future customers, employees, partners and other contribute to a higher level of safety and security in stakeholders as regards the company’s contribution to society. environmentally sustainable development. Axis’ social responsibility includes providing good Axis strives to minimize the environmental impact of working conditions, along with a safe and secure its own operations, as well as that of its products and workplace with a healthy psychosocial work solutions. The majority of Axis’ environmental impact environment characterized by equality, diversity and is indirect, and it occurs through manufacturing, non-discrimination and respect for human rights as transports and energy consumption when the regards all of the company’s own employees and those company’s products and solutions are used. Axis employed by its suppliers. takes environmental responsibility by striving to make improvements throughout the value chain and the Axis’ social responsibility also includes being a good entire life cycle of its products and solutions. This work member of society and investing in social initiatives, is carried out in the following three areas: Beat climate thereby making a positive contribution to society. change, Protect natural resources and Protect ecosystems. 19 The Sustainable Development Goals Axis supports the Global Goals and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Axis actively strives to make a positive contribution towards achieving these goals through its sustainability efforts. For more information on Axis’ direct and indirect impact and the relevance of its sustainability efforts, please see pages 60-61. 20 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Subsuppliers Responsible business conduct Long-term responsibility and impact throughout the entire value chain Environmental Beat clim responsibility Axis strives to create the best possible conditions for ensuring that its products and solutions have a positive economic, environmental and social impact, while simultaneously minimizing the negative impact in Protect ecos all parts of the value chain. Axis suppliers manufacture and assemble the Axis works together with its suppliers, distributors company’s products. Configuration of products and partners to ensure that all manufacturing, Social Human rights an is done at the configuration and logistics centers distribution, installation, management and responsibility (CLCs). Sales occur via distributors. They sell to use of the company’s products and solutions retailers and system integrators who, in turn, sell occurs responsibly. This is done via supplier to end users. Axis has an indirect business model, audits, training, knowledge-sharing and other which means that the direct responsibility for the information initiatives. Axis also plays a leading impact from manufacturing, sales, distribution role in several industry collaborations. It is and installation primarily lies with suppliers, a way of lowering the risks and focusing on distributors and partners. taking advantage of all opportunities for further innovation and development, global expansion Axis collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and long-term sustainable growth. Topics that are and partners to promote change and create value, most important from a sustainability perspective make a positive impact through sustainability, impact the entire value chain, or parts thereof. minimize the negative impact and manage risks. For a description of the sustainability risks and how they are managed, please see pages 55-57. 21 Impact in the value chain Contract Resellers/ End manufacturers CLCs Axis Distributors System customers integrators Anti-corruption IT security Customer privacy Protecting privacy Customer satisfaction ate change: Emissions from transports, Axis activities and suppliers, and power usage in Axis products and solutions Protect natural resources: Use of natural resources (materials in Axis products) and use of water* ystems: Use of hazardous substances in Axis products and Protect ecosystems emission of hazardous substances at suppliers d working conditions in the supply chain Health and safety in the workplace Non-discrimination Equality and diversity The illustration shows where impact occurs in the value chain. For more information on the material sustainability topics, please see page 64. * Only applicable for suppliers and business operations. 22 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Responsible business conduct Axis shall maintain the very highest ethical standards within its own organization and in its business relations. Close interaction with suppliers, distributors and other partners helps ensure that there is transparency and good business ethics throughout the entire value chain. All business dealings shall be conducted in a Axis’ success in being regarded as a long-term, responsible way. Axis applies a structured, trusted partner requires that the company applies focused approach for managing sustainability an ethical approach. Furthermore, it helps ensure risks, engaging in dialog and raising awareness that products are developed, manufactured, of good business ethics. This occurs not only distributed, sold and used in a responsible and within its own organization, but also with others sustainable way. The company’s stakeholders in the value chain, i.e., suppliers, distributors and appreciate and value that Axis actively pursues other partners. sustainability issues. 23 Responsible business practices New code New code of of conduct conduct Employees Suppliers, distributors and other partners A new code A new Code of Conductwas of conduct developedin wasdeveloped in All employees, as well as board members, are All suppliers that manufacture Axis’ products, with the aim of clarifying 2019, with the aim of clarifying the 2019, the company’s company’s expected to base their work on ethical business such as contract manufacturers and component guidelines guidelines andand ethics. ethics. The Code of The code of conduct Conduct methods. They must also comply with Axis’ code suppliers as well as suppliers of software must stipulates the principles, values stipulates the principles, values and and guidelines guidelines of conduct and other policies. Axis has a strong sign the Axis code of conduct for suppliers, that serve as that serve as the foundation for the foundation running the for running the company culture and its values help ensure which is based on the Axis code of conduct and business. business. It also explains It also explains howhow employees employees are are openness, honesty and transparency. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. expected expected to to act act inin business-related business-related situations, situations, It covers a variety of topics, such as a ban on all both internally and both internally externally. It and externally. covers rules It covers rules Whistleblower and inquiry function forms of child and forced labor, requirements on and guidelines for business and guidelines for business ethics, including ethics, including Axis has a special email address that employees providing decent working conditions, controls corruption, equality, diversity, corruption, equality, health and diversity, health and safety, safety, may use to report any suspected misconduct or on environmental impact and the necessity of conditions, human rights working conditions, human rights and the working and the breaches of the code of conduct. counteracting all forms of corruption. environment. environment. Employees can also get support, ask questions If a supplier references their own code of conduct company's values The company's The values and core values and core values areare about corruption or ethical dilemmas, and share (rather than signing Axis’ code of conduct for carefully detailed and carefully detailed and explained in explained in the the code Code ofof information on how they solved a particular suppliers), Axis will then review it to verify that conduct. The code of conduct is Conduct. The Code of Conduct is based onthebased on the ethical dilemma. During the year no such reports all of the requirements have been met. Axis ten principles of ten principles of the UN Global the UN Global Compact, Compact, the the were received, there were only a few questions distributors and partners must comply with all Universal Declaration of Human Universal Declaration of Human Rights Rights and and the and they primarily had to do with anti-corruption. of the applicable anti-corruption legislation and the ILO Declaration ILO Declaration on Fundamental on Fundamental Principles Principles and they are expected to act in a sustainable way. and Rights at Work. All Rights at Work. All of Axis’ employees, ininall Axis employees, all The whistleblower and inquiry function is one of markets where markets where Axis Axis does business, as does business, well as as well as the the the ways that Axis strives to apply good business Export restrictions, sanctions and embargoes board of directors, are required to comply Board of Directors, are required to comply with with practice. Furthermore, it helps the company Special export restrictions apply to products, the the code Code of Conduct.Global of conduct. Globalimplementation implementationwill identify any irregularities, obtain information on which, though intended for civilian use, occur during 2020. will occur during 2020. behavior that could be in violation of the code nevertheless have properties enabling them to of conduct, improves knowledge-sharing and be used for non-civilian purposes. In addition to All new employees All new receive information employees receive information aboutabout provides continuing education on ethical matters. this, there may also be restrictions on trading code of conduct as the Code of Conduct as partof the part theintroduction ofthe introduction with certain countries, entities and persons due program. Such information program. Such information is is also also presented presented and and A description of the function and how it works to sanctions and embargoes. Axis has an adopted at, for example, kick-offs, discussed at, for example, kick-offs, workshops discussed workshops has been published on the company’s intranet. Export Compliance Program and complies with and performance and performance appraisals. appraisals. Information sent to this special email address applicable rules on special export restrictions, is distributed to representatives from Human sanctions and embargoes. Resources, Legal and group management. 24 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Anti-corruption Axis has zero tolerance for all forms of bribery and other types of corruption. Axis strives to counteract corruption within its own organization, as well as in its dealings with suppliers, distributors and other partners. Axis works in a structured and systematic way to the group management and the company itself All charitable donations and sponsoring must be prevent and counteract bribery and all forms of (e.g., fines, prison sentences, Axis’ reputation, thoroughly documented and in accordance with corruption. brand, long-term growth). Axis’ policy on sponsoring. The anti-corruption policy helps clarify Axis’ standpoint, both Axis shall serve as a role model for ethical Axis actively strives to identify, report and internally and externally. behavior, continually striving to raise the bar even manage the risks associated with conflicts of higher. As a leading market player, Axis shall set interest, bribery and other forms of corruption. All Axis employees, board members and third an example when it comes to transparency and This includes increasing the awareness of both parties working on behalf of Axis such as on-site take the lead in counteracting corruption. employees and third-parties on the risks of consultants must comply with the policy. In all of their business relations, Axis’ employees corruption and encouraging them to become more are expected to maintain the very highest ethical involved in efforts to counteract corruption. Axis All employees are required to participate in standards. Axis’ board of directors, along with has an anti-corruption program and a number training on anti-corruption. In the end of 2019 third parties acting on behalf of Axis such as of governance tools for ensuring compliance. and the beginning of 2020, nearly all Axis on-site consultants, must also have zero employees participated in training on antitolerance for bribery and other types of corruption, Anti-corruption policy and training for corruption and signed a document stating that such as blackmail and embezzlement. employees they comply with the anti-corruption policy. Axis’ anti-corruption policy stipulates that Given the environment in which Axis’ employees all business relations shall be conducted in a All new employees have received training on the do business, it is not possible to rule out that responsible, transparent, consistent and credible content and meaning of Axis’ anti-corruption they will encounter corruption within Axis’ own way. Furthermore, employees are forbidden to policy. They also signed a document stating that organization or in their dealings with suppliers, offer, accept or participate in activities involving they pledge to never accept bribes or participate distributors, partners and customers. Corruption any form of bribery or corruption. The policy in any other form of corruption. All employees, can damage or have a negative impact on both also forbids employees to give contributions to along with on-site consultants, participate in specific individuals (e.g., fines, prison sentences), political campaigns. training and they renew their pledge (re-sign the document) every other year. 25 Goals and target fulfillment Anti-corruption Axis has zero tolerance for all types of bribery and other forms of Board members have also signed such documents. Education and information corruption. All employees, including A breach of the anti-corruption policy may result Axis provides information and training to its group management are required in criminal proceedings and/or other disciplinary suppliers, along with carrying out audits to ensure to sign documents stating that they action. compliance. Axis also provides both training and comply with Axis’ anti-corruption information to its distributors and other partners. policy. They must also every other Suppliers, distributors and partners year participate in training on such All Axis suppliers that manufacture Axis products Training for distributors, partners and end matters. are required to comply with the Axis code of customers includes information about anticonduct for suppliers, which means adherence to corruption. Axis also informs partners at partner In the end of 2019 and the beginning of Axis’ anti-corruption policy. conferences, via webinars and in newsletters 2020, nearly all Axis employees participated in order to increase their knowledge of antiin training on anti-corruption and signed a The distributor agreement stipulates that corruption issues and Axis requirements. document stating that they comply with the distributors must comply with the applicable anti-corruption policy. anti-corruption legislation. Essentially all Axis Doing so helps Axis manage the risks, and to the distributors have signed that agreement. In extent possible, ensure that its distributors and New employees, upon joining the company, order to continue collaboration, distributors are other partners behave ethically. participated in training and signed the required to have signed the agreement. Other document acknowledgingAxis' contribution their pledgetoto the Sustainable Development Goal partners are also expected to comply with the comply with the policy. applicable anti-corruption legislation, which is stated in the agreement for the company’s No incidents of bribery or other forms of Application Development and Technology Partners. corruption were reported during the year. Compliance is required in order to continue Neither in 2018 or 2017 did any known collaboration. No contracts have been terminated incidents of corruption arise. due to corruption, neither in 2019 or before. 26 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 IT security and protection of customer privacy Axis prioritizes the IT security of its products and solutions, which is essential for maximum reliability, accessibility and confidentiality of information. It is also a key aspect of being a reliable business partner. IT security and protecting the privacy of Axis partners and end customers goes hand-in-hand. Axis prioritizes protection of its customers’ privacy Business continuity very highly. Axis strives to have a high level of Having a high level of IT security and extensive “IT security and data privacy IT security in its products and protect customer protection systems in place for, not only the privacy at all stages, from design and product company’s products and solutions, but also its are very important to Securitas. development, to manufacturing, installation and own business-critical systems and processes, Axis has the same high use of the company’s products, solutions and is essential for many reasons. It helps ensure priority to these issues as we services. reliability and confidentiality, maximum access to have, which is a prerequisite information and business continuity. This applies in our supplier selection.” For Axis, being a reliable and credible business to Axis’ own operations, along with those of its partner involves taking an overall approach and customers and partners. Cecilia Alenius, Securitas, being clear, transparent and inclusive in our Group Sustainability Officer security pursuits. Axis is a leading market player in An important component of Axis’ offering is the network video and likewise, strives to be a leader high level of IT security existing in the products at instilling confidence as well. and services that protect both customer devices This phenomenon, however, involves greater and information. It also gives Axis a competitive vulnerability and security risks. It also puts Axis also applies best practice as a means of advantage and is essential to the company’s longgreater requirements on protection of IT systems, minimizing its customers’ risks. The company term success, competitiveness and reputation. processes, products, solutions and the information collaborates with partners and it also states Protecting users’ information and privacy is also generated by them. requirements on the security efforts of its part of Axis’ responsibility as a member of society. suppliers. All of it is aimed at ensuring that there Please read more on page 30. IT security has also become increasingly integrated is a high level of IT security throughout the value and adapted to a company’s particular type of chain. IT security operations and needs in order to meet specific IT security is becoming increasingly important in requirements. Having the best possible IT security in its sync with the digital transformation of society, products and solutions is of utmost importance to where more and more devices are becoming protecting customer privacy. connected for the purpose of collecting and transferring information via internet. 27 Axis works proactively and systematically with IT Axis always strives to be transparent and During the year, Axis implemented a security security, in accordance with a focused strategy minimize the risks via stringent security and advisory notification system as part of its and structured method for protecting products vulnerability management, along with training vulnerability management process. It provides and solutions from intrusion and damage. Any and collaboration. notification via email if a critical vulnerability issues having to do with IT security are taken very is discovered in any Axis products or solutions, seriously. If deficiencies are discovered, they are Security management along with instructions and advice on what dealt with promptly and transparently. Axis products enable a number of security controls action to take. that helps reduce customers’ risks and tools to Products and solutions help manage these controls in a cost-effective The system also provides notification of potential Axis customers have high requirements on IT manner throughout the system lifecycle. risks, along with new tools or services that can be security and protection of information, and the There is also an ongoing dialog with end used to lower the risks. quality of Axis products is very high. The company customers aimed at increasing protection against always rapidly responds to incidents regarding threats and risks that exist in the environments Collaboration and knowledge-sharing the security of its various applications, products, where the products and solutions are installed Axis makes risk assessments and identifies threats solutions and systems. and used. Axis products are designed to offer based on collaboration and knowledge-sharing protection through their useful lifetime. with its partners. Doing so helps minimize the Axis helps its customers minimize the risks that risks. Axis informs, trains and shares knowledge could arise when using the company’s products Vulnerability management with its distributors and partners about the types and solutions. However, if a critical vulnerability Axis strives to minimize critical weaknesses of protection that most effectively reduce the were to be discovered, Axis has a detailed, at all stages of the process (e.g., design, risks. In addition, Axis audits the IT security of extensive security process for minimizing the implementation, testing, validation, etc.). its software suppliers and assesses their cyber vulnerabilities in hardware, software and the maturity level. information that is generated. If, however, a vulnerability is discovered or an incident occurs, Axis has thorough and precise Axis has an ongoing dialog with end-customers Any critical vulnerabilities discovered in the systems and processes in place for remedying the as well, aimed at preventing and counteracting company’s products are taken very seriously and problem as quickly as possible. security violations. Knowledge-sharing and managed in accordance with the Axis vulnerability training occur via such forums as online training, guidelines. webinars and workshops. 28 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Goals and target fulfillment Customer privacy Axis also provides information in the form Axis regularly arranges partner meetings, where Axis shall handle customer privacy of guides, tests and articles. If any critical issues having to do with customer privacy and IT in a correct and secure manner. deficiencies are discovered in products, Axis security in the company’s products and solutions Incidents are dealt with immediately will publish that information on its website and are discussed. by the company and are taken provide its customers with both guidance and extremely seriously. support. ISO 27001 and GDPR Axis became certified during the year in In 2019, a critical vulnerability was discovered Protecting the privacy of Axis customers accordance with the ISO 27001:2013 information by external security researchers. Axis has Every person is entitled to access and transparency security standard. It is a framework of policies and stringent routines in place, and action was about their shared personal data, along with procedures on protection as well as management promptly taken. Product firmware was patched guarantees that the information is protected. of systems and infrastructure, together with safe and communicated to other industry actors, storage of data. partners and end customers, and the problem Security systems for protecting customer was remedied. Axis also did a self-disclosure information has the absolute highest priority at Axis has processes, systems and solutions in announcing a vulnerability in a product, and Axis. For both Axis and its partners, respecting place to ensure that the company meets all the problem was remedied. and protecting customer information and privacy requirements on how personal data must be must always be a top priority. Success in this area managed. It also complies with all other applicable In 2018, Axis received information that a flaw requires use of the latest technology. laws and regulations, such as GDPR (The General was discovered in a commonly used openFurthermore, the information must also, at all Data Protection Regulation). source component that is used by many times and in all ways, be managed and stored vendors, including Axis. This was also quickly both securely and ethically. Axis works proactively Axis has informed its partners and customers remedied. In 2017, there was a productand preventively to protect information and about GDPR. Furthermore, the company’s related incident that was immediately counteract all types of vulnerabilities. Interfacing employees have received GDPR Awareness remedied. software and hardware must be robust and Training to ensure that they fully understand and maintain a high level of security. comply with this regulation. Information security awareness training, including GDPR, is also part of Evaluation, legal requirements and training the onboarding process for all new employees. Axis conducts checks and evaluations of its suppliers to ensure that they have policies and processes for targeted components, technologies and software used in Axis products, to minimize risks when products later are installed, used and maintained in video surveillance systems. Axis also provides its partners with guidance and offers training in the form of seminars and workshops, for example. The company also provides specific training for its installation engineers to ensure that the installation of video surveillance systems is done in the safest and most secure way possible. 29 Increasing school security with industry collaboration Many schools around the world have increased their level of security. Partner Alliance for Safer Schools (PASS) is an American organization that offers school administrators, school boards, as well as public safety and security professionals training and advice to increase the level of security and safety at schools. “It is becoming increasingly common for there to be several layers of physical security at schools in the USA,” says James Marcella, Steering Committee Director at PASS. He is also Director, Industry Associations, North America at Axis and Chair of SIA’s (Security Industry Association) Education Committee. PASS assists with creating and defining policies, processes, guidelines and training material on how schools can work with protection and security. “Each school is unique, so it is important that they make their own risk assessments,” says James Marcella. PASS brings together expertise from the education, public safety and industry communities to develop and support a coordinated approach to making effective use of proven security practices at schools and informed decisions on security investments. PASS works in close collaboration with other organizations, such as the Security Industry Association (SIA) and Safe and Sound Schools, which is dedicated to improving security at schools. Safe and Sound Schools is a non-profit school safety resource center that provides tools and services, including crisis prevention, “Each school is unique, so it is response and recovery. The assistance and training important that they make their it provides is aimed at ensuring that students and teachers have the safest possible learning own risk assessments.” environment. James Marcella, Steering Committee Director, PASS 30 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Protecting privacy Axis’ innovative products and solutions contribute to a higher level of safety and security in society. They also contribute to the creation of smart, intelligent solutions that benefit individuals, government authorities, companies and other types of organizations. In order to protect personal privacy and respect human rights, it is essential, however, that the company’s products and services are always used ethically and correctly. Intelligent surveillance solutions help improve privacy or human rights, it could have a negative Axis uses an indirect sales model that relies on public services and infrastructures, as well as impact on Axis and its stakeholders. Axis is distributors and partners for selling the company’s traffic safety, traffic flow and alerts of emergency extremely careful about protecting and respecting products and solutions to end customers. As such, situations. For example, network cameras in both customer information and personal privacy. Axis is not always aware of how end customers rescue vehicles (e.g., ambulances, fire trucks) help It actively strives to prevent the misuse of its use the products and solutions. It means that Axis’ ensure quicker, more efficient response, care and products and solutions in order to avoid any insight into, and ability to prevent, improper use rescue operations. Network video and intelligent infringement of privacy or human rights. of its product and solutions is limited. However, analysis generate new business opportunities for Please read more about Axis’ efforts to protect Axis is very careful in choosing its partners and companies. They can facilitate a better customer customer privacy on pages 26-28. establishing long-term collaboration with them. experience and customer service, along with higher cost-effectiveness and profitability. Privacy issues are very important to Axis. The Smart functions company has clearly defined its values and all of Axis develops functions for making data Axis’ innovations help make the world safer and its efforts are based on transparency and instilling anonymous and protecting personal data, smarter by satisfying society’s needs for safety confidence in its employees, partners and end which thus helps protect privacy when the and security, without sacrificing personal privacy. customers. products are used. For example, facial recognition applications are becoming more prevalent in the industry, for such Collaboration with partners For example, there are software solutions things as access control and focus settings in End users are responsible for how surveillance for ensuring that cameras only record what cameras. cameras are used and how video footage is stored, is necessary. It is also possible to put time both of which are important aspects of privacy restrictions on recordings and there is technology Innovation and use of technology must always protection. for masking and making faces anonymous, which occur ethically and correctly. If its surveillance helps protect an individual’s privacy. cameras are used in a way that violates personal 31 Camera surveillance for higher safety and security Camera surveillance can be used to both prevent and solve crimes. Many studies have shown that society perceives such solutions positively. One such study was carried out in the neighborhood of Seved/ Södra Sofielund in Malmö, Sweden, where residents were asked about how they perceived security both before and after camera surveillance was set up in the area1. In Seved/Södra Sofielund, open drug dealing has occurred. It is one of the first initiatives in Sweden where police have been granted a permit by the County Administrative Board to use active camera surveillance in a residential area, around the clock, every day of the week. The results show that both residents and shopkeepers felt more secure and that camera surveillance may have improve the work environment for police in the area. The study also indicates that police intervention has become more accurate, that they have been able to carry out their work more effectively and that the camera images can help in solving crimes. It was also noted that “camera surveillance very likely helped deter drug dealing in the area”. A survey conducted by KANTOR SIFO on behalf of LUSAX Security Informatics at Lund University School of Economics and Management shows that there is broad support among the general public for camera surveillance, even in care institutions and residential areas. Nearly 9 out of 10 (88 percent) of the interviewees were positive to the use of surveillance cameras in public places2. The survey also revealed that the perceived benefits of cameras outweighed concerns about being captured on video in various types of environments. Another research overview of seven studies showed that surveillance with security cameras resulted in crime reductions ranging from 24 to 28 percent in public streets and urban subway stations3. 1 A study published in 2019 (in Swedish) by researchers at Malmö University (Kronkvist, Nordqvist and Ivert) on camera surveillance in a high-risk area: perceptions of, experience and the effects of using police surveillance cameras to reduce crime and increase security. 2 Lahtinen, M., Opinion poll: The Swedish general public’s attitudes towards the use of surveillance cameras (CCTV) in public spaces, December 2019. LUSAX Security Informatics at Lund University School of Economics and Management. 3 Alexandrie, Gustav (2017) Surveillance cameras and crime: a review of randomized and natural experiments. Journal of Scandinavian in Criminology and Crime Prevention. Information and training Goals Axis maintains an ongoing dialog with distributors, partners, end customers and trade associations on the importance of protecting information and privacy when video surveillance and target fulfillment solutions are used, along with the intended purpose of Axis’ innovative technology, products and solutions. Protecting privacy Axis shares knowledge and provides both training and information to ensure, to the extent Axis strives to ensure that its products and solutions are always used in an possible, that its network cameras and solutions ethical and correct way, while respecting human rights and protecting are properly installed and used, along with personal privacy. None of its products or solutions should violate personal proper protection and storage of video footage. privacy. Training on values and ethics is offered to system All employees, distributors and partners are informed of Axis’ standpoint and they must always integrators as well. strive to use the company’s products and solutions responsibly. During the year, Axis designed workshops on During the year, informational and training initiatives were carried out for a large number of business ethics that will be held for all distributors and partners. employees. Personal privacy is also a continuous topic of discussion within the company via Training, in the form of workshops on ethics, has been initiated for all employees. different forums. There is continuous dialog and dissemination of information on these topics. 32 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Customer satisfaction Axis strives to continually develop and improve its offering and support so that customers remain loyal and satisfied. Sustainability is becoming an increasingly important parameter for improving customer value. Axis has established long-term, close relationships The company also regularly conducts customer This is also the first survey where sustainability with its distributors and partners and it has a satisfaction surveys with the aim of further of products and solutions was measured as one global network of approximately 90,000 partners improving its customer relations and delivering of the factors that impacts how satisfied Axis’ in 179 countries. Axis maintains a continual dialog high-quality products and solutions. partners are with the company’s products and with its distributors and partners, always with solutions. the goal of being attentive, responsive and able Loyal, satisfied customers to provide sustainable, innovative products and A global satisfaction survey was carried out during Annual surveys and continual feedback solutions that exceed their expectations and meet the year across 56 countries, and approximately Each year, Axis performs several surveys on their needs. 5,000 distributors and partners responded. The customer satisfaction. The Annual Order overall Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) was 77 Department Survey reaches out to distributors and Axis products and solutions should help customers (max 100), which indicates that the majority of Axis’ internal departments. The Annual Technical become more sustainable, improve and raise the Axis’ partners are very satisfied. In such surveys, a Support Survey addresses anyone who has had efficiency of their operations and conduct smarter CSI of 75 or higher indicates that the company is a support case and has used Axis’ support, i.e., business. In collaboration with both customers regarded as a leading market player. end customers, private individuals, partners and and partners, Axis helps make people’s lives distributors alike. simpler and safer. The results from these surveys are used to improve customer satisfaction and loyalty. Customer All feedback in the surveys is considered and These strong, long-term ties with customers are a satisfaction surveys gauge the performance appropriate action is taken. key success factor for Axis and satisfied customers of Axis’ business. They also demonstrate the are a prerequisite for Axis long-term growth and company’s commitment to listening to its Axis analyzes the data aggregated to look for: profitability. customers and measuring progress by following up Where does the company perform well? What on the results of prior years. does Axis need to improve? Sustainability matters to customers Interest in sustainability issues is increasing. For The survey results are evaluated and Furthermore, Axis, among other things, obtains example, customers are interested in network communicated to the Axis regional offices as well qualitative information via direct interviews with cameras that are PVC-free and low in energy as local departments within the organization so its end customers in different areas. The aim is consumption. Customers also want to see that that improvements can be implemented. to identify ways to improve and further maintain there are programs in place for recycling products This year’s survey showed that Axis consistently high levels of satisfaction. at the end of their useful life. continues to be regarded as a top leading brand, trustful and easy to deal with. About the global satisfaction survey Axis has responded to this by offering a wider The survey was conducted during the period Aprilrange of network cameras that are PVC-free. Scores were particularly high in the following May 2019 and approximately 5,000 distributors The company is also developing products areas: high quality/reliability of products and and partners responded. Participants included designed to consume less energy. Please read solutions, professionalism, high level expertise and partners in the sales channels of various sizes more on pages 34-35 and 38-41. customer-oriented staff for service and support. serving Axis’ different markets. The survey also revealed that partners appreciate Social and ethical issues are becoming an Axis’ products and solutions not only because increasingly important topic in discussions with they solve customer challenges, but also because distributors, partners and end customers. Axis they are easy to install and maintain. Scores for distributes information and provides training the training that Axis provides were also high. on sustainability issues within the scope of Axis Many partners particularly value that Axis keeps Communications Academy, as well as in meetings, innovating. seminars and newsletters. 33 Global survey 2019 46 0 NPS* -50 50 -100 100 77 CSI (max 100) * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a method for measuring customer loyalty. It is calculated as follows: NPS = % Promoters % Detractors. The index ranges from -100 to +100, which means that anything over 0 is positive and an NPS of 50 or more is considered exceptional. Note: The design of the survey has been changed, which means that the results are not fully comparable with the prior survey conducted in 2017. 34 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Environmental responsibility Axis strives to minimize the environmental impact of its own operations, as well as that of its products and solutions. The majority of Axis’ environmental impact is indirect, and it occurs through manufacturing and transports, along with energy consumption when the company’s products and solutions are used. Axis thus strives for improvements along the entire value chain and throughout the entire life cycle of its products and solutions. Long-term environmental responsibility Axis strives to use recycled material, reduce Axis shall be perceived as a leader in the industry the number of product parts, select low-weight by both new and future customers, employees, components, minimize material waste, optimize partners and other stakeholders in regards to packaging, improve energy consumption and the company’s contribution to environmentally efficiency in the company’s operations and sustainable development. Axis works together products, streamline logistics flows and, to the with suppliers, distributors and other partners to extent possible, choose environmentally friendly minimize the direct and indirect environmental transports. impact. Axis has implemented systematic procedures for product development, selection and New long-term environmental goals were origin of materials, components and packaging to established during the year for the company’s ensure that they meet the requirements on quality focus areas: Beat climate change, Protect natural and functionality. resources and Protect ecosystems. The new environmental goals will be fully implemented by the organization during 2020. 35 Green Key opens doors for better household recycling Green Key gives residents better access to recycling centers, even when they are not staffed. The solution increases safety and security, while providing municipalities with a scalable system that can be supplemented with other features and provide even better service to residents. Better accessibility to, and extended opening hours at, recycling centers helps discourage residents from dumping waste elsewhere. It also lowers the environmental impact from their traveling to a recycling center in another city (when the one closest to them is closed) or, quite simply, not bothering to recycle at all. The Green Key solution consists of two parts: an access control system from Omnigon and a surveillance system with Axis network cameras. Network cameras make it possible see whether or not visitors are dumping allowed items into each container. Furthermore, there has been less burglary, theft and littering at recycling centers. The solution also lowers the staff costs. Beat climate Power usage in change Axis products and solutions Beating climate change The energy consumption of a camera accounts for a Goals is a priority for Axis and significant part of its total environmental impact. Life cycle analyses conducted by Axis show that between an important part of its 60 and 80 percent of the total environmental impact environmental strategy. of network cameras is associated with the energy and target fulfillment Axis strives to lower its consumption of end users. carbon footprint and counteract climate change During the year, Axis continued its efforts to generate solutions for lowering energy Power usage in Axis throughout the entire value chain. consumption during the product usage stage. products and solutions A plan has been drawn up for activities that will be carried out during 2020. Within the scope of Implementation of 3-5 projects R&D, for example, the product development phase each year until 2023 to improve will involve more focus on how to lower energy the energy efficiency of products or consumption when products are used. solutions, with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions. Axis has continued to develop technologies for The Extended Video Products, Base Video lowering energy consumption during the product usage phase, which enables cameras to reproduce Products and Core Tech departments have sharp color images even when it is dark. Doing so specified several activities for lowering energy eliminates the need for external lightning. consumption that will be implemented in a project that will get underway during 2020. 36 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Emissions from transports, Transports Axis activities and suppliers Axis is striving to make its logistics chain more efficient and uses carbon offsets to a greater extent for its air freight. Carbon footprint Energy consumption of premises Many activities associated with the company’s The total global energy consumption from Climate impact from transports fell in 2019 operations result in carbon dioxide emissions and premises has slightly increased. The reason for this compared to the base year 2016. In total, Axis is striving to reduce its carbon footprint. is that the number of employees have grown. the carbon emissions from transports fell by Ways of doing this include developing products The energy consumption of own premises 8.9 percent to 3.71 kg CO2 per sold unit. and packages with the lowest possible weight accounts for approximately 11 percent of all Lower CO2 emissions from transports per sold and volume, which helps make transports more emissions. In terms of energy intensity, the energy unit are a result of several of the initiatives that efficient and lower their emissions. Axis also consumption per employee has fallen, thanks to Axis has implemented. For example, Axis has stipulates clear requirements on the company's Axis’ energy-saving initiatives. Globally, energy a new components strategy whereby it now suppliers so that they will lower their own CO2 consumption per full time employee, excluding keeps more components in its own inventory. emissions as well. logistics centers, 2N and Citilog, decreased from Doing so has resulted in higher delivery 2.7 to 2.5 MWh per full time employee in 2019. precision. Availability of components for the Through annual monitoring and reporting of the company’s products has also improved. Another company's CO2 emissions, Axis is able to gain At the headquarters in Lund, where 56 percent consequence of this is a significant reduction insight into the processes that generate the of all employees have their workplace, energy in courier freight by air in 2019. A larger highest emissions. It also helps Axis understand consumption fell from 2.3 to 2.2 MWh per proportion of sea and land transport has been what to focus on in order to lower its climate employee, which corresponds to a decrease of used instead of air transport. impact. The 2019 Carbon Footprint report focuses 5 percent. It also results from higher awareness on emissions related to transports, energy among employees. Manufacturing and configuration of the consumption of premises, leased vehicles, business products at various configuration and logistics travel and paper consumption. The report also Sustainable travel centers (CLCs) should occur as close to each includes emissions from all inbound transports The company’s travel policy for employees was market as possible in order to ensure good (i.e., transports from contract manufacturers to updated during the year in order to clarify the flexibility as well as short transport and lead the CLCs), along with emissions from all outbound requirements for sustainable travel. Emissions times from contract manufacturers to the transports (i.e., transports from the CLCs to from business travel per employee at HQ fell company's CLCs and then along to distributors. distributors). during the year from 0.8 ton CO2e to 0.7 ton CO2e. Axis uses carbon offsets for all of its business Another factor that has helped lower CO2 Lower CO2 emissions trips by air and for 2019, it amounted to 4,567 emissions per sold unit was getting the Axis Axis lowered its CO2 emissions during the year tons CO2e. Please read more about how Axis uses CLC in Thailand up and running. It is used from 36,704 to 35,014 tons CO2e*, which is a carbon offsets on page 38. for products that are manufactured for the decrease of approximately 5 percent compared to Asian market. Yet another CLC was opened in 2018, despite a growth of around 15 percent. Green lease the American market during the year as well. The company had good growth, with both Axis has a green lease with one of its property And, an increasing number of products sold to higher sales and a higher number of employees. owners for the headquarters in Lund. It means South America are being transported primarily The decrease is primarily attributable to more that Axis and the property owner work together to from USA, instead of from the CLCs in Europe. efficient solutions regarding inbound transports, reduce the environmental impact of the premises This has helped lower the CO2 emissions from see Transports. Emissions from business travels and property. For example, most of the coolers and transports in America. at Axis headquarters have decreased. freezers have been replaced with low-energy ones. Also, the existing fluorescent lamps are constantly More carbon offsets Emissions caused by deliveries from third parties being replaced with LED lighting. As of 2019, Axis uses carbon offsets for all of its account for 71 percent of the total CO2e emissions. air freight from suppliers in Asia to the various Emissions associated with employees, which are Training CLCs (except for the one in Thailand), since caused by energy consumption at premises, paper The environmental function trained employees at these are the routes where more transports consumption, leased vehicles, business travel and Axis headquarters in Lund and its sales office in occur when there are component shortages. It similar, increased by 7 percent. Please read more Boston. means that Axis uses carbon offsets for around on page 67. Emissions associated with sales fell 15 percent of the total amount of CO2 emissions from 3.6 tons CO2e to 3 tons CO2e per SEK 100 from its air freight, as well as all courier freight. million (see diagram). Carbon offsetting occurs in accordance with the CarbonNeutral Protocol. The use of carbon offsets to counteract CO2 emissions is primarily in the form of projects that help communities build their infrastructures. * Carbon dioxide equivalents or CO2e is a metric for describing how different greenhouse gases, of a given quantity, contribute to the greenhouse effect and impact global warming, measured in the equivalent amount of CO2 . 37 Customer story Ton CO2e per sales Radar technology 5 pinpoints illegal dumping 4 The city of New Orleans in the USA launches a clean-up initiative using Axis network radar detectors and network cameras to curtail illegal dumping. 3 In New Orleans, the clean-up challenge is compounded by hundreds of thousands of visitors pouring into the city each year. Although the Sanitation Department was sweeping up after 2 countless parades and festivals, as well as its ordinary residential and commercial waste management activities, they could do little to curtail illegal dumping. To address the problem, the 1 mayor launched a comprehensive and coordinated clean-up initiative to make New Orleans shine. The Sanitation Department installed Axis cameras at locations they had identified as chronic 0 illegal dumping sites. Several of the cameras are integrated with Network Radar Detectors that direct the cameras to automatically track the vehicle or person responsible for triggering an alert. Ton CO₂e per 2017 2018 2019 SEK 100 M 4.06 3.55 2.95 When the cameras aren’t recording a sanitation crime, they operate as ordinary public safety cameras (together with more than 400 other city-owned public safety cameras). Ton CO2e per employee1 5 Goals and target fulfillment 4 3 Emissions 2 Reducing CO2 emissions from operations by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021, measured as kg CO2 per sold unit. 1 In 2019, CO2 emissions from operations* per sold unit decreased by 6.6 percent comparing to 2016. 0 Reducing CO2 emissions from transports by 20 percent per sold unit from 2017 2018 2019 2016 to 2021, measured as kg CO2 per sold unit. Ton CO₂e/FTE2 2.30 2.37 2.31 In 2019, CO₂ emissions from transports fell by 8.9 percent, measured as kg CO₂ per sold unit, 1 Inbound and outbound transports are excluded. 2 FTE (Full-Time Equivalents) also include employees at Axis CLCs. compared to 2016. Reducing CO2e emissions from business travel (Sweden) per employee by Ton CO2e per scope 8 percent from 2018 to 2021. 40,000 In 2019, CO2e emissions from business travel per employee (Sweden) have decreased by 13 percent, 35,000 from 0.8 ton CO2e to 0.7 ton CO2e. 30,000 Reducing electricity consumption by 5 percent per employee per year at the 25,000 headquarters in Sweden. 20,000 Electricity consumption per employee at the headquarters in Lund (MWh per employee) decreased by 5 percent compared to 2018. 15,000 Emission suppliers' processes 10,000 5,000 A new long-term goal is to have 100 percent fossil-free energy in manufacturing and logistics centers by 2030 and 50 percent fossil-free energy in manufacturing and logistics centers by 2024. 0 Ton CO₂e 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Scope 1 includes Axis' direct emissions. Scope 2 Scope 2 includes indirect emissions such as energy consumption. Scope 3 Scope 3 includes indirect emissions due to sourcing of goods or services, transports *Operations run by Axis, excluding 2N, Citilog, and CLCs that are not owned by Axis, have their own emission targets. from suppliers, and business trips. 38 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Carbon offsets for business trips Axis uses carbon offsets for all business trips by air. In 2019, Axis offset 4,567 tons CO2 equivalents from business trips in the projects CommuniTree in Nicaragua and Trees for Global Benefits in Uganda. These projects are certified according to Plan Vivo. Protect natural In this project, different species of native trees are being planted, using varying methods of cultivation, in order to build a resilient ecosystem CommuniTree in northern Nicaragua. The carbon offset Nicaragua resources corresponds to approximately 8,800 planted trees covering 6 hectares of reforested land. Local farmers receive money for planting and taking care of the trees. The trees offer protection during extreme weather conditions as they capture water and prevent landslides. They also provide shade for animals, crops and for the families that live in the Axis is striving to achieve area. Since 2010, more than 120 unique species have been planted. a responsible use of natural resources throughout the entire value chain. Forestry that has been developed at the local level is providing families in western Uganda with timber, fuel, fruit and vegetables. The carbon offset corresponds to approximately 3,600 planted Trees for trees covering 9 hectares of reforested land. Global Benefits Since 2003, more than 1 million tons of carbon Uganda sequestration has been documented through improved agricultural techniques, expanded forest areas and reduced deforestation. The project also includes training in HIV, AIDS, entrepreneurship and global warming. 39 Sustainable packaging During the year, Axis developed a new strategy for its packaging, aimed at clarifying and structuring its working method for developing innovative, sustainable packaging solutions. This includes, for example, requirements that packaging may not contain any substances that could have adverse health effects, such as PVC, or brominated and chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR). The packaging must also meet the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council, Sustainable Forestry Initiative and/or Gröna Punkten. Furthermore, it must be easy to reuse/recycle the packaging and suppliers are selected based on their ability to meet the Axis requirements. The goal is to base the development of all packaging for the company’s products on these requirements. Use of natural resources (materials in Axis products) Goals Recycled material Use of water and target fulfillment Use of recycled material helps conserve natural Axis has identified water usage as an important resources and lower the environmental impact. issue to both Axis and its suppliers. Use of water Axis is making a continual effort to phase in is highest at Axis' supplier locations and it occurs Use of natural resources new, recycled material to its material library, during the productions stage. In many countries, which provides the opportunity to increase the water is a scarce resource and Axis has assessed Increase use of recycled/biobased percentage of recycled materials in its products that this a problem that will become even more materials to a greater extent. serious over time. A new long-term goal, established in 2019, Axis has continued to develop products with Axis is striving to both lower and optimize water is that 20 percent of all plastic consumption recycled plastic. In 2019, Axis released several usage in its own operations and that of its in Axis products will be recycled/biobased by models where up to 20 percent of the plastic suppliers. Axis uses tap water at its offices and at 2024. is recycled. For more information on how Axis the product test laboratory. Initiatives to conserve is working to increase resource efficiency and water were implemented at Axis headquarters protect natural resources during manufacturing of during the year, which has included replacing the company’s products, please see page 42. older dishwashers with newer models that use less water and are more energy efficient. Use of water During 2020, Axis will survey and document Minimize water usage. water usage in the value chain, which includes Axis will be surveying and documenting water the company’s own operations and those of Axis' usage and setting targets for that in 2020. suppliers. The most water intensive processes in the production stage at the suppliers will be studied so that action plans can be formulated, and targets set, for water usage. 40 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Protect ecosystems Axis wants to protect ecosystems and it is constantly striving to eliminate the use of hazardous substances in the company's products which could harm ecosystems. 41 Materials and lowering the use of hazardous substances in Axis products Axis products contain different materials Materials that are free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR) Goals such as aluminum, zinc, steel, stainless and target fulfillment steel, polycarbonate/acrylonitrile-butadiene During the year, Axis developed the first cameras styrene, polycarbonate, polyamide, that are BFR/CFR-free. They belong to AXIS P13 polymethylmethacrylate, polyurethane, Network Camera Series, AXIS P1377 and silicone, thermoplastic elastomer and rubber. AXIS P1378 Network Cameras. Axis has thus taken Hazardous substances Materials must meet both quality and functional an important step in setting an industry standard Minimize use of hazardous requirements, while minimizing the environmental when it comes to sustainability and green design. substances in Axis products. impact. This includes ensuring that only conflictfree minerals are used and that products do not Phaseout of PVC All Axis network cameras shall be BFR/CFR-free contain any substances that are harmful to human PVC can emit toxic substances and it is harmful to by 2024. health or the environment, along with phasing out both human health and the environment. It is also hazardous materials. For more information on how difficult to recycle. PVC exists, for example, in the All PCBA (Printed Circuit Board Assemblies) in Axis is working to lower both use and emissions outdoor cables for Axis cameras. Axis is striving to Axis network cameras shall be BFR/CFR-free by of hazardous substances by suppliers, please see phase out PVC from its products and its efforts to 2022. pages 42-44. do so have been successful. In total, approximately 80 percent of Axis network cameras and encoders All Axis indoor network cameras launched shall are PVC-free. be BFR/CFR-free by 2022. Target fulfillment In 2019, Axis developed the first cameras that are BFR/CFR-free. 42 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Responsible and innovative supply chain Axis suppliers shall take social, environmental and ethical responsibility, along with counteracting corruption in their organizations to ensure that Axis products are manufactured in a sustainable, innovative and effective way. Axis conducts regular audits of suppliers to ensure that they meet Axis requirements and expectations. All suppliers are expected to sign Axis’ supplier Axis suppliers are carefully selected for the code of conduct, comply with Axis requirements, purpose of manufacturing and assembling the “Axis has a very high focus take social and environmental responsibility for company’s products. Contract manufacturers are on sustainability and is very their operations and counteract corruption. engaged for printed circuit boards and assembly. Axis also has strategically selected component conscious of the importance Responsible manufacturing suppliers for such things as die casting and of decisions that we make. Axis establishes long-term relationships with its molding of chassis and parts, manufacturing The company takes suppliers. Axis customers also have requirements camera lenses and electronic components. sustainability seriously and on how the company works with its suppliers. Configuration of products is done at the that concerns all areas. Customers want assurance that Axis has controls configuration and logistics centers (CLCs). Axis puts passion and pace in place to ensure that its suppliers work with social, ethical and environmental issues. They also Impact and risks first, and keeps improving.” want to know that manufacturing is done in a Environmental impact in the supply chain includes Jesus Carrillo, Program responsible way. consumption of energy, water, materials, minerals Management Manager, Flex and chemicals. There is also an impact from Additionally, it is important that no Axis products emissions caused by the production itself and contain conflict minerals. Please read more about transports. They are also encouraged to reduce waste of Axis’ efforts to ensure that it only uses conflictmaterials and ensure that resource extraction free minerals on page 45. Suppliers in Asia frequently report a substantial occurs in a responsible way. amount of overtime. Axis regards excessive In total, Axis has 247 suppliers. Of that number, overtime as a risk to employee health and Use of water and materials in Axis products shall six are contract manufacturers located in China, safety. There is also a risk of negative impact on occur responsibly and the company is striving to Mexico, Thailand, Japan and two are located in performance. increase the percentage of recycled materials in Poland. From a sustainability perspective, 118 its products. are critical suppliers and of that number, 11 are Axis encourages its suppliers to be innovative and located in Europe, 1 in the USA and 106 in Asia. use technology for eliminating processes that are Much of Axis’ total carbon dioxide emissions During the year, Axis began collaborating with 23 hazardous to human health. are attributable to transports from contract new suppliers*. manufacturers to the Axis configuration and logistics centers (CLCs). * New suppliers are those who have been phased in and started collaborating with Axis in 2019. 43 Axis is working proactively to make transports The survey was sent by email to 105 of Axis’ Supplier code of conduct more efficient, which helps lower both costs and suppliers. 65 percent had responded by the end of Axis’ supplier code of conduct, which all suppliers emissions. Emissions and other environmental December 2019. Of these 68 suppliers, 18 reported must sign and comply with, is based on the Axis issues are discussed in more detail in the section more than 60-hour workweeks (RBA requirement). code of conduct and the ten principles of the on Environmental responsibility. 16 of the Chinese suppliers reported a breech of UN Global Conduct on human rights, labor, the the legal requirements. All of the nonconformant environment and anti-corruption. The Responsible Suppliers are selected based on the following suppliers have provided action plans to reduce Business Alliance’s code of conduct was used as criteria: quality, price, ethics and counteracting overtime and be compliant within the first quarter the model for requirements on working hours. The corruption, environmental impact and flexibility. of 2020. supplier code of conduct covers a variety of topics, They must also provide their employees with such as a ban on all forms of child and forced a decent work environment and terms of Onsite spot-checks to verify the implementation labor, requirements on providing decent working employment, allowing them to freely join trade and the results of the action plans have been and conditions, controls on environmental impact unions and sign collective agreements. Respect will continue to be conducted during 2020. and the necessity of counteracting all forms of for human rights is another important selection corruption. Suppliers must also have controls in criterion. There has also been much focus on energy place for their environmental impact, energy and issues, including energy efficiency and energy water consumption, emissions, and how both Furthermore, consideration is given to their consumption. chemicals and waste are managed. Responsible proximity to a contract manufacturer, CLC and/ purchasing of minerals is another requirement. or a purchasing office. Close collaboration with Audits in 2019 Furthermore, suppliers must comply with ISO suppliers on sustainability issues helps lower the The 2019 audits of suppliers revealed that 13 14001 standard or have an environmental risks and make manufacturing more efficient, suppliers in Asia had not complied with the management system that is in accordance with innovative and responsible. requirements on overtime stated in the supplier ISO 14001. code of conduct. Activities in focus 2019 Some suppliers have not signed the Axis code of During the year, Axis trained 21 quality engineers Some employees worked more overtime than what conduct for suppliers, referencing instead their who are responsible for auditing suppliers. the law in that country allows. Axis has required own code of conduct. In such cases, Axis reviews its suppliers who have violated the laws on the supplier’s code of conduct to ensure that Axis has increased awareness and helped improve overtime to submit an action plan. the content corresponds to what is stated in the efficiency at the suppliers, which has contributed Axis code of conduct for suppliers. 100 percent to automation in some processes. For example, Foreign workers in Malaysia and Thailand were of the new suppliers have signed the Axis code an automated pre-treatment process was earlier identified as particularly at risk of being of conduct for suppliers. The supplier code of implemented at a die casting supplier in order to subjected to forced labor. Because of this, Axis is conduct is reviewed each year. The same applies to lower employees’ exposure to chemicals and the conducting more frequent supplier audits there the CLC code of conduct. risk of negative effects to their health as well as along with training to ensure that there are no reduce risk of leakage. abuses of human rights. In 2019, it was discovered Trainings and Supplier Academy that a component supplier in Malaysia seized the Axis provides training to suppliers via, for During 2019, an inventory and survey was carried passports of its foreign workers. The problem has example, the Axis Supplier Academy, where out to identify overtime work at Axis’ suppliers. since been corrected. This will be further verified suppliers are trained locally on environmental, It focused on suppliers in critical regions, e.g., through unannounced on-site audits in the work environment and other sustainability China, where the legal requirement is stricter beginning of 2020. issues. The training program has been designed than Responsible Business Alliance’s requirements to increase awareness and understanding of (RBA), but not always followed. Recurring challenges with suppliers include Axis’ requirements and the main target group deficiencies in how they manage both chemicals is suppliers who are most critical to Axis from a Regions where the national legislation allows and waste. In all cases where problems were sustainability perspective. extensive overtime work were also included identified, the suppliers have taken action to in the survey. correct nonconformities. During the year, Axis trained five component suppliers, and all of the company’s eight CLCs via No supplier collaborations were terminated during Axis Supplier Academy. the year due to their failure to live up to Axis’ sustainability requirements. 44 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Goals and target fulfillment Suppliers Stringent supplier audits All new suppliers in 2019 shall be Initial evaluation audited with respect to criteria on Before collaboration may begin, all new suppliers This includes working hours and routines, the the environment, working conditions, are initially evaluated by completing a selfexistence of child labor or forced labor, noise level, human rights and anti-corruption evaluation form. The form is based on the ILO fire safety and how both chemicals and waste are (on-site audit). Conventions and the ten principles of the UN managed. The various types of emissions are also Global Conduct. It covers a wide variety of topics identified and measured. During the year, all new suppliers were including the company's environmental impact screened via self-evaluation forms and/or (e.g., chemicals management and emissions), Axis follows up on the water use of its suppliers, on-site audits. During 2018 and 2017, all new social responsibility (e.g., working conditions, where this is part of the audit, and advices on suppliers were also screened. working hours, employee health and safety) monitoring and KPIs. and ethical issues. Ensure that all suppliers meet the In addition, Axis ensures that no conflict minerals Responsible Business Alliance’s For suppliers that are critical from a sustainability are used. Axis also checks that there are processes requirements on working hours. perspective Axis also performs on-site audits. and systems in place for ensuring that operations There has been follow-up on this via on-site are run in an ethical way and that there is no corruption. visits to several suppliers in 2019 and this will Audit and follow-up The purpose of supplier audits is to follow continue in 2020 as well. up and ensure that suppliers are meeting the If it should be revealed that a supplier is not requirements stated in the code of conduct for meeting Axis’ requirements, the supplier will suppliers. Audits can be performed on-site or be given three months to implement remedial off-site, and are carried out in both the first tier measures. Axis then follows up that the problems (contract suppliers) and second tier (component have been corrected, by conducting one or suppliers). Suppliers are classified according to more additional audits. If remedial action is not the level of risk with regards to environmental taken, Axis will not provide the supplier any new and corporate social responsibility risks, where business. The next step would be to phase out that consideration has been given to type of supplier. Audits are conducted on suppliers that commodity, the country where they are are critical from a sustainability perspective. On located, credibility and prior evaluations. average, audits are carried out every three years (provided that no problems requiring remedial For high risk suppliers, environmental and quality action have been identified). engineers from Axis make on-site visits to carry out the audits. Inspections typically take between Regular audits on the majority of Axis’ suppliers 1-2 days and interviews are held with both have led to improvements in their sustainability employees and management. Axis investigates efforts. Examples of this include better waste the entire production process, through to end management practices, lower emissions to water delivery, looking as such things as the factory’s and soil, better safety for employees in the environmental impact and working conditions for workplace, a lower risk of accidents and a better employees. overall work environment. UK Modern Slavery Act Axis has operations in the UK and is thus subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act. Axis works actively to counteract all forms of modern slavery, child labor, forced labor and trafficking in its business and it imposes demands on suppliers that none of this may occur in their operations. Suppliers are expected to forbid any occurrence of modern slavery, child labor, forced labor or trafficking do not exist in their operations. For information regarding how Axis works with these challenges, see www.axis.com. 45 Conflict minerals Axis works both systematically and proactively to ensure that the company’s products do not contain any conflict minerals. Specifically, this means gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten mined from conflict areas in the world, where money from the sale may go to armed groups or criminals, thereby perpetuating armed conflict. Some of the components in Axis products contain Suppliers are required to report where the tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. minerals have been sourced and have a process to ensure that their components and products From both a social and ethical perspective, conflict only contain conflict-free minerals. This involves minerals are a very important issue. Mining of identifying all of the smelters in the value chain such minerals often results in conflict. who provide gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. Furthermore, the proceeds from mineral They must then report that information to Axis. trading may go to finance armed conflicts or perpetuate both child and forced labor. Mining In addition, Axis requires that all of its suppliers of conflict minerals can also have a detrimental comply with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank environmental impact in the form of deforestation Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and hazardous emissions to both water and soil. when applicable, to ensure a higher level of Axis neither accepts, tolerates nor engages in any traceability for minerals. Suppliers must also purchasing of minerals that finances conflicts, or have policies and due diligence practices in place which involves any violation of human rights or that enable Axis to ensure that the products and use of forced labor. components they deliver only contain conflict-free minerals. In 2019, it was discovered that three of Axis’ suppliers had used components containing conflict Suppliers are expected to report where they minerals. Those suppliers have submitted action have sourced the minerals in their products and plans and do everything within their control to components, along with any measures that have ensure that this never happens again. Axis will been taken. They do so using the Conflict Minerals conduct unannounced on-site audits to ensure Reporting Template in the Responsible Minerals that those plans have been implemented and Initiative reporting tool. More than 90 percent of that the problems have been remedied. If the Axis suppliers have reported this information using audits reveal that the action plans have not been the reporting tool or equivalent. Axis regularly implemented or have not effectively remedied the follows up on its suppliers, which includes those problems, Axis will terminate its collaboration that previously declared that they do not use with those suppliers. conflict minerals, because there could be changes over time in how they purchase such materials. Documented process Axis has a well-documented process for ensuring Governance that the minerals used by its suppliers and Axis follows the recommendations and guidelines subcontractors are conflict-free. In accordance on social responsibility in the supply chain, as with Axis’ code of conduct for suppliers, all first stipulated in the Responsible Business Alliance and and second tier suppliers have undertaken to have the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. All suppliers a process in place for mapping their supply chain in must comply with Axis’ policy on conflict minerals. order to ensure that no conflict minerals are used. 46 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Social responsibility For Axis, in its role as employer, social responsibility is about providing a good, safe workplace, where there is equality, diversity and non-discrimination. It is also important to have a healthy psychosocial work environment, with happy, motivated employees who want to grow and develop. Axis has employees in 51 countries and has a significant influence on people’s lives and well-being by creating job opportunities for them. The company applies a long-term approach to social responsibility. Axis strives to generate benefits by investing in initiatives that have a positive impact on its own operations and society at large. Employees Achieving the company's goals is also key, Axis' internal company culture reinforces the Axis offers an attractive workplace with a safe, along with remaining on the cutting edge and company’s reputation and brand, thereby healthy and sustainable work environment developing the very best products and solutions. contributing to the company's success and ability where all employees have good opportunities to to continue growing worldwide and remaining develop. Axis creates excellent career options Core values provide the foundation for the both innovative and dynamic. that arise from it being an innovative, expansive company and its strategy. Strong leadership company. The company has attractive, competitive supports employees being motivated and Attracting and developing talent employment terms, and recruits employees on a passionate about pursuing constant development Axis’ ambition is to create excellent career continual basis in all markets. During 2019, Axis and innovation. The core values provides guidance, opportunities and offer competitive salaries with grew with 393 new employees. The total number helping employees make decisions and carry attractive employment terms. This is critical to of employees at year end was 3,646, of which 28 out assigned tasks, each and every day. All of it the company’s ability to both attract and retain percent women and 72 percent men. During 2019, ensures more efficient teamwork and helps build skilled employees. Axis has a bonus program that Axis continued its efforts to achieve the stated genuine trust. covers all employees. Furthermore, all employees goals in health and safety, equal opportunities, have performance appraisals and salaries are diversity, inclusion and non-discrimination. Strong company culture reviewed for all employees each year. Job rotation All employees are expected to get involved, and promotion from within is encouraged, which Culture for success sharing knowledge, expertise, and contributing contributes to worthwhile, fulfilling careers. Employees are guided by the values and company to a culture of innovation and creativity. Axis culture that prevails. For example, continual works systematically to continually strengthen There are also a wide variety of training development is an important part of the company the company culture since it is crucial that all opportunities and development programs culture and underlying factor for progress, employees share the company’s values. Recruiting available to employees. One of the new initiatives innovation and success. is a careful, thoughtful process where much effort in 2019 was the launch of a global recruiting and goes into ensuring that candidates’ values are learning tool as part of the Axis HR platform. The Core values aligned with those of the company. new recruitment tool allows all employees and Axis core values mean, among other things, being candidates to have an easy and transparent access committed, taking responsibility, having high The company culture and core values are an to all available vacancies, provides recruiting ambitions and pushing the boundaries. It also important part of the introduction program managers an overview of a base of candidates, means being open to the ideas of colleagues, for new employees. They are also emphasized gives better understanding of recruitment sources receptive to customer needs, and to make at kickoff events, salary setting and during and support creation of the Axis experience for decisions that always have the best interests of performance appraisals. candidates during the recruitment process. Axis in mind. 47 Act as one Think big Always open Core values With the new learning platform, employees can Other training and initiatives exist in each region. Furthermore, a good physical and psychosocial browse available trainings easily and sign up for They are decided locally and based on the needs work environment promotes both creativity and what is being offered. Furthermore, it provides of the region or country. One example is language innovation, which helps generate favorable results a forum for sharing best practice, which is an training such as a global English language offering for the company. HR managers ensure that all excellent resource and source of support for available for employees in all countries. Employees offices adhere to the regular working hours and employees. AMP (Axis Mentorship Program) is set goals and enroll in activities based on the that compensation in the countries complies with the internal global mentoring program that has career development discussions and plans they agreements and national legislation. been launched during the year. AMP connects have established with their manager. employees across regions, functions and Each year, Axis engages in a variety of activities experience levels. Leadership is key to this entire process and aimed at promoting employee health and Axis has several training programs to develop wellness. Examples include reviews of the Axis has numerous Axchange programs, which are the leadership skills of its managers. ALP (Axis office ergonomics, health profile assessments, job rotation opportunities. They give employees Leadership Program) is designed to further develop health surveys, bicycles for new employees in the chance to exchange experiences, gain new managers on being an Axis leader and was Sweden and numerous team-building events. perspectives, learn new skills and advance in their conducted in Sweden and Americas in 2019. All employees in Sweden have private health careers. insurance. Many initiatives are carried out at the Another development program launched in 2019 is regional or country level. Furthermore, health > IP@Axis (International Projects at Axis), is Axis Sales Methodology. It aims to help employees and wellness are discussed during the annual an international exchange program that develop deeper relationships with customers performance appraisals for employees in Sweden. enables employees to work for a limited period based on trust earned through meaningful Fire safety training and other safety trainings are of time at one of the company’s other offices conversations. also held at most offices. around the world. > Live my day is a program whereby an A good and healthy work environment During the year, Axis also set a new goal focused employee can shadow a fellow co-worker In its role as employer, Axis is dedicated to offering on employee wellness, which is: promote and for two weeks to gain insight into what the a work environment where employees thrive and support healthy and sustainable living. It was job involves and/or learn what it’s like to work want to remain with the company for a long time. implemented throughout the organization during at that office. They should feel proud of their contribution and 2019 and various initiatives took place in line with > Jobswap involves two employees with similar working for Axis. Axis knows that healthy, happy that ambition. jobs, but in different regions, swapping with employees also do a better job. each other for a specific period of time. 48 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Initiatives during the year for promoting a safe Employee surveys The company actively strives to achieve a and healthy workplace include the following: Employee surveys are carried out on a regular higher level of diversity and equality, along with basis to gain insight and understanding of counteracting discrimination. > CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) trainings employee views on engagement, teamwork and as well as work environment training team efficiency, psychosocial work environment, Axis' view is that an inclusive working > In Singapore, an Employee Assistance personal development, leadership and other environment with equality and diversity in respect Program set up to support employees matters concerning the workplace. During the of background, competencies and other attributes with personal or work-related problems that year, employee surveys were conducted at several fosters innovation and dynamism as well as may impact their work, health, mental or locations, including in Sweden. Approximately employee wellbeing. It makes people feel proud emotional well-being 69 percent of Axis employees work in Sweden. to be an employee of Axis and it creates loyalty, > A wellness event held for all employees in Questions were also asked aimed at determining commitment and motivation. Furthermore, an South Africa to review and assess their health whether there were any indications of illness, inclusive workplace is a competitive advantage and wellness stress or discrimination. because the company’s good reputation is > A wellness challenge held in the Middle fundamental to successful recruiting activities. East to encourage employees to get more Axis was ranked as being a very good workplace exercise by walking or jogging and scores were also very high for such things All employees should have opportunities for > In Southern Europe, a week-long challenge as leadership and the psychosocial work developing their skills and abilities. This applies with daily activities to raise awareness on environment. The survey showed that Axis regardless of gender or background, which health and well-being in the workplace employees are motivated, committed and willing should never be a factor in deciding what career to make an extra effort. There are also many opportunities exist for a person working at Axis. Several activities to maintain a healthy, overall brand ambassadors who would recommend Axis Axis should also be a place where achieving a good psychosocial work environment have been as a good place to work. Areas for improvement balance in life is both possible and encouraged. Axis carried out. In Sweden, for example, trainings include feedback within teams. There was a very strives to ensure that in each market, employees were offered in stress management and personal high response rate of 84 percent and a high Net with equal qualifications receive equal pay for leadership. In USA, there was a nutritious eating Promoter Score* (NPS) of 50. For this scale 50 equal performance and responsibilities. challenge for employees and their families. Mental scores is considered to be an exceptional result. well-being and resilience workshops were also An employee survey was carried on in Southern Counteracting discrimination offered. Employees in Northern Europe were Europe as well and the results were favorable. Both local and regional initiatives takes place to provided with the opportunity of subscribing to a Middle Europe participated in the survey of best counteract discrimination, particularly concerning mindfulness app. workplaces in Europe and the company received the recruiting process and job advertisements. prestigious recognition as a Great Place to Work. Axis Middle Europe won in several categories: Best All offices work and set goals based on the local Goals Mid-Sized Employer, Best Employer in Bavaria, Germany and Best Employer in Information and conditions. During the year, one initiative to counteract discrimination was a workshop held for and target fulfillment Communication Technology (ICT). R&D managers in Sweden. It was a pilot project on how to recognize and benefit from team member Collective agreements and freedom to join differences and similarities. There was also a Health and safety trade unions workshop for Global Sales team in Sweden on the 73 percent of all Axis employees, including all topic of unconscious biases, how to recognize Maintain good overall psychosocial employees in Sweden, are covered by collective such behavior and change it. In Northern Europe, working environment for all agreements. All employees are entitled to freely join there was internal recruitment training for employees. trade unions in accordance with local legislation managers to raise awareness of these issues. and what is applicable in each specific country. One psychosocial health-promoting Numerous activities were carried out in the Americas initiative per country/region during An inclusive workplace as well. Examples include efforts to remove biased the year. Promoting diversity and inclusion is a top priority language in job descriptions and reduce bias in Promote and support healthy and for Axis and the company knows that having the recruiting process. Furthermore, changes were sustainable living. diverse teams working in every function promotes made to the interview feedback process in Americas Many regions reached their goals, focusing both creativity and innovation, thereby helping via debriefing aimed at ensuring that information intently on psychosocial issues and taking generate favorable results. Axis’ point of departure captured in individual interviews is never relayed action during the year to promote a good is that all people have equal worth. in a way that creates group bias. There was also overall psychosocial working environment. mandatory training on Preventing Harassment and Axis does not tolerate any form of discrimination Discrimination in the Workplace. Many initiatives took place aimed at achieving or harassment based on gender, sexual orientation, that goal on healthy and sustainable living. ethnicity, national origin, religious beliefs, age, Examples from other regions include an Inclusive Those efforts will continue in 2020. marital status, disability or other statutory reasons. Society awareness session held in South Asia * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a method for measuring the company’s employer brand. NPS shows how likely it is that you would recommend Axis as an employer to a friend. It is calculated as follows: NPS = % Promoters % Detractors. The index ranges from -100 to +100. 49 Pacific aimed at increasing knowledge of Initiatives to promote equality and diversity Goals the various types of disabilities and teaching During the year, there was much focus on appropriate disability etiquette. At 2N, all hiring improving the gender balance at Axis, with several managers were offered training and education on initiatives aimed at increasing equality and recruitment practices as well. diversity, particularly in recruitment efforts. and target fulfillment Of the total number of new employees during the year, 29 percent were women and 71 percent Equality and diversity Goals men. For the company overall, 28 percent of the employees are women and 72 percent men. Aim for a more balanced gender Activities aimed at achieving higher equality and and target fulfillment inclusion during the year also included: distribution in all teams and functions within Axis. > Recruitment training on diversity in several Ensure that the recruitment process, Non-discrimination regions including advertising, contributes to > A Women in Security Summit for EMEA to increased diversity. Zero tolerance for discrimination and recognize and support women in the industry harassment. All reported cases must be (see separate article) During the year, there was much focus on handled promptly and in accordance > Action taken within the Global Sales improving the gender balance at Axis, with with Axis processes and policies. organization in Sweden to ensure that there is several initiatives aimed at increasing equality In 2019, no cases of discrimination were at least one female candidate in every and diversity, particularly in recruitment efforts. reported. During 2018, two cases of sexual recruitment process A number of activities were conducted at both harassment were reported, where Axis > Special focus on promotion practices in a local and regional level, which are described Eastern Europe. A result of this was that half employees were subjected to harassment at in the text. of those promoted in 2019 were women the workplace by third parties. One case of > 2N increased efforts for a greater flexibility discrimination in the recruitment process was in respect of working hours and options to also reported. Each case was closed following work from home to promote a better work-life investigation and appropriate action. Two further balance, especially for new parents reports of discrimination were received. They > Several activities and training initiatives were were investigated and appropriate action was held in the Americas aimed at increasing taken. However, the processes are still ongoing diversity and equality. One example is a and the cases have not yet been closed. In 2017, leadership program for women that was one case of sexual harassment was reported. It developed in collaboration with Security was dealt with in accordance with the policies Industry Association (SIA). A “gender decoder” and procedures in place at Axis. tool was also introduced. It is used to review the language of job applications for gender bias. Ensure that the recruitment process, including language in job Axis Q Network is a network for female employees advertisements, is non-discriminatory. in Sweden, providing them with a forum for meeting, inspiring one another, exchanging HR departments throughout the world ideas and sharing experiences with other women continually review recruitment strategies working at Axis and in other companies. and job advertisements to ensure that they Axis also collaborates with, among others, are inclusive, encourage diversity and are not MINE (Mentorship, Inspiration, Networking and discriminatory. All recruitment training held Education), which is an idea-based, non-profit at the Axis headquarters in Lund and in the member organization for employers aimed at Americas include a component on how to avoid increasing diversity and inclusion in working life, discrimination in the recruitment process. including the recruitment process. An educational initiative during the year Axis reviews its annual salary adjustments to to raise awareness of discrimination ensure that they are non-discriminatory. If bias is among Axis managers globally. detected in the salary adjustments that have been made, action is taken to ensure compliance with Several activities were held during the year and Axis processes and policies. a few of them are described in the text. 50 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Employees 2019 2018 2017 Number of employees 3,646 3,253 2,865 Proportion women/men, % 28/72 28/72 27/73 Group management 1 woman, 8 men 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 8 men Board of directors 3 women, 7 men, of whom 2 3 women, 7 men, of whom 2 2 women, 8 men, of whom 2 women and 3 men are employee women and 3 men are employee women and 3 men are employee representatives (incl. 2 deputies) representatives (incl. 2 deputies) representatives (incl. 2 deputies) Employee turnover, % 7.6 6.5 9.4 Workplace accidents* 27, of which 0 fatal accidents 23, of which 0 fatal accidents 17, of which 0 fatal accidents Absence due to illness, in 2.9 3.0 2.9 Sweden, % Number of accidents resulting 9 3 1 in lost workdays Number of lost workdays 87 74 40 Average age 40 40 39 * The main reason for the increase in the number of accidents is accidents during travel, that is, accidents occuring going to and from the workplace, but it is also due to the fact that employees have generally become better at reporting accidents and incidents. Community Service Committee, Americas A Community Service Committee with The Committee also organized clothing swaps It has also focused on a variety of initiatives representatives from USA, Canada and Mexico was and encouraged employees to get involved such to improve employee health, such as walking set up for the purpose of promoting sustainability that they derive as many benefits as possible challenges and creation of a monthly wellness initiatives in Americas. Its goals are to lower the from the working day earmarked for sustainability newsletter promoting a healthier lifestyle, with environmental impact of Axis’ employees, along activities. For example, in collaboration with tips and suggestions that can be applied to with investing in initiatives that benefit society. Mission 500 (a non-profit organization that everyday life. One of the environmental activities focused on works closely with the security industry), the lowering consumption of plastics and singleCommittee collected supplies and materials for use items at Axis and a competition was held to schools in need. encourage employees to reuse cups and mugs. 51 Women in Security EMEA “Women in Security provided Conference for inspiring more an excellent opportunity for women in the security industry diversity and inclusion to meet, network and engage in worthwhile discussions. This conference is one way of helping us become better Axis is striving to achieve a better gender balance in all of its at increasing diversity and teams and functions. During the year, Axis EMEA arranged a inclusion.” Anna Forsberg, conference called Women in Security EMEA. The purpose was to VP EMEA, host of Women raise awareness, and both encourage and promote women in this in Security EMEA. line of business. The participants had opportunities for networking, getting inspiration, exchanging experience and gaining expertise. Discussions focused on diversity, inclusion, future challenges and opportunities. For Axis, it is important to highlight the business In workshops and seminars, inspiring speakers value of diversity and a more inclusive workplace. shared their experience of working as a woman in the security industry, the challenges associated “For teams that engage directly with customers, with that and how to tackle them. we know that diversity (in terms of gender, age, experience and ethnic background) creates better Ray Mauritsson, President & CEO, and Malin dynamics, sparks innovation and fosters an Svensson, Chief People Officer, both attended atmosphere that makes a real difference to the the conference and shared their experience and bottom line,” says Anna Forsberg, VP EMEA. thoughts on diversity. They gave many examples of how the company’s performance has improved The conference was successful from an employer with better diversity and gender distribution branding perspective as well. It was an opportunity in its teams. They discussed Axis’ commitment for illustrating how Axis works to increase to realizing change in this area, and what the diversity and has a thorough commitment and company is doing to achieve that. efforts to bring about change. Plans are to make the Women in Security Axis employees in the EMEA region were invited, Conference a regular event that also attracts and the conference attracted around 100 and includes participants from among Axis’ participants (78 percent women, 22 percent men). partners and end customers. All of it is aimed at achieving a better gender balance and diversity in the security industry. 52 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Social responsibility and initiatives Social responsibility and involvement in society are important components of the Axis sustainability strategy. For Axis, being a responsible member of society is about making a contribution that promotes positive local and regional development. Ways of doing this are through training initiatives, collaboration with schools, sponsoring social improvement activities and supporting charity organizations. Axis primarily contributes to societal development Foo Café is yet another example, where Axis Activities like this help boost the company culture, in the markets where it does business. It does so has helped newly arrived immigrants gain develop Axis employees' skills and foster more via its role as a major employer and by getting access to employment opportunities by learning cohesive teams. The climbing activity was also a involved in various types of social initiatives. programming. difficult physical challenge that was beneficial The following are just a few examples of Axis to employee health while supporting a very involvement in society and the various initiatives Furthermore, to help meet the future demand important cause. it has supported worldwide. for IT expertise, Axis is collaborating with higher education institutions in southern Sweden, the Sweden Swedish Public Employment Service and Ideon Axis collaborates with schools, colleges and Science Park via MatchIT. universities such as BTH Blekinge Institute of Technology in Karlskrona, Malmö University, MatchIT is focusing its efforts on newly arrived Linköping University and Lund University. Axis immigrants to Sweden, helping them gain IT offers opportunities for students to complete their training and access to careers in the sector. thesis projects and the company also supports Axis has provided interview training and resume various research projects. Besides that, Axis writing assistance, as well as study visits. employees are frequently invited as guest lecturers Besides that, Axis makes donations to nonat events to promote and inspire young people profit organizations and it sponsors local sports to work with technology and consider a career associations, sports events, cultural events and Katarina Gustafsson, Account Manager for in engineering. various educational initiatives. Corporate Collaboration at the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and Stefan Holmqvist, Regional Axis also collaborates with organizations such Northern Europe Key Account Manager at Axis. as Transfer and Coder Kids to generate interest A team-building adventure in Northern Europe in technology among youth and promote raised money for charity in the UK and Sweden. Another of Axis’ social initiatives was to create programming as a future profession. Transfer Axis employees climbed the highest mountains charity teams in the UK and Nordic region. provides lecturers from the business community in England, Scotland and Wales, which raised Furthermore, an Annual Day of Giving was to the school. Coder Kids offers after-school around SEK 100,000 (GBP 8,300) for local charity launched in the UK. It means that each employee computer science and programming courses for organizations. This activity, called the National is entitled to one day of paid leave per year to girls and boys. Special focus has been on getting Three Peaks Challenge, involved climbing the volunteer for activities that help support a charity more women interested in a career in technology nation’s 3 highest peaks within 24 hours. of their choice. through support and involvement in initiatives like Her Tech Future, Pink Programming and Introduce The Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund was one Axis also began collaborating with a youth hostel a Girl to Engineering Day. of the organizations that received a large sum in Lund by sponsoring gifts (sports bags containing of money from Axis to support childhood sports equipment) for youth who are refugees or cancer research. seeking asylum. 53 Germany In addition, Axis supports the non-profit The seed paper, made from recycled materials, was Axis organized a partner event to increase organization Southern African Wildlife College, embedded with tiny seeds for both flowers and awareness for corporate social responsibility which has the mission of equipping people garden vegetables. Axis collected more than 300 where Axis partners could win prizes to invest in a with the necessary knowledge and applied pledges and has committed to planting a sapling charity of their choice. skills to conserve and protect Africa’s natural for each one. resources and biodiversity in viable, inclusive and economically successful ways. Axis donated cameras (including thermal cameras) that help increase security at the site and counter illegal activities like poaching. Axis also donated cameras for outdoor surveillance at a new maternity ward at Dandelion Africa. It is a non-profit non-governmental organization working to improve the sexual reproductive health and economic livelihoods of women and youth in Kenya. It works with training Americas initiatives, skill development, entrepreneurship The plant chosen is the Ghaf tree, which is Axis is cooperating with local high schools and and micro-financing. regarded as the national tree of the United Arab universities to encourage youth to choose a career Emirates as well as the symbol of “The Year of in the security industry. Special focus has been on Tanzania Tolerance 2019”. The saplings will be grown in a inspiring young women in this way. For several years, Axis has been supporting greenhouse over the next two years. Once they Hekima school in Tanzania by providing reach maturity, Axis will donate them to schools, A Community Service Committee with educational material, software and computers. NGOs, partners and employees. representatives from USA, Canada and Mexico was In training sessions, Axis employees shared their set up for the purpose of promoting sustainability technical know-how with teachers and helped South Asia Pacific initiatives (read more on page 50). ensure that the IT infrastructure and IT support In Singapore, Axis arranged an event called Smart improve. All of these initiatives help improve the Seniors, which attracted around 60 participants. quality of education for the girls attending the At the event, Axis employees introduced the school. senior citizens who attended to a variety of smart technologies aimed at helping them cope with different types of situations and emergencies. Charity initiatives have included fundraising for the American Cancer Society’s cancer walk, Relay for Life and by building bicycles for children in foster homes. Middle East At Intersec Dubai 2019, Axis launched a South Africa sustainability call-to-action called Axis donated network cameras and accessories #GoGreenWithAxis and distributed pins with the to Give a Child a Family, which is an orphanage in message “I  Sustainability”. People who visited South Africa. The company also helped install the the Axis booth pledged to change just ONE habit equipment at the orphanage. during the year aimed at helping save the planet. They wrote their pledges on seed paper and Give a Child a Family protects vulnerable children, pinned them to the green wall that Axis had set providing them with care and assistance in a up for this activity. Each person who participated safe environment. The charity organization also received a pin with the message, “I  primarily operates in South Africa, but it also Sustainability”. runs activities in several other countries in Eastern and Southern Africa. 54 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Customer stories Network cameras in ambulances facilitate quicker action and better care When a person has a stroke, getting the right care in time is crucial. In Sweden, more than 25,000 people suffer from acute strokes each year. Though it mainly affects older people, younger people can also be affected. Prehospital ICT Arena at Lindholmen Science Park Expert knowledge to the ambulance The network video solutions make it easier for is making use of technology in pre-hospital care Axis network cameras, together with the cloudhospital personnel to correctly diagnose patients processes and has undertaken a joint venture with based solution AXIS Companion (adapted while they are still in the ambulance. A quicker Chalmers University of Technology, University for smaller installations), were installed in assessment and treatment increase the chance of Borås, Emergency Medical Services in Region ambulances serving Region Västra Götaland. of a stroke victim being able to resume a fully Västra Götaland and Sahlgrenska University Real-time images via network video provide functioning life after the stroke. It also benefits Hospital. The project focuses on finding new ways support to the ambulance crew who, together society, by reducing suffering for patients and for stroke patients to receive care as soon as with the neurological experts, can better examine loved ones, along with maximizing the healthpossible after they show symptoms. and assess the patient's condition, thereafter economic benefits. deciding whether to take them to the nearest local hospital or a hospital offering specialist care. IP audio in classrooms can help children with learning difficulties A ground-breaking educational research project shows that innovative sound technologies can offer children with learning difficulties better outcomes in their education. Axis is working with Leeds Becket University and The research initiative is aimed at demonstrating The initial results are encouraging, showing that the Carnegie School of Education in a groundhow the innovative use of sound technologies sound can have a positive impact on students’ breaking research project. Innovative use of IP helps children with learning difficulties achieve ability to learn and concentrate in the classroom. audio at 5 schools aims to confirm that there is a better outcomes in their education and futures. link between sound, changes in sensory perception Researchers have investigated ways in which Axis and mood among primary and secondary school audio solutions could be used to create a calmer, children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)/ more relaxing classroom environment. Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and behavioral issues. 55 Board Axis risk management process Management Business strategy Monitoring Risk assessment Risk management Risk management Axis is an international group with operations and customers all over the world and is thus exposed to many different risks. The Group’s risk management aims to minimize the risks but also to ensure that opportunities are utilized in the best way, in order to facilitate continued strong growth and business expansion. During 2019, Axis solidified the risk management cycle; thereby creating synergies with internal control as well as the overarching policy framework. Axis has an internal control framework based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission) with welldocumented controls, which are tested annually. During 2020, a risk assessment will continue to be performed in relevant parts of the organization. Axis risk management framework Risks The company's legal risks are handled by Legal in Axis risk management framework based on its Risks are identified based on Axis’ overriding cooperation with external lawyers. The exposure corporate strategy, aims to identify, evaluate strategy, and this process incorporates both a to intellectual property risk in the patents area is and prioritize risks related to Axis reaching business and a sustainability perspective. managed by Axis specialists, in collaboration with its commercial goals. Both a top-down and a The work on identifying, handling, following external lawyers and advisors. bottom-up approach are employed. The owners up and evaluating the risk exposure that the of the various risks are identified in this process. Group is subject to is continually ongoing, at The list on the following pages shows identified The Axis department for governance and internal a group, regional and local level. Management risks, in no particular order of importance, as of control compiles, follows up and evaluates the and coordination of financial and insurable risks December 31, 2019. The list does not claim to be risks, in consultation with other departments and is mainly carried out by the Group’s finance exhaustive. functions. Annual follow-up and risk updates are department. Function-specific risks in the performed by group management, which takes company-wide functions, Finance, IT, HR and decisions regarding measures and actions. Annual Operations are handled and coordinated within reporting occurs to the board. each function. 56 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Natural disasters Natural disasters or accidents, which affect Axis, Axis suppliers, distributors or Axis is well-insured and has effective processes in place and agreements with and accidents partners can impact Axis negatively. suppliers in different regions for diversification of risks. Market Market development Market development development and As a leading player in the network camera market, Axis is benefiting from Axis is broadening its customer offering through acquisitions and innovative competitive continued global market growth. A global market downturn can impact Axis product development and is strengthening its presence in already established situation negatively. markets and establishing a presence in new geographical markets. Axis carefully monitors global trends in order to take necessary measures when conditions change. Competitive situation Competitive situation Greater competition due to the market attracting additional players increases the Market shares and market leadership can be maintained through careful risk that Axis will lose market shares. competitive intelligence, a capable global sales force, close collaboration with partners as well as vigorous and rapid product development. Political risks Political instability Political instability Political instability in countries where Axis operates can have an adverse impact Axis follows developments closely in the countries where the company operates. on Axis' global expansion. Acceptance of camera surveillance Acceptance of camera surveillance In the future, there is a risk for less acceptance of camera surveillance, as well as There are currently no known plans to Axis for significant changes with regard to more privacy questions linked to this. laws or restrictions in the markets where Axis operates. Axis continually strives to monitor legislation in the area and to communicate the benefits of camera surveillance for a safer and more secure world. Customer Axis’ continued success depends on customers being satisfied with Axis products, Axis regularly conducts satisfaction surveys among distributors, partners and end satisfaction risk solutions and support. If customer satisfaction falls, it would impact Axis customers in order to listen to customers and implement improvements in negatively. accordance with customer expectations and needs. Reputation risk If Axis is not perceived as a reliable business partner or employer due to the fact Axis works actively with business ethics, IT security and compliance. Axis that Axis as a company, the company’s employees, suppliers or partners do not evaluates and continually updates internal processes and controls, performs act ethically and sustainably in all respects, it could impact Axis and its stakesupplier audits and informs and trains its employees and partners. holders negatively. Risks in the Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption supply chain Environmental impacts occur in all manufacturing processes, including energy All Axis suppliers shall comply with laws, regulations and Axis’ supplier code of related to consumption, hazardous waste and carbon emissions. Risks for the employees conduct. This includes having control of environmental impacts, fighting bribery, environmental include the working environment and working conditions. Overtime implies a risk other types of corruption and fraud and ensuring ethical conduct in every respect. impacts, to employee health and a product risk in respect of quality. Risks in the supply The supplier code of conduct shall also ensure good working conditions and that no working chain also include the occurrence of bribes and other types of corruption and of form of child or compulsory labor occurs. Suppliers should be ISO 14001 certified conditions, unlawful or unethical behavior, and violation of human rights. or have a management system in accordance with ISO 14001. Suppliers are initially human rights and evaluated using a self-assessment form and Axis conducts regular audits to ensure corruption that suppliers meet the requirements in the supplier code of conduct. In Axis Supplier Academy, suppliers are trained in relation to sustainability matters. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals There is a risk of conflict minerals, such as gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten, which Axis has a structured process for ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and finance armed conflicts, being found in components for Axis products. subcontractors are not conflict minerals. All suppliers have undertaken to have a process in place for ensuring that conflict minerals are not used. Suppliers shall also control their own supply chains and inform Axis if conflict minerals are found. Environmental The operations’ environmental impact The operations’ environmental impact risks Transports, energy consumption in the operations and business trips give rise to Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis shall minimize environmental environmental impacts and emissions run the risk of damaging water, air and impacts in its product lifecycles and throughout the entire value chain. Awareness land. is raised among employees through environmental training. Axis is streamlining logistics flows and has clear goals for reducing carbon emissions from transports and reducing energy consumption from the operations. Axis uses carbon offsets for business trips by air and encourages less travel. Product environmental impact Product environmental impact The risk of overutilization of finite resources is affected by the design and choice Axis strives to increase the proportion of recycled material in its products. Design of materials. Unless Axis helps to reduce the products’ environmental impact, it regulations encourage environmentally friendly design. can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. Hazardous material Hazardous material If Axis products contain substances, which are hazardous to health and the Axis lists hazardous substances, which are not permitted and substances where environment or Axis’ environmental performance is poorer than the competitors use shall be restricted. Axis checks the material content in its products in order to or Axis does not meet customer requirements concerning materials, it would ensure that requirements are met. Axis is working proactively on phasing out impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. hazardous materials from its products. Axis also has a goal of offering more products free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR). Energy consumption Energy consumption Product use implies energy consumption that gives rise to environmental impacts Axis is working to develop more energy-efficient products and solutions, while and emissions that run the risk of damaging water, air and land. maintaining functionality. Material Shortages of component and input materials can have a negative impact on Axis. In order to minimize risks in the supply chain, Axis works with several subcontractors that are equally important from a capability and capacity perspective. Through agreements, Axis works with production partners and subcontractors in order to ensure safety stocks of critical components. Axis also works closely with large end customers and partners in order to obtain an early insight into their product needs. 57 Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Quality and Product quality helps to ensure continued satisfied customers and safe handling Axis works to ensure the highest possible quality in its products and has a wellproduct safety and use of the products. There is a risk that defective product quality can cause developed process for handling product defects. injuries to people, the environment or property. Technical risks Defects in Axis IT and business systems could impact Axis operations negatively. Axis has a proactive and systematic approach for a strong IT security, which aims to effectively protect products, solutions and systems. This includes good and rapid incident preparedness and to reduce the risks through increased knowledge in vulnerability management and measures at incidents. IT security Ensuring good IT security in products and solutions is crucial in protecting In Axis research and development operations, great importance is attached to customer privacy during incidents. If Axis products are not perceived as safe, producing very safe products and solutions. In addition, Axis works continually it can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. with training of partners and end customers in relation to how products, solutions and services should be installed and used safely. When defects are discovered, Axis has an organization and routines in place to immediately take corrective measures. Personal integrity If Axis cameras are used in a way that violates personal integrity and human End users are responsible for how surveillance cameras are utilized and for how rights it can also impact Axis' reputation. video material is stored. Axis is careful with its choice of partners and informs its partners to ensure as far as possible that network cameras and solutions are installed and used correctly, that video material is protected and stored securely, and that personal integrity is safeguarded. Technological functions enable anonymization and functionality restrictions. Legislation During international trade and exports, mandatory export control rules may be According to the Axis export control compliance policy, Axis shall follow all connected to applicable and can impose requirements to hold permits for exports of some applicable export control laws that apply to the company’s operations. Axis has export control products to specific countries. In addition, there are economic sanctions and an internal export control compliance program, which sets the framework for embargos in relation to some parties and countries. Failure to comply with Axis’ internal work with export control. The program is updated and adapted applicable export control legislation can in addition to sanctions such as an regularly. Some of the program concerns training within export control for Axis export ban, penalties and financial restrictions also affect Axis negatively by employees. Axis has internal resources with competencies within export control giving the company a poor reputation in the market. and also engages external advice when needed. Intellectual Axis is party to various disputes as part of its day-to-day business operations, The exposure to intellectual property risk in the patents area is managed by Axis property risks including in the patent field, with the risk of costly and protracted disputes. specialists, in collaboration with external lawyers and advisors. Axis conducts an active patent strategy in order to safeguard investments in core technology and intellectual capital. Business ethics Corruption Corruption If Axis personnel, suppliers, distributors and partners involve themselves with All employees and the board shall comply with Axis code of conduct and Axis bribes or another type of corruption, or in another way act unethically, as well global anti-corruption policy. Employees shall sign the anti-corruption policy and as potentially constituting a violation of the law, it may impact Axis and the participate in anti-corruption training. Axis also has a whistleblower and inquiry company’s stakeholders negatively. function, an email address which employees can write to and address questions relating to corruption and report suspected cases of irregularities. Through training, information campaigns and sharing of knowledge, Axis collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and partners. Unethical context Unethical context If Axis cameras are used in an unethical context, it may have a negative impact Axis personnel participate in training. Axis informs its partners, in order to ensure on Axis and the company's stakeholders. as far as possible that its products and solutions are installed and used properly. Risks connected Corporate culture Corporate culture to the workplace, The corporate culture is an important factor behind Axis’ successful performance. Axis works systematically on strengthening its corporate culture and on employees and If Axis does not succeed in retaining its unique corporate culture, it can adversely reinforcing its core values, for example through training, during kick-offs, supply of talent affect the company’s future success. meetings, recruitments, etc. Talent supply Talent supply Axis is growing strongly. If Axis does not manage to attract and retain talented Axis has a very careful recruitment process to support the company’s aim to bring personnel to reach its goals, it would impact Axis negatively. in people that will thrive in Axis culture. Axis offers good career and development opportunities both locally and globally, training and learning opportunities and competitive working conditions including an inspiring, open and ambitious workplace. Lack of diversity, equality and inclusion Lack of diversity, equality and inclusion A lack of diversity and a too homogenous workforce can mean that Axis as a Axis takes initiative to activities in order to promote increased diversity and company is not as innovative or dynamic as it could be. If employees or jobseekers equality and to fight discrimination. The grandparent principle applies during cannot be afforded the same opportunities due to gender, ethnicity, religion, recruitment and in the salary process. An equality analysis of salaries in Sweden sexual orientation, age or other factor, apart from possibly constituting a violation is performed. All employees and the board shall follow the company’s diversity of the law, it may impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively from a policy and code of onduct. business perspective. Occupational If occupational accidents or other types of ill health occur at the workplace, Axis works systematically on creating a safe and pleasant working environment. health and safety besides being negative for the individuals concerned and potentially constituting There are health and safety work done in Axis’ countries of presence. In Sweden a violation of the law, it may affect Axis negatively. regular safety committee meetings are held and Axis carries out safety and fire prevention training, work environment training for managers and offers occupational healthcare. All employees follow policies such as Axis’ global work environment policy, etc. 58 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Sustainability notes About Axis' sustainability report This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: core option. The sustainability report also contains Axis’ annual Communication on Progress (COP), which is a key component of the company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Axis has produced sustainability reports according to GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines since 2010. The report has been drawn up in accordance A comment is provided in the GRI content index The sustainability report is not externally with GRI’s reporting principles on stakeholder for any information that has not been provided, audited. Axis publishes its sustainability inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality or which is limited in scope, having to do with a report annually. The date of the most recent and completeness aimed at providing full material topic. sustainability report is March 28, 2019. understanding of Axis’ economic, environmental and social impacts during the period. The In instances where there have been sustainability report contains the economic, recalculations or changes in the reporting, business ethics, environmental and social topics information on that is provided in the specific most important for Axis and the company’s context or description for each topic. stakeholders and where the impacts are greatest. It also contains the topics’ boundaries The sustainability report covers the 2019 fiscal and a description of its sustainability year. Unless otherwise is stated, the scope governance structure, along with at least one is the entire Group, including wholly-owned disclosure for each material topic. subsidiaries. For a full list of all the companies included in the Group, please see www.axis.com. 59 Governance and organization of the sustainability work Sustainability governance It is comprised of representatives from the Sustainability efforts and strategy are based on following functions: Human Resources, Sales, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in Quality & Environment and Communications. the areas of human rights, labor, the environment The PR & Corporate Communications Manager is and anti-corruption. Axis follows all applicable responsible for leading the group’s efforts. national and international laws and regulations. Axis has several group-wide policies, including a Business Ethics Council code of conduct that all of its employees and the During the year, efforts got underway to set up board of directors must adhere to. an Business Ethics Council at Axis during 2020. The Business Ethics Council will be responsible for The code of conduct is based on the ten principles sustainability matters having to do with business of the UN Global Compact, the Universal ethics. It will promote collaboration between Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO the various departments on matters pertaining Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to good business ethics. It will be comprised of at Work. representatives from group management and relevant functions. Group management ensures that all business conducted in the Group is in accordance with Environmental Council good business practice and that it complies with Axis’ Environmental Council works with the code of conduct, existing policies and the environmental issues and projects aimed at company's management system. minimizing the company’s environmental impact. The environmental council is comprised of Sustainability efforts are coordinated by the representatives from the following functions: Environmental Council and the Social Council R&D, Global Sales, Communications, Quality together with the Sustainability Project Group. & Environment, Operations and Product During the year, efforts got underway to start a Management. Representatives from group Business Ethics Council, which will be responsible management also participate in the council. for sustainability matters having to do with The Environment function is leading the business ethics. Environmental Council’s efforts. Sustainability organization Social Council Group management The Social Council runs sustainability efforts Group management has overall responsibility for associated with social responsibility. This includes the sustainability strategy and sustainability work, issues having to do with the work environment, which is also based on feedback and interaction diversity, sponsoring, etc. It is comprised of with the board of directors. representatives from group management, Global Sales, Human Resources, R&D, Communications Audit committee and Legal. The Audit Committee is a working committee of the board of directors. Its responsibilities include Health and safety committees such things as follow-up on the company’s Axis has two health & safety committees in sustainability work and sustainability report, Sweden. It is comprised of representatives from financial reporting, internal control, legal issues HR, Facilities, configuration and logistics centers and risk management. and safety representatives. A Safety Committee was set up in the Americas during the year, tasked Sustainability Project Group with identifying best practices on safety in the The Sustainability Project Group is responsible for workplace and driving activities related to the developing sustainability initiatives and activities topic. in various areas. It also has operative responsibility for sustainability reporting. 60 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 The Sustainable Development Goals Axis supports the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, actively striving to make a positive contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and lower the negative impact. Goal 1: No poverty Axis makes an indirect contribution via climate compensation projects to develop local forestry and tree cultivation, which helps improve the living conditions for small farmers. (Targets: 1.1, 1.5) Goal 3: Good health and well-being Axis’ smart surveillance solutions facilitate better traffic flows, improve traffic safety, send alarms in emergency situations and help detect accidents more quickly, all of which lowers the number of traffic-related injuries and reduces the damages. Axis strives to be a workplace where people feel good and are happy, providing them with a good physical and psychosocial working environment. Occupational healthcare is also offered at many of the company’s offices throughout the world. Axis is phasing out hazardous material such as PVC from its products and is working proactively to reduce carbon emissions from the company’s own operations. Axis also imposes similar demands on its suppliers. The company applies a precautionary principle on such things as its selection of materials. (Targets: 3.6, 3.8, 3.9) Goal 4: Quality education Axis supports training initiatives for young people, offers students the opportunity to conduct their thesis projects at Axis and supports initiatives to encourage women to pursue a career in IT and technology. It also helps newly arrived immigrants gain IT expertise and access to careers in the sector. (Targets: 4.4, 4.5) Goal 5: Gender equality Active programs are in place to promote increased equality and diversity. Furthermore, Axis does not tolerate any form of discrimination whatsoever. This has also been made very clear in the supplier code of conduct that the company’s suppliers are required to follow. Employees with equal qualifications should have the same salary for identical performance and responsibility. Furthermore, Axis conducts annual pay reviews aimed at identifying and correcting any gender-related pay differences. The company has a conscious recruitment process to boost the number of female employees and to increase diversity. Axis also has a network for its female employees in Sweden. (Targets: 5.1, 5.5) Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Activities have been initiated aimed at lowering water consumption and increasing water efficiency within the organization. Axis conducts audits to ensure that its suppliers are adhering to the supplier code of conduct regarding such things as their emissions to water. (Targets: 6.3, 6.4) Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy Axis strives to raise the efficiency of energy consumption in its own organization. Furthermore, some of the technologies developed by Axis help reduce energy consumption during the product usage phase. (Targets: 7.3) Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Axis strives for there to be minimal environmental impact during product manufacturing, along with ensuring that there are decent working conditions and work environments. Axis works both systematically and proactively to ensure that the company’s products do not contain any conflict minerals. The supplier code of conduct covers a variety of topics, such as a ban on all forms of child and forced labor, which is followed up during supplier audits. Axis has good working conditions and competitive terms of employment with the freedom to join a trade union and the right to collective bargaining. Furthermore, it strives to counteract all types of discrimination in the workplace and during recruitments. (Targets: 8.4, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8) 61 Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure Smart traffic solutions provided by Axis and its subsidiary are helping increase road safety and lower the environmental impact of traffic on society. (Targets: 9.1, 9.4) Goal 10: Reduced inequalities Axis has specific activities in place to counteract discrimination, along with increasing diversity and equality. The company also participates in outside initiatives to promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Non-discrimination is a requirement stated in both the Axis code of conduct and the code of conduct for suppliers. Axis pays taxes in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. (Targets: 10.2, 10.3, 10.4) Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Axis products and solutions contribute to increased security in cities and communities, safer public transport, improved traffic monitoring, prevention of traffic incidents and protection of critical infrastructure. In this way, Axis is helping create smart, sustainable cities. (Targets: 11.1, 11.2, 11.3) Goal 12: Responsible production and consumption Axis has implemented systematic procedures for product development, selection and origin of materials, components and packaging to ensure that they meet the requirements on quality and functionality. Simultaneously, there should be minimal environmental impact and limited use of natural resources. For example, Axis is striving to increase its use of recycled materials and raise the efficiency of energy consumption in its own organization and for that of its products. The company applies a precautionary principle on such things as its selection of materials. Axis also strives to ensure that its suppliers use resources efficiently and that they lower their environmental impact. Each year, Axis reports its sustainability efforts in its Annual review and sustainability report. (Targets: 12.2, 12.4, 12.6) Goal 13: Climate action Reducing the carbon footprint of Axis’ own operations is a priority and the company imposes requirement on its suppliers to lower their carbon emissions as well. Axis documents its risks, monitors and streamlines the logistics chain, implements measures to improve energy efficiency and educates its employees and suppliers. Axis uses carbon offsets for its business travel by air and for some freight by air. Axis has established new environmental goals. (Targets: 13.1, 13.3) Goal 14: Life below water Axis imposes requirements and follows up that suppliers lower their emissions, which includes emissions to water. (Targets: 14.1) Goal 15: Life on land Axis makes an indirect contribution via climate compensation projects aimed at such things as developing local forestry practices. Doing so helps improve farming, expand forest areas, lower deforestation and safeguard biological diversity. By choosing less hazardous materials, Axis is able to help lower its suppliers' use of chemicals and emission levels. Doing so also creates better circumstances for protecting biodiversity at the end of the product life cycle. Axis also imposes requirements and follows up that suppliers lower their emissions, which includes emissions to land. (Targets: 15.1, 15.2) Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Axis products and solutions focus on safety and prevention. They help create safer environments and societies. Security systems for protecting customer information also has the absolute highest priority at Axis. Axis has processes, systems and solutions in place to ensure that the company meets all requirements on how personal data must be managed. It also complies with all other applicable laws and regulations. Axis has zero tolerance for all types of bribery and other forms of corruption, striving to identify and manage risks along with providing training to counteract corruption in its own organization and in its relationships with suppliers, distributors and partners. (Targets: 16.1, 16.3, 16.5) Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals Axis collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and other partners to ensure that there is transparency, good business ethics and sustainable behavior throughout the entire value chain. Axis became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2007 and it bases its sustainability work on those ten principles. Axis participates in industry initiatives for collaboration, interaction and dialog on promoting sustainability. (Targets: 17.16) 62 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 ONG -TERM RE SL SPO KE NS TA s Di I ee st Y AX loy & paribut LIT IS Em p tal responsibili rtn o e BI n t me y rs s on r vir ic En Axis on om S u p p li e r s E Ec core values: custon ders Respo responsibility Act as one. e sin m Always open. n sible b u Think big. ss on it c du bil y ct si spon So S ocial re cie n er ty O w Stakeholder engagement Axis maintains an ongoing dialog with its stakeholders aimed at increasing its understanding of what matters most to them, along with their expectations on the company’s sustainability work and the issues they would like Axis to focus on, from a sustainability perspective. Such engagement helps Axis ensure that it works with the issues that create the most value, improve its sustainability work and achieve progress in the right direction. Axis takes long-term responsibility for how its Stakeholder groups are impacted both indirectly Memberships operations affect employees, distributors and and directly; economically, environmentally Axis is a member of for example the partners, end customers, suppliers and owner, and/or socially by Axis operations. Axis identified Security Industry Association in Sweden as well as trade associations and the local its stakeholder groups long ago and it conducts (Säkerhetsbranschen), the Security Industry community in markets where the company does a review to update that information each year. Association (SIA) in the USA, the German business. Axis strives to have a continual, open Owners has been changed to Owner since Association for Security Technology, ASIS dialog with all of its stakeholders. Canon Group is the sole owner of Axis. The International, the Security Institute in the UK company prioritizes collaboration with its and ONVIF (a global and open industry forum Engagement with stakeholders provides Axis with stakeholders highly. with the goal of facilitating the development and information on which economic, environmental use of a global open standard for the interface and social issues are most important them, along During the year, Axis conducted a web survey of physical IP-based security products). See the with their expectations on Axis. with its stakeholder groups. The survey was table Stakeholder engagement 2019 for more supplemented by in-depth interviews with information on what topics were discussed with Axis is striving to implement improvements in the representatives from stakeholder groups. the stakeholder groups and the issues most areas prioritized by stakeholders and where the The web survey and interviews covered important to them. company’s impact is greatest. Doing so creates stakeholders’ perception of Axis’ sustainability value, ensures that the company lives up to its efforts, expectations on such, and which stakeholders’ expectations and promotes longsustainability issues are most relevant to them. term sustainable business. The responses were compiled and validated in Stakeholders are the groups that affect Axis the company’s materiality analysis and more decisions, strategies and its ability to achieve information about that is available on page 64. its goals. 63 Stakeholder engagement 2019 Stakeholder Engagement Key topics group Employees Web survey with all employees in 2019, local > Health and safety in the workplace employee surveys, performance appraisals, dialog > Equality and diversity with trade unions, internal training, in-depth > Non-discrimination for all employees interviews about Axis' sustainability efforts, intranet, > Child labor and forced labor meetings, etc. > Suppliers’ environmental impact > IT security > Hazardous substances in Axis products > Customer satisfaction > Ethics > Protecting customer privacy Distributors and Satisfaction survey, trainings, web seminars, > Customer satisfaction partners workshops, meetings, trade shows, social media > Market presence channels, Axis website, newsletters, etc. > Protecting customer privacy > IT security > Anti-corruption > Child labor and forced labor > Environmental impact from products and production End customers Surveys in connection with support cases, web survey, > Energy consumption of products social media channels, continuous evaluations, > Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions newsletters. > Personal privacy for the users of Axis products > Customer satisfaction > IT security > Business ethics including anti-corruption Suppliers Web survey, in-depth interview on Axis' sustainability > Environmental impact, human rights, labor law and efforts, trainings, web seminars, Axis website, supplier labor conditions in the supply chain, including child audits. labor and forced labor > Customer satisfaction > Anti-corruption > Compliance with laws and regulations > Protecting customer privacy > IT security > Non-discrimination Owner Meetings, board meetings, the Annual review and > Customer satisfaction sustainability report, the annual general meeting, > Compliance with laws and regulations in-depth interviews about Axis’ sustainability work. > Environmental impact of products including energy consumption of products > Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions > Energy consumption of own operations > Social responsibility Society Web survey, in-depth interviews about Axis' > Business ethics including anti-corruption sustainability work, expos and conferences, > Personal privacy membership in (and collaboration with) local and > Cybersecurity international trade associations, social media > Gender equality channels, Axis website, collaboration with universities, > Standards exhibitions and other activities for students. > Environmental impact from products regarding product development and production (use of natural resources, power usage, GHG emissions) > Compliance with laws and regulations > Economic performance 64 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Materiality analysis The materiality analysis is based on the outcome of engagement with stakeholders. The materiality analysis shows which topics are most important to Axis stakeholders and for the company, and which have the greatest economic, environmental and social impact. The results of engagement with stakeholders Achieving its financial targets and a The materiality analysis is validated each have been analyzed and considered based on satisfactory level of sustainable profitability year. Axis’ sustainability work falls into the the topics that are most important for Axis is also key, providing the foundation for the following focus areas: economic responsibility, and where its economic, environmental and company’s long-term sustainability efforts. responsible business conduct, environmental social impact is greatest. It provides the point responsibility and social responsibility. Read of departure for the company’s sustainability Axis bases its efforts on a variety of standards more on page 18. efforts and the basis for its sustainability and inputs, such as the GRI Standards, reporting. UN Global Compact, world trends and The following material topic has been added challenges, as well as the company’s own since last year: Use of water. This topic was The materiality analysis also reflects what is strategies, risks and goals. It has also added as part of the effort to update the most important in order for Axis to maintain considered the company’s contribution to environmental framework along with strong competitiveness and profitable growth, the Sustainable Development Goals. specifying the risks and impact throughout all of which ensures long-term sustainable the value chain. development. Furthermore, the sustainability The materiality analysis was conducted by the report covers other areas vital to the company’s Sustainability Project Group and then presented For more information on the impact of each success. Compliance with all of the applicable to and discussed with the group management topic throughout the value chain, please see laws and regulations is, of course, fundamental. and the board of directors. pages 20-21. Responsible Environmental Social business responsibility responsibility conduct > Anti-corruption > Beat climate change > Human rights and working > IT security Power usage in Axis products and conditions in the supply chain > Customer privacy solutions > Health and safety in the workplace > Protecting privacy Emissions from transports, Axis > Non-discrimination > Customer satisfaction activities and suppliers > Equality and diversity > Protect natural resources Use of natural resources Use of water > Protect ecosystems Use of hazardous substances in Axis products Emissions of hazardous substances by suppliers 65 Responsible business conduct Governance Responsible business practices All employees, as well as board members, must comply with the Axis code of conduct, which stipulates the principles, values and guidelines that serve as the foundation for running the business. Axis continually monitors any changes to the applicable laws and regulations. The company also regularly reviews its own policies to ensure that they are both up-to-date and reflecting the latest developments in sustainability in the markets where Axis does business. Employee surveys and performance appraisals are also used for monitoring and to check compliance. Anti-corruption All Axis employees, including group management, board members and third parties working on behalf of Axis such as on-site consultants must comply with the Axis anti-corruption policy. They are required to sign documents stating that they comply with the policy and must also every other year participate in training on such matters. All Axis suppliers that manufacture Axis products are required to comply with the Axis supplier code of conduct, which means adherence to the Axis anti-corruption policy. Axis provides information and training to its suppliers, along with carrying out audits to ensure compliance. The distributor agreement stipulates that distributors must comply with the applicable anti-corruption legislation. Essentially all of Axis’ distributors have signed that agreement. Other partners are also expected to comply with the applicable anti-corruption legislation, which is stated in the agreement for the company’s Application Development and Technology partners. Compliance is required in order to continue collaboration. Axis provides both training and information to its distributors and other partners. Doing so helps Axis manage the risks, and to the extent possible, ensure that its distributors and other partners behave ethically. IT security and protection of customer privacy Company policies and strict internal control systems are essential to minimizing risks. All Axis employees must comply with the company’s policies, such as the IT security policy and vulnerability guidelines, which govern how the company manages and responds to security issues. Another example is Axis’ responsive support policy detailing the company’s commitment to remedy security deficiencies as quickly as possible. Axis Software Security Group is responsible for ensuring that there is compliance with the policies on IT security in products. The group is also responsible for ensuring that the policies are up-to-date. IT Governance and Legal are the functions in charge of leading IT security efforts and they work in close collaboration with the organization’s other divisions and functions. Protecting privacy Axis complies with applicable laws and regulations on processing and storing personal data, as well as how cameras may be used. The company also closely monitors the latest developments in these areas. Axis became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has followed the ten principles since then, which includes respecting human rights and ensuring that the company is not complicit in any human rights abuses. The company also has its own, more stringent and comprehensive guidelines and policies, which all of its employees must adhere to. Representatives from IT Governance and Legal are responsible for ensuring compliance with the guidelines and keeping them up-to-date. 66 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Environmental responsibility Definitions Material free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants Halogen-free material is defined as material that does not contain brominated or chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR). Axis has now chosen to use the terminology BFR/CFR-free products, as these substances are in focus. This means that so-called homogeneous material in all parts (excl. printed circuit boards) contains <1,000 ppm of bromine if the bromine source is from brominated flame retardants and <1,000 ppm of chlorine if the chlorine source is from chlorinated flame retardants. All printed circuit boards meet the following threshold values for homogeneous material: bromine <900 ppm and chlorine <900 ppm or in total (bromine and chlorine) <1,500 ppm. Governance Legislation and guidelines Axis complies with applicable legislation and rules, such as the EU’s RoHS directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and the EU’s REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals). Axis also applies a precautionary principle on such things as its selection of materials. How this is applied has been clarified during the year. In addition, Axis limits the use of other substances, such as phthalates and beryllium. The list of substances where use should be restricted is updated regularly. Axis has a checklist for indirect materials, which has been updated during the year. Policies Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis shall minimize environmental impacts throughout its product and solution life cycles and throughout the entire value chain. Axis shall be an industry leader when it comes to promoting environmentally sustainable development. Axis’ travel policy encourages less travel, whenever possible. Suppliers are expected to sign and comply with Axis’ supplier code of conduct. Green Design Evaluation Form The Green Design Evaluation Form is Axis’ scorecard for evaluation of the environmental impact of its products, including detailed requirement specifications. The aim is to establish even clearer goals, requirements and guidelines in Axis’ product specifications, lowering the environmental impact of its products. The scorecard makes it easier to evaluate various aspects such as the choice of materials, the use of recycled material, optimization of product weight and volume, along with reduction of material waste. The scorecard is used in all development projects. In this way, environmental considerations are integrated in an even better way into the product development process. Greensoft Greensoft is a software solution that makes it possible for Axis to more systematically collect and validate data relating to product content. Axis thereby gains a better overview of the content in various materials, which helps to increase the use of materials that have a lower environmental impact. 67 Environmental statistics Emissions Axis operations (CO2 kg per shipped unit) 2019 2018 2017 2016 5.59 5.84 6.03 5.99 In 2019, CO2 emissions from operations* per sold unit decreased by 6.6 percent comparing to 2016. 2018 CO₂ emissions from operations were 2.5 percent lower than the 2016 emissions (measured as kg CO₂ per sold unit). In 2017, emissions were 0.6 percent higher than in 2016. Emissions Axis transports (CO2 kg per shipped unit) 2019 2018 2017 2016 3.71 4.09 4.28 4.07 Electricity consumption per employee at Axis HQ, Lund (MWh per employee) 2019 2018 2017 2.2 2.3 2.5 Ton CO2e per activity 31 Paper 43 43 3,690 Premises 4,019 3,854 949 Leased vehicles 951 952 13,640 Inbound deliveries 16,521 15,236 5,450 Business travel 4,443 3,476 2019 2018 11,226 2017 Outbound deliveries 10,717 11,505 Ton CO2e 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 Note: Operations run by Axis, excluding 2N, Citilog, and CLCs that are not owned by Axis, have their own emission targets. 68 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Social responsibility Definitions Governance Employees Policies and code of conduct Permanent employees and employees for a fixed term of at least Axis' values and views on the behavior it expects from its six months. Employees are expressed as head counts as of employees are stipulated in the code of conduct. Other policies December 31, 2019. that apply to all employees, managers and the board of directors include the anti-corruption policy, the working environment policy, Permanent employees the alcohol and drugs policy, the policy against harassment, the diversity policy and the policy for security during trips, where Axis Permanent employees are expressed as head counts as of December 31, collaborates with International SOS/control risks. There are also 2019. Substitutes (those filling in for employees who are on parental local policies in place. All of Axis’ policies clearly stipulate the leave or a leave of absence) are not included. responsibilities of each person. Temporary employees Occupational health and safety Only temporary employees in Sweden are included in the statistics. Summer workers, hourly-paid employees and substitutes are not included. Occupational health and management system The routines and systems in place for occupational health and the work environment differ across regions, since they are based on Workers (not employed by Axis) national laws and regulations. In Sweden, the occupational health and management system also covers consultants who have been These account for a small proportion of the overall workforce and consist contracted by the company and have their workplace at Axis. of consultants, primarily within research and development. Axis has managerial responsibility for leading the efforts of consultants working Hazard identification and risk assessment on site at the company and as such, Axis is also responsible for their work Axis works proactively to prevent risks and continuously conducts environment. Employer responsibility, however, lies with the employment risk assessments on such things as work-related hazards, to agency that has engaged their services. Neither are these consultants maintain a good work environment without risk of accidents or typically covered by insurance or occupational health services (as is illness. In Sweden, all managers are required to conduct a risk the case for employees at Axis). That too, is the responsibility of their assessment when changes are made to the business. A more wideemployment agency. ranging follow-up is also carried out each year. Regional managers with employees in Sweden participate in the annual risk assessment. Absence due to illness In other parts of the world, risk assessment and other work environment efforts are based on national laws and regulations. Permanent employees and employees for a fixed term of at least six months are included. Reporting and investigation of work-related incidents and accidents Injuries In Sweden, work-related incidents and accidents are reported to HR and an internal report is issued, along with an action plan. Work-related injuries. Minor injuries, which can be remedied solely with The safety representatives receive information about all incidents first aid are not included. and accidents and these are discussed within the two health and safety committees in Sweden. Furthermore, the safety committees Data collection follow up on all incidents quarterly. Annual safety inspections are performed. In addition, a report is issued at the end of each year All data is collected in a global system (except for 2N and Citilog, which summarizing all the incidents and accidents that have occurred. In submit data to be compiled centrally). other regions, incidents are dealt with in accordance with national laws and regulations. Occupational health services In Sweden, Axis closely collaborates with its occupational health partner, Avonova. The company also has an ergonomist and an external work environment engineer. The HR function arranges internal work environment trainings for all managers aimed at raising awareness of the importance of this work and the role they play. Training varies from country to country, according to the prevailing laws and regulations. 69 Employee statistics Employees The total number of employees is 3,646 as of December 31, 2019. Of the total number of new employees during the year, 29 percent were women and 71 percent men. 2019 2018 2017 Type of employment Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total per region and gender EMEA Full time 69% 29% 98% 73% 25% 98% 74% 24% 98% Part time 0.2% 1.8% 2% 0.6% 1.2% 2% 1% 1% 2% APAC Full time 62% 38% 100% 61% 39% 100% 59% 41% 100% Part time 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Americas Full time 70% 30% 100% 72% 28% 100% 72% 28% 100% Part time 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Axis total Full time 72% 27% 99% 72% 27% 99% 73% 26% 99% Part time 0.5% 0.6% 1% 0.4% 0.9% 1% 0.6% 0.7% 1% Gender and age distribution (%) Group Board of directors management Employees Gender Women 30% (3 women, of which 2 are employee representatives) 11% 28% distribution Men 70% (7 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 89% 72% 2019 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 15% 30-50 years 30% (including employee representatives) 11% 69% distribution Over 50 years 70% (including employee representatives) 89% 16% Gender Women 30% (3 women, of which 2 are employee representatives) 20% 28% distribution Men 70% (7 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 80% 72% 2018 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 14% 30-50 years 30% (including employee representatives) 40% 72% distribution Over 50 years 70% (including employee representatives) 60% 14% Gender Women 20% (2 women, both employee representatives) 20% 27% distribution Men 80% (8 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 80% 73% 2017 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 15% 30-50 years 30% (including employee representatives) 40% 70% distribution Over 50 years 70% (including employee representatives) 60% 15% 70 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 GRI content index General disclosures GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global standard number title number(s) Omissions Compact principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 14-15, www.axis.com 102-3 Location of headquarters Cover 102-4 Location of operations 5, 12-13 102-5 Ownership and legal form 76 102-6 Markets served 4-5, 12-13 102-7 Scale of the organization 5, 74 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 50, 68-69 Further data unavailable. 102-9 Supply chain 20-21, 42-45 1-6, 8-10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 3, 42-44, 76 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 66 7 102-12 External initiatives 19, 23, 59 102-13 Membership of associations 62 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 10, 55-57 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 22-23, 59, 65 1,2 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 59, 76 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 63 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 48 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 62 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 62-63 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 63 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements www.axis.com/about-axis/the-axis-group 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 20-21, 58, 64 102-47 List of material topics 64 102-48 Restatements of information 58 102-49 Changes in reporting 20-21, 64 102-50 Reporting period 58 102-51 Date of most recent report 58 102-52 Reporting cycle 58 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI standards 58 102-55 GRI content index 70-71 102-56 External assurance 58 The UN Global Compact ten principles Principle HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 71 GRI content index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global standard number title number(s) Omissions Compact principles Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 24-25, 65 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 24-25 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 25 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series MATERIAL 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 39, 66 and its components and evaluation of the management approach GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 39 ENERGY 8, 9 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 35-36, 66-67 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 36, 67 302-3 Energy intensity 36-37, 67 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 35-37, 67 WATER AND EFFLUENTS 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 39, 66 and its components and evaluation of the management approach GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-5 Water consumption 39, 42-44 Data unavailable. Axis ambition is that further information will be available next year. EMISSIONS 8, 9 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 35-38, 66-67 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 36-37, 67 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 36-37, 67 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 35-38, 67 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 37, 67 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 35-38, 67 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 8, 9 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 42-45 and its components and evaluation of the management approach GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 44 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 42-45 GRI 400 Social Standards Series OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 47-48, 68 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 68 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 68 403-3 Occupational health services 47, 68 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health 59, 68 and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 47-48, 68 403-6 Promotion of worker health 47-48, 68 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 42-45 linked by business relationships 403-9 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 50 Further data unavailable. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 48-50, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 68-69 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 69 NON-DISCRIMINATION 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 48-49, 68 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 49 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 42-45 and its components and evaluation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 44 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 42-45 CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 26-28, 65 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 28 of customer data IT SECURITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 26-28, 65 PROTECTING PRIVACY 1, 2 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, and its components and evaluation of the management approach 30-31, 65 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1/2/3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, the management approach 20-21, 32-33 and its components and evaluation of the management approach 72 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Financial summary 2019 2019 was an eventful year with several macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges of which some still remain. That aside, the strong demand for Axis’ high-quality products and solutions continued unchanged. New innovative camera concepts and complementing products in Axis’ New Business product segment grew significantly faster than the average security market and contributed positively to the overall growth. The year started with filled-up distributor stocks after an extremely strong ending of 2018. Stock levels normalized during 2019. As a result, sales into distribution suffered in relative terms. From a geographical perspective, Americas and Asia performed very well whereas EMEA did not live up to expectations. All in all, Axis has, based on high innovation pace and talented employees, managed to take a new step forward as the core product offerings gradually mature. Net sales amounted to SEK 11,806 M (10,278) Net sales in the Asia region amounted to SEK During 2019, 17.9 percent (17.6) of sales were which translates to a growth around 15 percent 1,429 M (1,178) during 2019, corresponding to invested in R&D within both software and compared to prior year. Foreign currency effects growth of 21 percent. Growth was 14 percent in hardware. R&D expenditure increased by SEK 328 impacted sales positively by SEK 785 M. The Video local currencies. M (229) compared to prior year and amounted to category, representing 92 percent of total sales, SEK 2,043 M (1,715). increased by 14 percent from SEK 9,537 M to The Group's operating profit during 2019 SEK 10,876 M while Other sales increased to amounted to SEK 1,608 M (1,349), which is The strong EBIT combined with well managed SEK 930 M. equivalent to an operating margin of 13.6 percent working capital generated a cash flow from (13.1). The gross margin amounted to 51.5 percent operating activities of SEK 462 M (1,124). Net sales in the EMEA region amounted to (52.2). Operating expenses increased by SEK 447 During the year the total inventory increased from SEK 3,661 M (3,518) during 2019, corresponding M corresponding to 11 percent due to continued SEK 1,493 M to SEK 1,779 M. to growth of 4 percent. Growth was negative investments in expanding the business. 1 percent in local currencies. Total investments amounted to SEK 441 M (520) Axis’ global team of employees increased by more of which SEK 139 M (64) were capitalized product Net sales in the Americas region amounted to than one person per day and amounted to 3,646 development. The main part of the remaining SEK 6,716 M (5,581) during 2019, corresponding at year end. The office expansion in the sales amount relates to investments in the new to growth of 20 percent. Growth was 11 percent organization continued with some new additional headquarter building in Lund. With liquid funds in local currencies. offices as well as improved and expanded offices of SEK 1,910 M, Axis is well equipped for future in existing locations. investments in order to drive continued growth. As the Axis Group is fully owned by Canon Inc., Axis does not file any separate consolidated annual report. The financial summary is compiled and consolidated based on IFRS accounting principles and included in the sustainability report for information purposes. The annual reports for each Swedish legal entity are filed with the Swedish companies registration office (Bolagsverket). 73 Multi-year summary INCOME STATEMENT (SEK M) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales 6,634.7 7,385.7 8,602.6 10,277.7 11,805.9 Cost of goods and services sold -3,262.2 -3,678.9 -4,143.8 -4,916.0 -5,729.1 Gross profit 3,372.5 3,706.8 4,458.8 5,361.7 6,076.8 Other income and changes in value -32.6 63.5 -59.7 -19.3 -29.5 Selling and marketing expenses -1,180.8 -1,353.0 -1,547.1 -1,832.4 -1,986.0 Administrative expenses -292.2 -298.9 -351.7 -445.4 -410.4 Research and development expenses -985.7 -1,233.4 -1,486.4 -1,715.3 -2,043.3 Operating profit 881.2 885.0 1,013.9 1,349.3 1,607.6 Net financial items -0.7 -0.8 -2.9 -0.5 -22.6 Profit after financial items 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 1,348.8 1,584.9 Tax on net profit -228.4 -245.5 -275.2 -331.2 -353.4 Net profit for the period 652.1 638.7 735.8 1,017.6 1,231.6 BALANCE SHEET (SEK M) Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Non-current assets 452.9 1,167.9 1,562.1 1,913.1 2,895.3 Inventories 1,022.2 1,106.5 803.3 1,492.9 1,778.7 Trade receivables 423.0 656.5 780.7 561.5 985.6 Other receivables 124.4 220.1 239.2 319.6 421.5 Current investments 0.0 0.0 93.2 89.3 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 2,035.5 1,909.5 Total 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 6,411.9 7,990.6 Equity 1,741.5 2,352.3 3,075.5 3,958.1 5,231.1 Non-current liabilities 282.2 391.0 357.7 325.2 949.8 Current liabilities 1,014.6 1,266.1 1,578.9 2,128.6 1,809.7 Total 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 6,411.9 7,990.6 CASH FLOW STATEMENT (SEK M) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 860.1 772.1 983.7 1,098.3 1,713.4 Change in working capital -56.9 -50.7 380.3 25.5 -1251.2 Cash flow from operating activities 803.2 721.4 1,364.0 1,123.8 462.2 Cash flow from investing activities -180.5 -831.6 -623.7 -520.5 -441.4 Cash flow from financing activities -21.5 -47.2 -65.1 -101.3 -146.8 Cash flow for the period 601.2 -157.4 675.2 502.0 -126.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 2,035.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 2,035.5 1,909.5 OPERATING CASH FLOW (SEK M) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Profit after financial items 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 1,348.8 1,584.9 Depriciation 103.6 135.8 175.9 198.6 396.0 Tax -191.5 -209.4 -273.0 -410.6 -416.2 Total 792.6 810.6 913.9 1,136.8 1,564.8 Change in working capital -56.9 -50.7 380.3 25.5 -1,251.2 Net investments -180.5 -831.6 -623.7 -520.5 -441.4 Operating cash flow 555.2 -71.7 670.5 641.8 -127.8 The financial information presented in this report is consolidated financial information for the entire Group, and has been approved by the board of Axis AB. 74 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Consolidated comprehensive income SEK M 2019 2018 Net sales 11,805.9 10,277.7 Cost of goods and services sold -5,729.1 -4,916.0 Gross profit 6,076.8 5,361.7 Other income and changes of value -29.5 -19.3 Selling and marketing expenses -1,986.0 -1,832.4 Administrative expenses -410.4 -445.4 Research and development expenses -2,043.3 -1,715.3 Operating profit 1,607.6 1,349.3 Financial items net -22.6 -0.5 Profit before tax 1,584.9 1,348.8 Income tax -353.4 -331.2 Net profit for the period 1,231.6 1,017.6 Other comprehensive income Items that later could be transferred to the income statement Exchange differences 41.4 -34.9 Other comprehensive income for the period, net after tax 41.4 -34.9 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,273.0 982.7 Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Non-current assets 2,895.3 1,913.1 Inventories 1,778.7 1,492.9 Trade receivables 985.6 561.5 Other receivables 421.5 319.6 Current investments 0.0 89.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1,909.5 2,035.5 Total 7,990.6 6,411.9 Equity 5,231.1 3,958.1 Non-current liabilities 949.8 325.2 Trade payables 562.7 905.3 Other current liabilities 1,247.0 1,223.3 Total 7,990.6 6,411.9 Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 1,713.4 1,098.3 Change in working capital -1,251.2 25.5 Cash flow from operating activities 462.2 1,123.8 Cash flow from investing activities -441.4 -520.5 Cash flow from financing activities -146.8 -101.3 Cash flow for the period -126.0 502.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 2,035.5 1,533.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 1,909.5 2,035.5 75 Operating profit Employees SEK M % SEK M Number of employees 1,800 20 4.0 4,000 1,600 18 3.5 3,500 1,400 16 3.0 3,000 14 1,200 2.5 2,500 12 1,000 10 2.0 2,000 800 8 1.5 1,500 600 6 1.0 1,000 400 4 200 0.5 500 2 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit, SEK M Operating margin, % Sales per employee, SEK M Operating profit per employee, SEK M Number of employees (average for the period) Net sales Equity/Assets ratio SEK M % % 12,000 30 80 10,000 25 60 8,000 20 6,000 15 40 4,000 10 20 2,000 5 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales, SEK M Net sales growth, % Equity ratio, % Cash flow Equity SEK M % 1,400 100 1,200 80 1,000 60 800 600 40 400 20 200 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK M Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, % 76 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Corporate governance Axis is a Swedish corporation with its registered office in Lund, Sweden. President & CEO and group management It is fully owned by Canon Inc., although operates as an independent Axis group management consists of nine members, and is led by the company within the Canon Group. president and CEO, Ray Mauritsson. The president and CEO manages the day-to-day work, is responsible for keeping the board informed of Annual general meeting the performance of the operations and for ensuring that the business is The annual general meeting (AGM) is Axis’ highest decision-making body. conducted in accordance with the board’s guidelines and instructions. At the AGM, resolutions are passed on important questions such as the appropriation of the company’s profit or loss, discharge from liability for Audit the members of the board of directors and for the president, election Axis auditors are elected by the AGM. At the AGM 2019, Ernst & Young of board members, chairman of the board and auditor, and possible Aktiebolag was elected as auditor with Johan Thuresson as auditor in amendments of the articles of association. charge for the period until the end of the next AGM. Board of directors During the period between AGMs, the board of directors of Axis constitutes the highest decision-making body in the company. The duties of the board are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the articles of association. Governance model Canon Inc. Proposal Annual general meeting Election Election Info Board of directors Info Goals External Strategies Reports auditors Control instruments Control President & CEO Info and group management 77 Board of directors Biörn Riese Martin Gren Marianne Brismar Toshizo Tanaka Chairman of the board since 2015 Born: 1962 Born: 1961 Born: 1940 Board member since: 1984 Board member since: 2018 Board member since: 2015 Born: 1953 Chairman of: AB Grenspecialisten, Chairman of: Fam. Knut & Ragnvi Jacobssons Education: Degree in Economics from Keio Board member since: 2015 Grenspecialisten Förvaltning AB Stiftelse and Almi FöretagsPartner Väst University, Japan Board member of: The Swedish AntiBoard member of: Askero Sagoboks Förlag AB, Board member of: Concentric AB, Derome AB, Work experience: Various executive positions in corruption Institute (IMM), Mercuri Urval Eikos Aktiebolag , H. Lundén Holding Axel Johnson International AB, JOAB AB and the Canon Group Foundation, My Special Day Foundation, Jurie Aktiebolag, Proact IT Group AB GreenCarrier AB Principal employment: Representative Director Advokat AB and Arvid Nordquist H.A.B. Education: Lund University, Sweden; Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Gothenburg & Executive Vice President, Canon Inc. and Education: Master of Laws (LLM) and a Honorary Doctor HC, Lund University University and Master of Science in Pharmacy, Chief Financial Officer, Canon Inc. and several Graduate degree in Economic/Business Work experience: Founder of Axis Uppsala University executive positions in the Canon Group administration, Stockholm University, Sweden Principal employment: Work experience: Roussel Nordiska AB, Atlet Work experience: Mannheimer Swartling Axis Communications AB Group, Special Advisor to Vice President for Advokatbyrå AB, Carl Swartling Advokatbyrå, Nissan Motor service as a law clerk Principal employment: Senior Partner Principal employment: Senior Adviser Intercept AB, various board positions and lawyer, Jurie Advokat AB Håkan Kirstein Mats Friberg Malte Lennerstedt Eva Svensson Born: 1969 Born: 1967 Born: 1970 Born: 1964 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2017 Board member since: 2017 Board member of: Cherrystone AB Employed by Axis since: 2000 Employed by Axis since: 2013 Employed by Axis since: 2012 Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Stockholm Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative University, Sweden Work experience: CEO Eltel Group AB, CEO Niscayah Group, CEO StatoilHydro Sweden Principal employment: Self-employed Deputies Marie Nässlind Dinesh Vinjarapu Born: 1984 Born: 1985 Employed by Axis since: 2014 Employed by Axis since: 2018 Employee representative Employee representative 78 Annual review & sustainability report 2019 Group management Ray Mauritsson Peter Lindström Per Ädelroth Lars Åberg President & Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President Head of Vice President, Operations Vice President, Marketing Born: 1962 Sales Born: 1966 Born: 1966 Employed by Axis since: 1995 Born: 1970 Employed by Axis since: 1994 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Education: Master of Science, Engineering Employed by Axis since: 2003 Education: Master of Science, Industrial Education: Master of Business Administration, Physics, Lund University, Sweden and Executive Education: Technical Engineer, Lund University, Engineering and Management, Chalmers Lund University, Sweden; IFL Executive General MBA from the Institute of Economics, Lund Sweden; degree in Electro science, Executive Gothenburg, Sweden Management Program, Stockholm School of University MBA, EFL Lund University School of Economics Previous employment: Accenture AB Economics Previous employment: TAC and Management Directorships: Color your life by Elisabet Previous employment: Unilever, Ericsson Directorships: HMS Networks AB Previous employment: Sony, BPE Broadcast Ädelroth AB, JLT Mobile Computers AB (publ) Mobile Communications, Bona Kemi Professional Europe, GoPoint, Gandalf Data and JLT Mobile Computers Sweden AB Directorships: Formpipe Software AB Fredrik Sjöstrand Jonas Hansson Fredrik Nilsson Vice President & Chief Financial Chief Information Officer Vice President, Americas Officer Born: 1967 Born: 1967 Born: 1969 Employed by Axis since: 2000 Employed by Axis since: 1996 Employed by Axis since: 1998 Education: Master of Science, Chemical Education: Master of Science, Electrical Education: Master of Business Administration, Engineering, Lund University, Sweden and Engineering, Lund University, Sweden; Lund University, Sweden Degree in Journalism, Lund University Economics studies at Lund University and Previous employment: E.ON, Previous employment: Netch Technologies Uppsala University PriceWaterhouse-Coopers Directorships: Creofant AB, Ortelius AB Previous employment: ABB 79 Signatures The board of directors has approved this Annual review and sustainability report on March 24, 2020. Biörn Riese Ray Mauritsson Chairman President & CEO Martin Gren Toshizo Tanaka Board member Board member Johan Paulsson Chief Technology Officer Born: 1963 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Education: Master of Science, Electrical Marianne Brismar Håkan Kirstein Engineering, Lund University, Sweden Board member Board member Previous employment: Ericsson, Anoto Directorships: poLight AS, SaFP and Winplantan AB Mats Friberg Eva Svensson Board member, employee representative Board member, employee representative Malte Lennerstedt Board member, employee representative Malin Svensson Chief People Officer Born: 1968 Employed by Axis since: 2011 Education: BSc Human Resources Development and Labour Relations/Employment Law, Lund University, Sweden Previous employment: Trelleborg, Adecco, Scandlines 73820/EN/R1/2003 About Axis Communications Axis enables a smarter and safer world by creating network solutions that provide insights for improving security and new ways of doing business. As the industry leader in network video, Axis offers products and services for video surveillance and analytics, access control, and audio systems. Axis has more than 3,500 dedicated employees in over 50 countries and collaborates with partners worldwide to deliver customer solutions. Axis was founded in 1984 and has its headquarters in Lund, Sweden. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund www.axis.com ©2020 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
