KSD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WORLD CLASS SECURITIES SERVICE PROVIDER Received Certification(Risk Management Dept. 2446, '19.10.21) About This Report This report is the fourth Sustainability Report of Korea Securities Depository (KSD). The first Sustainability Report was published in 2010. We hope to enhance the drive for sustainability management by disclosing our sustainability management activities and performances in a transparent manner, and reflecting stakeholder opinions in our management activities. Reporting Standards This report complies with the guidelines on disclosure of non-financial information, known as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and reflects major global corporate social responsibility indices such as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Reporting Period and Scope This report covers the period from January to December 2018 and in some cases may include data pertaining to September of 2019. In cases where such data is required for performance trend analysis, information on the company’s performance over the past three years has been included. The scope of this report covers KSD’s headquarters in Busan, office in Seoul, three regional branches (Daejeon, Gwangju and Daegu), and Ilsan Center. Reporting Assurance This report has been verified by the Korean Foundation for Quality, an independent assurance service provider, to ensure its objectivity and transparency. The assurance results are provided on pages 82-83 of this report. Contact Management Coordination Team, Strategy and Planning Department E-mail: sustain@ksd.or.kr TEL: 82-51-519-1551 Address: BIFC, 40 Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam-gu, Busan, Korea KSD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WORLD CLASS SECURITIES SERVICE PROVIDER Overview 02 CEO Message 04 Company Overview 06 Business Model 08 KSD Highlights Governance 12 14 16 Governance Structure Risk Management Sustainability Management Strategy 18 19 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment Sustainable Management 22 30 35 Strengthening Business Fostering a Win-Win Customer First Competitiveness Culture at the Workplace Management 41 46 51 Advancing Social Contribution Creating Decent Jobs and Establishing Eco-Friendly Promoting Mutual Growth Financial Infrastructure 53 58 Internalizing Ethical Creating a Safe Work Management Environment Human Rights Appendix 73 ESG Data 62 78 Independent Assurance Statement Implement People-Oriented 80 GRI Index Management and Protecting Human Rights 82 UNGC & SDGs 83 Human Rights Reporting Index 84 Human Rights Statement 85 Awards and Associations, History 04 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY CEO Message As a “world-class securities service provider”, Korea Securities Depository (KSD) will contribute to the development and growth of the capital market, and generate value in sharing and mutual growth. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05 Valued stakeholders, I would like to take this opportunity to convey my deepest gratitude for your unwavering support of KSD. KSD is Korea’s top comprehensive securities service cialized communication channels for each stakeholder provider contributing to the national economy and the group. In addition, with a view to achieving inclusive capital market. Since joining the UN Global Compact in capitalism we provide financial education and visiting October 2008, we have reflected various social values education programs to the general public in association including human rights, labor, the environment and anwith the Securities Museum, while undertaking social ti-corruption in our organizational strategies, culture and contribution activities for various stakeholders including everyday work, as part of an all-out effort toward achievrural residents, community groups, students and people ing balanced performance in the areas of the economy, with disabilities. society and the environment. We have prepared this Sustainability Report to share our efforts and achievements Third, we are participating in the creation of social in sustainability management with stakeholders. value and inclusive finance by creating jobs and engaging in regional social contribution. First of all, we are seeking new growth engines and More specifically, we have established a subsidiary pursuing innovation for the advancement of the named KSDream Co., Ltd., whereby we have endeavored capital market. to fulfill our social responsibility as a public institution We have established the electronic securities system by transitioning temporary workers into permanent powhile amending subordinate laws, reforming the fee sitions. Through our KSD Accelerating Program, which structure and engaging in national campaigns to proincludes the Private-Public Co-Working Space and Startmote the new system. Overall, we created a work enviUp Academy, we have supported the growth of smallronment and social climate conducive to electronic secuand mid-sized start-ups, while creating jobs both indirities. As a result, we were able to successfully introduce rectly and directly by discovering and expanding new the electronic securities system in September 2019, businesses. Furthermore, in our capacity as a corporate contributing to innovation in the capital market. Addicitizen, we have actively supported the development of tionally, we have undertaken various tasks, such as the local communities through our involvement in the Buoperation of Special GSM Support Teams and the active san Joint Support Organization, the opening of the Bupromotion of the E-voting system, to ensure that general san Securities Museum, and stronger support for the shareholders’ meetings (GSMs) of listed companies are local economy in conjunction with the three programs in held successfully. Furthermore, we have been playing addition to our Forest Carbon Offset Project that builds a central role in the creation of an ecosystem for innomeditation forests in schools. vative start-ups by hosting information sessions and IR As a “world-class securities service provider”, KSD will events nationwide to promote crowdfunding in addition continue to contribute to the development and growth of to holding the Crowdfunding Council. the capital market and generate mutual growth value. On this journey, I ask for your continued interest and support. Second, we are creating mutual growth value for all our stakeholders, from customers to partners. In order to ensure respect for human rights among our stakeholders, we have organized the Human Rights Management Committee, established the Human Rights September 2019 Management Guidelines and conducted human rights Chairman and CEO of Korea Securities Depository impact assessments as part of our human rights manLee Byung-rhae agement efforts. Moreover, we promote communication and cooperation both internally and with outside parties through an internal channel for all employees and spe06 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Company Overview About KSD Korea Securities Depository (KSD) was established to support the development of the capital market by providing a wide range of securities services including the issuance and distribution of securities. Currently, over KRW 4,000 trillion worth of securities are safely deposited with our system while we are effectively handling the settlement of trades and managing the financial assets of individuals. We also provide an effective and stable platform for trading securities, helping us grow into a top-tier global financial service provider as we contribute to the enhancement of investor value and development of the securities market. Korea Exchange 70.43% Koscom 4.63% Shareholder Yu Hwa Composition Securities *As of the end of 2018 Company Korea Securities Name Depository 3.35% CEO Lee Byung-rhae NH Investment & Securities Date of December 6, 1974 Establishment 2.90% Total Assets KRW 3,447,300,680,000 Others Revenue KRW 225,802,000,000 18.69% Organization As of September 2019, KSD consists of 8 divisions, 25 departments and 5 T/Fs with a total of 697 employees. Organizational Structure Chairman & CEO Standing Auditor Auditing Department Senior Managing Director Safety Management Team Strategy & Planning IT Services Deposit & Settlement Investment Global Securities & Management Electronic Securities Promotion Work Creation Division Division Services Division Support Division Fund Division Support Division Division Division Strategy & Planning IT Strategy & Planning Securities Deposit Securities Agent Services Global Securities Human Resources Electronic Securities Devel­opment Work Creation Department Department Department Department Services Department Department Support Task Force Task Force Risk Management IT Infrastructure Clearing & Settlement Bond Registration Global Business General Affairs Electronic Securities Devel­opment Startup Support Department Management Department Department Department Department Department Promotion Task Force Task Force Research & Development IT Services Stock Registration Small & Medium Fund Business Public Relations Department Department Department Business Department Department Department Customer Satisfaction & Shareholder Voting Fund Service Securities Financing Finance & Accounting Support Center Services Department Department Department Department Future Development & Busan Business Securities Information Emergency Planning Task Force Department Department Management Team Daejeon Branch Gwangju Branch Daegu Branch 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07 Strategy To reflect changes in the internal and external management environment, KSD has re-established its management vision and core values so that its management goals are well-received and recognized by various stakeholders. Based on four strategic goals and 14 strategic tasks that incorporate our mission and vision, we are working on multiple fronts to achieve the core values of each stakeholder group and contribute to the development of the capital market as a top-tier global securities service provider. Midto Long-Term Management Goals Mission We provide convenient and secure financial investment infrastructure to contribute to the development of the capital market Vision World Class Securities Service Provider KSD Value Client Community KSDian Trusted Partner Friendly Corporate Responsible Citizen Professional Management Philosophy PASSION PRINCIPLE PROFESSIONALISM Management Objective 01 02 03 04 Build a world-class Provide competitive Expand KSD’s Strengthen the foundation electronic depository and investment support presence in the global for sustainable growth settlement system services capital market in the era of electronic securities Strategic Task 1 I mplement and stabilize the 4 Advance securities 7 Expand asset management 10 Improve governance electronic securities system financing services market support platform structure and 2 Improve and expand 5 Increase public value of services organizational capacity clearing and settlement securities information 8 Expand and strengthen 11 Create jobs and increase services services global investment support social responsibility 3 Advance depository and 6 Enhance service 12 Reinforce risk management services corporate action services competitiveness in 9 Expand Korean capital and customer satisfaction securities agent and fund market infrastructure to management 13 Build an innovative base administration services overseas markets for IT services 08 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Business Model Primary Market Support $ ･ Securities agent ･ Bond registration ･ Securities information ･ Crowdfunding ･ Operation of electronic securities system Issuer Global Securities Market Support ･Cross-border securities transaction Bank ･Foreign securities deposit and settlement ･KDR depositary ･International cooperation Securities Financing Support Others ･Securities lending and borrowing intermediary ･OTC derivative collateral management ･Future substitute securities management 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09 We provide a wide range of services to capital market participants, including securities issuance and distribution, asset management, securities financing, and overseas investment support. As capital markets progress, our service has evolved based on securities deposit and settlement to offer customized high value-added solutions to help our clients save transaction costs and improve efficiency. Secondary Market Support ･Securities depository ･Clearing and settlement ･Securities rights management ･Taxation on securities Securities Company Asset Management Asset Market Support Manager ･Establishment/redemption ･Management support ･Retirement pension ･Fund administration Investor Support for Exercising Voting Rights ･Electronic voting ･Electronic proxy ･Voting rights for Short-term Finance foreigners/funds Market Support ･Electronic short-term bond ･CD/CP management ･Institutional repo ･Bank of Korea repo ･Customer repo 10 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY KSD Highlights KSD fulfills its social responsibility as a public institution by maintaining public trust through management innovations and engaging in a variety of sustainability management activities to create social value. 2016 2016.1 2013 Opened central record management service for crowdfunding 2013.1 Designated as a central repository Launched electronic 2014 by the Financial Services Commission, KSD developed and opened short-term bond services CrowdNet (www.crowdnet.or.kr), providing 2014.3 important information about the equity 2013.4 Launched custody and settlement crowdfunding system. Launched the securities services for the gold spot market information portal SEIBro 2016.3 2014.11 Opened ISA-Net Service 2013.7 Relocated headquarters to Busan KSD established ISA-Net, a comprehensive Launched KONEX market support system that facilitates automated settlement services processing between financial institutions, providing the service to 50 financial institutions. $ 2016.8 Exported NFS to KSEI Indonesia KSD developed S-INVEST, a fund platform to standardize and automate fund-related operations, in Indonesia, laying the foundation for the advancement of the Indonesian fund market. 2015 2015.1 Launched Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) allocation services 2015.12 Established the retirement pension platform (PensionClear) 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 2019 2019.3. 2017 Established the Comprehensive Human Rights Management Plan 2017.2. KSD formed its human rights management structure by establishing the Comprehensive Participated in SIB investment Human Rights Management Plan. As the first public institution to 2018 participate in social impact bonds (SIBs), 2019.3. KSD supported the self-reliance of the 2018.3. Attained the highest grade (S) of customer socially vulnerable in Gyeonggi Province. Created a support fund for social satisfaction economy enterprises in Busan 2017.3. KSD attained the highest grade (S) in the By creating a fund in association with Public-service Customer Satisfaction Launched SLB collateral transaction eight other public institutions in Busan, Index (PCSI) of the Ministry of Economy service KSD supported social enterprises and and Finance. By introducing SLB collateral transactions promoted the local economy in Busan. and expanding qualified collateral, 2019.9. KSD helped alleviate collateral scarcity and 2018.8. Launched the electronic securities system invigorate domestic investment Established KSDREAM Co., Ltd. in securities. KSD successfully launched the electronic KSD became the first public securities system which enables the institution to establish a to shift electronic issuance and management of 2017.12. temporary workers to permanent securities in a digital securities market Launched the E-voting and E-proxy positions and enhance their environment. mobile service quality of work Through its user-friendly E-voting and E-proxy mobile services, KSD contributed 2018.10. to the convenience of shareholders in Launched the foreign securities exercising their voting rights and the lending service enhanced work efficiency of GSMs. KSD introduced foreign securities lending services to increase the utilization of foreign securities and diversify investment areas. 12 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SECTION 1 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY GOVERNANCE 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 KSD is committed to establishing sound corporate governance to promote the interests of companies and shareholders, and support sustainable growth. In addition, we are building a system to implement a sustainability management strategy and create social value based on which we incorporate sustainable practices in our operations. Governance Governance Structure 12 Risk Management 14 Sustainability Management Strategy 16 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Materiality Assessment 19 14 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Governance Composition of the BOD Structure The Board of Directors (BOD) is the highest decision-making body of KSD with the authority to review and determine important matters, such as those set forth by applicable laws, regulations or the Articles of Incorporation, matters entrusted by the General Meeting of Shareholders or matters concerning basic management policies and business operations. The Board consists of six directors: two executive directors including the CEO, who is also the Chair of the Board, and four non-executive directors. The CEO is appointed through a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders and the approval of the Financial Services Commission, while senior managing directors and non-executive directors require only a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders for appointment. The CEO and Public Representatives (two persons) are subject to nomination by the Executive Nomination Committee. The standing auditor is appointed at the General Meeting of Shareholders upon being nominated by the Executive Nomination Committee, and may state his or her opinion by attending a meeting of the Board. Status of the BOD and Auditor (As of September 2019) Categorization Name Field(s) of Expertise Executive CEO Lee Byung-rhae Finance Directors Senior Managing Director Park Im-chool Finance, Law Park Dae-hae Finance Non-executive Kim Shin Finance Directors Lim Jae-joon Finance Standing Auditor Ahn Sang-seop Law *Currently, one non-executive director position is vacant. Expertise of the BOD To ensure the expertise of the BOD, KSD appoints experts not only from the finance industry but a variety of fields, including law, as non-executive directors. Major criteria for appointment include general knowledge of the capital market, experience and expertise related to KSD’s business, and a sense of ethics and responsibility. Management proposals made by non-executive directors are reviewed by the relevant departments to determine whether they should be adopted or made available for future reference, and are then reported to the supervising directors. Non-executive directors are also invited as lecturers to management strategy meetings and manager workshops so as to utilize their extensive experience and expertise to the most benefit. Independence of the BOD KSD guarantees the independence of the BOD so that it can fully carry out its role of exerting checks and balances within the company and ensuring objective decision-making. In particular, the BOD verifies whether there are any legal grounds for disqualification regarding non-executive director candidates, such as ensuring they have no special relationship to the company. Furthermore, directors who have any special interest in specific agenda items brought to the BOD are not entitled to exercise their voting rights pursuant to Article 8, Clause 3 of the BOD Regulations in order to prevent any conflict of interest within the BOD. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 Activities of the BOD The BOD convenes once a month for its regular meetings and holds temporary meetings when deliberation or resolutions are required. In addition, meetings of non-executive directors are held in order to strengthen the functions of the BOD and expand the participation of non-executive members in corporate management. Minutes from the BOD meetings are uploaded on the company website, disclosing major managerial issues and decisions to shareholders and external stakeholders in a transparent manner. BOD Performance (As of June 2019) Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of Sessions Times 14 12 11 Number of Agenda Items Number 32 44 30 Corrective Resolutions % 0 2.3 10 Attendance Rate of % 91 98 87 Non-executive Directors Subcommittees Under the BOD KSD operates an Executive Remuneration Committee under the BOD in an effort to enhance the transparency of management and improve the governance structure of the company. Status of Subcommittees under the BOD Composition and Responsibilities Performance in 2018 ･ Consists of all non-executive directors ･ Convened a total of two times Executive (four persons) from whom a chair ･ Major activities include deciding on Remuneration person is to be elected by mutual vote the remuneration limit for executives Committee ･ Reviews and resolves matters regarding and other remuneration amounts remuneration/severance policies for in compliance with government executives and managing directors guidelines Performance Evaluation and Compensation of the BOD Executive officers including the CEO and senior managing director are subject to performance evaluation through internal and external management evaluations. Management executives are remunerated in consideration of their positions and contributions and in accordance with standards set by the Executive Remuneration Committee. Service allowances are granted to non-executive directors. 16 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Risk Risk Management System Management KSD’s risk management system safely and systematically protects institutional and individual investors’ securities from various internal and external risks. Through our risk management system, we have secured a globally competitive level of stability and reliability in our business management, thereby fulfilling our responsibilities as a comprehensive manager of the public’s investment assets. Risk Management Objective Objective Ensure Global Standard of Stability and Reliability Strategies Enterprise-wide Comprehensive Preemptive Well-structured Stable corporate perspective response identification system culture Risk Management Organization In an effort to strengthen risk management at an enterprise-wide level, KSD operates a Risk Management Committee separately from the Board of Directors. Consisting of outside experts in each field, the Committee analyzes new risk factors and resolves major risk-related issues. We also control and manage risks with a threestep approach through the (i) Risk Management Department, the department in charge of systematic internal control, (ii) business departments and the (iii) Auditing Department. Risk Management Organizational Chart CEO Auditor Risk Management Committee Department in Report Risk Management Report Auditing Charge (1st) Department (2nd) Department (3rd) Approve / Suitability Follow-up Inspection by Request Preemptive internal control check assignment unit monitoring correction Enterprise-Wide Risk Management System In response to rising demand for a stronger capacity to manage and respond to internal and external risks, KSD has established and operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM) system, an expansion of the company’s existing risk management system which was built and further developed to better address operating risks. Since 2018, KSD has been establishing a more elaborate and effective risk management environment to further strengthen compliance and internal control by connecting the ERP system with other systems, including ones related to compliance and human resources, as well as by automating its monitoring functions. Midto Long-Term Roadmap for Risk Management 2014 2018~2019 2020~ Expansion Advancement Establishment of the System of the System of an Integrated System ･ Established a compliance system ･ Strengthened coordination between ･ Integrate internal control and ･ Connected it with the ERM system compliance and HR systems compliance systems, and upgrade ･ Improved compliance system to a new version 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 Scope of Risk Management KSD categorizes risks related to our corporate management activities into financial and non-financial risks. Financial risks, including market, credit and liquidity risks, are managed through daily measurement and monitoring of each type of risk to keep them within preset limits. Non-financial risks, including operational and legal risks, are managed more actively and proactively through our Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA), key risk indicator (KRI) monitoring, and checklist examination. Areas of Risk Management Financial Risk Non-financial Risk Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk Operating risk Legal risk Strengthening Internal Control Activities Controlling New Risk Factors and Strengthening Management Activities In response to growing uncertainties in the financial market and the reinforcement of domestic and international supervisory standards such as the enactment of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMI) KSD recognizes the need to improve its financial risk management system. To this end, we have enhanced our financial risk management system by refining our methods of measuring and managing market and credit risks, as well as implementing a stress test system in case of crisis. At the same time, we are continuously improving our asset quality by securing sufficient financial resources to cope with any potential losses indicated by stress test results. Strengthening Compliance Activities to Improve Work Stability at the Company Level In relation to anti-money laundering (AML) activities, the importance of which have recently been emphasized both domestically and internationally, KSD has examined its overall status of internal control and strengthened its AML system by identifying major areas for improvement. We have proactively responded to changes in relevant laws and regulations by supplementing existing work guidelines and establishing new work regulations, in addition to improving our business procedures and system. We will continue to create a stable work environment by closely monitoring relevant systems and cases. Strengthening Work-Related Risk Monitoring System at the Company Level KSD has an internal control system encompassing real-time monitoring of operational risks through key risk indicators (KRIs), a risk alert system, and a regular reporting system for monitoring results. We have also esInformation Sharing tablished internal control standards that our employees must comply with and a compliance system to ensure ･ Enterprise-wide training on that such standards are adhered to. internal control However, we have been developing a company-wide risk response system to prepare for unanticipated sit･ Distribution of newsletters on uations. Since 2018, this has included updating our business continuity plan (BCP) at the company level and personal (credit) information enhancing responses to computer system errors. In particular, we have designated core tasks and defined the roles of each organizational unit to establish a recovery plan based on impact analysis at the department level. Furthermore, we are improving our ability to respond to incidents of risk by conducting practice drills with the participation of client firms. Internalizing Risk Management Awareness in Employees Manual Publishing KSD periodically revises and publishes compliance manuals to support employees in performing compli･ Publication and distribution of ance-related tasks and enhance their understanding of compliance. Each year, in order to strengthen risk mancompliance operation manual ･ Publication and distribution of agement, we also conduct enterprise-wide personal (credit) information protection training and actively share cases of privacy breach risk management-related information with employees. 18 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Sustainability Sustainability Management Strategy Framework Management KSD has established a sustainability management strategy framework to generate social value and grow jointly with stakeholders. Pursuant to the vision of “creating social value through securities services”, the framework Strategy consists of three strategic directions (communication, mutual growth and responsibility), seven strategic tasks and sustainability management-based tasks. Based on this framework, we are generating social value by actively carrying out sustainability management activities. Vision Creating Social Value through Securities Services Slogan As a world-class securities services provider, we will grow with our stakeholders and create social value. Strategic Objective Communication Mutual growth Responsibility Communication in Mutual Growth with Responsibility to Workplace Clients & Partners Community & Environment Strategic 01 02 03 Tasks Building a corporate Customer-first Enhancement of social culture of mutual growth management contributions ･Creation of a corporate culture ･Implementation of customer ･Establishment of a social of communication satisfaction activities contribution performance ･Creation of a family-friendly ･Management of customer evaluation system work environment complaints ･Implementation of social contributions with a midto longterm vision 04 05 06 07 Creating decent jobs and Establishment of an ecoInternalization of ethics Human rights promoting mutual growth friendly financial infrastructure and safety management management ･Expand support for job creation ･Implementation of activities ･Identification and diagnosis of ･Establishment of a human rights ･Contribution to Busan’s in response to climate change potential risks related to ethics management system economic growth ･Support for the growth of and compliance ･Human rights management eco-friendly financial services ･Establishment of an integrated activities safety management system Sustainability Establishment of a sound governance structure Expansion of communication with stakeholders Management Tasks Organization of the Sustainability Establishment of a stakeholder engagement structure Management Committee and promotion of communication with stakeholders 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Communication KSD will create a workplace where the company and employees can grow together and pursue shared value. We will promote human rights management to prevent any violations of our stakeholders' human rights while building a corporate culture of mutual growth for all our employees. By continuously undertaking various ethical management activities, we will internalize ethical management practices and grow into an organization of integrity and transparency. Mutual growth Based on mutual growth , KSD will create social value throughout our entire value chain, from clients to partners. We will implement customer-first management to enhance customer satisfaction, while achieving mutual growth with local partners by supporting the local economy. Responsibility KSD will fulfill its corporate social responsibility by promptly responding to social issues and providing solutions to their fundamental causes. We will generate social value by actively promoting social contribution activities in line with social demands while playing an active role in the establishment of an eco-friendly financial structure for future generations. Sustainability Management Roadmap KSD has established a sustainability management roadmap and based on this we are taking a step-by-step approach in pushing ahead with sustainability management. By 2025, KSD will have established a stable sustainability management system in our organization, helping to maximize social values. 01 02 03 04 Promotion of Building a sustainability Promotion of Establishment of one-time sustainability management sustainability a sustainability management activities infrastructure and management management shifting employees’ stabilization system awareness Stages 2017~2018 2019~2020 2021~2025 Internalization Invigoration Advancement Major ･ Improvement of ･ Strengthening of ･ Voluntary participation of goals awareness both internally sustainability management internal and external and externally governance stakeholders ･ Recognition of social issues ･ Creation of social value ･ Maximization of social value 20 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Stakeholder Stakeholder Communication Engagement KSD categorizes its stakeholders into eight groups, operates communication channels for each group and continuously engages in various activities to build cooperative relationships with them. We conducted a survey of our internal and external stakeholders on the status and level of our sustainability management and the results will be reflected in KSD’s sustainability management activities in the future. Stakeholder Survey Results Economic Areas Social Areas Environmental Areas · Expansion of function as High · Advancement of information · Use and management of the core infrastructure of Performance security system sustainable resources the financial market Areas · Efforts to enhance customer · Creation of an eco-friendly · Stable depository and satisfaction culture settlement operations · Guarantee of diversity and · Expansion and management equal opportunity among of eco-investment Areas for · Securing soundness of employees · Strengthening of Improvement governance · Expansion of volunteer low-carbon financial activities among employees infrastructure Stakeholder Communication Channels Main Activities · Participant conference (4 times, 205 participants) · SAFE+ system · Anti-corruption customer monitoring meeting (2 times) · CEO conference and letters Customers · Customer training program (67 times, 4,610 participants) · Customer CS camp · Bluebird Team for customer satisfaction (12 times, 327 participants) · Customer conferences · KSD Talk (110 times, 1,158 participants) · Approval from Financial Services Commission to change Articles of · Business report Incorporation Government · Major business meetings · Audit by National Assembly · Government management evaluation · Overseas financial cooperation conferences (12 times) · SWIFT standard messages Peer · Asia-Pacific Central Securities Depository Group (ACG) (20 times) · Participant communication system · World Forum of CSDs (WFC) (14 times) · Busan Financial Hub Conference (3 times) Local · Nanum Foundation website · Volunteering corps · Advisory Group for Contract Affairs (2 times) Community · Sustainability Report · Partner conferences · Partner meetings (2 times) · Academic conferences · Symposium · Joint advisory council (1 time) Academia · Seminars · Jeunggueon sarangbang · Respective advisory councils (7 times) · Press seminars · PR meetings Media · Seminars and press briefings (6 times) · Press briefings · Labor-management conferences · TLC system · Labor-management conferences (4 times) and meetings · Grievance handling system Employees · Labor-management joint working-level conferences (6 times) · Labor-management workshops · Collective agreement on wages · Communication Committee · Shareholders’ meetings · Annual reports · CEO management meetings (3 times) Shareholders · Board meetings · Executive meetings · General Shareholders’ Meetings (2 times) · Business reports 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Materiality Materiality Test and Selection of Material Issues Test Based on our sustainability management activities and stakeholder opinions, KSD has identified material issues by considering various internal and external issues. Relevant activities and performance are provided in detail in this report. Materiality Test Matrix Materiality Test Process STEP 1. Formulate issue pool Impact Analysis of External Environment 〮 A nalysis of reporting issues from the same industry: Review reporting issues of seven advanced global 1 of the financial market Expanding function as the core infrastructure companies 〮 Media analysis: Review of major articles between January 2018 and May 2019 〮 A nalysis of international standards: Analyze relevance to GRI Standards, DJSI, ISO 26000 and UNGC 9 Strengthening employee welfare 〮 Stakeholder survey analysis: Collection of opinions from experts, government, shareholders and 5 Strengthening HR development programs partner companies 3 settlement business operations Maintaining stable depository and Internal Environment Analysis 10 Guaranteeing diversity and equal opportunity for employees 〮 A nalysis of internal documents: Review new year’s message from management and strategic directions 7 Securing soundness of governance Supporting the 〮 Stakeholder survey analysis: 256 respondents advancement of the financial market 8 Expanding contribution to local including employees communities 2 by adopting new Strengthening ethical 6 management and (job creation, investment, etc.) technologies anti-corruption efforts Expanding social contribution 4 activities related to KSD’s business STEP 2. Prioritize issues Relevance Analysis of Stakeholder Impact 〮 Conduct impact analysis based on stakeholder survey results and expert evaluation Business Relevance Review Order of Issues GRI Pages 〮 A nalyze business relevance through analyses of Priority Standards reporting issues from the same industry, ❶ Expanding function as the core infrastructure of media articles, international standards and internal 30~35 documents the financial market ❷ Expanding contribution to local communities (job 14~17, 203-1 creation, investment, etc.) 42~49 ❸ Maintaining stable depository and settlement STEP 3. Review and make final decisions 10~13 business operations Review by Department in Charge of ❹ Expanding social contribution activities related to 203-1, Sustainability Management 43~44 〮 F inalize material reporting issues upon final review of KSD’s business 413-1 ❺ Strengthening HR development programs 404-1, 2 53~54 the issues’ relevance to KSD’s business activities and their importance ❻ Strengthening ethical management and 205-1, 2 57~61 anti-corruption efforts ❼ Securing soundness of governance 102-18 20~21 ❽ Supporting the advancement of the financial 10~13 market by adopting new technologies ❾ Strengthening employee welfare 401-2, 3 55, 72 ❿ Guaranteeing diversity of and equal 405-1 71 opportunity for employees 22 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SECTION 2 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 KSD seeks to implement sustainability management properly by internalizing it in all business activities. We pursue a form of sustainability management that our stakeholders can trust and participate in while seeking to achieve sustainable growth based on strategies and activities centered on the creation of social and environmental value. Sustainable Management Strengthening Business Competitiveness 22 Fostering a Win-Win Culture at Workplace 30 Customer First Management 35 Advancing Social Contributions 41 Creating Decent Jobs and Promoting Mutual Growth 46 Establishing an Eco-Friendly Financial Infrastructure 51 Internalizing Ethical Management 53 Creating a Safe Work Environment 58 24 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 01 01 Strengthening Business Competitiveness F UND NE T G LO BA L FINANCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH The prolonged global economic downturn and KSD responds flexibly to changes in the internal and other unstable economic conditions at home and external business environments as well as to new abroad remain a risk. The domestic capital market, technological developments. Based on systematin particular, is expected to respond more sensiic business management processes that make us tively to economic fluctuations and uncertainties more competitive in the depository and settlement caused by the worsening global economy. In these industry, we take proactive measures to understand circumstances, we are witnessing structural and the demands of our customers, providing them with business changes across the industry, including market-friendly services attuned to their needs. At the emergence of financial IT innovations and finthe same time, we are strengthening our global captech industries. ital market businesses to enhance our competitiveness in the global market. KEY PERFORMANCE Implementation of Introduction of Vitalization of retirement pension Electronic Securities E-Voting and E-Proxy provider information System systems management system 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Introducing the The electronic securities system is a system by which the registration and issuance of securities can be administered electronically without physical certificates, and subsequent rights are recorded on an Electronic electronic register, allowing investors to acquire, transfer and exercise their rights electronically. It is an Securities System advanced infrastructure for capital markets that has been adopted by 33 of the 36 OECD countries. Prior to Build a Sound to this new system, the securities deposit system was in operation in the Korean capital market, which is defined by the custody of physical certificates in a central depository institution. However, the risk of Financial forgery, alteration, tax evasion and illicit transactions, as well as the social costs of issuing and distributEnvironment ing physical certificates could not be eliminated. The implementation of the electronic securities system in September 2019 is expected to fundamentally eliminate such varied social issues associated with the issuance and circulation of physical securities. As an electronic register under the Electronic Securities Act, KSD will ensure the stable operation of the system and promote electronic securities system to support innovation and growth of capital markets. Systematic Efforts to Prepare for the Era of Electronic Securities For the successful introduction and implementation of the electronic securities system, KSD, in its capacity as an electronic registration authority, has invested resources and energy into establishing a legal, systemic and social environment to establish successful induction and implementation. First of all, we contributed to building a legal foundation for the electronic securities system by supporting the Financial Services Commission and the Ministry of Justice in the establishment and revision of relevant laws and regulations such as the Enforcement Decree of the Electronic Securities Act. In addition, we promoted active communication with market participants and reflected their input to make the electronic securities system market-friendly. We also improved the security and servers for the IT infrastructure to ensure stable operation of the electronic securities system. Other efforts include raising awareness of the electronic securities system among policy participants including the public, securities issuers and financial institutions, by producing and distributing PR content specifically targeting a variety of subjects, periods and media. Operational Structure of the Electronic Securities System Investor’s account Investors’ accounts (amount per investor) (total amount) A Amount owned by Account manager’s account each investor (amount owned by each participant) Issuer’s account B (total amount issued) Individual investors Account manager Electronic registrar Expected Benefits of the Electronic Securities System Direct Economic Value(expected) Enhanced Transparency of Securities Transactions and Protection of Investor Rights The electronic securities system prevents the risk of forgery, alteration, theft and loss arising from physical securities certificates, and fundamentally eliminates the risk of illicit transactions and tax evasion by managing KRW 904.5 billion all transactions of securities issuance and circulation through the system of the electronic registrar, thereby Average annual savings enhancing the overall transparency of the securities market. In addition, it becomes easier for investors to over five years exercise their rights, as individual transfer of the title is no longer required. Generating Social Value through a Low-cost, High-efficiency Digital Securities Market Securities issuance and circulation is handled by a standardized system supplied by KSD, streamlining work procedures. Securities issuers can reduce their financing costs and expedite the issuance and circulation process, and thus financing as no issuance of physical certificates is required. Meanwhile, financial institutions can improve their work process when it comes to managing securities and seek opportunities in digital-based innovative businesses. 26 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Promoting the The electronic voting system (E-voting) allows shareholders to exercise their voting rights online without having to attend the general shareholders’ meeting (GSM). The electronic proxy system (E-proxy), E-voting and on the other hand, allows proxy solicitors such as issuers to upload the proxy form and reference docE-proxy Systems uments online, after which shareholders can grant proxies through authorized digital signatures. In Korea, GSMs are held primarily in metropolitan areas and on specific days in March every year, placing considerable limitations on companies in securing voting rights and on shareholders in participating in the meetings. The E-voting system was adopted in 2010 to overcome these obstacles, enabling shareholders to exercise their voting rights without attending GSMs. As the only voting rights management authority in Korea, KSD established the E-voting infrastructure. E-voting Performance Undertaking Activities to Promote the E-voting and E-proxy Systems 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders KSD undertakes a variety of activities to promote the use of the E-voting and E-proxy systems. We have raised 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders public awareness of the systems through online and offline advertisements, while encouraging minority shareNo. of Shareholders holders to exercise their voting rights by providing incentives for their participation. At the same time, we Using the System have promoted the use of the E-voting system among issuers by holding information sessions and distributing (Unit: Persons) 105,820 handbooks and leaflets, while holding seminars for government agencies as well as academic, overseas and other relevant institutions. Moreover, as part of our promotional efforts, we have established comprehensive 185.7% plans to enhance and revitalize the E-voting system as well as taken measures to improve the mobile system. As 37,038 a result of these activities to create a consensus on the E-voting and E-proxy systems and improve shareholder convenience, there has a significant increase in the use of the systems compared to the previous year. Expected Benefits of the E-voting and E-proxy System The E-voting and E-proxy systems guarantee that shareholders can exercise their rights, while enhancing the No. of Shares Exercised (Unit: 100 million) corporate image of participating companies by making a shareholder-centered management policy visible to their shareholders. Other benefits include the computerization of GSM management and reduction of proxy 52.9% 13.55 8.86 issuance costs. Furthermore, shareholders can easily exercise their voting rights anytime, anywhere without attending GSMs. This has the effect of strengthening shareholder rights. Operational Structure of the E-voting and E-proxy Service Exercise Rate (Unit: %) ❶ Sign the E-voting contract ❸ Submit materials related to the (Based on the no. of shares) ❷ Submit an application for the E-voting E-voting system 28.5% 5.04 system and GSM-related materials 3.92 Issuer KSD Shareholder Information E-voting GSM result management management management Shareholder Confirm shareholders Notify GSM results information with E-voting rights Store/Preserve GSM information Aggregate E-voting results E-voting records ❺ Aggregate records of exercise ❹ Vote by E-voting of rights by E-voting ❻ Submit GSM results ❼ View GSM results 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 Strengthening the KSD has enhanced the efficiency of its fund business operations through Fundnet, a collective investment operations system that processes all fund-related operations, from subscription and redemption Competitiveness of and the settlement of fund transactions to the distribution of fund-related information using standardAsset Management ized data and messages. We have also enhanced operational convenience in the asset management Support Services market by offering ETF-specific management services and fund consulting services. Strengthening Support for the Robo-Advisor System *Test-bed: A platform on which to Since 2016, KSD has provided active support in measuring profitability to organizations participating in robo-adviverify the operational capacity of robo-advisors, which provide assor test-bed* (RATB) projects in order to promote the robo-advisor (RA) market. We handle settlement accounting set allocation, management, conand profitability measurement for RATB participants, publish business process manuals and provide customized sultation and other financial services using an automated system training. We tested six companies participating in the third RATB whose final verification was completed in 2018. Since the launch of our RATB profitability measurement service, we have contributed to the commercialization of a total 35 algorithms, thereby contributing to the promotion of Korea’s fintech industry. Establishing Infrastructure for the Annuity Account Transfer Service *A nnuity account transfer service: In support of the government’s push to promote the private pension market, KSD has established infrastructure A service that allows subscribers to transfer their annuity savings for the annuity account transfer service* of the Financial Services Commission. We have streamlined business account or individual retirement procedures so that all types of account transfers can be handled with a single visit to the financial institution to pension (IRP) account to another annuity account while maintaining sign up for the service. In addition, we have standardized account transfer procedures and notification forms tax benefits such as tax deferral between financial institutions, and established a single network for annuity account transfers which connect all individual pension and retirement pension providers through exclusive circuits in order to protect against any risks that may arise from the manual processing of information between financial institutions. Through our efforts, KSD has built a consensus within the industry on the need to establish infrastructure for annuity account transfers while contributing to the promotion of the private pension market by encouraging competition. Streamlining the Transfer of Annuity Accounts ② Request account transfer (send Transfer Application Form) Existing ③ Give notification of an expected account transfer New members members (send Notification of Expected Transfer) (financial (financial institution) ④ Notification for transfer receipt confirmation (sending Transfer Notice) institution) ⑤ Remit upon redemption (send Account Transfer Statement, etc.) Pension subscriber (omit visit/recording) ① Open new account and fill out Transfer Application Form BEST PRACTICE Establishing Retirement Pension Provider Management System In order to verify the financial soundness of the retirement pension industry and enhance the efficiency of financial supervision, KSD has established a system to manage the roles of and information about retirement pension providers. We launched the system after reaching an agreement with relevant institutions on information management standards and operational procedures and revising the “Terms and Conditions on Management Service for Retirement Pension-Related Affairs.” Through these efforts, we enhanced the accuracy and effectiveness of funding position verification and finanFinancial Supervisory Service cial supervision, and an award from the Financial Supervisory Service on the third annual Finance Day Award for KSD’s Retirement Pension in recognition of our achievements in establishing the pension provider management system. Provider Management Service 28 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Strengthening In an effort to support domestic investors in generating new profits and diversifying their investment strategies, we are expanding and strengthening our global investment support services. At the same Global Investment time, we are leading the Korean wave (“hallyu”) in the financial market by sharing our experience of Support Service contributing to the Korean stock market through our unique depository and settlement system and exporting outstanding IT systems to overseas markets. Markets Covered by KSD's Foreign Currency Securities Depository and Settlement Services Europe Austria Italy ICSDs Belgium Netherlands 2 Denmark Norway Estonia Portugal Europe Finland Russia France Spain 19 Germany Sweden Greece Switzerland Africa Asia Americas Hungary United & Mid East 5 Ireland Kingdom 3 12 Asia Australia Philippines China Singapore Hong Kong Taiwan India Thailand Indonesia Vietnam Africa & Mid East ICSDs Americas Japan New Zealand Israel / UAE / Euroclear / Clearstream Argentina / Canada / Mexico / Republic of South Africa Brazil / United States Expanding Global Investment Support Services KSD’s global depository and settlement business is made up of a global investment support service, which provides cross-border support for the issuance and circulation of securities, and a foreign currency securities depository and settlement service, which supports domestic investors’ investments in global financial markets. As of July 2019, our foreign currency securities depository and settlement service covers 41 countries worldwide, and is expanding into more countries to reflect the demand for overseas investment by Koreans. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 Raising KSD's Profile in Overseas Markets Through International Activities To establish a foundation for expanding business overseas, it is essential to build a global network and a financial cooperation system through activities with international organizations. In this regard, KSD has demonstrated its global leadership by successfully serving as Chair and Secretariat of the Asia Pacific CSD Group (ACG) and the World Forum of CSDs (WFC). In particular, we have enhanced our global standing by demonstrating our overseas business capacity within the Asia-Pacific region while promoting balanced development in the global CSD industry by strengthening our overseas business base. Through these efforts, we expect to further solidify our global network and help to spread the Korean financial wave. Expanding Global Financial Infrastructure Networks KSD is providing to further financial investment business opportunities in the global securities market by promoting exchange and cooperation with relevant institutions overseas and strengthening global promotion activities. In particular, as a leading institution in the depository and settlement industry, KSD plays a key role in the Asian Bond Market Initiative (ABMI), initiating discussions on measures to promote the Asian bond market, including repo and collateral transactions, and taxation of international investment. Moreover, we have held training sessions and workshops on depository and settlement services with CSDs in China, Japan, and ASEAN and Eurasian countries, while actively engaging in exchange and cooperation activities with 31 institutions in 23 countries, including the World Bank, the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC), Euroclear and Clearstream, with which we have signed 35 MOUs. Presiding over WFC Board Meeting China Securities Finance (CSF) Visits KSD for Workshop BEST PRACTICE Providing Foreign Currency Securities Lending Service KSD introduced the foreign currency securities lending service in October 2018 to enable domestic financial institutions to generate additional revenue using foreign currency securities. Open to the U.S., Hong Kong and Japanese markets, the service works through a system whereby a lender enters into a tripartite service contract with KSD and an agent, and the agent automatically borrows the foreign currency securities and provides services such as guarantee of the return of securities, collateral management and management of rights derived from the loaned securities. The lender can use the service through simple business monitoring, without a separate contract with the borrower. In June 2019, KSD's foreign currency securities lending service was awarded the Best Securities Lending Mandate of the Year at The Asset Triple A-Asset Servicing, Institutional Investor and Insurance Awards 2019 hosted by the global financial magazine The Asset. In the future, we plan to gradually expand the service in consideration of the demands of participating institutions and the scale of investment. Awarded Mandate of the Year by The Asset 30 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Exporting Financial Infrastructure Through Marketing Efforts Towards Major Countries *Knowledge Sharing Program (KSP): KSD has diversified its marketing channels to expand the export of financial infrastructure to developing A government project whereby countries and create a foundation for future profit generation. In addition to the established direct-marketing participating countries share their experiences of economic developchannels, we have provided consulting services in Mongolia and Azerbaijan by actively utilizing the government for economic cooperation ment’s Knowledge Sharing Program (KSP)*. Furthermore, we have broadened personnel exchanges with CSDs in Mongolia, Vietnam, Uzbekistan and other countries, strengthening the basis on which to promote financial infrastructure development projects. Indonesia Azerbaijan Mongolia Uzbekistan Vietnam Renewed Conducted research Selected as KSP Explored new business maintenance on KSP project and research partner opportunities through the agreement on made policy in 2019 exchange of depository and exported system proposals in 2018 settlement experts with CSDs in respective countries Support for KSD strives to support start-up businesses and the government’s financial innovation policies by continuously improving relevant operating systems and opening communication channels. In particular, we encourage Innovative Startup the creation of jobs and a sound ecosystem for crowdfunding while supporting the growth of the big data Ecosystem and fintech industries through various activities that will help the future financial industry to grow. Promoting Crowdfunding We hold campaigns nationwide to promote the equity crowdfunding system and undertake a variety of activities to enhance convenience for both investors and issuers. In particular, we improved and stabilized the central repository system and operation framework for securities-type crowdfunding. In addition, we have strengthened the CrowdNet mobile service as well as internal and external activities to promote the crowdfunding system. Through these efforts, 185 crowdfunding projects were successfully financed, raising KRW 30.3 billion in 2018. Both the crowdfunding success rate and the number of investors increased from 2017. CrowdNet was also recognized as an exemplary website, receiving an Excellence Award at Web Awards Korea 2018. CrowdNet Responsive Web Design Excellence Award in Public Service 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 Creating a Sound Crowdfunding Ecosystem While providing systemic support such as facilitating information sharing between corporations and promotional activities, KSD has managed the establishment of the Crowdfunding Council and serves as coordinator to promote sustainable growth and development of crowdfunded startups. We created a list of member companies and established multiple communication channels to support constant communication between successful companies, including a contact system on social networks and regular meetings. By establishing a midto long-term roadmap, we have decided on future directions for the Crowdfunding Council and its major tasks. Through these efforts, we will create a sound ecosystem for crowdfunding, broadening communication channels between companies and playing a central role in carrying out projects that support the crowdfunding industry. Supporting the Growth of the Big Data and Fintech Industries In line with government policies, KSD supports the continuous growth of the fintech and big data industries by opening up and utilizing public data. More specifically, we have developed new information products and expanded the availability of information while promoting the use of open platforms by undertaking a total reorganization of the system including streamlining of services and broadening the spectrum of users. Furthermore, we have opened up public data in the form of APIs to support start-up businesses by fintech companies using public data. Finally, we are developing a model to promote the big data industry and implementing a big data service platform. No. of API disclosures by public financial institutions 1st place (Public data portal) Crowdfunding Council Ceremony BEST PRACTICE Expanding the Opening Up of Data and Securing Big Data Capacity via SEIBro Open Platform KSD actively supports government financial innovation policies by opening up public data and securing big data capacity. We have discovered high value-added analysis information based on actual demand by forming consultative groups with fintech companies, and expanded the availability of information in the form of APIs. Furthermore, we have undertaken a complete Big Data Service Platform reorganization of the SEIBro Open Platform, thereby supporting the establishment and operation of new business models that enable not only fintech companies, but companies in general to utilize KSD’s data. As a result, the numbers of newly executed contracts on the SEIBro Open Platform, as well as the number of visitors and views, continue to grow. At the same time, we designed a big data service platform, identified information for new analysis, diversified open information channels including the Big Data Industry Support Portal, and established an implementation roadmap in preparation for the 4th Industrial Revolution and in support of the government policies to promote the big data industry. Held Fintech Companies Meeting 32 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 02 02 Building a Corporate Culture of Mutual Growth WELFARE BENEFITS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH As interactions between countries sharply increase Korea Securities Depository (KSD) offers a variety in the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution, various of education and training programs to develop talaspects of the financial industry are also changented individuals with outstanding expertise and ing. Against this backdrop, in order for companies competence. We also strive to enhance employee to increase their competitiveness, increasing the satisfaction through a multifaceted employee welcompetitiveness of their employees – their future fare policy and a flexible organizational culture. We leaders – is an essential requirement. In line with will continue to secure competitive and talented a social environment that emphasizes the imporindividuals to drive our future growth and create tance of quality of life, it is also becoming necessary an environment where our employees can enjoy for companies to bring changes to their organizatheir work. tional culture. KEY PERFORMANCE KRW 93.7Points 4.839 million 5,292 Hours Employee Total Hours of Education Cost per Satisfaction On-the-Job Training Employee *As of 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 Developing In order to foster financial human resource that meets the highest global standards, KSD has established its own human resource development target and human resource development system and operGlobal Financial ates various educational programs accordingly. Human Resource Human Resource Development Target In order to grow into a 21st-century, world-class securities services company, KSD has established the following four pillars of human resource development target in alignment with its management objectives. Human Resource Development Target 1 2 3 4 GLOBALIZATION PROFESSIONAL RENOVATOR ORIENTING CUSTOMER Global human resource A professional pursuing A challenger who innovates A service provider who leading the global financial the highest standards through creative thinking puts customers first market · Acquires professional · Accepts challenges and · Provides the best service · Fosters global knowledge new opportunities · Builds customer communication skills · Develops global · Promotes creative and communication channels · E stablishes a global network competitiveness innovative thinking Human Resource Development System Our human resource development system is aimed at cultivating “global pro-KSDians” through programs to develop the various skills and competencies required on the domestic and global stage. These include general skills training, managerial skills training, job skills training, self-development training, academic training and voluntary self-funded training. Human Resource Development System Training System Fostering Global Pro-KSDians through Competency Training Leadership Global Qualities General Skills Training Strengthen Establish a Training Managerial SelfProvide Customized Competency-Based System Suitable for a Dual Skills Development Training Training Organizational Structure Training Training ･Operate the KSD ･E xpand offline training ･E xpand and improve Academic Training Vocational Academy for IT-related work training programs in ･E xpand academic ･E xpand support for postBusan Job Skills ･Re-establish principles Others training programs and retirement training Training trainees ･Support employees who of participation for ･Provide off-the-job Voluntary experience changes in offline distance training Self-Funded training to strengthen job responsibilities Training global competence Expertise Challenge & Innovation Strengthening Vocational and Competency-Based Training Providing Competency-Based Training to All Employees KSD provides competency-based training to all employees to cultivate their vocational capacity and expertise. Through the KSD Academy, we have expanded the vocational training offered to frontline departments to enhance our employees’ job expertise, in addition to strengthening their global competence by offering more in-house language courses and supporting foreign-language test fees. We also hold special lectures by outside experts for all employees on a regular basis to strengthen their competitiveness. Special Lectures by Outside Experts 34 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Providing Customized Training to Various Employee Groups KSD provides leadership training to prospective department heads and new team managers, and online courses on relevant laws and regulations to employees with few years of service. We also offer a junior job mentoring program to help new employees adjust to the workplace and commit to their work. For our senior employees, we offer a post-retirement training program and have expanded support for Life Innovation training. New Employee Training Leadership Training for Employees Assigned to New Positions Education and Training Performance KSD offers academic programs to encourage high-performing employees to earn master’s degrees in Korea and abroad, and finances educational expenses and foreign language training fees to enhance the job competencies of our employees and support their self-development. No. of Participants in Job Training Competency Training (Unit: Persons) Cost per Employee (Unit: KRW 1,000) 3,793 4,995 4,839 3,090 2,974 4,129 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Categorization Competency-Based Training for All Employees Customized Competency-Based Training Program Support for Leadership training Individual Online course on Postlanguage courses Special lectures for employees on-the-job capital markets and retirement and foreign by experts assigned to new training junior job mentoring training language test fees positions Performance ･ No. of sessions:  ･ No. of language ･ No. of lectures: ･ Held ･ Online course on ･ No. of in 2018 course participants: capital markets: trainees: 33 2 1 session 283 Every month 83 ･ Total training hours: ･ Support for foreign ･ Junior job ･S upport: 5,292 hours language test fees: mentoring: KRW 4.4 ･ No. of participants 43 employees, (cumulative): 90 times million yearly 2 months 2,415 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Employee Welfare KSD’s welfare policies help employees feel more satisfied and work more effectively. We strive to ground our organizational culture in mutual respect and consideration, create a flexible culture of communicaand Organizational tion by building consensuses and listening closely to one another’s’ opinions and establish an organizaCulture tional culture where all employees can be happy at work. Vision Finding a Balance between Life, Work and Home Mission Support PeopleFamilyHappy Happiness centric friendly Workplace Planning TRUST FUN PRIDE HAPPINESS Major Welfare Benefit Policies Medical Treatment Congratulatory and Living and Culture Leave System and Health Condolatory Events ･Home purchase and rent-lending program, ･Regular medical ･Congratulatory and ･Sick leave financial support for leased corporate examinations condolatory leave and ･Maternity leave housing and boarding house in Busan ･Medical fee support money ･A nnual leave ･Support for children’s tuition fees ･Disaster compensation ･Childcare leave ･Corporate condominium and employee and disaster relief welfare fund program support ･Workplace daycare Promoting Employee Health KSD offers various programs to help our employees manage and maintain their health. We provide financial support for regular medical examinations and cover medical fees, while operating fitness centers at both our Busan headquarters and Seoul office. In addition, our Employee Aid Program (EAP) helps employees effectively manage their stress and mental health. Certified as a Family-Friendly Workplace The family-friendly workplace certification program designates and certifies companies and public institutions with exemplary family-friendly policies such as maternity and childcare support, flexible working hours and a family-friendly corporate culture. In 2012, KSD was certified as a family-friendly workplace by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family for, among a wide range of efforts, creating a family-friendly company culture and Family-Friendly Management training family-friendly work environment specialists. KSD earned a renewal of the certification by the Ministry Certification of Gender Equality and Family in 2017. Parent Meeting at KSD Daycare Center Day at the Farm with Family 36 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY KSD Clubs We support our employees’ leisure activities and promote exchanges among them through 25 in-house clubs that include tennis, ukulele, football, violin and various other activities. By taking part in in-house clubs, employees can build consensuses and communicate with others who share similar interests. Mentoring for New Employees We have a mentoring system whereby new employees are paired with senior employees so they can get advice while adjusting to their organization and developing job skills. Mentors and mentees meet freely once or twice a month and engage in various activities such as playing sports, watching a performance or volunteering. This helps mentors support the new employees’ smooth adjustment to the workplace. In 2019, we launched an onthe-job competency-based training program conducted by experts with varied backgrounds to help employees with few years of service grow into experts in their respective fields. Mentoring Award for New Employees Strengthening Communication with Employees KSD held a “Town Hall Meeting with the CEO” as part of its efforts to respect employees in management, as well as to promote communication and mutual trust between labor and management. At the meeting, the CEO and executive officers gave presentations on managerial status and held discussions and a Q&A session on various issues with employees. Hiking (Seoul) CEO Town Hall Meeting 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 03 03 Customer-First Management IT SECURITY & CUSTOMER PROTECTION CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH In order to maintain and strengthen global comKorea Securities Depository (KSD) emphasizes the petitiveness, it is increasingly important for compaimportance of customer-first management at the nies to achieve qualitative growth through customcompany level. To this end, we have established and er-oriented management. The rapid development operate a systematic customer-oriented manageof information and communication technology ment system to create customer value. In order to (ICT) is increasing the likelihood of information-remeet customer needs, we have improved commulated incidents, such as personal information leaknication with customers and enhanced customer age. In this regard, it is essential for companies to satisfaction through regionally customized activities protect customer values and provide better serand financial education programs. In addition, IT vices to meet customers’ needs through rigorous safety and information security have been further information protection activities. strengthened with the establishment of midto long-term strategies and an integrated security management system. KEY PERFORMANCE Grade S 3years 637Cases Highest grade (S) in the Service Quality 100% PCSI (Public-service Certification for 3 Cases of VOC Received Customer Satisfaction consecutive years / Response Rate Index) *As of 2018 38 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Customer KSD recognizes that customer-first management is the driving force behind customer satisfaction (CS) and the development of the capital market. In this light, we have established and operate a CS strategy Satisfaction system based on customer values in order to provide services of the highest quality. Management System CS Strategy System Vision KSD, the Network that Connects Its Customers’ Dreams Mission We contribute to the success of our customers based on our understanding of their needs along with our customer-oriented services and professional networks. CS Brand SOFT KSD behind U, beside U Progressive Professional Friendly Open-minded customer services services services services CS Values Emotional Professional Proactive Trust Strategic Strengthen the basis Reinforce emotional Raise service Respond proactively Directions for customer value services expertise to customer needs management Implementing CS Management Governance KSD endeavors to create customer happiness through its systematized organizational structure. The CS Management Committee establishes the major directions of KSD’s customer satisfaction (CS) management, while the CS Leaders Conference is in charge of improving CS activities and promoting them in each division. The Customer Satisfaction and Support Center, the organization in charge of KSD’s CS activities, oversees the overall implementation and execution of CS-related affairs. Name of Organization Major Responsibilities Composition Approximately 10 members including the Senior CS Management Highest decision-making body for Managing Director, Managing Directors, Committee CS management Department Directors and Team Heads CS Leaders Improve and promote Team Heads and staff of each Conference CS activities within departments department Customer Satisfaction & Implement and execute Team Heads and staff of the Support Center CS activities department concerned 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Strengthening To actively promote communication with customers, KSD operates a variety of online and offline communication channels. Through the activities of the Bluebird Team in the Customer Satisfaction & SupCustomer port Center, as well as the VOC channel and other communication channels open year-round, we have Communication opened our ears to the opinions of our customers and are building consensus with them. Strengthening the Activities of the Bluebird Team In an effort to visit our customers directly in order to listen to and effectively respond to their grievances and difficulties, KSD has organized the Bluebird Team in the Customer Satisfaction & Support Center. Launched in 2017, the Bluebird Team consists of experts in various fields such as project specialists, IT specialists and attorneys, who provide visitation services in regions with high customer density, depending on the customer group and business issue. In 2018, we expanded visitations to client companies (6 times and 161 persons in 2017 → 12 times and 327 persons in 2018) and carried out electronic securities-related CS activities to provide relevant information and collect opinions. Through these efforts, we were able to proactively identify and improve upon various customer needs. Composition Operational Structure of the Bluebird Team in the Customer Satisfaction & Support Center CustomerIT-Related In-House Related 11th Bluebird Team Activity Departments Attorneys Departments Operation Visiting regions with high Visiting customers by type Visiting customers by issue customer density ･Seoul (Gangnam, Jongno, ･SLB participants, settlement ･Changes in capital market Junggu, etc.) participants policies ･Provincial Cities (Busan, Asset management companies, ･Changes in client companies Daejeon, Gwangju, etc.) trust companies, etc. such as M&A Number of VOCs Promoting Online Communication Number of VOCs Our company website is designed to be customer-friendly and satisfy the high information demands of users VOC Response Rate through the systematic organization of vast amounts of information and content. We have re-organized the 100 100 100 service guidance system to enable users to easily find the information they are looking for, while updating contents to enhance both accuracy and user understanding. We will continue to build more online communication 637 outlets to further promote communication with our customers. 437 443 Advancing the VOC Management System KSD operates a variety of Voice of Customer (VOC) channels to systematically collect and manage customer opinions, which are promptly analyzed to identify customer needs and reflect them in our management activities. Our advanced VOC management system enables us to designate certain departments to take charge of 2016 2017 2018 handling customer proposals, provide feedback to customers on how their proposals are being handled, and offer compensation to employees and their collaborators who implement customer proposals. VOC Channels Customer Proposals on Messenger Customer Meetings SAFE+ Help Desk KSD Website Service Implementation Conferences & Meetings Call Center Surveys 40 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Process of Designating a Department 1 2 3 4 First coordination Receive customer proposals Second coordination (in case a department has not Designate a department and designate a department (in case the first coordination been designated) to take charge and handle (Customer Satisfaction & failed) (Managing Director of (Team Head of the proposals Support Center) Division concerned) department concerned) Implementing CS Campaigns to Enhance Customer Value Visiting VOC In order to enhance customer value, KSD actively promotes various CS campaigns, including customer inviSmall-Group Customer Meetings tation events in the Busan headquarters. In addition, we hold CS workshops for relevant departments and Visiting Client Companies top clients to reinforce mutual understanding and cooperative relationships, as well as face-to-face customer services. Since 2018, we have been operating the “KSD Talk” program, which integrates three of our existing 2017 CS activities: VOC visitation services, small-group client meetings and visiting client companies. Such efforts to 66 Times / 375 Persons make our CS activities more systematic and efficient by integrating customer relationship management (CRM) activities have led to greater achievements in customer satisfaction management. Customer Satisfaction Monitoring KSD Talk KSD conducts regular monitoring of CS activities and internal surveys of customer satisfaction, identifying 2018 areas for improvement in our customer value creation activities and taking measures accordingly. As a result of 110 Times / these efforts, KSD scored 95.9 points in call service monitoring in 2018, the third consecutive year with a score above 95. In 2018, we obtained the highest grade (S) in the Public-Service Customer Satisfaction Index (PSCI), 1,158 Persons making us the only public institution in the financial sector with an S grade. Furthermore, we have received the Service Quality Certification – a certification awarded every three years to institutions with exemplary service quality and outstanding customer satisfaction management – three consecutive times since 2012. Strengthening In order to provide the highest-quality services to our customers, we have various training programs for our employees in addition to a CS compensation system. Our specialized training programs and various CS Capacity compensation policies encourage employees to foster CS service skills and voluntarily motivate themselves to better implement CS management. Customized CS Training Every year, all KSD employees undergo customized CS training programs. These include CS training for employees, specialized training for individuals in charge of CS and CS training for MOT personnel. We also offer CS capacity-building training to CS leaders in departments that deal directly with customers. Employees on the front lines of customer service receive specialized CS training, helping them acquire the skills required to deliver optimum customer service. Training Programs Training for employees on the MOT Special CS 1.5 hours of special CS lectures front lines of customer service Training Lectures completed per employee (2019) (once a year) CS Compensation System KSD has established various CS compensation programs as part of our efforts to actively pursue customer satisfaction management. Such programs include opportunities to receive overseas CS training for employees with outstanding achievements in CS and prizes for top “Yes Mileage” earners and employees who receive perfect scores on phone monitoring. In addition, CS scores are reflected in the internal evaluation index, allowing employees’ CS efforts to be recognized as part of their performance. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 Enhancing As a corporate citizen, we operate various regionally customized programs designed to support the growth of smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and venture companies, aiming to promote the Customer Satisregional economy and create quality jobs. We are also strengthening communication with customers to faction through identify their needs and provide customized services. Through these efforts, we can enhance customer Customer-Centered satisfaction and generate customer value. Services Regionally Customized Activities Busan Supported the growth of local SMEs and venture companies through crowdfunding A chieved a 90% funding success rate and created jobs in successfully funded companies Enhanced customer satisfaction by identifying and meeting customer needs Enhanced convenience in customer services Daejeon H osted mock crowdfunding competitions in Daejeon and Chungcheong Province Supported funding and start-ups for universities in Chungcheong Province C arried out the “Customer Satisfaction to Your Doorstep” program and held various customer meetings Conducted 1:1 financial education for companies in Daejeon Daegu Supported equity crowdfunding for resident companies of Knowledge Industrial Center in West Daegu Industrial Complex Supported crowdfunding by signing MOU with Daegu Start-up Incubation Center P rovided financial education to students, undergraduates and teachers in Daegu and Gyeongbuk Province P rovided business operations training to participants and issuers in Daegu Gwangju & Jeonju H osted crowdfunding competitions in Gwangju and Jeonnam/Jeonbuk Province P rovided consulting for crowdfunding and training for start-up and venture incubation institutions O rganized local on-site visits and visits to cultural events in Gwangju and Jeonnam Revised customer service-related FAQ and work processing manual Enhancing Financial Capabilities by Systematizing Financial Education In cooperation with financial companies, KSD develops and provides financial education programs for its customers in order to facilitate the smooth handling of customer services and maintain a cooperative relationship with customers. We also work with advanced financial research institutions to offer financial education to local residents and young adults, who are our potential future customers, helping them acquire financial information and establish a sound economic perspective. Furthermore, we strive to systematize financial education by opening finance departments and lectures at universities in Busan, Ulsan, and other cities in Gyeongnam Province as well as Qingdao University in China, thereby contributing to the enhancement of financial capacity. Performance in Customer Education Services Customer Training Financial Education Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of Sessions Times 80 107 118 No. of Sessions Times 518 60 124 No. of Participants Persons 5,438 7,477 8,014 No. of Participants Persons 19,190 6,964 13,115 42 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Strengthening IT KSD has enhanced its efficiency and level of information security management by establishing a comprehensive information security management system featuring the latest advanced functions and stanStability and dardizing information security operational procedures. Information Security Midto Long-term Strategies for Information Protection Based on three major information security strategies, we have established midto long-term strategies with 14 tasks to be implemented in stages in order to create a more advanced information security system. Three Major Information Security Strategies 1 2 3 Create a more advanced Establish a comprehensive Build security solutions information security organization security control tower based on monitoring structure and policies Establishing a Comprehensive Information Security Management IT Security Management System Requirements by Financial Authorities KSD maintains a high level of security and comprehensively manRequirements ages IT security through various means. First, we operate an by Financial KSD oversight organization that consists of experts in relevant fields. Authorities Also, by investing an appropriate budget in IT security, we strictly Information 5% or more of Approximately manage the qualitative implementation of our information seSecurity Personnel IT personnel 5.1% curity system. Furthermore, we constantly establish and revise Information 7% or more of Approximately regulations on information security to reflect the latest policies Security Budget IT budget 12.8% and technological trends in our business operations and clarify the grounds for security. (As of 2018) Enhancing Business Stability by Reinforcing IT Security KSD has adopted an integrated security management system based on innovative IT technology and utilizes big data and machine-learning technologies to analyze and detect incidents of personal information breach, thereby improving its detection rate for abnormalities such as hacking and malicious code as well as its ability to analyze them. Furthermore, in addition to applying new technology to further strengthen information protection, we have replaced old information protection equipment with new to secure reliability and stability. Enhancing Information Security Awareness As it becomes increasingly important to raise awareness of information security and to prevent and respond to information breaches, we are working to strengthen information security awareness at an enterprise-wide level. In order to prevent information breaches, we conduct professional online training and company-wide training on personal information protection. We also hold simulation drill sessions to prepare ourselves against incidents of personal and credit information leakage and support our employees to internalize information security awareness in the real work environment. At the same time, we hold quiz events on Information Protection Day to emphasize the important of information security among our employees. Internal Education Training Promotional Materials ･O ff-the-job training on information ･Simulation drill for cyber attacks ･Production and distribution of a protection and security (once a year) casebook of personal information (each once a year) ･Simulation drill for incidents of breach incidents ･Departmental training on information personal information breach ･Production and distribution of protection and security ･T hematic training on information newsletters on personal information (at least twice a year) protection (once a year) protection (twice a year) ･Online/offline information security ･Quiz to promote personal education (year-round) information education ･Information Protection Day for raising awareness (once a year) 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 04 04 Advancement of Social Contribution SOCIAL VALUE CREATION FINANCIAL EDUCATION RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH In other countries, institutional measures aimed at Korea Securities Depository (KSD) utilizes its increating social value are continuously being develherent corporate capabilities to spread positive oped, including the Guide to Taking Account of Soinfluence in local communities, helping to create cial Considerations in Public Procurement of the Eua virtuous cycle whereby the development of local ropean Union and the Social Value Act of the United communities leads to the growth of the national Kingdom. In our case, the Korean government has economy. Using our corporate characteristics, we selected “public institutions leading the realization provide financial education and support vulnerable of social values” as a policy task, emphasizing the imgroups, thereby proactively responding to social portance of the social responsibilities of public instiissues. Going forward, we will continue to generate tutions. As such, by identifying and supporting the economic values and contribute to the sustainable demands of the public through active communicagrowth of our society in general. tion with local communities, companies are required to both generate economic value and fulfill their responsibilities and roles as members of society. KEY PERFORMANCE 24,772 KRW 637Persons Persons 2.763 Billion Number of Number of Persons Execution Cost of Persons to Receive to Receive Financial Social Contribution Scholarship Support Education Projects *As of 2018 44 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Social Contribution Contributing to the development of the capital market by practicing “inclusive capitalism” and sharing those values with society are important goals of our social contribution activities as well as our responStrategies sibilities as a company. In this regard, rather than rely on donations and sponsorships, we generate social value by proactively responding to social and environmental issues through social investments and social contribution activities related to our business. Social Contribution Strategy Vision We create a happier society through sharing. Mission Contributing to the development of the capital market by promoting “inclusive capitalism” Three Principles Happy Future Happy Practice Happy Sharing Financial Education Educational Programs Associated with the KSD Securities Museum Projects Using In association with the KSD Securities Museum, we offer broad-spectrum education where participants can acquire financial knowledge by experiencing museum exhibitions of various relics and artifacts related to finance. Corporate Apart from programs on financial knowledge and financial investments, we offer programs that meet the needs Characteristics of various participant groups, including “Special Summer/Winter Camps,” where participants learn the basic concepts of securities through games, and the “Career Exploration Program,” where participants learn about the various kinds of jobs in the securities field. In 2018, a total of 9,595 participants joined in 181 youth program Education in Association events. In the meantime, the Busan Securities Museum is scheduled to open in 2019. As a financial landmark with KSD Securities integrating finance, culture and education, it is expected to help visitors acquire a better understanding of Museum finance and create social value through customized financial education. “Dream Start” Financial Education Through “Dream Start Education,” KSD’s visiting financial education program, we teach Dream Start* children 2018 essential financial knowledge and the importance of the economy, helping them acquire a sound financial 9,595 Persons perspective. Professional financial educators visit Dream Start during school breaks and help children learn 181 Times about finance through role-play, board games and other fun activities. Beginning in 2018, we started offering financial education to parents as well so that children can practice what they learned in Dream Start at home. *Dream Start: Comprehensive support service centers for children from vulnerable groups, established in 229 cities, counties and districts nationwide pursuant to the Child Welfare Act Dream Start Education 2018 2,786 Persons 163 Times Special Summer Camp at KSD Securities Museum Dream Start Education 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 Global Social Korean Language Education to Expand the Financial Hallyu In order to strengthen international cooperation in the capital market and spread the financial “hallyu” (Korean Contribution wave), KSD provides Korean language education in emerging developing countries with high growth potential Activities in the financial market. Beginning with Indonesia in 2014 and followed by Vietnam in 2016 and Mongolia in 2017, we have provided Korean language education to 282 capital market professionals in developing countries. In addition, participants who complete the program with outstanding grades are offered the opportunity to visit Korea. In 2019, we plan to select one more emerging developing country in which to offer Korean language programs, while continuously expanding Korean language education to help create a Korea-friendly image in the financial market and foster global financial experts. Status of Korean Language Education (Unit: Persons) Categorization 2016 2017 2018 Indonesia 25 25 Vietnam 25 34 33 Mongolia 50 50 Korean Language and Culture Course Completion Ceremony Reaching Out to the World through Global Sharing, Educational Environment Improvement Projects KSD has launched its global sharing program in an effort to support the development of local communities in developing countries, as well as the growth and independence of socially vulnerable groups. In particular, we carry out educational environment improvement projects in developing countries to guarantee the human rights of children and their right to education in a safe educational environment and bring positive changes to local communities. In 2018, we funded the renovation of old indoor gym facilities and outdoor basketball courts at two schools located on the outskirts of Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. We also painted fences inside schools as a volunteer activity with participants of the Korean language program and capital market specialists. In the first half of 2019, we remodeled a closed assembly hall into a multi-purpose indoor facility. In the second half, we plan to support the repair of old assembly halls in schools in Uzbekistan and the installation of necessary equipment. Educational Environment Improvement Project in Mongolia Remodeling a Closed Assembly Hall into a Multi-Purpose Indoor Facility 46 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Activities to Agricultural and Fishing Villages In order to promote exchanges between cities and agricultural/fishing villages, we have been carrying out rural Support the support programs since 2006. Forming partnerships with three villages, we have not only provided financial Socially Vulnerable education to village residents, but also helped out during peak seasons, purchased agro-fishery products, participated in coastal clean-ups and provided support for village facilities. In 2018, we volunteered at two of our partner villages – one in Okgye-ri, Masan, Gyeongnam Province and one in Sangsan, Chungju. Volunteering in Agricultural and Fishing Villages KSD Gallery Number of Exhibitions and Artwork Displayed KSD Gallery is an art exhibition space established with the objective of contributing to the development of the Korean culture and the arts sector. Each year, the Gallery holds exhibitions of various genres, including painting, photography and crafts, and runs art programs for exhibition visitors. The Gallery also supports artists by discovering up-and-coming talents and offering them the opportunity to exhibit their work. Visitors can experience various genres of art in the exhibitions. 2018 10 Exhibitions 309 Pieces of Artwork KSD Gallery Exhibition Youth Sponsorship “Dream Come True” Scholarship KSD offers sponsorships to students and undergraduates to spread the values of the capital market and foster (Annual cumulative) future financial experts. We select students who have excelled academically despite their challenging circumstances as “Dream Come True scholars” and provide scholarships of KRW 300,000 to 900,000 per quarter for 2018 elementary, middle school and high school students, and up to KRW 2 million per semester for undergraduates. KRW 347.3 million We also run a “performance-based scholarship program” for vocational high school students, providing scholarships to students who receive top grades in economic and financial literacy certification exams. Through the 282 Persons big dreams and visions these programs present, we inspire students with the sense of achievement that comes from achieving a goal and support their growth into Korea’s future experts in finance and the economy. Performance-based Scholarship 2018 355 Beneficiaries in 39 Schools KRW 220.4 million KSD Dream Come True Scholarship Certificate Award Ceremony Performance-Based Scholarship Certificate Award Ceremony 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 Support for Persons with Disabilities Donations of Wheelchairs for Wheelchair Support Project for Disabled Children Children with Disabilities Since 2012, KSD has been donating wheelchairs nationwide to children and young adults with severe disabilities. The wheelchairs we 2018 donate are made specifically for children with disabilities and not KRW 98 million only guarantee their right to mobility but also prevent them from 51 Persons developing physical distortions by helping them maintain good posture. Since launching the project, we have donated wheelchairs to Wheelchair Donation Ceremony 195 children with disabilities. “Dream Come True Store” Project for Disabled Small-Business Owners Support for Dream Since 2015, KSD’s “Dream Come True Store” project has been supporting disabled small-business owners by Come True Stores improving their business environments. Through this project, the aim of which is to assist in the economic 2018 independence of beneficiaries and encourage them to actively engage in economic activities, we have helped KRW 200 million open 49 Dream Come True Stores. 309 Places BEST PRACTICE Financial Leadership Camp In cooperation with KSD Nanum Foundation, KSD hosts the annual “Financial Leadership Camp” for children from socially vulnerable families, helping them grow into healthy members of society by providing financial knowledge and enjoyable cultural experiences. In 2018, we invited 75 children from low-income families in Busan to participate in the camp, which lasted two nights and three days. During the camp, the children took part in various participatory financial education programs, including the Finance Golden Bell Quiz and a financial product development project, and also participated in character-building workshops aimed at improving self-esteem. All told, participants enjoyed the opportunity to grow into future financial leaders with a healthy character and the right perspectives. 42nd Dream Come True Store “Solael” KSD selected the coffee bean factory “Solael” as its 42nd Dream Come True Store. Located in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province, Solael is run by a CEO with chronic kidney disease and employees with developmental disabilities. KSD built a separate kitchen space inside the factory, installed air-conditioning/heating facilities and ventilation fans, and created a rest space for disabled employees who are prone to fatigue. The CEO of Solael thanked KSD for providing such great support and vowed to work harder to encourage “ethical consumption” and create more jobs for the disabled. 42nd Dream Come True Store: Before Improvements 42nd Dream Come True Store: After Improvements 48 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 05 05 Creating Decent Jobs and Promoting Mutual Growth START-UP SOCIAL SUPPORT COMPANY SUPPORT RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH The government continues to focus on job creation In line with government policies, we are involved in its governance by promoting and supporting in various projects in the private sector with the public organizations' roles in creating jobs. It is aim to build infrastructure, share and create qualalso implementing policies and taking initiatives ity jobs and social values. We also select partner to pursue mutual growth. In line with these govcompanies through a fair bidding process and ernment policies, we must strengthen our roles to establish a foundation on which SMEs can grow create jobs and social values, at the same time esby implementing various policies and activities for tablishing a sound corporate ecosystem and laying social enterprises and SMEs. Going forward, we the foundation for sustainable economic mutual will continue to work closely with SMEs to enhance growth with smalland medium-sized enterprises. their global competitiveness. KEY PERFORMANCE KRW 750 million 1,651Persons Raised for Busan Established Embracement Fund KSDream Co., Ltd. Jobs Created for Social Economic Development (BEF) *As of 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 Creating The government encourages public organizations to contribute to job creation and the growth of local communities by emphasizing the importance of collaboration. At the same time, public organizations Decent Jobs are required to fulfill their social responsibilities by invigorating the start-up ecosystem in the Innovative Growth Regions designated by the government. In this regard, we actively support the implementation of government policies by newly establishing a Job Creation Division and its Job Creation Plan. Furthermore, we return a certain portion of the profits we generate from corporations to start-ups with the aim of achieving our social value as a sound corporate citizen. Expanding Support for Job Creation Creating Jobs in the Private Sector KSD both directly and indirectly creates jobs in the private sector by prioritizing midto long-term projects with high potential for job creation, such as developing the electronic securities system and establishing the Busan Securities Museum. We have also contributed to creating jobs in start-ups by actively supporting crowdfunding. Specialized Projects Relating to KSD’s Businesses By reducing fees and providing financial education, KSD uses its intrinsic capacity as a public financial institution to spread a culture of job creation. With reductions in eight service fees (KRW 90 million in 2018) including securities agency fees, we have encouraged companies to participate in job creation. We also provide financial and economic education to 9,600 students in Seoul and Busan by selecting and training middle-aged lecturers such as retired teachers. Direct and Indirect Job Creation Effect Such efforts by KSD had the effect of creating 1,651 jobs in 2018. In recognition of its performance as a best practice case of job creation by a public institution, KSD was awarded the Commendation of the Minister of Education in the Job Creation Sector at the “2018 Korea Social Contribution Awards” and the Grand Prize in the Employment Stability Sector at the “2018 Job Creation Exemplary Management Prizes of Korea.” Purchasing Busan Securities KRW goods, services 8 Persons Museum (Curators 41.9 billion and consulting and researchers) services 59 Persons Managerial 840 Persons KRW KOSDAQ 8 Persons positions at KSD’s Indirect Internal Jobs subsidiary Employment in the 4 billion scale-up Private Sector* Job creation Personnel for develApprox. effect from 43 Persons oping the electronic 67.2 billion investing in the securities system job creation budget Increased employment * Direct employment in the private sector: in companies particiPersons employed directly by companies participating in 160 Persons pating in the developprojects or an increase of employment in companies/ ment of the electronic agencies with successful crowdfunding securities system * Indirect employment in the private sector: 752 Persons Establishment and Calculated based on the execution amount1) and the Direct Employment employment inducement coefficient 2) in the Private 11 Persons operation of the 1) E xecution amount: large capital expenditure businesses, Busan Daycare Center Sector* financial support (fee reduction), outsourcing of purchasing/services/consulting, etc. Increased employment in 2) Sum of the number of new jobs directly created to 535 Persons companies with successgenerate KRW 1 billion and the number of jobs indirectly ful crowdfunding created in other sectors (average 12.5 persons as calculated and announced by the Bank of Korea) 50 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Supporting the Development of Local Communities in Busan KSD makes various efforts to invigorate the local economy and improve the environment in Busan. In 2018, based on proposals from the general public, we co-hosted a debate on creating jobs to revitalize the local economy in cooperation with six public institutions, including the Korea Asset Management Corporation, contributing to the establishment of a practical groundwork for regional cooperation projects. In addition, we raised KRW 750 million with Busan Embracement Fund for Social Economic Development (BEF), providing financial support for 28 social enterprises, and have plans to further expand the support fund. Furthermore, we selected Smart Farm as a business model for social enterprises in their preliminary stage that are looking to achieve economic independence and have cooperated with local governments to support the purchase of business facilities, from which we expect increases in sales and job creation. Creating Joint Funds* *F inancial support (KRW 520 milCompanies Start-up Scale-up Start-up lion), purchasing (KRW 86 million), Qualifying planning stage (over 3 years (within 3 years of business consulting, talent for Financial (preliminary social following development projects start-up) enterprises) start-up) (completed by 8 teams), etc. Support Means of Crowdfunding(Free) Financial Loan support Support matching investment support (interest-free) Content of Facilities and business Facilities and business Support development costs development costs KRW 25 million to 13 companies KRW 150 million to KRW 350 million to 10 companies 5 companies Proposing a Successful Cooperation Model for Public Institutions to “Develop the Local Economy and Create Jobs” 2017 2018 (BEF 1st Year) 2018 (BEF 2nd Year) ･Signed a public institution agreement ･Creation of 61 jobs in social enterprises ･E xpanded BEF by KRW 1.04 billion with Busan Metropolitan government in Busan ･Established the Business Plan for (319 jobs in 2017 → 380 jobs in 2018) Cooperation Projects with Public “Busan Innovation City BEF Model” Cumulative amount of KRW 1.79 billion Institutions selected and promoted by the with the goal KRW 5 billion in funding Selected as “exemplary case of job Presidential Committee on Jobs as by 2022 creation in the public sector” by a best practice case of job creation the Presidential Committee on Jobs and regional development by a public (December 2017) institution KSD Accelerating Program Support expansion into the global market Support for the Creation of an Innovative Start-up Environment Provide specialized region/ industry-specific programs In line with the government’s innovative growth policy, KSD has contributed to the promotion of a regional ecosystem for start-ups. We have also signed private-public joint co-working space* business agreements Support workspaces with seven institutions in Busan, including Busan Metropolitan City, in addition to discovering promising startup companies and actively supporting their growth. In order to create a dynamic environment for start-ups Focus start-up support on regions through a combination of workspaces, networks and investment, we established KSD Accelerating Solutions in outside Metropolitan areas 2019. Through this program, we plan to provide a comprehensive support system to help innovative start-up Provide support in conjunction companies thrive. It is a specialized program tailored to the industrial and regional characteristics of start-ups, with investments with contents specifically created to provide workspace, network and investment support. In the future, we will Provide support in conjunction continue to create social value by returning a certain portion of our profits from companies back to society. with crowdfunding * Busan private-public joint co-working space: Space provided by KSD in which programs are jointly operated by participating institutions 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 Win-Win KSD pursues mutual growth with SMEs and social values by carrying out a variety of activities to support social enterprises and SMEs, including funding the business activities of SMEs and venture companies. Management Selecting Sustainable Business Partners In selecting sustainable business partners, KSD closely reviews the financial stability, credit rating, quality and general delivery history of candidate companies. We also conduct annual transparency surveys of partners to inspect their transparency and identify any cases of corruption. Partners are required to sign transparency and fair transaction pledges as attachments to bidding or contracting documents. When this requirement is not met, bidding results are revoked, contracts are terminated or eligibility to participate in bidding is restricted. Supporting Social Enterprises *S ecurities agent, bond KSD discovers and implements policies that actually help social enterprises, such as fee reductions, priority registration, electronic purchasing and crowdfunding support. We are supporting cost reductions for social enterprises by extending short-term bond issuance, electronic voting management, our five-year fee reduction for eight kinds of service fees*, including securities agent fees, and engaging in the electronic proxy, information priority purchase of products made by social enterprises. In addition, we have contributed KRW 2.5 billion to use, LEI, overseas securities management fees, etc. a social investment fund created to assist the growth of social enterprises. Other efforts include opening up an exclusive section for social enterprises on CrowdNet and using this channel to provide financial support for social enterprises that have succeeded in crowdfunding. Supporting the Business Management Activities of SMEs KSD intends to strengthen its network to discover promising SMEs and increase the SME product purchasing rate as much as possible. Through these activities, in conjunction with the BIFC Management Committee, Contract Affairs Advisory Council, Public Purchasing Policy Council of Busan Metropolitan City, and public purchasing consultation meetings, we are discovering and promoting outstanding SMEs in the region. In 2018, our SME product purchasing rate marked 86.3% as a result of our efforts to prioritize the purchasing of SME products. For three consecutive years, our SME product purchasing rate has exceeded 80%. In addition, we hold conferences with SMEs on a regular basis to collate business proposals for mutual growth and play a monitoring role for any unfair work instructions or acts of corruption in contract-related affairs. SME Product Purchasing Status (Unit: KRW million) Total Purchasing Amount SME Product Purchasing Amount Ratio to Total Purchasing Amount 85.3% 86.3% 27,343 82.0% 25,052 23,604 21,170 20,548 18,067 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 52 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Providing Financing Support for SMEs and Venture Companies In an effort to create a sustainable driving force for SMEs and venture companies, we provide support for direct and indirect financing by holding IR events and introductory sessions on crowdfunding. Since 2017, we have hosted the “KSD IR Workshop & Concert” to support companies that have succeeded in crowdfunding, helping them to strengthen their IR capacity and attract further investments. 1st Anniversary of the Crowdfunding Council 5th KSD IR Concert Promoting Local Start-ups and Venture Companies KSD actively promotes joint securities-based crowdfunding projects in association with local governments and start-up support institutions nationwide for start-ups and venture companies in Korea. Notably, we have successfully hosted the “Busan Crowdfunding Road Show” which aims to support the start-up ecosystem in Busan. Guaranteeing the Rights of Companies to Participate in Bidding We have revised our internal guidelines so that companies that participate in bidding but fail to attend a proposal presentation—which was previously regarded as a withdrawal of the bid are allowed to submit a written proposal in lieu of attending the proposal presentation, albeit with a deduction of points. This revision guarantees the rights of other bidders as much as possible while facilitating fair competition by allowing companies that are unable to attend a proposal presentation for unavoidable reasons to continue to participate in bidding with a deduction of points for non-attendance. BEST PRACTICE Transitioning Service Workers to Permanent Employees through KSDREAM Co., Ltd. In line with the government policy to transition non-permanent workers in the public sector to permanent employment, KSD established KSDREAM Co., Ltd., and converted its indirectly employed non-permanent workers into permanent employees. We expect enhanced productivity and quality of public services due to increased motivation and organizational unity among employees. Furthermore, we have thoroughly discussed relevant issues with labor relations experts through the Stakeholder Conference* we organized for employment stability, and improved treatment and quality of work for service workers. We are considered a best practice case as the first financial public institution to establish a subsidiary to transition non-permanent workers to permanent employment. *Composed of 9 employee representatives 4 employer representatives and 2 outside experts 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 06 Establishing Green Finance 06 Infrastructure $ GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE GREEN OFFICE RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH As the global community faces various environmenBy participating in the Forest Carbon Offset Project tal issues, such as fine dust and climate change, and constructing low-carbon financial infrastruccountries around the world are strengthening enture, Korea Securities Depository (KSD) is actively vironmental regulations while establishing low-cartaking part in global efforts to respond to climate bon policies and related measures. The Korean change. We are also making various efforts toward government has established “green growth” as a nathe effective use of limited resources and the prestional strategy to respond to the climate crisis, mitervation of resources that are available. We will igate environmental damage and secure a growth continue to work at the company level to minimize engine for environmentally-friendly technologies. environmental impact by undertaking eco-friendly management activities. KEY PERFORMANCE 18.6% KRW 450 Million Building Meditation Greenhouse Gas Amount of Green Forests at Schools Reduction Rate Purchasing Exceeding BAU Level *As of 2018 54 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Implementing As a green financial institution supporting Korea’s entry into the group of “green developed countries,” KSD actively participates in the government’s low-carbon, green-growth policies and supports the development Eco-Friendly of the Korean financial industry and economy by responding to climate change and pursuing green finance. Management at the Company Level Establishing a Green Office to Reduce Greenhouse Gases In 2018, KSD reduced the company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 18.6% more than the BAU level through efforts such as replacing office lighting with LED lights and installing double-glazed windows. In addition, we are undertaking various energy-saving initiatives such as designating an energy saving manager and conducting energy saving training and campaigns. Other efforts include “green purchasing,” prioritizing the purchasing of green products such as eco-friendly paper. Strengthening Low-Carbon, Green Financial Infrastructure KSD contributes to building green financial infrastructure through various projects. With the implementation of the electronic securities system and the abolishment of paper securities, we expect issuing companies to save approximately KRW 600 million on costs of printing physical securities and investors to save KRW 5.2 billion in storage costs during the next five years. In addition, the electronic voting system helps reduce the amount of paper consumed for shareholder notice letters and ballots used at general shareholders’ meetings and minimizes the use of transportation to attend meetings. Through these measures, we strive to both directly and indirectly reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. Recognizing that low-carbon green growth is a survival strategy in the face of global climate change, we will continue to make further efforts in the future to strengthen green finance. LED Light Replacement (Compared to Greenhouse Gas Reduction Status Total Existing Lighting) (Unit: KRW million) (Compared to BAU Levels*) (Unit: tCO 2 , %) Replacement Status Reduction Amount Reduction Rate Compared to BAU Levels 22.6% 20.6% 18.6% 91.2 82.8 84.8 1,003 916 826 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 *Average Emission Amount for 3 Years from 2006 to 2008 BUSINESS CASE Forest Carbon Offset Project The Forest Carbon Offset Project promotes the carbon uptake of forests through the voluntary participation of public institutions, private organizations, companies, and the general public. The Korea Forest Service (KFS), using objective and transparent procedures, certifies the carbon dioxide uptake achieved through corporate efforts such as forest-building. In 2012, we signed an MOU with KFS and Pyeongchang-gun to build a birch forest covering 24,462m2 of land, and obtained the first KFS forest carbon absorption certification in 2017. In 2018, we built a meditation forest spanning 550m2 at Busan Gaesung High School, which is expected to attribute approximately five tons of carbon absorption to KSD for 10 years. In the first half of 2019, we planted Chinese fringe trees and Japanese cornelian cherry trees and built trails on a 630m2 land on the Songjeong Middle School campus. In the second half of 2019, we will build a meditation forest in Keumjeong High School, creating a place of relaxation Meditation Forest Completion Ceremony at Busan Gaesung High School for the citizens of Busan and a space for emotional growth and ecological education for students. We will continue to expand the Forest Carbon Offset Project for a greener future. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 07 07 Internalizing Ethical Management REQUEST REGISTRATION SYSTEM INTEGRITY CULTURE RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH Externally, an international movement known as Korea Securities Depository (KSD) plays a leadthe Ethics Round is gaining momentum. This is an ing role in implementing ethical and compliance attempt to regulate the products and services of management by establishing an advanced ethical unethical companies. Internally, we highlight the management system, spreading a culture of animportance of integrity and the ethical responsibilti-corruption and integrity, and devising measures ities of public institutions. As ethical management to root out “gapjil” (power-based) harassment. We is an area regulated by laws and institutions, as well strive to secure the trust of our stakeholders by inas a factor with direct impact on a company’s image ternalizing ethical awareness throughout the comand its sustainability management, it is essential pany through the operation of an integrity cluster for companies to manage risks related to ethical and an ethical ombudsman system, the provision management. of ethical training to our employees on a continuous basis and the strengthening of activities to help them put into practice what they have learned. KEY PERFORMANCE Completed Established by135persons measures to eliminate “gapjil” Operated an Online anti-corruption integrity cluster (power-based) and integrity harassment training in 2018 56 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Ethical In order to turn our ethical management activities into a firmly rooted corporate culture, we are fulfilling our responsibilities as an ethical financial company by realizing our ethical management vision of “Zero Management Defect, Clean KSD,” based on the following three major tasks and values. System Ethical Management Governance With the CEO playing a central role, KSD operates the Anti-Corruption·Transparency·Ethical Management Committee. In addition, we systematically carry out ethical management activities that align with our business characteristics by operating the Practical Affairs Committee, which consists of the major departments in charge and an external advisory body. Vision Improvement of value for investors and contribution to the development of the financial market through the provision of an efficient and stable financial infrastructure Value Zero Defect, Clean KSD Implementation Improvement Countering of Enhancement Tasks of Systems Corruption of Integrity Build an anti-corruption Control the causes of Reinforce employee infrastructure corruption in advance integrity training Anti-Corruption, Transparency and Ethical Management Committee ･O versight of System ･Compliance Team Manager anti-corruption and ･Personnel Management Team Director of the Improvement transparency policies ･Identification and Strategy and Planning Part Manager ･Auditing Team Manager Division (3 persons) promotion of policy improvement tasks ･Management Coordination ･A nti-corruption and Director of the Internal Team Manager transparency training Chairperson Management Support Practical Affairs Control Part ･Press & Media Relations Team and PR Senior Managing Division Committee (3 persons) Manager ･E xecution and expansion of Director ･ Accounting Team Manager the Code of Conduct ･General Affairs Team/ Highest Senior Managers of Advisory Body Customer Satisfaction & Decision-Making Each Department, Ethical Ombudsman Support Center Manager ･A nti-corruption and ･Deposit Services Team/ PR/General Affairs/ Transparency transparency practice and CEO (Outside Experts) Improvement expansion Finance and Derivatives & Collateral ･Development of measures Part Accounting/Auditing/ Services Team Manager (6 persons) Risk Management ･Global Deposit & Settlement to enhance transparency Department Managers Team/IT Planning Team Manager * S ecretary: Team Manager in Charge of Anti-Corruption, Transparency and Ethical Management 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 Compliance with Ethical Norms KSD has established an Ethics Code as the foundation of its transparent and ethical corporate culture. It includes the Ethics Charter and the Code of Conduct, as well as detailed ethical standards for operating regulations. Our Ethical Management Principles, consisting of corporate ethical principles and job-related ethical principles, provide detailed ethical standards at the enterprise level by specifying the targets of ethical management. Ethical Norms Ethics Code Ethical Standards Mission Code Regulations ･ R egulations on the implementation of the executive integrity pledge ･G  uidelines on sexual harassment prevention, maternity protection and gender equality in employment ･G  uidelines on fraud reporting and reporter protection ･ R eporting standards on job-related crime and operating guidelines on the active Code of Conduct KSD Ethics for KSD Charter Employees administrative waiver program ･ P ersonnel Committee regulations, rewards and punishment standards ･ R egulations on the management of civil grievances, management disclosure guidelines ･G  uidelines on the prevention of and response to harassment in the workplace Enhancing In order to establish a culture of fair and transparent job performance, we have reinforced anti-corruption policies and infrastructure, in addition to undertaking various activities includAnti-Corruption ing integrity training to raise the anti-corruption and integrity awareness of our employees. and Integrity Capabilities at the Company Level An Integrity Cluster to Lead a Culture of Integrity We operate an integrity cluster to lead in the creation of an integrity culture in Busan and to effectively implement anti-corruption and transparency policies. In particular, we regularly participate in integrity cluster meetings in Busan to share integrity policies and discuss relevant activities. At these meetings we establish plans and assign roles to participants in order to spread a culture of integrity in each institution. In 2019, we discussed various issues including our integrity policy implementation plans as well as areas vulnerable to corruption in each institution and improvement measures. Furthermore, we formed a consensus on anti-corruption issues and distributed leaflets as part of our street campaign aimed at spreading a culture of integrity throughout the local community. Ethical Ombudsman System Strengthening Corporate Transparency Since 2009, KSD has been operating an ethical ombudsman system to encourage whistleblowing and promote anti-corruption activities. KSD’s ethical ombudsmen are outside experts in different fields with high integrity and moral standards. They monitor the transparency and fairness of our major businesses and areas vulnerable to corruption, and propose measures to improve relevant systems. There is one ethical ombudsman each in Busan and Seoul to handle grievance consultation work via phone and other means, as required. We also hold ethical ombudsman meetings on a quarterly basis, which are participated in by ethical management officers Street Campaign for Integrity from each department. 58 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Solicitation Reporting System In 2012, KSD established the solicitation reporting system and the customer consultation/meeting registration system to implement integrity and anti-corruption policies that satisfy the ethical standards of its customers. The solicitation reporting system can be used by all employees to report unfair solicitations from internal and external parties, and guarantees the reporter’s anonymity. The customer consultation/meeting registration system is used to report solicitations made during unofficial interviews or meetings with customers and under the system, personnel transfer and disciplinary actions are undertaken regarding reported cases verified to constitute regulatory violations. Solicitation Reporting Process Grant incentives KSD Solicitation Report System Make charges Investigating Solicitation Report agency solicitation Internal/ Solicitation Solicited party Solicitation Give external registration officer (Employee) registration CEO notice about solicitor (Review reported Report as Report a solicitation supervisor solicitations) necessary quarterly Institution Send warning Spreading a Culture of Integrity in Organizations In order to internalize a culture of integrity in each organization and enhance its credibility, KSD offers educational programs on integrity and has its employees sign a vocational integrity agreement. We provide anti-corruption and integrity training to all employees in order to enhance organizational transparency by raising their ethical awareness in addition to convening the Ethical Management Committee on a regular basis with the aim of practical execution of relevant policies and participation by upper-level employees. Moreover, we offer incentives to departments and officers in charge of ethics and anti-corruption duties, and motivate employees to participate in ethics activities through the ethical mileage program and the ethics certification program. In 2019, we introduced the vocational integrity agreement system whereby newly-appointed executives, inAnti-Corruption and Integrity Training for All Employees cluding the CEO, auditors and managing directors, are required to sign an integrity agreement when signing their contract. By stipulating obligations of integrity as well as disadvantages in case of failure to fulfill such obligations, the vocational integrity agreement emphasizes the importance of ethical management by executives. Other efforts include providing customized education and training in ethics, whistleblower protection and welfare/subsidy fraud reporting, helping employees to internalize a sense of ethics. Sharing Best-Practice Cases of Anti-Corruption KSD strengthens cooperation with relevant organizations and develops anti-corruption policies to share and expand best-practice cases of anti-corruption. In 2018, we operated various programs, such as a competition for best anti-corruption and integrity slogans, thereby encouraging our employees to take an interest and participate in ethical management at the company level. We have also participated in integrity clusters at public institutions in Busan where we actively engaged in spreading a culture of integrity, which included sharing reference materials and cooperating with ethics partners through business consulting. Further anti-corruption efforts also include devising and executing our own ethics policies based on best practice cases and points of improvement provided by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 Measures to In order to root out and prevent “gapjil,” which refers to the unfair demands or actions made by people in socially or economically superior positions using their authority, KSD is engaged in a variety of activEliminate “Gapjil” ities such as establishing a reporting and monitoring system, and conducting voluntary inspections. Creating a Horizontal Culture through Anti-Gapjil Campaigns We will create a social environment of mutual respect by promoting the government’s commitment to eliminating gapjil and related activities through booklets and our website. In March 2019, we uploaded the government’s “Guidelines for Eliminating Gapjil in Public Sectors” on our website, laying the foundation for our future efforts to root out gapjil. Gapjil Prevention Activities within KSD We identify the causes of gapjil and eliminate the possibility of its occurrence by conducting voluntary inspections. In this regard, we examined a total of 172 VOCs received in 2018 and assessed the potential gapjil factors of customers. In addition, we have assigned staff in each department to take charge of gapjil elimination, identifying and inspecting potential factors for gapjil that may arise from internal regulations or business practices, as well as establishing measures to rectify areas that require improvement. Furthermore, we have organized a council of the staff in charge of gapjil elimination, which convenes on a regular basis to share relevant information and communicate. In 2019, the concept of gapjil and matters regarding its eradication were reflected in our Code of Conduct. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to strictly penalize perpetrators and strengthen measures to protect victims. Strengthening Communication with Customers to Eliminate Gapjil Through communication channels participated in by customers, we examine matters that may come across as gapjil to our customers, opening our ears to their opinions and proposals. In 2018, we attended the Anti-Corruption and Integrity Customer Monitoring Meeting where we made a presentation on the government and KSD’s measures to eradicate gapjil and collected feedback from the participants. Establishing a Reporting System We established the “Gapjil Reporting and Support Center” to receive reports of gapjil and provide support to victims. With the Director of the Audit Department as the head of the Center, one team leader and one staff member have each been appointed to take charge of relevant matters, receiving reports and taking measures to protect victims/reporters. We have also created a reporting board on our website where anyone, including customers, can make reports of gapjil. Notably, we have assigned an organization and staff to oversee this reporting channel to facilitate better communication with other organizations concerning the reports made. Gapjil Reporting and Support Center 1 2 3 4 5 6 Receive reports Conduct an Request Handle cases of gapjil and investigate disciplinary Provide legal/ transferred from examine matters; in cases of measures such Take measures to counseling the National Request an disclosure as disadvantages protect victims support when Gapjil Reporting investigation of reporter’s in personnel necessary Center when necessary identity matters 60 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT 08 08 Creating a Safe Working Environment INDUSTRIAL SAFETY ASSURANCE SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH Industrial accidents may not only result in severe By establishing a systematic safety management casualties but directly damage an entire comsystem, Korea Securities Depository (KSD) propany’s reputation. In this light, companies must tects the physical and mental health of its emprevent various safety accidents and potential ployees. In particular, we thoroughly manage the safety-related risks, such as earthquakes and safety of our facilities in order to prevent any safefire, while minimizing damage by creating a safe ty accidents while providing mental health protecworking environment. Recently, the physical and tion programs to “emotional labor” workers at the mental impact of industrial accidents on employforefront of customer service. In addition, we are ees working in close proximity to customers has internalizing a safety culture across the company, surfaced as an important issue. emphasizing the importance of safety management to our employees. KEY PERFORMANCE Established 0 Cases Established a comprehensive safety comprehensive Number of industrial/ disaster prevention management system safety accidents plans 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 Safety As the number of safety-related accidents increases both inside and outside Korea, it is now essential for companies to have an effective system for preventing and responding to disasters and accidents. BeManagement cause of this, we have established a proactive, preventive and fundamental safety management system with the goal of achieving a “Zero Accident, Safe KSD.” Safety Management System Senior Managing Director (Safety Management Officer) ･General oversight of safety management including disasters in corporate buildings, everyday safety and industrial accidents Safety Management Enhancement Group (Organization in charge of safety-related affairs) ･Planning and supervision of safety management regarding businesses and facilities ･E stablishment and implementation of basic safety plans ･Response to measures to strengthen safety management in public institutions Director of Human Resources Director of General Affairs Emergency Heads of the 3 Branches Department Department Management Team ･General management of ･Diagnosis of electricity/ ･Inspection and night duty ･General safety management occupational accidents machinery/fire safety; management for security and of support facilities and ･E stablishment and establishment and disaster response personnel of each branch implementation of plans implementation of ･E stablishment and ･Control of security and patrol to protect the physical and supplementary plans implementation of emergency personnel mental health of employees ･Securement of facility safety response procedures ･On-site response in case of and procurement of health ･Control of security and patrol disaster and execution of Customer Satisfaction & promotion goods personnel safety-related work Support Center ･Supervision of equipment ･E stablishment of policies and construction safety to protect emotional labor inspections workers KSDREAM Co., Ltd. ･S afety management of facilities in corporate buildings and management of employee health/wellness Establishing a Comprehensive Safety Management System In accordance with the government’s “Comprehensive Plans to Strengthen the Safety of Public Institutions,” KSD has recently established an organization exclusively in charge of safety management to oversee the planning and control of safety management relating to our businesses and facilities. In addition, we have established and operate the “Safety Management Committee,” a deliberative body for safety management participated in not only by the safety management officer and employees of KSD but also those of our subsidiary. In the future, we plan to improve the contract management system by, for instance, reinforcing the safety management evaluation of our business partners. In addition, we will impose penalties in the form of point reductions to companies that continuously violate safety-related laws and regulations, thereby restricting companies with a history of serious accidents from qualifying as bidders. Furthermore, we have made safety evaluation a mandatory process in selecting successful bidders by taking into consideration their accident rate and accident prevention activities. 62 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Advancing the Safety Management of Facilities *S earch for harmful/risk factors KSD thoroughly manages the safety of its facilities through regular safety inspections and voluntary inspecat work sites and facilities → Determine the level of risk → Take tions of its major safety facilities. In particular, we carry out separate safety inspections at certain facilities to voluntary preventive measures prevent damage from storms and floods. Recently, we established the “Comprehensive Disaster Prevention Plan 2019,” which includes measures against fire, storms, floods, power failure and earthquakes. In addition, we have blocked possible sources of disasters by undertaking risk assessments at our work sites* and constructing new computer centers in Busan and Ilsan to strengthen safety and disaster prevention measures in the design stage. Through these systematic efforts, we were able to fully prevent safety accidents and achieve “zero” industrial and safety accidents in 2018, just as we did in 2017. Number of Industrial and Safety Accidents (Unit: Persons) Categorization 2016 2017 2018 Industrial Accidents Number of Deaths 0 0 0 Safety Accidents Number of Deaths 0 0 0 Strengthening Employee Safety and Health Measures *Article 10 of the Guiding Principles In order to minimize the possibility of industrial accidents having physical and psychological impacts on our employees, we have established the Guiding Principles of Human Rights Manageon Human Rights Management ment, which include the “guarantee of industrial safety*,” and introduced a suspension of work (Guarantee of Industrial Safety) The company shall provide workers with a safe and hygienic working request to protect workers at risk. In addition, we provide a comprehensive support process to protect mental health and emotional stability of customer-facing employees, and support effecenvironment and guarantee the safety of all employees, including vulnerable workers such as tive work by preventing health disorders and providing psychological counseling. pregnant women and the disabled. Enhancing Safety Awareness through Educational and Promotional Activities In order to spread a culture of safety throughout the company, we provide customized safety education tailored to job tasks and strengthen our employees’ ability to respond to risks by conducting disaster prevention training, fire drills and earthquake evacuation drills. In addition, we continue to raise safety awareness among our employees by operating an internal proposal system that promotes the safety of our business facilities and employees. Safety Management at KSD’s Subsidiary We are strengthening safety and health education and safety management not only for our own employees but also for the employees of our subsidiary. We include the work environment of our subsidiary in the scope of our risk assessments and recommend that our subsidiary establish measures enabling employees to request a suspension of work from their supervisors. In addition, we provide safety equipment to prevent safety accidents while closely monitoring our subsidiary's safety status based on an internal safety management system. Emergency Evacuation Drill 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 Human Rights Management System Human Rights Impact Assessment Implementation and Mitigation Action Creating a Work Environment that Considers Human Rights Creating Stakeholder Human Rights Value SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY HUMAN RIGHTS 64 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT Implement People-oriented Management and Protecting Human Rights BUSINESS PARTNERS RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS RISK & OPPORTUNITY OUR APPROACH The international community, including the United NaAs a comprehensive securities service provider tions, emphasizes the importance of nations' duties to supcontributing to the development of the capital port businesses in fulfilling their corporate responsibilities market by providing convenient and safe finanto respect human rights. Against this backdrop, developed cial investment infrastructure, Korea Securities countries such as the United States and Germany have esDepository (KSD) strives to implement human tablished National Action Plans (NAPs) on businesses and rights management that regards people as the human rights. In Korea, as human rights issues are raised highest priority in all of its management activin the corporate environment, a social consensus is being ities. We make various efforts to implement formed on businesses’ responsibilities to protect human human rights management by establishing an rights. The Korean government announced its own NAP implementation system, conducting human on human rights in 2018, setting goals to institutionalize rights impact assessments and undertaking human rights management and damage relief. Amid these activities to prevent potential damage from domestic and global trends, public institutions in particuhuman rights violations. lar, require higher levels of human rights protection and respect than private enterprises. KEY PERFORMANCE 4.91% Conducted human rights due 2,116 Hours Participation in Ratio of female diligence on 3 sexual harassment managers business partners prevention training *As of 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 Human Rights KSD has established a human rights management governance to systematically pursue human rights management in all of its business activities in addition to other strategies to realize the value of human Management rights by providing human-centered services. System Human Rights Policies KSD strictly complies with all human rights protection laws and endorses international standards and principles on human rights and labor, including the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles of Businesses and Human Rights. As a comprehensive securities provider contributing to the sound development of the capital market, we actively implement human rights management that places people as our utmost priority in all business activities. In 2019, we established the “KSD Declaration of Human Rights Management” and the “KSD Guiding Principles of Human Rights Management” to act as standards, applying to all stakeholders, including employees, customers, business partners (suppliers and subsidiaries) and local communities, so that all employees are able to decide what is right and make value judgments. Human Rights Governance To implement human rights management in a systematic manner, KSD has established the Human Rights Management Committee and a governance system. The Human Rights Management Committee, the decision-making body at the company level for human rights management, is composed of the Senior Managing Director as the chairperson as well as heads of relevant divisions and departments. In addition, we operate a division in charge of human rights management affairs to ensure professional and effective implementation of human rights management. Responsibilities of the division in charge include establishing and implementing the KSD Basic Plan on Human Rights Management, conducting human rights training, executing human rights impact assessments, receiving reports and investigating cases of human rights violation, and providing administrative support to the Human Rights Management Committee. Furthermore, we have organized the Human Rights Management Support Group which shares KSD’s human rights management activities and collects feedback. Human Rights Management Governance Human Rights Management Committee Chairperson (Senior Managing Director) Human Rights Management Division in Charge of Human Rights Management Support Group (Management Strategy department) Managing Director of Strategy & Managing Director of Directors of PR, General Affairs, Financing & Accounting, Planning Division Management Support Division Audit, and Risk Management Departments BEST PRACTICE Human Rights Management Declaration Ceremony In August 2019, KSD held the “Human Rights Management Declaration Ceremony,” attended by its employees, labor union and relevant personnel from its subsidiary, to declare its commitment to implementing human rights management. The KSD Declaration of Human Rights Management was read at the ceremony and employees took the pledge in demonstration of KSD’s commitment to human rights management. Internally, we will further expand our efforts in this area and externally we will undertake various activities to respect and protect the human rights of relevant people in securities companies and other client companies. Human Rights Management Declaration Ceremony 66 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Human Rights Management Implementation Strategy We have established a strategy for the systematic promotion of human rights under the vision of 'realizing human rights through human-oriented comprehensive securities services,' and will focus on the basic value of human rights management, consider KSD's expertise and specialty, and reflect accountability and feasibility. In addition, we identified key strategic tasks based on the three strategic directions, and established the Comprehensive Human Rights Management Plan to secure the effectiveness and driving force of human rights management. Based on this, we will continue to promote human rights management from the midto longterm perspective, while internalizing the tasks to create human rights value for stakeholders. Vision Realizing the Value of Human Rights through Comprehensive People-Centered Securities Services Directions Emphasize the Consider the Reflect basic value of professional accountability and human rights and unique feasibility management aspects of KSD Stakeholders Business partners Employees Local communities (subsidiary, suppliers) Customers (securities companies Capital market participants The public and other financial companies) (listed companies, start-ups) Upgrading Minimize Expand human Deliver human Strategic Goals human rights human rights rights management rights outcomes to management system risks in the capital market stakeholders Strategic Review and manage human rights Tasks Expand fee systems to reflect human rights violation factors on a regular basis ･Conduct regular employee surveys and meetings ･Reduce fees for companies with excellent human ･Establish and implement human rights standards rights management for overseas operations Select and foster startups in Expand human rights practice for consideration of human rights business partners ･Select and foster startups in consideration of ･Establish Code of Conduct for Business Partners human rights ･Develop and implement human rights ･Reflect human rights management when investassessment system for business partners ing in startups Promote human rights Expand awareness of human rights and ESG management ･E xpand human rights and ESG disclosure ･Conduct human rights training for external and internal stakeholders ･Raise employees’ human rights awareness ImpleSTAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 mentation Establish human Conduct human Execute and disclose Provide relief Roadmap rights management rights impact human rights procedures system assessment s management 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 Human Rights Based on the Human Rights Management Manual for Public Organizations of the National Human Rights Commission, we have created a human rights impact assessment checklist that reflects business Impact Assessment characteristics. In addition, we conducted human rights due diligence and assessment based on the and Mitigation OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct on business partners to prevent violaActions tions of human rights. Human Rights Impact Assessment We undergo a human rights impact assessment on a yearly basis in order to evaluate factors of human rights violations in our business activities and manage risks in advance. For the human rights impact assessment, we examined the implementation status of human rights management in major divisions based on a checklist, and conducted surveys, due diligence, meetings and interviews with groups of people potentially at risk of human rights violations in KSD’s value chains. Through these measures, we identified potential human rights issues regarding our employees, business partners and local communities, and carried out various prevention activities. In the future, we will disclose information on the implementation status in a transparent manner. Methods of Categorization Human Rights Impact Implementation Status Potential Human Rights Impact Improvement Plan Assessment · Damage to mental health caused by relationships with client or colleagues · Examine employment rules · Verbal violence between employees and revise human rights· Conducted survey between July · Unfair demands from client related regulations through 17-26, 2019 · Acts of discrimination in hiring, Employee Survey amendments · Participated in by 73% of all job rotation, promotion and · Operate grievance-handling employees compensation based on gender, system and strengthen Employees regional ties or alumni connections promotional activities (Labor Union) · Frequent and unnecessary overtime work · Promote Human Rights · Diffusion of channels for reporting · Held meetings with labor union Grievance Center Meetings human rights violations and and socially vulnerable groups · Operate ethical/human rights grievances ombudsman system · Developed human rights · Inadequate internal regulations of · Strengthen human rights Business management evaluation index for business partners regarding the management by establishing Partners business partners hiring of juvenile workers the Code of Conduct for Due Diligence (Suppliers and · Conducted human rights due · Inadequate activities by business Business Partners Subsidiaries) diligence in KSDREAM (subsidiary) partners regarding ethical · Support business partners’ and suppliers management revision of employment rules · Inadequate activities by KSD Nanum · Support KSD Nanum Foundation Foundation regarding ethical to conduct ethical training Local · Conducted human rights due Due Diligence management · Establish a human rights risk Communities diligence in KSD Nanum Foundation · Necessity of managing operational assessment system for social risks in social contribution enterprises contribution enterprises 68 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Human Rights Impact Assessment on Major Businesses In addition to identifying potential human rights violations that may occur during the implementation of the project, we have conducted human rights impact assessments for major projects to expand the value of human rights in the capital market. Human rights impact assessments were conducted in all areas of the KSD, including issuing market support, distribution market support, asset management support, securities financing services, and global services. Human rights impacts were assessed as positive or negative. Stakeholder impact was assessed by the business touchpoint, stakeholder size and social impact. Strategic importance was evaluated by considering the financial contribution of the business unit and the direction of the midto long-term strategy. Human Rights Categorization Potential Human Rights Impact Improvement Plan Assessment Methods · Carry out activities to expand human rights Primary management in the capital market, thereby contributing to a reduction in human rights · Develop and utilize human rights educational Market violations by issuing companies related to labor content for start-ups Services rights, industrial safety and environmental rights · No negative human rights impact · Contribute to the human rights management of issuers through activities to promote human rights Secondary · Develop and apply fee deliberation guidelines management in the capital market Market reflecting human rights factors · Contribute to promoting the public disclosure of human Services Human rights · Strengthen public disclosure of ESG-related rights management information by listed companies impact analysis of information through the provision of ESG*-related information major businesses · No negative human rights impact considering stakeholder impact · Possibility of leakage of customers’ personal · Conduct regular security inspections, destroy Asset and strategic information due to willful misconduct or personal information immediately after use, Management importance negligence of companies issuing fund reports prevent leakage of personal information Support Services through regular staff training · Possibility of human rights violations in local · Establish human rights management guidelines Global Services communities in which KSD’s global businesses for global businesses operate · Develop and utilize human rights training contents · Carry out activities to prevent violations of the Others · Violations of property rights in local communities rights of local community residents including (Establishment due to the construction of IT Centers concert halls, stores and occupants of Museum and · Possible damage to the safety and health of · Comply with maximum legal working hours (52 hours) IT Center) construction workers for construction workers and operate air-conditioning on construction sites during heat waves 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 Creating a Work We are committed to creating a workplace free of human rights violations. While respecting and embracing diversity in the workplace, we prohibit any form of discrimination, provide a fair and reasonEnvironment That able wage and compensation system, raise awareness to promote maternity protection and a healthy Takes Human work-life balance, and cooperation between labor and management as part of our efforts to protect and Rights into Account improve the human rights of our employees. Respect for Diversity KSD prohibits all kinds of unfair discrimination based on gender, level of education and religion, and respects diversity in the workplace. As of 2018, male and female employees account for 72% (484 persons) and 28% (186 persons), respectively, and the number of persons with disabilities and veterans we employ exceeds that required by law. Female Persons with Disabilities Veterans 28 % 20 Persons 49 Persons Fostering Female Talent We are strengthening our fostering programs for female talent so that our female employees can grow into outstanding managers in a fair work environment that does not discriminate based on gender. We provide our female employees with various opportunities to grow their talent, including participation in the Women Leaders’ Academy hosted by the Korea Institute for Gender Equality Promotion and Education at least twice a year. Through these efforts, the ratio of female managers has continued to increase, reaching 4.91% in 2018. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Female Manager Ratio % 4.48 5.11 4.91 Transparent and Fair Recruitment KSD strictly prohibits all kinds of discrimination based on education, age and gender, and provides fair job opportunities by using a blind recruitment system. We also reinforce socially equitable recruitment that encompasses minority groups such as women and people with disabilities in order to respect the socially vulnerable and enhance diversity among our employees. Our blind recruitment system is applied throughout the entire hiring process to ensure fairness. In the recruitment phase, we minimize information asymmetry by publicly disclosing detailed information on evaluation criteria and the size of the candidate pool. At the document review stage, all information irrelevant to the job is completely excluded and evaluations are made solely based on the candidates’ ability to perform their job functions. In addition, we have increased the number of written test candidates by 40 to 80 times in order to provide more candidates with the opportunity to take the written test. Our blind recruitment system is strictly applied at the interview stage, meaning that candidates are called not by their names but their application numbers. In addition, we have ensured maximum fairness by increasing the ratio of external members on the recruitment committee. Furthermore, we have established a system to fundamentally prevent corruption in recruitment by stipulating the grounds for the withdrawal of a job offer, such as recruitment based on fraudulent misrepresentation, and establish concrete remedies for victims. In particular, we have made it mandatory that an auditor be present throughout the recruitment process and strengthened the supervisory system by storing recruitment documents permanently. Further efforts include attending conferences to share best practice cases of the blind recruitment system, thereby contributing to fair recruitment practices across society as a whole. 70 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Fair Compensation Average starting salary Our compensation system is fair and rational, we apply differentiated remuneration according to level of expertise, intensity of work, and the responsibilities that an employee’s duties entail. Employee compensation consists of only a base salary and incentives, which are based on performance evaluations, so as to motivate employees and enhance management efficiency. Employee compensation exceeds the legal minimum wage by 241% for a newly recruited permanent employee in 2018. There is no discrimination between male and female KRW 45.53 million employees in regards to salary. Maternity Protection Activities KSD offers nursing rooms and rest areas for pregnant women in support of female employees who are pregStarting salary as a percentnant or raising children. We also provide leave for prenatal exams and infertility treatments in addition to basic age of minimum wage childcare leave. Furthermore, we actively support the government’s policies to promote childbirth by supporting child immunization fees, thereby lowering the economic burden on employees who are raising families. Finally, we help our employees find a balance between work and family by running three daycare centers at the Busan headquarters and Seoul office, with plans to continuously expand the capacity of each center. We revised HR-related regulations in 2019, abolishing the limit on childcare leave for male employees, putting 241 % them on equal footing with female employees, in addition to increasing the length of spousal leave to 10 days. Moreover, we revised relevant policies to allow female employees during their entire pregnancy to reduce working hours by two hours per day, in order to expand maternity protection for pregnant employees. Furthermore, we have introduced a policy that allows any employee with a child in the first year of elementary school to come to work at 10 am for one month in March, at their request. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees using maternity leave Persons 5 5 12 Number of employees using childcare leave Persons 15 5 4 Number of employees returning to work after Persons 11 8 2 childcare leave Number of employees in post for at least Persons 6 6 2 one year after returning to work Improving the Working Environment for a Better Work-Life Balance We strive to create a sound working environment in which our employees can enhance the quality of their lives by finding a balance between work and life. Notably, prior to the company-wide implementation of the 52-hour work week system in July 2019, major divisions trialed a flexible working hours system that included shifts, selective part-time and holiday substitution, to ensure that the new system made a soft landing. In the future, we will apply our flexible working hours system to all divisions, helping our employees to better concentrate on their work and achieve a healthy work-life balance. Furthermore, we will minimize unnecessary or excessive overtime work as part of our efforts to manage potential factors of human rights violations. Categorization Unit 2017 2018 Number of Flexible Working Days Used Days 437 500 Number of Childcare Leave Days Used Days 11 71 Number of Prenatal Exam Leave Days Used Days 20 41 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Guaranteeing Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining KSD guarantees freedom of association and collective bargaining, and supports employees to freely state their opinions through the labor union on various issues such as working conditions. Disadvantageous treatment against employees for their involvement in labor union activities is prohibited in principle and we faithfully engage in collective bargaining with the labor union. When labor unions are absent, we take alternative measures to replace them and support employees to freely discuss their working conditions. Promoting Communication between Labor and Management We make various efforts to maintain a stable labor-management relationship with the labor union. First of all, we have established a three-year midto long-term roadmap for labor-management relationships, and organized a labor-management consultative body as part of our effort to ensure that an advanced labor-management relationship takes root in the company. Based on these measures, we operate labor-management cooperation channels on a regular basis, playing an active role in encouraging communication on pending issues and finding solutions. In 2018, we held and participated in various joint events including a new employee workshop, hiking and volunteering, providing a basis for mutual understanding and cooperation. Labor-Management Cooperation System Communication Channels LaborLaborLaborManagement Management Collective Management Working-Level Joint Agreement Conference Meeting Committee Major · Secretary General of · V ice Chair of Labor Union · Senior Vice Chair of · Chair of Labor Union Participants Labor Union · 9 persons including Labor Union · CEO (Labor Union and · 3 persons including Director of Human Resource · 15 persons including Company) Labor Relations Team Manager Department Senior Managing Director Frequency of Biennial and At least once a month Once per quarter As required Communication supplementary agreements Strengthening Labor-Management Cooperation for the Socially Disadvantaged Labor Union Membership Rate Based on a consensus between labor and management, KSD decided to make a donation to the Ubuntu* Foundation of the Korean Finance and Service Workers' Union, a foundation dedicated to public interest activities supporting low-income people. We donated KRW 500 million based on common goals agreed to between labor and management, such as expanding KSD’s public roles, creating jobs and alleviating polarization. In the future, we will continue to strengthen labor-management cooperation in activities to protect the socially disadvantaged. *Ubuntu: An African (Xhosa tribe) term translated as “I am because we are,” symbolizing a sense of community and solidarity 100 % Labor-Management Joint Hiking Donation to Ubuntu Foundation 72 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Spreading an Awareness of Human Rights Management among Employees Training on the Personal Information Protection Act KSD promotes awareness of human rights throughout the company in an effort to internalize respect and consideration for internal and external stakeholders. Notably, in order to root out sexual discrimination and harassment in the workplace, we have established our Guidelines on Sexual Harassment Prevention, which prohibit sexual harassment in the workplace and stipulate recurrence prevention and disciplinary measures. In addition, we provide sexual harassment prevention training at least once a year to all employees and offer a grievance handling system specifically for sexual harassment so that we can immediately respond to any such 2.3 hours per person incidents. Furthermore, we train our security personnel, who are at higher risk of human rights violations due to the nature of their work, and provide them with education regarding human rights regulations specified in constitutional and criminal law, as well as work procedures and efficiency tips, to prevent potential human rights violations against stakeholders outside the company. In 2019, we provided human rights training to all Job Training for Security employees to promote human rights sensitivity and awareness. Participated in by executives and the workPersonnel ing-level support group, the human rights training helped to enhance understanding of human rights and human rights management. Categorization Unit 2017 2018 48 hours per person Number of Participants in Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Persons 524 529 Length of Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Hours 4 4 Human Rights Training Human Rights Grievance Consultation System KSD has a grievance consultation system to handle issues related to employees’ human rights. Grievances regarding the working environment are received by the Labor Union, while consultations and reports of “gapjil” are handled by the Auditing Department. Violations of the Code of Conduct are reported through our official website. In addition, we operate a separate channel for public interest reporting by internal and external stakeholders, handling reports regarding acts of corruption, sexual harassment, sexual discrimination, corruption in personnel affairs and employment, and concealment of accidents. Types of Human Rights Issues Consultation Channel Reporting Means Public interest reporting regarding general human rights violations (Acts of Ethical ombudsman Company website or email corruption by employees, sexual discrimination, corruption in recruitment, etc.) Consultation and reporting regarding gapjil Auditing Department Company website or phone Opinions regarding employee working environment and labor rights Labor Union Visit or phone Consultation and reporting regarding violation of Customer proposals on Company website customers’ human rights and other grievances company website Consultation and reporting of sexual/verbal harassment, bullying, etc. KSD Human Rights Center Phone, email or meeting Grievance consultation regarding personnel affairs, Grievance consultation channel In-house portal personal issues, sexual harassment, etc. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 Creating We strive to promote human rights management that aims to respect the human rights of all stakeholders. We have implemented policies that support the socially vulnerable, in addition to establishing the Stakeholder Code of Conduct so that our business partners can understand and practice the principles and ideas of Human Rights human rights management. We conduct human rights inspections on major partners, providing active Value support to prevent human rights violations. Supporting the Economic Independence of the Socially Vulnerable In keeping with one major governmental policy direction and in an effort to generate social value and achieve mutual growth , we implement policies that support the socially vulnerable, including recipients of basic livelihood security, women, service workers and people with disabilities. Pursuant to these policies, we undertake various activities to encourage their social participation and support their economic independence. To help lower the entry barrier to economic activity for the socially vulnerable, we invested KRW 150 million in Impact Finance and introduced a policy that provides preferential treatment to companies committed to equitable hiring of women. We also improved the wage system for service workers by applying the market wage rather than minimum wage to simple labor such as janitorial and guard work, supporting them in building an economic base. Furthermore, we have actively supported markets for products made by companies with disabled employees by purchasing from social enterprises that hire people with developmental disabilities to manufacture products and by holding special exhibitions in cooperation with prospective social enterprises that support artists with developmental disabilities. Going forward, we will share value with all members of society while continuing to extend our support for the socially vulnerable to help them achieve economic independence and participate in economic activities. Establishing a Code of Conduct for Business Partners KSD has established a Code of Conduct for Business Partners in order that we may pursue human rights management hand-in-hand with our business partners, which include our subsidiary, partner companies and the KSD Nanum Foundation, all closely related to the operation of our institution and the execution of our businesses. The Code of Conduct for Business Partners consists of general provisions and chapters on respect for workers’ human rights, safety and health, environmental protection, corporate ethics and our management system, so that our business partners can understand and practice the principles and ideas of human rights management. Conducting Human Rights Due Diligence on Business Partners and Implementing Improvement Tasks We conduct third-party human rights due diligence on our major business partners through which we identify risks related to human rights, labor rights, safety and health, the environment, corporate ethics and our management system, as well as establish improvement plans, monitor the implementation of such plans and report on the outcomes thereof. In 2019, we conducted human rights due diligence on three of our business partners, as a result of which we were able to identify potential risks related to the protection of juvenile workers, the management of overtime workers and the reinforcement of ethical management, and provided active support to achieve improvements in those areas. In the future, we will take proactive measures by conducting human rights due diligence to prevent violations of human rights in the entire value chain related to institutional operation and business management. Human Rights Inspection on Business Partners Identification & Assessment Mitigation Actions Tracking Implementation & Results Communication · Identify potential human rights · A nalyze assessment results and · Monitor the implementation of · Report assessment results risks and impacts through draw potential risks mitigation measures and outcomes regarding the pre-interviews · Establish mitigation measures implementation of mitigation · A ssess business partners’ on-site regarding potential risks measures inspections · Recommend business partners to · Review assessment process and implement mitigation measures make improvements 74 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY SECTION 3 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY APPENDIX 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 ESG Data Economic Performance Major economic performance Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Revenue 179,494 194,044 225,802 Operating income 100 47,965 59,843 79,508 Net profit Million 51,378 68,312 83,169 won Total assets 3,286,104 3,011,769 3,447,368 Net profit per share 4,912 6,531 7,951 Performance by service category Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 International depository and settlement services 13,566 14,243 14,302 Issuance services 100 10,504 11,198 11,858 Depository and settlement services Million 98,695 106,798 125,483 won Supporting the asset management industry 18,225 20,161 23,023 Supporting the derivatives trading market 38,492 41,634 51,117 Key financial indicators Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Net profit margin 28.62 35.2 36.83 Profitability Return on equity 5.06 6.44 7.42 Return on assets 1.54 2.17 2.58 Operating profit growth -2.74 24.76 32.86 Growth Sales growth % 6.72 8.11 16.37 Net income growth -18.24 32.96 21.75 Debt-to-equity* 219.66 175.44 200.01 Stability Current ratio 121.88 131.61 133.90 Total borrowings 0 0 0 *No borrowings from financial institutions are included in the assessment of debt-to-equity as debts consist purely of customer deposits. Distribution to stakeholders Categorization Activities Unit 2016 2017 2018 Government Taxes 15,243 13,414 20,352 Shareholders Dividends 100 17,887 27,301 33,263 Academics Subsidies Million 37 36 64 won Employees Wages 68,102 67,347 72,172 Community Donations 3,651 4,919 14,749 *2016 figures were modified from those included in the previous report due to changes in calculation standards 76 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Environmental Performance Energy consumption Korea Securities Depository (KSD) uses LNG, diesel, gasoline, electricity, and steam to fuel operations. Most of the energy consumption is used for the operation of computing centers, air conditioning, heating, and lighting. Steam power provided by the Korea District Heating Corporation is used to control temperatures at the Ilsan Center. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total 71.01 72.39 78.65 Direct energy sources 8.16 8.31 9.28 LNG 6.34 6.51 7.01 Diesel 0.67 0.67 0.97 TJ Gasoline 1.14 1.13 1.30 Indirect energy sources 62.85 64.08 69.37 Electricity 57.86 59.36 63.99 Steam 4.99 4.72 5.38 *2016 figures were modified from those included in the previous report due to changes in calculation standards Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are produced through the use of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and electricity, primarily for the use of air conditioning and heating during the summer and winter seasons, respectively. KSD has mapped out energy-saving plans to reduce power consumption, a major cause of GHG emissions, pursuant to the government’s Public Institution Energy Consumption Guidelines. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total 3,443.07 3,529.48 3,619.10 Direct emissions (Scope 1) tCO 2e 446.58 454.14 511.33 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) 2,996.49 3,075.34 3,107.77 Waste production The majority of the waste produced by KSD is domestic waste and is properly managed through the volume-rate garbage disposal program. Paper, batteries, and fluorescent lamps are discarded in recycling bins. KSD does not produce any harmful substances in the course of providing services. Green purchasing and environmental investment Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 100 Million Green Amount 282 990 450 won purchasing Ratio % 84.1 90.4 88.6 Environmental LED light installations % 81.70 84.82 91.17 investment Ratio of eco-friendly vehicles % 51.52 51.52 60.47 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 Social Performance Workforce Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Busan HQ 317 325 347 Seoul Office 197 225 249 Ilsan Center 51 52 58 Region Gwangju Office 4 4 4 Daejeon Office 5 5 5 Persons Daegu Office 4 5 4 Jeonju Customer Support Center 3 3 3 Male 434 455 484 Gender Female 147 164 186 Total* 581 619 670 * Based on permanent and temporary employees (excluding management executives and youth interns) Newly recruited employees Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total Number Persons 29 60 45 Number Persons 17 22 19 Female Ratio % 58.62 36.67 42.22 Engineering Number Persons 7 20 9 graduates Ratio % 24.14 33.33 20.00 Number Persons 9 14 11 Local talent* Ratio % 31.03 23.33 24.44 * Local talent based on employees in Busan (region of relocation) Employee turnover Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number Persons 5 5 5 Ratio % 0.9 0.8 0.74 Education and training Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Vocational capacity Number of 2,974 3,090 3,793 development training sessions Training hours per employee Thousand won 4,129 4,995 4,839 78 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Standard entry level wage compared to the legal minimum wage Newly hired full-time employees were paid 241% of the legal minimum wage in 2018. No gender discrimination was identified in pay. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Average entry level wage Thousand won 41,979 43,119 45,538 Parental leave and childcare leave Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Parental User of parental leave 5 7 12 leave User of spousal/parental leave 11 12 13 User of childcare leave 15 14 10 Male 1 0 0 Persons Childcare Female 14 14 10 leave Return from childcare leave 11 8 4 Returnees who remained employed 6 8 4 for a year or longer following return Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining KSD has a labor union, under which all employees other than the 43 directors and higher-ranking managers are registered as members pursuant to collective agreements. KSD guarantees employees’ rights to organization, collective bargaining, and collective action pursuant to relevant laws and collective agreements. Furthermore, KSD does not restrict unionizing or compel resignations from the union. Non-unionized workers are also entitled to resort to grievance management procedures to protect their basic rights. Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Unionization rate* % 100 100 100 *100% membership in multiple unions, * 2016 figures are revised from figures in previous reports due to changes in calculation criteria Minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes We try to prevent conflicts and disputes through various labor-management communication channels and share key issues to aggregate the opinions of employees. When significant changes occur, there must be advance notice to enhance operating stability and mutual trust between the union and employer. Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees The labor union represents the rights of workers related to safety and health. A labor-management conference has also been established through collective agreement as the final decision-making agency on safety and health issues. The conference is composed of seven representatives of the employer and union. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Occupational Occurrence of occupational diseases Number of cases 0 0 0 diseases Occupational disease rate % 0 0 0 Industrial Industrial accident incidents Number of cases 0 0 0 accidents Industrial accident rate % 0 0 0 Lost days Number of days 0 0 0 Lost days Lost day rate % 0 0 0 Elimination of child and forced labor KSD complies with the International Labour Organization’s Convention Concerning the Prohibition of and Immediate Actions Toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor and the labor standards of the UN Global Compact. We have not breached any regulations related to forced or child labor since our establishment. Child labor is fundamentally prevented. Sexual harassment training Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sexual harassment Number of participants Persons 491 524 529 prevention training Training hours per person Hours 4 4 4 Local purchasing policy KSD preferentially procures supplies and consumables from local suppliers and partners for our operations in Seoul, Daejeon, Daegu, Gwangju, and Busan according to our policy related to purchasing and specifying partners. Type of product and service information required by procedures KSD provides business information through IR disclosures, press releases, and other formats to help ensure that stakeholders have an accurate understanding of the organization. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Categorization Unit 2016 2017 2018 Violations of privacy Case 0 0 0 Customer complaints related to customer data and privacy Case 0 0 0 80 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Independent Responsibility and Independence KFQ was engaged by Korea Securities Depository (hereinafter ‘KSD’) to provide limited assurance on the KSD Assurance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 (hereinafter 'the Report'). Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance Statement engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted its assurance based on completeness of the data and information that KSD provided. KSD is responsible for all contents within the Report including the reporting principles and standards. KFQ does not have any other interest in KSD business activities, nor does it take any responsibility for stakeholders other than KSD in its assurance conclusions. We have also no biased opinion on stakeholders of KSD. Assurance Standards This assurance was planned and performed based on AA1000 AS (2008), AA1000 APS (2008), GRI Standards, UN SDGs and UN Global Compact (UNGC). KFQ identified the followings as its scope: 〮 Sustainable activities and achievements for KSD headquarters and all domestic sites described in the Report 〮 Compliance with the guidelines according to GRI Standards ‘Core Option’ 〮 GRI Standards compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality 〮 A pplication of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information. 〮 The link between the core subjects and the UN SDGs and the UNGC. Assurance Procedures KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of the Report's critical errors or inappropriate information. We verified the reliability of the contents, processes and systems of data generation and report preparation. i. Document Review We reviewed the reliability of non-financial data in respect of the ‘Sustainability’ by cross-checking the Report with GRI Standards, quantitative data of KSD, and internet & media research information. We also confirmed whether or not the financial information mentioned in the Report was correctly derived from internal documents and the audited financial statements from business report on All Public Information In-One (http:// www.alio.go.kr). ii. On-site Verification We visited KSD headquarters and conducted on-site verification to confirm reliability of the sustainability activities and performance data contained in the Report and to evaluate the effectiveness of the reporting process. We performed verification in the accuracy topic of the aggregated data from KSD. These procedures included the following: Materiality assessment process, stakeholders inclusiveness, key issues, internal response procedures, etc. A ssessment of data analysis and descriptions and sustainable management performance in the Report Consistency between the financial data contained in the Report and the audited financial statements 2018 Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing information in the Report iii. Resolution of Findings We confirmed that some errors, inappropriate information, and ambiguous expressions found during the on-site visit were properly addressed in the final Report. iv. Limitations The Report has been prepared solely for KSD in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than KSD for the conclusions we have reached in the statement. Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information presented in the Report have inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 Conclusion Based on the assurance activities stated herein, KFQ confirmed that the Report meets the GRI Standards ‘Core Option’. According to the principles of AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information were assessed and we could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: 〮 Stakeholders Inclusiveness KSD identified eight stakeholders groups related to the major issues of sustainable management. To hear any concerns and opinions from them, KSD had a customized communication strategy for each stakeholder group and reflected their responses and opinions to its sustainable management activities. 〮 Sustainability Context In terms of sustainability, KSD continues to actively respond to the economic, environmental and social effects that stakeholders require based on the core issues. KSD is actively implementing social responsibilities such as human labor and environmental rights pursued by UNGC through the establishment of human rights management strategies, the development of checklists, and the monitoring of implementation status. 〮 Materiality KSD established issue pools and reviewed by internal guidelines and external assessment criteria (internal standards, GRI Standards, DJSI, UN SDGs, media coverage and benchmark) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. As a result, ten material topics derived from the process along with key performance in 2018 has been appropriately reflected in the report. 〮 Completeness KSD applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. KFQ confirms that the Report is suitable for stakeholders to assess sustainability performance. Recommendation To further advance sustainable management, KSD should monitor sustainability performance indicators for corporate social responsibility in a systematic way and reflect required improvements on its management activities by setting up long term plans. In addition, KFQ recommends KSD to set up continuous management improvement measures for the key issues identified by the materiality assessment process and focus on them in future reports. September 2019 Seoul, Korea CEO Yoon Seok Un 82 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY GRI Index General Standards(GRI 100) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-1 Name of organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters 87 102-4 Location of operations 26, 39 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 6-7 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 75 102-9 Supply chain 49-50 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No major changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14-15 102-12 External initiatives 82 102-13 Membership in associations 85 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2-3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 53-57 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 56-57 102-18 Governance structure 12-13 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 13 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 12 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 12 Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest 12 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 12-13 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 13 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 13 102-35 Remuneration policies 13 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 13 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 76 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18 Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 19 102-47 List of material topics 19 102-48 Restatements of information No modifications 102-49 Changes in reporting 19 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report Reporting Practice 102-52 Reporting cycle Published every two years since 2017 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 87 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core 102-55 GRI content index 80 102-56 External assurance 78-79 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance(GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 103 Management approach 22 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 73 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 52 Market Presence 202-1 Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 67 103 Management approach 41 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 42-45 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 42-45 103 Management approach 53 Anti-Corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 54-57 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 54-57 Environmental Performance(GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 74 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 74 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 74 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 74 103 Management approach 51 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 74 Emissions 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 74 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 74 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 74 Social Performance(GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 103 Management approach 30 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 75 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 33-34 401-3 Parental leave 68 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 76 403-1 Worker representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 76 Occupational Health 403-2 Types and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 76 and Safety 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 76 103 Management approach 30 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 32 Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 32 Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 12, 67 Equal Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 67 Non-Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective action taken 67 No cases of discrimination Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 76 Collective Bargaining Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 77 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 77 Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 70 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 70 103 Management approach 41 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 42-45 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Unrelated Marketing and Labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No cases of violations 103 Management approach 35 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 77 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No cases of violations 84 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY UNGC & United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) In October 2008, KSD joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate initiative enUN SDGs couraging corporations to fulfill their social responsibilities. We meet the international standard for corporate social responsibility by complying with the ten principles pursued by UNGC, including human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, and report through the Sustainability Report. Categorization Principles KSD’s Activities KSD established its Human Rights Management Declaration 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Human and Guiding Principles to implement people-centered human of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights rights management in business activities. We also conduct 2. make sure they are not complicit in human rights human rights impact assessments to examine potential factors abuses. of human rights violations and manage relevant risks. 3. Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective KSD guarantees freedom of association and collective bargaining; bargaining and operates labor-management channels to 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and encourage active communication and problem-solving. Labor compulsory labor; We respect diversity and prohibit discrimination based on 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and gender, education, religion, etc. 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. 7. Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; KSD plays a leading role in creating low-carbon financial 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater infrastructure using its corporate specialties, such as electronic Environment securities and E-voting systems. We also make continued efforts environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of to reduce GHG emissions by, for instance, building green offices environmentally friendly technologies. and participating in forest carbon offset projects. We have set up an ethical management system by establishing the Code of Conduct and other ethical guidelines to create an Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all upright corporate culture. We also undertake various activities Corruption its forms, including extortion and bribery. to internalize ethical awareness, including projects to spread an anti-corruption/ethical culture and establishing measures to eliminate gapjil. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As a global corporate citizen, KSD strives to contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. In this light, we have strengthened activities in areas that relate to our sustainability management and will devise a strategic implementation system in the near future. Categorization Goals KSD’s Activities Ensure inclusive and equitable quality ·Provide financial education to young adults and local communities Goal 4. education and promote lifelong learning and operate the Securities Museum opportunities for all ·Enhance the financial education infrastructure of Busan ·Practice socially equitable employment and operate female HR Achieve gender equality and empower all development programs Goal 5. women and girls ·Conduct anti-sexual harassment educational programs and operate grievance handling channels ·Support the economic independence of socially vulnerable groups Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable ·Support disabled small-business owners through the Dream Come Goal 8. economic growth, full and productive True Store project employment and decent work for all ·Create quality jobs through the Job Creation HQ ·Establish a green office to decrease greenhouse gas emissions Take urgent action to combat climate change ·Carry out Forest Carbon Offset Project for creating meditation forests Goal 13. and its impacts in schools ·Build low-carbon financial infrastructure including electronic securities and electronic voting systems Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to ·Establish the Code of Ethics and operating regulations Goal 16. justice for all and build effective, accountable ·Operate the solicitation registration and internal control systems and inclusive institutions at all levels 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 Human Rights KSD undertakes various activities to protect and promote the human rights of its stakeholders and makes reports in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. We underwent an institutional huReporting Index man rights impact assessment reflecting the human rights impact assessment checklist of the National Human Rights Commission. UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Categorization Items Content Pages Whether the company makes public its commitment to Governance of A1 Human rights policies 67 respect for human rights Respect for Human Rights Efforts to internalize the company’s commitment to A2 Internalizing respect for human rights 74 respect for human rights B1 Statement of salient human rights issues Salient issues relating to business activities 70 Defining the B2 Determination of major human rights issues Methods of determining salient issues 69 Focus of Reporting B3 Choice of focal geographies Focal geographies and methods of selection 69 B4 Potential issues Defining potential issues 69-70 Specific policies to address salient human Specific policies to address salient human C1 69-70 rights issues rights issues Stakeholder engagement regarding each salient C2 Stakeholder engagement 69 human rights issue Management C3 Impact assessment Identifying sustainable human rights issues 69-70 of Salient Human Rights Integrating salient human rights issues into C4 Responses to human rights issues 68 Issues decision-making processes and actions Effectiveness of company’s efforts to address C5 Performance evaluation 75 salient human rights issues Providing effective remedies to people whose C6 Remedies 75 human rights have been violated Checklist for the Institutional Human Rights Impact Assessment of the National Human Rights Commission Items Categorization Supplementation No Contents Pages Yes No N/A Required Information Establishment of a Human Rights Declaration; Conducting regular human rights Human Rights Management System O impact assessments; Establishment of a human rights management system; Reflecting 63 results of human rights management performance; Establishment of remedies Prohibit Discrimination in Gender equality in employment; Equal treatment of non-permanent workers and O 67, 69 Employment foreign workers Guarantee Freedom of Guarantee of freedom of association and collective bargaining; Guarantee of labor Association and the Right to O 69 union activities; Faithful implementation of collective bargaining Collective Bargaining Prohibit Forced or Compulsory Labor O Prohibition of forced labor in value chains 77 Prohibit Child Labor O Prohibition of hiring minors 77 Guarantee Industrial Safety O Guarantee of employee safety; Protection of pregnant women and disabled workers 68, 71, 77 Manage a Responsible Prevention and monitoring of human rights violations in suppliers; Prevention of O 71 Supply Network human rights violations by security personnel Protect the Human Rights of Local O Protection of the human rights of local community residents 66 Community Residents Guarantee Environmental Establishment and implementation of environmental management system; Disclosure 52, O Rights of environmental information; Establishment of emergency plans 59-60 Compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations; Measures in case of Protect Consumer Rights O 40 product defect; Protection of customers’ personal information 86 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY Declaration of At Korea Securities Depository (KSD), a depository and settlement service provider dedicated to the development of the capital market and national economic development, we are strongly committed to human rights Human Rights management that places people at the core of our business management activities. We fully support internaManagement tional standards and norms on human rights and pledge to protect the human rights of all our stakeholders including employees, customers, partners and local communities. ❶ We shall implement human rights management that respects human dignity and value. ❷ We shall make active efforts to prevent human rights violations as well as take affirmative actions and continuously implement activities to improve human rights-related issues. ❸We shall not discriminate against our stakeholders on the basis of gender, age, disability, religion, race, place of origin, political views, etc. ❹ We shall prohibit all forms of forced and child labor. ❺ We shall guarantee our employees’ freedom of association and create a corporate culture of cooperation built on mutual trust. ❻ We shall provide a safe and pleasant working environment for our employees. ❼ We shall engage in transparent and fair trade with our partners and support their implementation of human rights management. ❽We shall endeavor to prevent human rights violations against residents in areas adjacent to our headquarters and local and overseas offices. We shall carry out social contribution activities. ❾ We shall comply with domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, and disclose relevant information. ❿ We shall respond to customer demands in a prompt and accurate manner, and protect customer information collected for business purposes. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 Awards and Awards Memberships Awards Hosting organization Year Prime Minister’s Award at the National Infrastructure Disaster Management Assessment Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2016 Korea Economic Daily, Korea Sustainability Customer Satisfaction and Management Award 2016 Management Evaluation Gold Prize in IT Innovation at the 2016 Korea Securities Awards by Maeil Business Newspaper Maeil Business Newspaper 2016 Awarded as an Exemplary Taxpayer by the Director of the National Tax Service on the 50th Taxpayer’s Day National Tax Service 2016 Korea Foundation for the Advancement of Science Award from the Minister of Education at the Korean Donations for Education Awards 2016 and Creativity, Ministry of Education National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives, Award from the Minister of Oceans and Fisheries for City-Fishing Village Exchange 2016 Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries Commendation from the Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport for National Merit in the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2016 Promotion of Regional Industry Best Practices in Business Management by a Public Institution in 2016 Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2017 Commendation from the Mayor of Busan as a Golden Taxpayer on the 51st Taxpayers’ Day Busan Metropolitan City 2017 Special Prize (Meritorious Service Award) at the Korean Retirement Pension Grand Prize Maeil Business Newspaper, FnGuide 2017 Commendation from the Vice Chairman of the Presidential Committee on Jobs at the Job Creation Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2017 Contest for Public Institutions Grand Prize at the Job Creation Exemplary Management Awards of Korea 2018 Dong-a Ilbo 2018 Excellence Award at App Awards Korea 2018 Korea Internet Professionals Association 2018 Commendation from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education for Job Creation, Korea Korea Institute of Service Industry 2018 Social Contribution Award 2018 Merit Award at the KOSDAQ Listed Companies Association Foundation Ceremony KOSDAQ Listed Companies Association 2019 Foreign Currency Securities Lending Service of the Year The Asset 2019 Award from the Minister of Employment and Labor at the Social Contribution Awards 2019 Chosun Biz 2019 Memberships Categorization Associations Key activities The ACG is an international organization with the objective of facilitating the exchange of Asia Pacific CSD Group (ACG) information and promoting mutual assistance between member securities depositories and clearing institutions in the Asia Pacific region. International network of museums for cultural, social, and economic issues in contemporary society. Assisted members of the International Council of Museums (ICOM) museum community in their mission to preserve, conserve, and share cultural heritages. Overseas Collect and disseminate information on developments in the international securities markets and offer a forum for securities International Securities Services Association (ISSA) operations professionals to exchange ideas. UN Global Compact Comply with global ethics codes and submit COP reports. Hong Kong-based Korean Financial Investment Cooperation and information-sharing among Korean financial institutions in Hong Kong Institution Conference World Forum of CSDs (WFC) Promote information-sharing, discussion and cooperation among global CSDs Gyeonggi Provincial Museum Council Gyeonggi province association of museums and preservation of society and cultural heritage. Korea Listed Companies Audit Association Independent association in the examination of information of entity, size, or legal form for the mutual exchange of data. Seoul National University Center for Financial Law Public institution for education and research on the latest trends of the financial systems and the encouragement of academics. Securities Agency Council Provide network formation and consultations for securities agency businesses. Promote the derivatives market, share information related to the derivatives market, improve systems, Korea Options, Swaps & suggest policy alternatives, cooperate with local and overseas partners, build a community for derivatives market operators, Derivatives Association (KOSDA) and enhance ethical awareness among participants. Hold workshops and provide information to offer corporate data to investors through active communication among corporations, Korea IR Service Association shareholders, and investors and build reliability. Internal audit specialist working in internal auditing, risk management, governance, internal control, information technology audit, Korea Institute of Internal Auditors education, and security. Korea Financial Law Association Conduct systematic research, analysis, and academic discussion on local and overseas financial law. Domestic Korea Financial Investment Association (KOFIA) KOFIA, the sole self-regulatory organization (SRO) of the Korean financial industry. Korea Corporate Governance Service Cooperate in research on corporate governance and social responsibility. Korea Management Association Management association for professional development, training solutions, and advancing skills for businesses. Korean Museum Association Membership organization guarding the interest of museums and galleries to advocate and set ethical standards. Korea Commercial Law Association Share information related to commercial laws and provide sponsorship. Korean Financial Management Association Research corporate finance, investment, financial theories, and international finance. Share information and opinions about securities-related regulations between legal and securities experts and securities-related Korea Securities Law Association institutions and conduct comprehensive research. Korea Securities Association Exchange opinions about academic and practical issues and provide sponsorship. Korea Payment and Settlement Association Research economic and business issues related to payment and settlement and applicable laws. Korea Accounting Association Promote the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for excellence in accounting education, research, and practice Financial Innovation Hub Forum Engage in research and businesses for the development of financial investment businesses and financial innovation hubs Institute for Social Responsibility of Public Sector Institutions Set directions and research measures for public sector institutions’ activities to create social value 88 KOREA SECURITIES DEPOSITORY 1973 ~ 1993 1974 Founded as the Korea Securities Settlement Corporation (KSSC) 1975 Initiated separate safe-custody, transfer agent, and trade settlement services Korea Securities 1976 Opened the Busan branch Settlement 1982 Launched book-entry transfer for bond trading Corporation 1983 Centralized deposit of securities 1985 Implemented the Consecutive Deposit System 1988 Opened branch offices in Jeonju, Daegu, Daejeon, and Gwangju 1990 Initiated depository services for overseas securities and institutional settlement services 1992 Adopted the New Issue Blanket Deposit and proxy voting service, and initiated the OTC stock trading settlement service 1993 Launched the participant terminal system (KSD-Net) and was authorized as a registrar of public and corporate bonds 1994 ~ 2004 1994 T ransformed into the Korea Securities Depository (KSD), launched depository and settlement services for foreign currency securities, and was designated as a public organization pursuant to the Regulation of Tax Reduction and Exemption Act Korea Securities 1995 Partnered with EuroClear and joined SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) Depository 1996 Initiated the beneficiary certificate issuance service and securities lending transaction services 1997 Adopted the beneficial owner certificate system and initiated the CD deposit service and Development Trust Notes deposit service 1998 Initiated the commercial paper (CP) deposit service and completed construction of the Ilsan center 1999 I nitiated the overseas CB conversion agent service, substitute securities management service for futures transactions, and gold deposit service 2000 Launched third-market settlement services and held the 4th ACG General Meeting in Seoul 2001 Launched the Repo management service for customers 2002 Launched the stock option settlement service and relocated to a new office building in Yeouido 2003 T ransfer agent service certified with ISO9001 and securities deposits surpassed KRW 1,000 trillion in total market capitalization 2004 Commenced the registered issuance of housing bonds, opened the Securities Museum, was designated as an F/X information reporting institution, and launched FundNet 2005 ~ 2008 2005 E xported the SLB & Repo system to Thailand, and opened an online Securities Museum 2006 Established the STP system for the deposit and settlement of foreign currency securities and founded KSD Happy Makers Era of Korea Volunteering Corps Securities Depository 2007 Held CSD9 and securities deposits surpassed KRW 2,000 trillion in total market capitalization 2008 L aunched foreign currency collateral system for securities lending and signed a KDR depository agreement with a Japanese corporation for the first time 2009 ~ Present 2009 F ounded the KSD Nanum Foundation, and initiated global fund investment services 2010 Opened the internal control system and initiated the electronic voting management system (K-evote) Era of Korea 2011 Opened the next-generation SAFE+, established the Hong Kong Office, and held ACG15 Securities Depository 2012 Initiated the ABCP plan registration service and cut securities trading-related commissions by 20% 2013 O  pened electronic short-term bond services, opened the securities information portal SEIBro, initiated settlement services for the KONEX market, and was licensed as a CCP (Central Counterparty) for institutional settlement of equity pursuant to the Capital Markets Act 2014 Launched the custody and settlement service for the gold spot market and relocated headquarters to Busan 2015 Commenced the LEI (Legal Entity Identifier) issuance service and launched the PensionClear system 2016 L aunched the central record management service for crowdfunding, launched the ISA-Net service, exported NFS to KSEI Indonesia, and was licensed as an Electronic Securities Registrar 2017 L aunched SLB collateral transaction services, opened the Korean GCF Repo trading system, and was licensed as the LOU Local Operating Unit (LOU) for Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) issuance 2018 L aunched retirement pension provider information management service, expanded eligible collateral for SLB transactions, established subsidiary KSDREAM Co., Ltd., launched foreign currency denominated securities lending service, launched foreign currency RP service 2019 Opened the Electronic Securities System KSD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WORLD CLASS SECURITIES SERVICE PROVIDER Management Coordination Team, Strategy and Planning Department E-mail: sustain@ksd.or.kr TEL: 82-51-519-1551 Address: BIFC, 40 Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam-gu, Busan, Korea
