EMBRACING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER COMPANY 2019 PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE REPORT PLANET 2025 RETAIL PLAN Sustainability Report 2019 Susatinability Report 2018-2019 ABOUT US Operating in Myanmar since 1996, CMHL is a family-owned company leading the Myanmar retail market with the highest market share in each retail format. CMHL is part of City Holdings Limited, a company led by Daw Win Win Tint. Sagaing As the market is evolving quickly, we are investing in expanding our footprint, developing new concepts and offering new products and services to better serve our Monywa customers. The transformation of our company is essential Shan Mandalay to achieve those objectives. Mandalay Taunggyi Naypyidaw Yangon Pathein Ayeyarwady Yangon Mawlamyine Mon Number of stores 200+ Number of employees 7,700+ Number of transaction 5.2 Million in one year OUR MAIN BRANDS City Mart Ma rt Supermarket Bakery & Café Page 1 Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Strategic Report Leadership statement 3 2019 highlights 4 Our 2025 strategic vision 5 Our business model 6 CMHL sustainability approach 7 Our contribution for the fiscal years FY19 and FY2018/19 8 Company Enhancing our corporate structure Managing our risks more efficiently 9 10 ABOUT THIS REPORT Ensuring the compliance of our operations 10 This report is CMHL’s third sustainability report, and it Embracing good business ethics 11 aims to provide our main stakeholders with an upUnlocking CMHL productivity with technology 12 date about the progress of our 2025 retail plan. This Safeguarding the integrity of our data 12 report reflects how we want to run our business and Forging long-term relationships with our suppliers 13-15 activities: transparently and responsibly. Those who Contributing to Myanmar’s prosperity 16 are interested in our non-financial performance will find in this report a balance of quantitative data and Products statements describing our goals, actions, and curFostering responsible consumption in Myanmar 17-19 rent results. Enriching our shopping experience 20 This report covers all the activities undertaken by People CMHL. All the data included in this report have been Strengthening our culture 21 reviewed by CMHL management. In this 2019 susBecoming an employer of choice 22-23 tainability report, all the quantitative data cover the Elevating our people potential 24 period from April 2018 to March 2019 (FY18/19) and Reinforcing safety 24 from April 2019 to September 2019 (FY19) unless stated otherwise. Planet Lowering our environmental footprint 25 For the perimeter, the report includes, for the first Tackling wastage 26-28 time, all the entities operated by CMHL and mentioned in the page 1. However, Seasons is not includReporting ed anymore as it has moved to another reporting Standards 29 line as part of City Holdings. The data disclosed in Materiality analysis 30 this report have not been audited by a third-party. Data 31-33 For the qualitative data, the reporting period covers 2019 as a calendar year. Our non-financial reporting is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and we consider that this report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Other information and contents are also available on our website: http://www.cmhl.com.mm/sustainability/ Page Page 2 2 Sustainability Report 2019 STRATEGIC REPORT Leadership statement Dear stakeholders, Conscious businesses act as a force for good: they create value for all their stakeholders. They embrace the future and are keen to engage people in building a better society. They strive to benefit people. At CMHL, we strive to be such kind of business: our values shape how we conduct our operations; our 2025 vision clarifies our ambition. Indeed, we are on a journey to reinvent ourselves, and we consider sustainability as a strategic means to ensure that CMHL is a company future-ready. Such a project would not be possible without the support of our colleagues, suppliers, and customers: their trust honours us, daily. 2019 was a defining year for CMHL. We established a new corporate structure that will support CMHL’s long-term development. The management team was reinforced, with the apWe can be proud of these results: our team was instrumental in pointment of new senior executives. More than ever, we are these achievements. However, we should be more ambitious: ready and focused on delivering our 2025 sustainable plan and our stakeholders are expecting us to act as a leader, and we steering long-term value that benefits our stakeholders. intend to do so. We are pleased to share with you our third sustainability report. Our current assets lay the ground for future opportunities: at For the first time, this report covers the entirety of our business, CMHL, we aim to lead the transformation of the Myanmar retail and you will find inside straightforward information about the sector. We are determined to offer better jobs to our people, progress we made in 2019, including: work more closely with our partners and, tirelessly, to serve our customers, every day, better.  new assets that reflect our willingness to server better our consumers Should you have any comments or questions about our report,  a broader range of products to elicit responsible do not hesitate to reach our sustainability manager by email at lifestyles in Myanmar sustainability@cmhl.com.mm  closer collaboration with our suppliers to enhance food chain management Yours sincerely  improved working conditions that led to higher HR productivity  significant investment to reveal the full potential of our employees  lowered environmental impacts of our activities Win Win Tint Glen Attewell  renewed compliance of our operations with Group CEO CEO Myanmar laws City Holdings Limited. City Mart Holding Co., Ltd. Page 3 Page 3 Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Highlights In 2019, we continued our efforts to deliver our 2025 strategic vision. The table below mentions some of the most important results obtained during the last year: Sustainability Strategic pillar Outcomes priorities  400,000 consumers joined our loyalty programme: City Rewards. Customer  10,000+ clients are using our e-commerce plat form to order The Innovative Experience frequently online. company  We invested in building a new Distribution Centre. Its 170,000 sqft Supply Chain will support our business’ growth and enhance the performance of The First-choice Management our supply chain. company  Launch of a new format to offer a renewed shopping experience to Responsible our clients and communities: a standalone City Care. The MarketOffer  Opening of 18 new stores to be closer to our customers. leading company  50% of our sales are made with Myanmar made food products. Responsible  We sold twice more vegetables that comply with the Good The Valued Offer Agricultural Practice Standard. company  CMHL became part of City Holdings, new holding company for the Company group of companies owned and operated by the family of Daw Win The Homegrown Transformation Win Tint. company  A new management team was appointed to run CMHL.  Our team worked hard to ensure better compliance with Myanmar laws and regulations. Working Conditions  We developed a Manager Handbook to foster better managerial The Employee’s practices. company  Sadly, we had seen one fatality in 2019.  We increased our training efforts almost twofold to provide more Talent management training for our trainees. The Employee’s company  We ranked 1st in the 2019 Pwint Thit Sa ranking.  We engaged our suppliers extensively to brief them about the changes induced by the new laws and regulations related to Stakeholders The labelling. Responsible Engagement  Our group CEO, Daw Win Win Tint was recognised by CSR Works company International as one of the Asia’s Top Sustainability Sperwomen for 2019. Waste  We distributed 15% fewer plastic bags per transaction for FY19 The compared to FY17/18. Responsible Management company  CMHL is one of the top tax-payers in Myanmar. For FY18/19 and The Shared Value FY19, we paid more MMK 22.8 billion and MMK 12.3 billion Responsible respectively to the government. company Page 4 Sustainability Report 2019 Our 2025 strategic vision The Innovative Company serving through our physical and digital platforms, always enhancing customer experience through innovative technology. The First-choice Company the preferred business partner because of our integrity, knowledge of the market, ability to execute and volume. The Market-leading Company in each retail format with highest market share and zero loss making stores. The Valued Company which provides safe, quality-assured, healthy products and sources locally wherever possible. The Homegrown Company which is independent, publicly listed and partly employee owned. The Responsible Company the benchmark of excellence for responsible business practices and a leading contributor in helping the government create economic value. The Employee’s Company the no 1 employer of choice in the retail industry because of the culture and values that we embody and the growth opportunities we offer. Page 5 Sustainability Report 2019 Our business model OUR 2025 STRATEGIC VISION The Innovative Company serving through our physical and digital platforms, always enhancing customer experience through innovative technology. The First-choice Company the preferred business partner because of our integrity, knowledge of the market, ability to execute and volume. We invest for embracing a better future together. The Market-leading Company in each retail format with highest market share and zero loss making stores. The Valued Company Our 2025 strategic vision is driving CMHL management. We are allocating the Company’s resources to innovate, develop our assets and to create more socioeconomic value for our which provides safe, quality-assured, healthy products and sources locally wherever possible. The Homegrown Company which is independent, publicly listed and partly employee owned. different stakeholders. The Responsible Company the benchmark of excellence for responsible business practices and a leading contributor in helping the government create economic value. The Employee’s Company the no 1 employer of choice in the retail industry because of the culture and values that we embody and the growth opportunities we offer. Serving our customers better Insights We strive to meet their needs, and to continuously Products innovate to provide them with the best customer exStores perience possible. Their satisfaction fuels our ability to Services generate sustainable revenues. Experience Product Working with our suppliers better Standards To fulfill our customers’ expectations, we work closely Relationships with our suppliers to enhance the standards within our Quality value chain and to develop new products, made as Value much as possible in Myanmar. Economy Company Developing our people’s potential better Providing a safe, fair and rewarding working environJobs ment is a key to attract, retain and develop the talents Skills we need to fuel our development. Engagement Careers People To prosper, we aim to manage our business responsibly and transparPeople CMHL Product ently to sustain our development. SUSTAINABILITY Our 2025 retail plan contributes to CMHL 2025 strategic vision. Its 12 priorities are contribAPPROACH uting to transform our business model and to ensure that CMHL will always operate as a responsible Company. Planet Company Page 6 Sustainability Report 2019 CMHL sustainability approach Working conditions Food safety Talent management Responsible offer Product quality People CMHL Product SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Waste management Company transformation Food waste Stakeholders engagement Resources consumption Supply chain management Planet Company Shared value Our sustainability strategy is a strategic means to align CMHL interests with our stakeholders’ interests. Structured around 4 axis and 12 priorities, our 2025 retail plan constitutes now our sustainability DNA. Each of these priorities helps us not only to sustain and develop our operations but also creates value for our stakeholders. This integrated approach is our way to deliver our 2025 strategic vision and to be The Responsible Company, the benchmark of responsible business practices in Myanmar. Every year, our sustainability team, led by our sustainability manager, assesses the relevance of our approach, following a four steps methodology. 1. Engagement with our most critical stakeholders to get their feedback. 2. Prioritisation of the issues identified to focus on those which benefit both CMHL business and a broader group of stakeholders (see our materiality matrix page 30). 3. Results’ monitoring (see our dashboard below) and data-collection to report our performance internally and externally. 4. Corporate disclosure to comply with international standards to facilitate the assessment of our performance. FY More Pilliar Priorities KPIs FY19 18/19 Details Accident Frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.34 0,25 p. 24 Working conditions Turnover rate (in %) N/A 66% p. 22 % of women holding a management position 33% 36% p. 23 Average training hours per trainee 15.1 23.6 p. 24 Talent management People % of people trained 107% 121% p. 32 Waste intensity of the saleable area (kg per sqft) N/A 3.2 p. 27 Waste management Number of plastic bags handed out per sale 1.17 1.11 p. 26 Food waste Reduction of food wastage 20% 7% p. 27 GHG intensity of the saleable area (kg CO2 eq. / sqft) N/A 19.6 p. 26 Resources consumption Energy intensity of the saleable area (kWh / sqft) N/A 58.4 p. 26 Planet Water intensity of the saleable area (m3 / sqft)* N/A 0.33 p. 27 % of customer complaints related to food safety 16% 16% p. 31 Food safety Number of food safety incidents 1 0 p. 14 Responsible offer % of sales made with Myanmar made food products 50% 47% p. 17 Product Product quality % of customer complaints related to product quality 19% 15% p. 31 Company transformation % of Customer Satisfaction 73% N/A p. 20 Stakeholders engagement Number of breaches regarding the Code of Conduct 75 173 p. 11 Supply chain management Number of local Myanmar food supplier audits 28 36 p. 14 Expenditures on philanthropic activities (MMK million) 47 114 p. 16 Company Shared value Tax paid to the government (MMK billion) 12.3 22.8 p. 16 Page 7 Sustainability Report 2019 Our contribution for FY19 and FY18/19 We are HACCP Compliant for our fresh We reduced our turnover rate by 13% food products. We manage 1 incident for FY18/19 compared to FY17/18. related to food safety that had no consequence for our customers. We trained all our workforce, We conducted 2,100+ audits and each trainee received 23.6 of our stores for FY18/19 which hours for FY18/19 of training vs. represents an increase of 64% 11 for FY17/18. compared to FY17/18. 50% of sales are made 49 accidents occured, with Myanmar food unfortunately and, sadly, one products: this is 5% was fatal. more compared to FY17/18. 780+ people were promoted, of which We sold twice more veg50% were women. etables that comply with the Good Agricultural Paractice Standard. People CMHL Product SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Planet Company During FY19, we gave Our activities are generat15% less plastic bags per ing more than 35.1 Billion transaction compared to MMK of tax paid to the FY17/18. government. We sold 340,000+ reusable We ranked 1st in the 2019 bags for FY18/19 which is 23% Pwint Thit Sa report. more compared to FY17/18. We wasted 7% less food for STOP We accounted 75 breaches FY18/19 compared to FY17/18. FOOD of our code of conduct for we donated also 54.5 tonnes WASTE FY19. of food. We reduced our GHG intensity We spent 161 million by 40% between FY18/19 and MMK for our philanthropic FY17/18. Meanwhile we improved activities. the energy efficiency of our operation by 3%. Page 8 SustainabilityReport 2019 2019 CMHL Management team With our 2025 vision, we aim to be the benchmark of excellence and a leading contributor in helping the government create economic value. To achieve this goal, we COMPANY need to transform CMHL to safeguard our ability to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. 2019 was a critical year to ensure that our organization was fit for the future: we adapted our management structure, reinforced our corporate governance and used more technology to operate our business more efficiently. Enhancing our coporate structure Companies with sound corporate governance and a clear corporate structure have a competitive advantage over their peers. They can execute more efficiently their strategy because decision-making is more conducive. In 2019, the CMHL Board of Directors met 4 times and all the BOD Members attended 100% of the meetings.1 They decided to reshape CMHL’s structure to make the company more fit for the future. First, CMHL is part now of City Holdings, a holding company led by Daw Win Win Tint and owned by her family.2 Every quarter, CMHL top management reports to City Holdings’ Directors of the Board during ad hoc meetings. 6 Board of Directors Second, CMHL has appointed a new CEO. New people were also recruited and promoted to new managerial poNon-Executive Chairman Executive Director sitions. The primary responsibility of the management team Supervisory Committee is to implement CMHL strategy and to report the progress transparently to City Holdings. Oversees Reports Last, the CMHL management team is working to ensure that the standards, process and operating procedures CMHL CEO + are defined and applied consistently by all departments CMHL MANAGEMENT TEAM across the organisation. This will help to streamline the organisation and support its performance. 1 More details are available on our website: the biographical details of our BOD members, our Corporate Governance ManCMHL corporate governance structure ual. 2 See: https://www.cityholdings.com.mm/companies Page 9 Sustainability Report 2019 Managing our risks more efficiently One of the most concrete consequences of this new organisation is related to risk management. The Finance team is accountable and responsible for monitoring the risks across the organisation. It maintains a register of the different risks that might impact CMHL. The risks identified are broad and are related to various factors (market conditions, business continuity, reputation, supply chain, people, etc.) The table below summarises our approach. Frequency Actions The Finance team updates the risk register and briefs CMHL’s top management. The risks prioritisation and the mitigation plan are discussed and updated. Monthly City Holding’s Group CEO and Group CFO are also informed. CMHL’s top management reports to City Holdings’ Supervisory Committee. During this meeting, the SuperQuarterly visory members can review the effectiveness of CMHL’s risk management and ensure that it contributes to CMHL’s sustainability. “CMHL is never happy with staying still. Our team is always Ensuring the compliance looking for the most innovative way to achieve our goals. 2019 saw many transformations across the group. We set of our operations up The Hub, a strategic enabler for the group’s business Myanmar laws and regulations are evolving constantly and divisions. The Hub, where our Group CEO and functional on several fronts. In that regard, 2019 was a busy year as our heads such as Finance, People and Legal sit, leverages team was involved to ensure CMHL compliance with two laws “best in class” corporate governance to empower and that were both enacted in 2019: the Consumer Protection Law support our business leaders. Our supervisory board continand the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Law. ues to evolve to best serve the interests of our stakeholders. In 2019 it launched initiatives in risk management, business Regarding labelling, with the Consumer Protection Law, the continuity planning and compliance to ensure that our Myanmar Government aims to empower Myanmar consumbusiness is prepared for hazards and adverse events. The ers with information that will help them to make better choices. compliance function especially had a busy year dealing To comply, all the food producers in Myanmar shall check their with new regulations concerning labelling, employment packaging and make sure that it mentions correctly the right matters and consumer protection.” information. CMHL was concerned as a food producer and as Robin Scott a retailer of products manufactured by others. Therefore, we Group Transformation Director, City Holdings Limited. engaged 360+ suppliers through 4 workshops to ensure that they were informed and ready to deal with the consequences of this new law. On safety, CMHL invested significantly to improve the safety of its workplace. Moreover, its organisation dedicated to safety was also reinforced: a dedicated committee was established to supervise and coordinate CMHL’s efforts on safety. Likewise, a specific team was created with an HSE manager responsible for developing, monitoring and enforcing CMHL roadmap on safety. Page 10 Sustainability Report 2019 Embracing good Key Figures business ethics 100% At CMHL, we expect everyone, from the Board of Directors to of our BOD members the employees to comply with our values (see page 21), prinattended all the meetings ciples and Code of Conduct. They shape our ethics: we take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption or bribery. We en75 courage our employees, business partners and stakeholders breaches of to get in touch with us if they suspect any misconduct. our Code of Conduct were managed Our policies protect whistle-blowers who can report their con1 Non-Executive cerns freely. A dedicated team including audit, HR and legal Director is chairing experts review all the reports and investigate to determine and our Board. confirm if these reports are real breaches. If they are confirmed, the team takes action. For FY18/19 and FY19, 173 and 2,900+ 75 breaches were confirmed respectively. people were trained in business ethics To mitigate these cases, our legal team is responsible for deWe ranked fining and implementing an action plan related to our Code of Conduct. One of the components of this roadmap is relat1st in the 2019 ed to training. Therefore, our training department has included Pwint Thit Sa business ethics in the orientation programme of our new hires. 400,000 ranking Last year, 80% of the people who joined our Company were people joined our trained in business ethics. Next year, we will update our Code City Rewards of Conduct to cover new topics such as data privacy and programme security. Our Principles UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS OFFICE OF THE HIGH COMMISSIONER The ILO Declaration on The Guiding Principles The Universal Fundamental Principles on Business and The United Nations Declaration and Rights at Work Human Rights Global Compact of Human Rights Page 11 Sustainability Report 2019 Unlocking CMHL productivity with technology Better integration and use of technology are critical for us, and we are using technology on two fronts: internally, it helps us to manage our operations more efficiently; externally, we can develop new solutions to expand our market reach and serve our customers better. Our Company has to analyse more data, more frequently, to streamline our operations and make better decisions. To benefit from the potential offered by technology, we have to streamline our IT infrastructure and to ensure its security. Indeed, last year, our IT team continued its work to simplify CMHL IT architecture. This will lead to a more efficient system: the results achieved regarding the improvement of the reporting system are promising. We achieved significant results on two fronts in 2019: we rolled out a new solution for improving our logistic (see page 13). Moreover, the IT and finance teams worked closely together to improve and automatize the collection of financial data. Now, 90% of the financial information sent weekly to the top managed are automatically gathered and computed. It has several benefits:  First, it reduces the time spent to prepare these reports;  Second, the financial team has more time to analyse the data and add value;  Last, most importantly, it leads to a better meeting, better decisions and wider use of the data across the organisation. We are also working to offer more opportunities to our business partners: soon, they will access to more information, which will help them to plan their own business more efficiently. They will receive automatically more and better information about the sales of their products which will benefit all the stakeholders involved. Our suppliers will have more visibility on their future revenue; it will be easier for our store managers to manage their inventory; our consumers will find the products they like on our shelves. Safeguarding the integrity of our data In 2018, we launched our e-commerce platform, City Mall On-Line, and our loyalty programme, City Rewards. At the end of 2019, 10,000 persons frequently shop on City Mall On-Line, and 400,000 customers joined City Rewards, and 50% of them are buying from CMHL every month. In 2019, CMHL proactively developed a Privacy Policy in relation to customer personal information and the use and protec“Technology is an important driver of a company’s perfortion of the data we collect on line and via our apps. In addition mance and business intelligence plays an important role. to this measure, our IT team conducted different tests to assess CMHL has invested and will continue to do so in the area of the vulnerabilities of its system and identify specific areas of business intelligence so that we can make better decisions improvement. We are currently working to reinforce the security that will ultimately benefit our customers and stakeholders”. of our system. Ronald Lee Project Director Page 12 Sustainability Report 2019 Forging long-term A new inventory management system relationships with our suppliers As a retailer, we rely on the quality of our supply chain and suppliers. Our customers expect to find safe, quality-assured and healthy products in our stores. As a Myanmar company, we aim to offer more business opportunities to Myanmar companies, to support them grow their business, which will ultimately benefit our economy. Establishing a better food chain in Myanmar To provide our consumers with better products, we need to improve the traceability of the food chain. Therefore, we aim to establish more direct relationships with food producers. Why? Because it brings more value to the farmers who can grow better products and which value is higher on the market. Consumers are eager to buy products with a superior nutritional profile. CMHL is investing significantly to improve the manageBy buying directly from the producers, CMHL can make those ment of its supply chain and the better use of technology products more accessible while ensuring that farmers receive is essential. In 2019, a new system was installed to enfair remuneration for their work. And it works: last year, CMHL hance our inventory management, automatize replendoubled its purchase of products complying with GAP stanishment plans and increase the overall efficiency of our dards – from 8% in 2018 to 16% for 2019. Likewise, to raise logistics. With this solution, we can automatically register awareness, CMHL organized a visit to Singapore to share with and track all the items stored in our warehouse. It helps some of its suppliers international best practices, and to inspire us to save time and to focus our efforts on tasks that are them. creating more added-value. Using loyalty points for a just cause CMHL decided to support M2030, a Singapore based NGO, which aims to fight malaria. CMHL launched M2030 campaigns in selected stores of City Mart Supermarkets, marketplace by City Mart, and Ocean Supercenters in Yangon, Mandalay and Naypyitaw. Members of our City Rewards could give their points to fund various initiatives and fight malaria. Sharing our strategy with our suppliers We organized our third Supplier Conference in December 2019. During this event, we shared with hundreds of suppliers our plan to improve our supply chain and provide our consumers with better products. Page 13 Sustainability Report 2019 Uplifting food safety standards Embracing new business standards is never easy. CMHL expects from its suppliers to fully comply with the FDA’s regulations. However, some of them may not have received all the documents yet. Therefore, when our suppliers can demonstrate that they are waiting for FDA’s feedback, CMHL is keen to continue working with them, and our audit team monitors their compliance against the 39 criteria of our scorecard. Supporting the first food safety forum organized in Myanmar In September 2019, CMHL supported the organisation of the first food safety forum in Myanmar attended by government officials, business leaders and experts. We were part of the panel to discuss the challenges and opportunities in the food processing industry in Myanmar. In 2019, we reinforced our audit capacity and refined our audit approach. Compared to FY17/18, we can now audit twice Key Figures many more suppliers on a monthly basis. As a result, we controlled 64 suppliers during the reporting period and we paid We audited special attention to high-risk areas and categories like vegetables, meat, seafood, etc. On average the performance achieved by our suppliers was consistent with our former audit 64 food suppliers against campaign. During FY19, we had one incident related to food We doubled safety: during an audit, we realized that one of the beverag39 our purchase of es we sold could not meet our requirements. As a result, we criteria products complying with removed immediately this products from our inventory and made sure that our clients were safe. GAP standards “CMHL aims to source its products directly from farmers. This will enhance the traceability of the food chain while increasing the values for the farmers/producers, consumers, and company. This approach is CMHL’s commitment to establish mutually beneficial relationships”. Kyaw Kyaw Myint Fresh Food and Production Manager “Thanks to CMHL’s guidance, we learned how to upgrade our food safety standards. We are monitoring closely more parameters: it helps to secure our operations, and ultimately benefit our customers. We will do our best to build a mutually beneficial relationship with CMHL”. Aung Thuza, Supplier Page 14 Sustainability Report 2019 Strengthening our logistics capacities In 2019, we hit a significant milestone: we built a new Distribution Centre, 3 times larger than the previous one. This new asset will help us scaling our operations, increasing the productivity We can offload 34 trucks of the team, offering new solutions to our suppliers while lowersimultaneously. Our workers can ing the environmental footprint of our supply chain. How? access all the goods faster and transfer them to their destination more quickly. We installed a system to track all the items stored in our inventory and improve the management of our stock. Our people do not need to work overtime anymore. The work-life balance is better, and they are happier. For our suppliers as well, it is more convenient: they save time by delivering all their products to our warehouse Our previous warehouse was too small to handle all the flow of goods we had to manage to supply our stores. Therefore, We have better equipment to some of our suppliers had to deliver themselves their products manage more effectively the cold chain and to our stores. This induced more traffic in Yangon, and could all the temperaturealso complicate the operations in our branches. Moreover, its sensitive items. design was not perfect: offloading goods was difficult, ensuring that temperature-sensitive items were properly handled With fewer vehicles on the road, was complicated; our people had to work longer shifts which we are contributing to reducing traffic, was not satisfactory for them, and for the Company as HR air pollution and costs were higher. The new Distribution Centre solved all these CO2 emissions. pain points. Page 15 Sustainability Report 2019 Contributing to Myanmar’s prosperity Being a responsible taxpayer Key Figures As a responsible company, we aim to ensure that the value we create benefits to our stakeholders as well. Indeed, CMHL is We paid one of the biggest taxpayers in Myanmar, which is part of creating the country’s economic value. For FY18/19, CMHL was MMK listed as one of the ten biggest taxpayers for the Commercial CLHF spent 35.1billion Tax. For FY 18/19 and FY19, we paid more than MMK 35.1 bilof tax for FY18/19 lion to the government. MMK 161 and FY19 Supporting philanthropic activities million for its philanthropic efforts We also support, through our corporate Foundation, the City Love & Hope Foundation (CLHF), various initiatives that are related to 4 pillars: community livelihoods, education, environment and health. All the projects supported must be related Involving our customers to provide a to these topics. Likewise, we ensure that the organisations we support are reputable and trustworthy. brighter future to Myanmar children CMHL partnered with Po Wal Kae Par, a not-for-profit orOur Foundation spent MMK 161 million for FY18/19 and FY19. ganization that encourages Myanmar people to buy For example, last year, the City Love & Hope Foundation signed stationeries and books for underprivileged children. Our a Memorandum of Understanding with the Parami Liberal Arts shoppers were truly generous, contributing over MMK 54 & Science Foundation and awarded 3 scholarships which valmillion worth of stationery and school items for the cause. ue is USD 15,000. Likewise, our Foundation is keen to support other projects that promote handmade crafts and products of Myanmar manufactured by social enterprises during weekend bazaars. Page 16 Sustainability Report 2019 PRODUCTS We thrive to serve our customers every day, better. Their loyalty and their satisfaction help us sustaining our business, building strong and meaningful brands – and, most importantly, trusted relationships. In our 2025 strategic vision, CMHL aims to be the Market-leading Company and the Valued Company. What does it mean from the customers’ perspective? Simply, we want to bring to our clients new products and new ways of buying them. People can buy our products online or in one of our formats which will meet their needs better. They expect to buy from us good, healthy and products made in Myanmar. Fostering responsible consumption in Myanmar As a retailer, we also bear responsibility for the products we Easing the access to Myanmar market to source, sell and promote. Therefore, we are looking to offer products that are healthy, locally produced and which conlocal producers sumption will not harm the environment. When we are sourcing from local suppliers, it benefits them, and the Myanmar economy as a whole. But, to do so, we have Evolution of the % of sales made with Myanmar Made food to be sure that they will meet our requirements (see page 14). products When the suppliers can deliver the products, the success is im51% mediate as Myanmar people are keen to buy local, high-qual50% ity products made in Myanmar. The revenues generated by 50% our Myanmar made food products grew for the last financial year to reach 50% of the food products sold by CMHL (see 49% chart). We also started to sell more non-food products made 48% 48% in Myanmar: for instance, we sold over 14,000+ blankets or 47% 14,000+ purses made in Myanmar and both launched in 47% 2019. Likewise, we are developing the sales of cosmetics, 46% shampoo and soap made in Myanmar. As a homegrown, we 46% are delighted to see how responsive our customers are with 45% our range of products Pride of Myanmar. 44% FY16/17 FY17/18 FY18/19 FY19 Page 17 Sustainability Report 2019 “As a Myanmar retailer, one of our primary goals is to Key Figures support the development of our economy: through our shelves, we can connect Myanmar farmers and suppliers to consumers. In 2019, we worked closely with our suppliers to launch better products made in Myanmar with a smaller environmental footprint. In the coming months, we will ex48% of our food products plore new options to reduce further the plastic we place on sold are made the market in Myanmar”. in Myanmar Phyoe Min Kyaw Chief Operating Officer Our fresh products are HACCP compliant New format for City Care We launched last year a new format for City Care: bigger; our new standalone store offers a broader range of cosmetic products made with raw materials sourced in Myanmar. Likewise, our consumers can find traditional medicinal products also produced in Myanmar. They can buy confidently: in our stores, all the products comply with FDA requirements. Moreover, they can always benefit from the advice of our experts related to healthy lifestyle and nutrition. Myanmar culture, the other pride for Myanmar City Books and Music strives to promote Myanmar culture. Last year, we organised more events to bring together our readers and their favourite authors. We also noticed that parents were eager to offer books to their children: we sold 20% more books for FY19 compared to FY18/19. Indeed, when reading, one can embrace endless possibilities and dream of a brighter future for Myanmar. Page 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Reducing the impacts of the products’ consumption According to a research published in 2019 by Thant Myanmar, 119 tons of plastic runs down the Ayeyarwady daily.1 As the leading Myanmar retailers, we are committed to lowering the environmental impacts of our operations, with a specific focus on plastic bags (see page 26). Nevertheless, according to different research, plastic bags account only for 8% of the plastic placed on the market by retailers in the UK. Therefore, as we aim to become The Responsible Company, we started to test various initiatives to offer new alternatives to our clients. Indeed, when we partner with local producers, we can innovate with them to reduce the environmental impacts of products’ consumption. For example, last year, we were keen to work with Shwe Taung Nyo Gyi to remove plastic from the packaging of our City Farm eggs. Likewise, for some vegetables, we managed to perform similar changes. The results? A packaging made from cardboard which is made in Myanmar with recycled material locally and that can be recycled as well endlessly. Likewise, thanks to the efforts of our merchandizing team, we started to offer an alternative for single-use products made with plastic. Indeed, since last year, our customers can buy 15 new products to lower their environmental footprint: biodegradable plates, box, cutlery, etc. Within a few weeks, we sold more than 22,000 items, which seems promising first step. 1 See: https://www.thantmyanmar.com/en/riversurvey Page 19 Sustainability Report 2019 Enriching our shopping experience “Our network of stores is part of a customer’s daily life, not only do we provide food for their families, but we also have We are continuously investing in expanding our network of that common goal to help improve their quality of life in stores across Myanmar. At the end of FY19, CMHL operated general, by putting measures in place to ensure delivery of 200+ branches and 10 formats across the country. Our exgood quality products and services at all times”. pansion has been quite significant since FY 16/17 (see chart 1): we opened more than 50 branches, including 1 new MarAna Punongbayan ketplace in Yangon recently. Marketing Director We plan to pursue further opportunities to be closer to our clients. For instance, in Yangon, we now have 3 City Mart that are open 24x7 to offer more convenience to our clients. Finally, we are also investing in renovating our stores (like Junction 8 in Yangon) and in changing the layouts of our stores to provide a better shopping experience for our customers. To monitor the quality of the experience provided to the shoppers, our audit team control every month our stores: they conducted 1,000+ and 2,100+ audits for FY19 and FY18/19 respectively. To complement these audits, our marketing team monitors the complaints and feedback submitted by our clients. We surveyed our customers recently, and the average satisfaction rate reached 73%. Likewise, we received 968 complaints from our clients from April 2018 to September 2019 while serving almost 95 million clients during the same period. Evolution of Key Figures our network of stores 250 200+ stores 200 1 food safety 150 incident Our Customer Satisfaction Rate 100 reached 73% We received 50 968 complaints while serving almost 95 million 0 clients FY16/17 FY17/18 FY18/19 FY19 Page 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Every day, our 7700+ colleagues power CMHL by servPEOPLE ing our customers tirelessly, across the country, to provide them with the best experience possible. As a people company, we strive to provide them with a safe and respectful workplace, rewarding careers opportunities, and a corporate culture to be proud of. Strengthening our Our Values culture Customer Our corporate values shape our identity. We strive for excelFocus lence, and we know that teamwork is crucial to satisfy our customers. As a responsible company, we want our integrity to be seen as a key factor of success; and we know that our business sustainability is intimately connected with our people’s develIntegrity opment. However, we acknowledge that we can and should do more to build a stronger culture and to make it tangible across our organisation. People Shifting our people’s mindset is crucial if we want to achieve Development our 2025 strategic vision and become the Employee’s Company. Indeed, we aim to empower everyone in our organisation: our people should understand easily how their perforStrive for mance influences the CMHL future. Making this connection Excellence more clear is instrumental in modelling a workplace where individuals are accountable for how the Company as a team succeeds. Building higher performing teams is critical for the sustainability of our operations. We tested different options, Teamwork and some of them contributed to increasing our HR productivity by almost 30%. Page 21 Sustainability Report 2019 Becoming an employer of choice Providing a respectful workplace Key Figures One of the most significant achievements for our HR team was the reduction of our turnover by almost 10 points between FY17/18 and FY18/19. This is the results of the work initiated preOur turnover viously. First, we optimized our recruitment process. This helps rate was us to select more efficiently the right candidates for our positions and to ensure that the expectations of the candidates 66% are more aligned with ours. for FY18/19 Second, we introduced some flexibility as some of our employees are students: they need to attend their exams, and in their case, providing them with flexible time contributes to retaining 97% them. Last, we introduced a new system for reviewing the perof our people have a perminanent formance of each employee: it contributed to reinforce the full-time dialogue between our people and their managers. Besides contract the results on the turnover, our absenteeism rate decreased significantly to reach 1.3% for FY18/19 compared to 5% for FY17/18. This demonstrates our ability to offer better working conditions to our employees. Our absenteeism TTo ensure that we are offering a pleasant working environment rate was that meets our people’s expectations, we will conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey in 2020. Its results will provide us with 1.3% for FY18/19 insights to become a better employer. “As committed in our 2025 vision, CMHL strives to become the “Employees’ Company”. One of the initiations we had last year was to listen to our employees and streamlined our processes to bring efficiency in the way we work. This allowed us to reduce the turnover rate significantly contributing to the increase in retention rate. Likewise, we have also invested in our “Learning Institute” to provide trainings that matter to the business and to our employees. In the coming months, we will continue to support the transformation of our mindset by making sure all employees feel empowered, accountable and responsible for making CMHL a company of the future”. Pwint Phyu Han Group CPO, City Holdings Fostering better management practices We updated our Manager Handbook in 2019. This document is shared with all the supervisors and it provides them with all the information they need to communicate clearly with the ir team about topics that matter for all our employees: performance evaluation, salary increment, training, etc. Moreover, it clarifies as well who is responsible within CMHL for making specific decisions. Our managers can focus more their time and attention to support their team. Page 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Being an equal-opportunity employer Key Figures Our 7,700+ employees are dedicated to serving our customers 57% of our workforce We aim to be a responsible employer, which means we offer are women opportunities to our people regardless of their gender, race, religion or ethnic group. Diversity is an asset for us, which helps us to reflect Myanmar vibrant society. We developed a recruitment policy to avoid any bias and to welcome anyone who is 780+ people were applying for a job in our Group. promoted during the reporting period As a signal of our commitment, in 2018 we obtained the EDGE certification, and we are pleased to be the only retailer in Myanmar who managed to do so. CMHL is also a member of 52% of the people the Myanmar Business Coalition for Gender Equality. promoted were women Our workplace is gender balanced, and we consider only performance and merit when promoting colleagues. During the last reporting period, 784 people were promoted, of which 30% of our employees 50% were women. Across our Company, 57% of our workforce have a are women. Our workforce’s breakdown by gender and levmanagement els is provided in the chart below. The pattern between men role and women reflects that CMHL does not discriminate women. Moreover, in 2019, we established a dedicated room in our headquarter for the mothers who need privacy. Breadown of our headcount by gender and level Top Manager 2 5 53 81 Middle Manager 389 768 445 582 General Worker 2,467 2,938 Male Female Page 23 Sustainability Report 2019 Elevating our people Reinforcing safety potential Regarding safety, our goal is to reach 0 accidents in our workplace. 2019 was a structuring year for our HR team: we enAs a retailer, we are proud to develop the potential of our emsured that CMHL complied with the new Occupational Health ployees: retail is an industry where people can start with a juand Safety Law (see page 10). nior position and then climb the management ladder, thanks to training and the careers’ opportunities offered. Last year, We made significant progress on that matter last year: first, we 784 people were promoted to higher positions, more than set up a committee in charge of monitoring and managing 10% of our workforce. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) risks across CMHL. Therefore, to test the evacuation procedures of our headquarter, We increased our training efforts significantly: we trained more we organized a fire drill exercise, ensured that the emergency people, and we provide them more hours of training: exits were operational, etc. Likewise, we monitor closely if our employees are wearing their personal protective equipment  We trained 30% more people for FY18/19 compared to whenever needed to prevent any incidents. FY17/18 thanks to our training centre. Globally, CMHL safety performance improved. We recorded  On average, our trainee received more hours of training, 20 and 29 accidents for FY19 and FY18/19 respectively comfrom 11 hours for FY17/18 to 23.6 hours for both FY18/19, pared to 49 for FY17/18. As a consequence our frequency which is a significant increase. rate also improved to reach 0.25 accident per 200,000 hours worked for FY18/19 compared to 0.68 for FY17/18. For FY18/19,  The main focus for the training last year were the devel 5.8% of the absences were related to occupational diseases: opment of technical skills (63% of the training hours were it is stable compared to previous years. Sadly, we had 1 fataldedicated to this topic), soft skills (14%) and health and ity: a passenger in a vehicle died from the consequences of safety (5%). a road accident on the Yangon to Naw Pyi Taw highway. Following this tragic accident, the company reviewed the drivers’ work-time schedule, added additional manpower and trained all of them to ensure that they could drive safely. Moreover, “Ever since I joined CMHL in 1999, my learning curve had to ensure that they are driving safely, our HSE team can now never stopped within these 21 years of service. monitor data provided by a GPS system and give better feedI’ve seen tremendous changes within the company, and back to the 37 drivers working for CMHL. I’m so proud to see the rapid growth of the company in terms of technology, functional process, and organizational structure after I had come back from the oversea assignment about 7 years in Singapore and Bangkok. As the business expands into different sectors, there are more learning points, choices and career opportunities that come up for Key Figures us to be more capable and confident at work. For the juniors, it seems like tiring work with lots of pressure, but actually, they can learn and improve their competencies while having certain responsibilities. And for the newWe trained 7,100+ comers, the more they understand the internal culture and processes, the more they will be comfortable working at people CHML. Zar Lwin Moe General Manager (Oversea Sourcing & City Brand Department) On average, our trainee received 23.6 hours of training 49 accidents unfortunately occurred during the reporting period Page 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Like every organisation, our operations impact the enviPLANET ronment. As a retailer, we rely on natural capital to source and offer healthy and natural food to our customers. Moreover, limiting our environmental footprint is good for our business and it echoes our customers’ expectations. Reducing our environmental footprint is a way for CMHL to safeguard the sustainability of our operations while engaging with our customers and bring positive change to Myanmar society. As a result, we are working on several fronts to improve our environmental performance: energy, water, waste and GHG emission. Lowering our environmental footprint We need energy for moving the goods between our suppliers and our stores or for offering our customers a pleasant shopEvolution of our GHG Emission (t CO2 eq.) ping experience. At CMHL, 68% of the energy we consumed is electricity: therefore ensuring a reliable supply of power is crit45,000 ical for us; unfortunately, we experienced a lot of power shortage in 2019, which led us to use more back-up generators. 40,000 Moreover, the Government of Myanmar increased last July significantly the electricity price. These two factors combined 35,000 increased our emissions of greenhouse gas, and our energy 30,000 costs. 25,000 In 2019, we hired a facility manager who is now accountable 20,000 for reducing our energy consumption. A roadmap is under development and will be then implemented in 2020. The objec15,000 tive? Identifying investment where the return will be positive for 10,000 the planet and for our bottom line. We will be able to compare various scenarios and select the most suitable options for the 5,000 sustainability of our operations. The organisation will also benefit from the lesson learnt of particular teams: for example, City 0 FY16/17 FY17/18 FY18/19 Express developed and tested different approaches to reduce its energy consumption, and the results are promising. Page 25 Sustainability Report 2019 For FY 18/19, our energy consumption reached 56,994 MWh Number of reusable bags sold monthly (vs 55,955 MWh for FY17/18). However, the energy intensity of our operations declined by 3% between FY17/18 and FY18/19 30,000 29,150 to reach 58.4 kWh per sqft of saleable area. During the same period, we reduced our carbon footprint significantly. Indeed, 29,000 28,333 compared to FY17/18, our GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions 28,000 decreased by 37% from 30,422 tonnes eq. CO2 to 19,108. 27,000 Why? We reduced to optimize the gas needed to operate our 26,000 air-conditioning system, and this had a positive impact. 25,000 Today, 73% of our emissions are related to our power con24,000 23,083 sumption vs 19% for refrigerant gas. 23,000 22,000 Tackling wastage 21,000 20,000 FY17/18 FY18/19 FY19 Managing waste is a challenge for retailers all around the world, and it is probably an even greater challenge in emerging countries like Myanmar. Among the various type of waste, plastic waste is particularly crucial to handle. Number of plastic bags handed per sale 2 Avoiding plastic bags 1.8 At CMHL, we initiated in 2013 a campaign to raise awareness 1.6 1.37 and involve our consumers to be part of the solution. We also 1.4 offer them to buy reusable bags from us. 1.2 1.17 1.11 1 In October 2019, we decided to engage our consumers to know more about their perception regarding plastic bags. To0.8 day, 97% of our consumers reuse the plastic bags they receive 0.6 when they shop, mostly in their trash bin to collect their gar0.4 bage. During our “No Plastic Bag Day”, 49% of the consumers 0.2 surveyed said they were bringing their own bag, and 91% of 0 our consumers are supportive of this initiative. We also asked our cashiers their feedback as they are the ones dealing with FY17/18 FY18/19 FY19 our customers. During these days, a fifth of our cashier has to deal with at least 20 complaints from our customers as they expect to get a plastic bag. To decrease the number of plastic bags handed to our clients, we have to raise awareness, but also to involve our cashiers. Overall, during the last years, we managed to improve our performance on those topics: On average, we handed 1.17 bags per transaction for FY19 compared to 1.37 for FY17/18. This represents a decrease of 15%. In our first sustainability report, we committed to handling no more than 1 plastic bag per transaction. Our management decided to review our goal: by FY20/21, we aim to halve the number of plastic bags given per sale compared to FY17/18. Likewise, we distributed 340,000 reusables bags for FY18/19 and 174,900 ones between April and September 2019. On a monthly basis, we distributed 26% more reusable bags for FY19 compared to FY17/18. Page 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Standing with you to fight plastic pollution Key Figures Energy intensity: 58.4 kwh per sqft of saleable area GHG intensity: 19.6 CO2 kg eq. per sqft of saleable area Water intensity: 0.33 cubic meter per sqft of saleable area Some of our employees are very much aware of the consequences of plastic pollution. Indeed, during the 2019 1.17 World Environment Day, our Home Line and General Merbags were handed out per sale chandising team decided to start using reusable products for FY19 for their daily life. This also had a consequence on our product offering: we started to provide our consumers with more 91% alternatives to single-use products made with plastic (see of our consumers support us for page XX). Like all our consumers and concerned citizens, reducing we try to be part of the solution. plastic bags Waste intensity: 3.2 kg of waste per sqft of saleable area Structuring our approach to waste management 93% of our cashiers are keen to reduce the number of plastic bags they give We sold 340,000 reusable bags for FY18/19 -7% of food waste between FY18/19 and FY17/18 Our new Facility manager is developing a roadmap to structure and optimise our waste management system. We aim to comply with the ISO 14,001 standards within a 2 years period. Page 27 Sustainability Report 2019 Minimising food waste We estimate that 80% of the wastage induced by our activities are related to food. Therefore, the less we throw, the more we benefit. To ensure that we are paying attention to this particular topic, we have:  define for each store a target to reach.  set up a procedure. We use two main levers to reduce food wastage: better inventory management and juicing the fruits by removing the parts that have been damaged. On average, we managed to reduce by 7% the quantity of food wasted for FY18/19 compared to FY17/18. We also donated 54.5 tonnes of food during the reporting period to limit food wastage. Page 28 Sustainability Report 2019 We report our progress transparently: we believe it is esREPORTING sential for cultivating the trust of our stakeholders. We use international standards to structure our reporting system, identify the most relevant topics, and communicate our perfo mance transparently. Standards Inclusivity: to understand our stakeholders’ expectations, we engaged them in dialogue. At Group level, and interWe follow 4 main standards to structure our non-financial renally, our sustainability team met with our key manageporting: ment. Externally, we discussed with different organizations (NGOs, business partners, experts, etc.) to gather their views regarding CMHL sustainability challenges. At the store level, our managers are in touch with our customers, employees and communities on a daily basis. The mapping of our different stakeholders is available on our website. Materiality: to focus our efforts on the most important challenges, we conduct peers’ reviews. We selected a list of topics which were relevant for our sector and Myanmar. In 2017, CMHL topmanagement reviewed and validated the prioritization of the issues identified. Responsiveness: we disclose our UNGC COP report every In addition, we use the AA 1000 Standards to structure our apyear, and we are now publishing our sustain ability report proach for identifying and prioritizing the expectations of our on a yearly basis. stakeholders. The results are our materiality matrix (see below). We also considered for the first time the Myanmar Sustainable It demonstrates CMHL’s adherence to these principles: Development Plan (MSDP) to identify how our actions are contributing to delivering Myanmar national development vision. Our sustainability report could be seen as our answer to the following action plans: 3.1.5; 3.1.10; 3.2.1; 3.2.3; 3.2.4; 4.4.6; 4.4.8 and 5.1.6. Page 29 Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality analysis Our materiality matrix is the outcome of our stakeholders’ engagement process. It was validated by our top management in 2017 and reviewed in 2019 by our sustainability team to ensure its consistency and relevance. Stakeholders’ expectations Food waste Product quality Waste management Food safety Working conditions Supply chain management 1 Responsible Responsible offer Talent management communication Resources consumption Company Stakeholders transformation engagement Shared value 2 Climate Change Innovation Transparency Customer experience Compliance Safety Diversity 3 Biodiversity Technology Human Rights management 4 3 2 1 Importance for CMHL operations Currently we consider the following SDGs as the most relevant for CMHL: Today in Myanmar, providing safe, secure and healthy food is essential. CMHL is working internally and with its suppliers to achieve food safety and promote better agricultural practices. CMHL is part of City Holdings, a company led by one of the most successful women entrepreneurs in Myanmar. We are deeply committed to women empowerment in Myanmar as it is one of the keys for sustainable development. We aim to be a role model company regarding gender equality. As a company, we are working to develop our business; it will contribute to offer good opportunities to Myanmar citizens who are looking for interesting job opportunities but also to our suppliers as they will then be able to expand their own operations. As a retailer, our goal is to promote sustainable lifestyles. Therefore, we are striving to promote sustainable consumption habits with our consumers. We are also partnering with our suppliers to develop a better working food chain in Myanmar which will waste fewer resources and maximize its shared value. Myanmar is one of the countries that will be heavily impacted by climate change. Today its economy relies mostly on agriculture. The consequences for Myanmar farmers and the different actors of the food chain will be quite significant, and our operations may be largely impacted. We are working to reduce our energy consumption and our CO2 emissions. Through our commitment to comply with all relevant laws and take a zero tolerance approach to corruption in our organization, we aim to set a strong example to the Myanmar business community that you can “do well by doing good”. Page 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Data Products Value Value GRI UNGC KPIs Unit SDG FY 19 FY 18/19 Standards principles Food safety Number of food safety incidents Number 1 0 416-2 16 Total number of complaints Number 366 602 416-2 16 Total number of complaints related to food safety Number 57 98 416-2 16 % of sales made with Myanmar made food products % 50% 47% 204-2 12 % of complaints related to food safety % 16% 16% 416-2 16 Product quality Total number of complaints related to product quality Number 71 91 416-2 16 % of complaints related to product quality % 19% 15% 416-2 16 Company Value Value GRI UNGC KPIs Unit SDG FY 19 FY 18/19 Standards principles Company transformation % of customer satisfaction (NPS) % 73.3% 102-44 8 Business ethics Number of breaches regarding the Code of Conduct Number 75 173 205-3 6,10 16 % of new hires who have been trained on anti-corrup% 100% 100% 205-2 10 16 tion and business ethics* Supply chain Number of local Myanmar food supplier audits Number 28 36 102-44 8 Shared value Millions Philanthropic expenditure 47 114 203-1 9 MMK Global amount of tax paid by CMHL directly and Billions 12.3 22.8 207-4 16 indirectly MMK *City Express is excluded. Page 31 Sustainability Report 2019 People Value Value GRI UNGC KPIs Unit SDG FY 19 FY 18/19 Standards principles Workplace Number of people working for CMHL Number 7,740 7,268 102-8 6 8 Number of females Number 4,384 4,336 405-1 6 5,8 Number of males Number 3,356 2,932 405-1 6 5,8 Number of permanent full-time contracts Number 7,482 7,268 102-8 6 8 % of women holding a management position % 33% 36% 405-1 6 5,8 Total number of departures Number 2,252 4,942 401-1 6 5,8 Total number of resignations Number 2,177 4,769 401-1 6 5,8 Turnover rate % N/A 66% 401-1 6 5,8 Training Total number of people trained Number 8,316 8,798 404-1 6 4,8 Total trainings hours provided Hours 125,738 207,718 404-1 6 4,8 % of people trained % 107% 121% 404-1 6 4,8 Average hours of training provided per person Hours 15.1 23.6 404-1 6 4,8 Working Condition Total number of hours of absence due to sickness and occuHours 18,096 403-10 6 8 pational disease Number of workplace accidents Number 20 29 403-9 6 8 Number of work related deaths in the year Number 1 0 403-9 6 8 Fatality rate (per 200,000 hours worked) Number 0.02 403-9 6 8 Accident Frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked) Number 0.34 0.25 403-9 6 8 Talent Development Number of employees promoted in the year to a higher Number 229 555 404-3 6 5,8 category Number of women promoted in the year to a higher cateNumber 106 288 404-3 6 5,8 gory Page 32 Sustainability Report 2019 Planet Value Value GRI UNGC KPIs Unit SDG FY19 FY 18/19 Standards principles Energy kWh / Energy intensity of the saleable area N/A 58.4 302-3 7,8 12,13 sqft Total energy consumed kWh 42,638,485 56,994,047 302-1 7,8 12,13 GHG Greenhouse gas emission (Scope 1) t CO2 eq N/A 5,077 305-1 7,8 13 Greenhouse gas emission (Scope 2) t CO2 eq N/A 14,030 305-2 7,8 13 kg CO2 Greenhouse gas intensity N/A 19.6 305-4 7,8 13 eq / sqft Waste kg per Waste intensity of the saleable area N/A 3.2 306-2 7,8 6,12 sqft Number of plastic bags handed out per sale Number 1.17 1.11 301-1 7,8 8,12 Number of plastic bags distributed Millions 39.9 67.1 301-1 7,8 8,12 Number of reusable bags sold Number 174,900 340,866 301-1 7,8 8,12 Quantity of cardboard viss 320,142 683,575 301-1 7,8 8,12 Quantity of hard plastic viss 11,586 38,436 301-1 7,8 8,12 Food Waste % of food waste recovered % N/A -7% CMHL 7,8,9 12 Water Water consumption m3 159,603 317,535 301-1 7,8 6 m3 per Water intensity N/A 0.33 301-1 7,8 6 sqft Page 33 Sustainability Report 2019 Page 34 If you need more information about this report, please reach us by email : sustainability@cmhl.com.mm City Mart Holding Company Limited. 1-11, Padonmar Stadium (East Wing), Bargayar Street, Sanchaung Township, Yangon, Union of Myanmar.
