UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2019 One Stop Travel & Tours CEO statement of continued support for the Global I am pleased to confirm that One Stop Travel and Tours Company reaffirm its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labors, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we will describe the improvement in the implementation of the tem principals where we can share this information with the stakeholders through the channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ms. Thiri Thaw Managing Director One Stop Travel & Tours HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. We, One Stop Travel and Tours, have company policy respecting human rights of our employees, clients, business partners and anyone within our scope by complying with all applicable laws and respecting internationally recognized human rights. We have also implemented internationally recognized management systems. We ensure that these policies are embedded in the hiring practices. All the contact information is displayed in company notice board to facilitate employees who want to submit their suggestions, complaints and/or issues including unfair treatment. The suggestions/complaints box coupled with the open door policy to senior staff has mitigated in a big way the staff policy implementation in our company. These complaints are taken up immediate action. As a proactive practice, we inform and educate our clients why we offer only tour packages only but no single services. We provide all of the information about our company and out cooperative partner especially tour guides, drivers and hotels. We hold quarterly senior staff meetings and every department is required to report on the gains made in all spheres of our business including staff matters and we have continually managed to mitigate any human rights violations within organization by holding our departmental managers accountable. LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company follows National Labor Myanmar Laws by Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population. For all employees, including other persons who have dealings with the company, there is no discrimination based on race, gender, religion, physical appearance, skin color, marital status or sexual orientation. There is a work contract between employers and employees with precisely determine form and principles. The company offers flexible working hour for employees specifically. As our company is result-oriented company, we mainly focus on the work done and we provide full authority to all of our staff members in their respective field of work. Employees are only hired with a minimum age of 18 years. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary. Though all our office staff members are employed year-round, the tour guides and drivers are employed as needed. The suggestions/complaints box coupled with the open door policy to senior staff has mitigated in a big way the staff policy implementation in our company. We also maintain a Health Insurance Benefits Policy that has gone a long way to boost the staff morale for they know that they are covered while at work. All of the processes are being reported at the annual meeting and all of our employees are satisfied with the policy and results. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are setting long-term sustainability targets and public commitments for our company in a lifecycle approach. All the employees and other persons dealing with the company (Tour Guide, Car Driver, Boat Driver, etc.) are attending the Sustainable Practice Training once a year. We introduce plastic free tours starting from 2018. We held annual meetings at which discuss performance and share best practices as an assessment program. We ensure that all of our customers also follow our environmental programs during their tour. We practice Paper-use Policy which is more practical to conduct and then insert environmental protection awareness into every staff’s recognition. We purchase recyclable paper with low energy consumption and those consist of recyclable materials. We use email and other internet devices to connect with colleagues, business partners and our clients to eliminate the use of document papers. In this way we can reduce our workload and this practice becomes better after practicing Paper-use Policy within these 2 years. One of our environmental practices is conserving energy which save an utility bills and protect the environment. Electricity fee generated by air-conditioner takes up a large proportion in carbon emission, resulting from the weather. So we promote “close the airconditioner for 1 hour” campaign and chose products with a comparative low energy consumption. As a result, we can save the electricity bill every month and we can reduce the carbon emission and other environmental issues. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our supreme principle is to have transparency not only to our business partners but also to our clients. We are committed to conduction our business in an honest and ethical manner. All the employees receive Code of Business Conduct, Business Ethic, Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption training, which is refreshed every two years, underlining our zerotolerance approach to corruption. We publicly report on Code of Business Conduct violations by type and relevant actions undertaken. This helps us cultivating the identification of anti-corruption among staff in different levels. .
