SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201 9 INSIDE THIS REPORT ABOUT US THE SUSTAINABILITY PHILOSOPHY Our leaders believe in aligning with the global supply chain shift towards DTC World Corporation is the leading full-service premiums & POS merchandise a more responsible and sustainable solutions and global fulfilment partner. With more than 20 years of valuable business model. From design to experience in product design, conceptual development and sourcing, we delivery, our consultants are trained understand the challenges and the need for innovation, co-creation, product in the Sustainability Philosophy to development to sustainable sourcing, cost savings and fulfilment. Our in-house propose solutions that reduce the design team can help clients quickly adapt key visuals into unique merchandise footprint as well as minimise wastage. while our expertise in product knowledge, factories and logistics network allow As a company, we know that the shift us to manage the project timeline efficiently. We specialise in highly customised will require the effort of the whole (OEM) premiums and gifts, procurement web portal and Point of Sales (POS) industry, and we are onboard. merchandise serving some of the largest multinationals in the world. Supported by a supplier network of over 200 factories in Asia Pacific and offices in Feedback Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam and China, we work closely with our clients to select the most cost effective and efficient location to produce the merchandise. We welcome feedback and comments on this sustainability report at: feedback@dtc.com.sg VISION MISSION OUR CORE VALUES Asia’s most recognised premiums and POS To help brands owners create, design, • Reliable merchandise solution & fulfilment partner. source high quality and cost effective • Ethical & Sustainable Procurement premiums and POS merchandise from • Continuous Improvement start to end. • Lateral Thinking • Helpful TABLE OF CONTENTS DTC at a Glance 02 Sustainability at DTC 06 Our Business 12 CEO Message 03 Sustainability Governance 08 Our Environment 16 About This Report 04 Stakeholder Engagement 09 Our People 20 Our Locations 04 Materiality Analysis 10 Our Community 26 Our Corporate Structure 05 Key Performance Data & Targets 11 GRI Index 29 1 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DTC AT A GLANCE SGD18.4million 100% NEW SUPPLIERS SCREENED BASED ON TOTAL SALES IN FY 2019 Merdama, DTC’s in-house designed toy, was awarded the SOCIAL AND Rose Gold award in the product design category of the 2019 MUSE Design Awards. ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA ZERO INCIDENTS FIRST OF PRODUCT RECALL COMPANY TO BE AWARDED ECO OFFICE ELITE 80% of our products are labelled with safety related information DTC was the first company to receive Elite status under SEC’s Eco-Office Plus certification programme in March 800 PRODUCTS 2019, demonstrating our outstanding performance and efforts in incorporating environmentally friendly practices into our daily business. ACROSS OUR RANGE Every year we renew our range, launching 150 – 200 new products and design annually. We also strive to provide good quality products with a long life span. 34% ECO FRIENDLY PRODUCTS IN OUR RANGE 28% MALES We offer eco-friendly products made from natural materials such as cotton, and also re-usable materials 72% FEMALES such as woven bags. In all our operations each employee attended an average of Through meaningful company-customer engagement, we create awareness for our customers to ensure they are aware of sustainable 9 TRAINING HOURS choices. IN FY2019 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 CEO MESSAGE I am pleased to share with you our 2019 Sustainability Report which outlines our progress against our sustainable business strategy and targets. MR. CHENG SONG CHUA CEO of DTC World Corporation Pte Ltd 2019 was a year of significant investments With an increasing customer demand for We were mindful that staying at home for a and business activity for our company. As we environmentally friendly and sustainable lengthy period of time during the ‘circuit breaker’ continue to grow and serve more clients, we products, we have expanded our product might affect the mental health and well-being of remain steadfast in our commitment to integrate line to include more sustainable choices. We our employees, thus we organised online talks sustainability in our day-to-day operations. I am are committed to accelerate the adoption of on “How To Relief Stress” and worked with a pleased to share with you our 2019 Sustainability responsible, inclusive, and sustainable practices fitness coach to produce exercise videos for all Report which outlines our progress against our in our supply chain and continue to enforce our employees to use at their own convenience. sustainable business strategy and targets. We stringent measures on our supply chain to have expanded our presence in Asia with two reduce operational and business risk. Through the concerted efforts of our new regional offices operating in Vietnam and management team, employees, and partners, Malaysia. Our China office, which previously At DTC, we are mindful of how COVID-19 is causing we are demonstrating the highest resilience with served as an external supplier, has now been much concern for many people, businesses, and the goal of emerging stronger through this period added as an affiliate to the DTC family and is establishments worldwide. During this time, we of somewhat uncertainty. Notwithstanding now our largest office outside of Singapore. At want to ensure our customers continue to have the challenges the world and our country are our Singapore headquarter, headcount has also access to our products. Business continuity facing today, we remain optimistic of the longgrown and we have increased our office space and the health of our customers, employees term prospects as we continue to develop and to accommodate our bigger team. and partners are our primary concerns. Like innovate for our many stakeholders. so many, we have learned lessons and reDTC World Corporation embarked on our invented ways of working to safeguard the wellsustainability journey in 2018 where we being of employees and securing of supplies, conducted our first materiality assessment manufacturing and logistics every step of the and published our inaugural sustainability way. We have also been working closely with report. Our Sustainability Working Group has local public health authorities, taking actions since continued to engage various groups of in accordance with their advisories. Steps to stakeholders to assess and review the relevance ensure the health and safety of our employees of Environment, Social and Governance (“ESG”) include enhanced sanitation of facilities, setting issues on our business operations. I am proud of up temperature screenings and implementing all the accomplishments we share in this year’s safe entry check in/out system for all visitors. report. These include our progress in reducing Care packages containing masks and sanitizers greenhouse gas emissions, implementing were distributed to every employee for personal responsible practices in our own operations use. We transitioned to working from home and MR. CHENG SONG CHUA and supply chain, and creating a positive and all meetings continue to be conducted online. CEO of DTC World Corporation Pte Ltd supportive work environment for our employees. 3 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT This is DTC’s second sustainability report (“Report”) and covers our performance for the period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 (“FY2019”). Our sustainability report has been prepared in accordance to the GRI standards “Core” Option and is published on an annual basis. It is made available online on our corporate website. The boundary of reporting for economic, social and environmental data in this Report covers our Singapore, China, Malaysia and Vietnam operations. As our offices in Vietnam and Malaysia started operations in the second half of 2019, limited data was collected for these two locations. Where the boundary of reporting does not cover all locations, this is explained in the relevant data sets. We welcome feedback and comments on this sustainability report at feedback@dtc.com.sg OUR LOCATION DTC is headquartered in Singapore with an extensive supplier network across Asia Pacific offering our clients a wide range of products at competitive prices. In 2019, we expanded our presence in Asia with 2 new regional offices located in Vietnam and Malaysia. Our China office serves as our focal point for all our main suppliers and partners based in China. Head Office · Singapore Regional Office · China, Vietnam and Malaysia Our Clients Asia Pacific North/ South America · Singapore · Australia · Canada · Malaysia · Papua New Guinea · America · Indonesia · Solomon Island · Guam · Cambodia · Palau · Myanmar · New Caledonia · Thailand · New Zealand · Vietnam · Japan · South Korea · China · East Timor DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE CEO MANAGING DIRECTOR GENERAL MANAGER SINGAPORE CHINA MALAYSIA VIETNAM OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE LOGISTICS LOGISTICS BUSINESS BUSINESS MANAGER MANAGER DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT MANAGER MANAGER WAREHOUSE WAREHOUSE EXEC EXEC BUSINESS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT EXEC DEVELOPMENT EXEC LOGISTICS LOGISTICS EXEC EXEC ADMIN LOGISTICS ADMIN LOGISTICS EXEC EXEC ACCOUNTS AND HR PROCUREMENT MANAGER MANAGER PROCUREMENT PROCUREMENT / SALES SUPPORT / SALES SUPPORT ACCOUNTS AND HR PROCUREMENT EXEC EXEC ART STUDIO QUALITY CONTROL/ FACTORY MANAGER AUDIT MANAGER GRAPHIC QUALITY CONTROL DESIGNERS INSPECTOR SALES TEAM FACTORY AUDIT MANAGER INSPECTOR SALES ACCOUNTS AND HR EXEC EXEC SALES COORDINATOR PROCUREMENT EXEC PRODUCT INNOVATION MANAGER MARKETING MANAGER 5 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AT DTC DTC WORLD CORPORATION PTE LTD Corporate Responsibility Pillars • Employee Health and Safety • Operational Efficiency • Employee Welfare • Sustainable Procurement • Training & Development Our • Environmental Footprint ple En vi • Diversity & Equal Opportunity eo Ou rP ent nm ro To Create Value for Our Business • Governance and Society • Social Contribution it y • Ethical Practices & Principles/ Ou • Voluntary Work un Transparency rB us m • Responsible/Sustainable Products & in m ess Co Services O ur • Product Safety • Privacy & Data Security At DTC, sustainability is a philosophy of doing the communities where we operate. Topics We have also achieved Gold certification business. We position ourselves as the leading which are material to DTC (further explained in EcoVadis since 2018, demonstrating our sustainability-focused corporate gifts & premium under Materiality Analysis) are listed under each continual efforts to improve our sustainability supplier in Asia. We believe that our standards of our sustainability pillars. processes. DTC remains committed against and practices play a big role in holding our modern slavery as part of ‘The Business stakeholders and ourselves responsible for our DTC is signatory to the United Nations Global Pledge’ at Mekong Club; a membership-based sustainability practices throughout our business Compact (UNGC) and upholds the 10 Principles organisation that works with businesses to activities. of the UNGC. We are a participating member of eradicate modern slavery. SEDEX; a global membership organisation for Our sustainability pillars help to guide us in buyers, suppliers and auditors that manages data addressing our sustainability strategy and how on responsible sourcing, and have been Sedex we influence the people we work with, our certified since 2018. DTC is also a member of impact on the environment and our impact on the Gifts Association of Singapore; a network of suppliers and customers in the corporate advertising and premium gifts industry. DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 SUSTAINABILITY AT DTC United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) DTC is committed to supporting the UN SDGs in its operations. SDG Material Topics Our Contribution Employee Welfare In FY2019, 72% of DTC’s total employees across all locations comprised of females. Females are represented widely at the executive as well as management positions, with 55% of females in management positions. All employees are trained in discrimination, harassment and disciplinary policies. Employee Welfare DTC does not discriminate based on gender and promotes equal pay for equal work of equal value for both women and men. The average wages for both genders are solely based on job responsibility and will remain the same. Health & Safety DTC prohibits any form of forced labour including child labour, human trafficking and modern of Employees slavery across all business activities including in our supply chain. Regular supplier audits are conducted to ensure that social and environmental standards are maintained by our suppliers. There were no cases of child labour in FY2019 in our operations and suppliers. DTC promotes a strong work safety and well-being culture to ensure business activities run smoothly and risks of hazards are minimised. There were zero cases of injuries and fatalities across all locations in 2019. Environment DTC encourages reducing, reusing and recycling at our offices. 545kg of waste was recycled Footprint in FY2019. Sustainability DTC started publishing our sustainability report in FY2018 and this is DTC’s second at DTC sustainability report with updated sustainability performance and progress. DTC will continue to publish sustainability reports on an annual basis. Ethical Sourcing DTC has implemented a sustainable procurement policy and action plan since FY2018 with updated priorities for FY2020. Ethics DTC does not tolerate any form of corruption and bribery in all its business activities as well and Compliance as dealings with suppliers. All employees are provided with DTC’s policies, procedures and code of conduct. A whistleblowing channel has been established for all DTC’s employees and other stakeholders. DTC prohibits any form of discrimination based on race, colour, religion, or political inclination that could have impaired equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or development opportunities. There were zero incidents of corruption and bribery across all locations in FY 2019. 7 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE DTC’s Sustainability Working Group comprises of our CEO, supported by the Managing Director, General Manager and Sustainability Team which is supported by representatives from our various offices. Representatives are selected based on their duties, gender and age so as to provide different perspectives on sustainability topics. The Sustainability Team reports to the General Manager and provides updates on sustainability performance and targets. The purpose of the Sustainability Working Group is to manage the organisation’s sustainability efforts, brainstorm possibilities for improvements, and coordinate and support the organisation’s sustainability initiatives and efforts. SUSTAINABILITY WORKING GROUP CEO MANAGING DIRECTOR GENERAL MANAGER SINGAPORE CHINA MALAYSIA VIETNAM OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE OFFICE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT TEAM CEO MANAGING DIRECTOR GENERAL MANAGER PROCUREMENT DEPARTMENT SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT TEAM DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our Sustainability Working Group, which was established in 2018, continues to engage our various stakeholders to address key areas of concern. This extends our commitment to deliver continual success in value creation for all our stakeholders. We use a broad range of communication channels to engage our stakeholders throughout the year. As DTC continues to expand, we are committed to review the relevance and significance of our stakeholders on an annual basis and include new stakeholders who become relevant to the business. Our stakeholders include suppliers, employees and customers and their areas of concerns in 2018 remained relevant in 2019. Key Stakeholders Type of Engagement Areas of Concern Our Response (Action) Regulators, Local authorities • Meetings • Compliance with local • Due diligence on local laws & • Active participation in various regulations regulators industry sustainability-related forums organised by the local government agency or association Suppliers • Annual General Meetings • Economic performance • Supplier management program • Site-Audits • Procurement practices including risk management • Company Policies • Anti-corruption • Product recall process • Surveys & questionnaires • Compliance • Waste management • Emissions • Supplier assessments • Customer health and safety • Marketing and labelling Customers e.g. Corporates • Company Website • Compliance to international • Eco-Products • Customer Feedback environmental and social • Greater disclosure on product • Surveys & questionnaire standards composition • Workshop • Environmentally friendly products • Product Safety Employees • Orientation • Employee health and safety • Feedback mechanism • Company Intranet • Environmental footprint • Training & Development • Company Policies • Governance • More benefits for staff • Training • Ethical sourcing • Materiality Workshop • Respecting human rights in the • Feedback Box supply chain • Employee welfare and development Local Community • Outreach programmes • Ethical sourcing • Monetary donation • Charity drives • Items donation • Employees Volunteer • Active participation in various industry sustainabilityrelated forums organised by UN Global Compact and Singapore Environment Council 9 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIALITY ANALYSIS In 2018, DTC conducted our first materiality Importance to external stakeholders 4 1 1 Value Creation assessment and identified key topics that were material to our business and stakeholders. 2 Ethics and The materiality matrix mapped out the issues 2 Compliance that had an economic, environmental and 5 social influence on our business risks and 3 Product Safety stakeholders’ confidence. To ensure the relevance and significance of the material topics Environmental 4 to our business both internally and externally, 7 Footprint we review them annually. In 2019, we have 3 reviewed these material topics and assessed 5 Ethical Sourcing that there are no changes. 8 6 Health and Safety 6 of Employees 7 Employee Welfare Employee 8 Development Importance to DTC Sustainability Pillars Material Topics Corresponding GRI Our Business Value Creation GRI 201-1 Economic Performance GRI 202-1 Market Presence GRI 204-1 Procurement Ethics and Compliance GRI 205-3 Anti-Corruption GRI 206-1 Anti-Competitive Behaviour Product Safety GRI 416-2 Customer Health and Safety GRI 417-1 Marketing and Labelling Ethical Sourcing GRI 308-1 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 414-1 Supplier Social Assessment Information Security Our Environment Environment Footprint GRI 302-1 Energy GRI 305-1, 305-2 Emissions GRI 306-2 Waste Our People Health & Safety of Employees GRI 403-2 Occupational Health & Safety Employee Welfare GRI 401-1, 404-2, 404-3 Employment GRI 406-1 Non-Discrimination Employee Development GRI 404-1 Training & Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405 -1 Diversity and Equal Opportunity DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 KEY PERFORMANCE DATA & OUR TARGETS Sustainability Focus Area & Material Topics What we have achieved in FY2019 FY2020 Targets Our Business Ethics and compliance No reported cases of anti-corruption and Strive to maintain zero cases of corruption anti-competitive violations across all locations and competitive cases. Fully comply with all rules and regulations in all locations that we operate in. Product safety Zero reported cases of product recall Zero product recall for all locations Ethical sourcing 100% screening of new suppliers 100% screening of new suppliers Information security Zero cases of violations in privacy breaches, Strive to maintain zero cases in privacy data loss or copyright infringement breaches, data loss or copyright infringement Our Environment Energy intensity 0.039 MJ / Million revenue Strive to maintain similar energy intensity Carbon emissions intensity 0.003 kgCO2/ Million total revenue Strive to maintain sumilar emissions intensity Waste 100% of wooden pallets and carton boxes • Strive to maintain 100% recycling rate for sent for recycling wooden pallets and carton boxes • To recycle other packaging waste • To send all e-waste to vendors for recycling Eco-Products 34% of our products are in the eco-range Strive to increase new products in our ecorange by 5% Our People Employee hiring rate 45.3% Strive to have a comparable hiring rate Employee turnover rate 30.2% Strive to have less than 10% total turnover rate across all locations Average training hours 9 hours Average of 11 training hours per person Work-related accidents or injuries Zero cases of work accidents amd injuries Strive to maintain zero cases of work across all locations accidents and injuries across all locations 11 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR BUSINESS VALUE CREATION 201-1, 202-1, 204-1 Our Approach DTC creates value not only for our clients and our employees but also the suppliers we work with. We have an extensive network of more than 200 suppliers in Asia Pacific, ranging from hand crafted items to factory manufactured goods. Our suppliers and customers are located globally and we encourage procuring products PILLAR 1: OUR BUSINESS from suppliers localised to the area or region to reduce transport costs, lower carbon footprint and to support local businesses. Singapore China Vietnam Malaysia Percentage of local procurement budget spend 22% 98% 82% 43% on local suppliers • Printing • Bags • Bags • Transporation • Embroidery • Apparel • Apparel • Paper Products Type of • Apparel • Paper Products • Paper products • Branded suppliers • Bags consumer included • Stationery products and electronic • Toiletries DTC creates value for our clients distributors • Transportation through our continuous stream of products and services that Our Performance offer unique benefits. This is In FY2019, our revenue stands at S$18.4 million. Approximately 28% was distributed while another 72% was achieved by having a team that is retained. We were listed as one of Singapore’s 85 fastest growing companies based on a report compiled by constantly involved in innovating, The Straits Times and Germany-based global research firm Statista in 2019*. understanding changing needs of our customers and creating win/win partnerships with customers, employees, and OPERATING suppliers. By having strong REVENUE COSTS business ethics among employees and our suppliers, DTC is committed to conduct our business fairly and S$18.4 million S$3.15 million ethically, and do not tolerate any form of anti-competitive behaviour, non-compliance or malpractices. Ensuring correct labelling of our products with adequate safety EMPLOYEE WAGES PAYMENTS TO instructions and component AND BENEFITS GOVERNMENTS composition is also important to (TAXES) guide our customers who use our products. S$1.75 million S$0.059 million * https://www.straitstimes.com/85-fastest-growing-companies DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 OUR BUSINESS 2019 SGD PRODUCT SAFETY 2018 SGD (Singapore, Vietnam, 416-2, 417-1 (Singapore office only) China, Malaysia) Our Approach Direct Economic Valve Generated1 11.96 M 18.44 M Chemical substances are useful in many of the products we sell, providing beautiful colours, Economic Value Distributed2 2.39 M 5.16 M giving texture and serving as a protective layer. Most chemicals are safe to use, but some may pose a health risk. At DTC, we have a Economic Value Retained3 9.57 M 13.27 M responsibility to ensure that the chemicals in our products are safe, and that the products are produced in a way that protects co-workers and Our Target in FY2020 the environment. We aim to widen our global network of suppliers so that each region/country has a number of local suppliers to choose from, which will also help to reduce our reliance on one sole supplier. We are committed to ensure that our products do not harm our customers’ well-being and safety. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Ensuring correct labelling of our products with 205-3, 206-1 adequate safety instructions and component composition is important to guide our customers Our Approach who use our products. Our products are sourced DTC understands that our commitment to ethical business conduct provides a competitive advantage. from manufacturers in China, Vietnam and Our senior management is committed to promoting our ethical culture throughout our organisation, Malaysia who meet our environmental and social and leads by example. Senior management continuously and repeatedly communicate the importance criteria and possess the necessary product of being true to our core ethical values. Their commitment is supported by a robust ethics and certifications. compliance program aligned with integral business processes including policies and procedures, training and audits. Where possible, we have also started to use eco-friendly inks for the printing of our products All new employees are provided with a list of our company policies, guidelines and code of conduct. in 2019. Eco-friendly inks are typically waterAt DTC, we support a healthy and free competition to ensure fair business practices for all employees, based, as compared to traditional petroleumsuppliers and any other stakeholders. based inks. Eco-friendly inks are also much lower in Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs), The DTC Business Ethics Policy and the Supplier Code of Conduct establishes our standards for ethical phthalate plasticisers and polyvinylchloride and responsible business conduct, our core ethical values and our basic policies on important topics. (PVC) resins which can cause a number of health Our whistleblowing channel is also available to employees, suppliers and other stakeholders that we problems. Our eco-friendly ink used is RoHS4 do business with. compliant. Where required by our customers, our products will also comply with obligations under Our Performance REACH5. In FY2019, we reported zero cases of anti-competitive behaviour and anti-corruption across all of the countries that we operate in. We have maintained zero violations in the last 2 years and remain vigilant to ensure full compliance across all our operations. Our Target in 2020 We aim to maintain zero cases of anti-competitive behaviour and corruption violations in FY2020. 1 Direct economic value generated is calculated based on revenue. 2 Economic value distributed is calculated based on sum of operating costs, employee wages & benefits, payments to providers of capital, payments for taxes and community investments. 3 Economic value retained is calculated based on difference between direct economic value generated (footnote 2) and economic value distributed (footnote 3). 4 RoHS stands for Restriction of Hazardous Substances. RoHS, also known as Directive 2002/95/EC, originated in the European Union and restricts the use of specific hazardous materials found in electrical and electronic products (known as EEE). 5 REACH stands for (EC) Regulation No 1907/2006 on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, which establishes procedures to assess and manage the risks posed by chemicals. 13 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR BUSINESS Our Performance ETHICAL SOURCING Our product range includes food contact items and toys for children less than 6 years old, which 308-1, 414-1 require usage instructions to be provided with the products. In 2019, 80% of our products have such user information on our products. 80% of our products also contain labelling such as BPA free, CE Our Approach approved or biodegradable. If our customers require our products to be tested based on EU standards, Advancing accountability and improving we will ensure the required testings are conducted. In 2019, we have no cases of products nonperformance across our supply chain creates compliance to Health & Safety standards and zero reports of product recall. value for DTC and our customers by helping us reduce risks, improve product quality, and DTC has maintained zero product recall in the last 2 years due to our continuous stringent product achieve environmental and social goals. Through safety measures, which we will continue to enforce. communication, assessments, and capabilitybuilding programs, we work to ensure that our supply chain is resilient, responsible, and Singapore China Vietnam Malaysia respectful of human rights. No. of nonOur Supplier Code of Conduct provides the basis compliance of our expectations and requirements of all cases related to health & safety 0 0 0 0 our suppliers on the social and environmental front for their activities. This Code of Conduct impacts of products establishes standards on safe working conditions, humane working conditions, labour rights for workers and environmentally responsible business operations. We also ensure No. of cases suppliers in our supply chain are aware of and of product 0 0 0 0 compliant with the international labour laws and recall respective countries regulations. Before establishing any business partnership with any new suppliers, DTC requires all our suppliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Our Target in FY2020 Conduct. As part of our procurement screening We aim to maintain zero cases of non-compliance cases and product recall in FY2020. process where we only select quality suppliers with sustainable business practices, DTC Performance in conducts background checks and on-site audits Indicator Metrics Measured Target for FY2020 before they are included on our list of approved FY2019 suppliers. Our Supplier Management Team performs annual on-site reviews for all our high-risk suppliers Achieved zero Continue to achieve Number of product to ensure there is no breach to our Supplier Product safety product recall across zero product recall recalls Code of Conduct. Our supplier development, all locations. for all locations. monitoring, and enforcement efforts are integrated across our Procurement and Supplier Management teams. This integration allows us to influence suppliers that may be reluctant to meet our requirements. We communicate our expectations in our supplier contracts and hold annual meetings for our suppliers. DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 OUR BUSINESS Our Target in FY2020 We will strive to maintain 100% screenings for all new suppliers in environmental and social criteria, as well as address closure of corrective actions arising from our new suppliers within six months. Metrics Performance in Target for Indicator Measured FY2019 FY2020 % screenings Achieved 100% Aim to New suppliers for of screening achieve 100% screenings environment & for new screening of social criteria suppliers new suppliers As part of the CSR analysis for potential suppliers, environmental and social INFORMATION SECURITY criteria are applied to assess the level of risk associated with the suppliers. Social criteria assessed include housing facilities provided by the supplier Building strong relationships with our stakeholders based on mutual trust and risk of forced labour. Environmental criteria take into consideration and confidence is a key strategic priority for DTC’s business success handling of hazardous materials, legal violations and risk of pollution due and credibility. To uphold their trust, it is vital that we have in place to the types of activities carried out on site. The frequency of on-site audits robust internal information security control frameworks to prevent any is based on the risk rating of the supplier. Suppliers are required to address breach in data privacy, loss of data, intellectual property mishandling and their audit findings within 6 months and those with corrective repeated cybersecurity threats. It is our responsibility to safeguard the information violations identified through our supplier audits would be removed from provided by our stakeholders as well as our own intellectual property, in a approved supplier list. safe and secure manner. Our Performance We are committed to build a robust information security infrastructure. As In FY2019, we screened 100% of our new suppliers based on environmental a general rule, DTC complies with all applicable regulations and standards and social criteria. 11 suppliers (or 7.7%) of suppliers were not approved on personal data protection and privacy guidelines as per PDPA guidelines due to significant and potential negative environmental impacts identified. respective of each country. Our Information Security Policy and Information Technology Procedure guides our general IT processes as well as All Countries establishes safeguards to protect sensitive information from unauthorised FY 2019 access and disclosure. % of suppliers completed CSR (Supplier Code of Conduct) Acknowledgment 100% All new hires are trained on information security, data privacy and intellectual property rights during their orientation period. They are also required to sign % of suppliers who were screened using environmental and social criteria 100% a Non-Disclosure Agreement (“NDA”) to acknowledge their understanding and agreement in protecting our company’s intellectual property and any information or data deemed confidential. Total no. of environmental and social assessments carried out for suppliers 108 There were no cases of violations in privacy breaches, data loss or No. of suppliers who were assessed as having copyright infringement in FY2019. As we grow, DTC will continue to invest significant actual and potential negative in improving our internal controls and keep up to date with information environmental and / or social impact and 1 security developments and threats across all the locations that we operate terminated in. 15 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR ENVIRONMENT ENERGY 302-1 Our Approach In 2016, we started our journey to reduce our electrical consumption by switching to energy saving electrical appliances. All our lights in our offices and warehouses have been changed to LED lights and the air-conditioning in our office is set by default to 25 degrees Celsius to further conserve energy. Employees at DTC are encouraged to embrace our energy conservation efforts. Posters are put up in PILLAR 2: OUR ENVIRONMENT our offices to keep us in mind to switch off our devices, lights and air-conditioning when not in use while energy saving tips are communicated to all employees in an electronic booklet format. We want to empower our employees to be stewards in promoting environmental responsibility and practice these in their own personal lives. • Measures implemented to optimise vehicle fuel use • Advance planning of delivery routes to ensure no overlapping of routes amongst the drivers • Drivers are taught fuel efficient driving techniques • Drivers are encouraged to maintain air conditioning temperature at 24 degree Celsius when driving • Employees carpool when heading to the same area for meetings At DTC, we are passionate to protect • Regular servicing is scheduled for vehicles every 3-6 months to ensure the vehicles are the environmental ecosystems and well-maintained and in compliance with all necessary local regulations conserving energy. We recognise the impact our actions can have on the environmental ecosystems and Our Performance we are committed to improve our DTC’s total energy consumption from our Singapore and China operations in FY2019 was 704,118 environmental practices to protect MJ, of which approximately 70% is attributed to fuel use from our Singapore operations. Our energy intensity in FY2019 is 0.039 MJ / per million revenue. the ecological systems and reduce our footprints. We strive to conserve Our Target in 2020 our energy and water usage and We aim to maintain similar energy intensity. manage our waste responsibly. Our actions also have an indirect positive impact on our financial Total Energy in 2019 (MJ) bottom-line. DTC’s environmental policy guides us in upholding our environmental practices. We monitor Singapore 434,698.80 53,920.80 our environmental performance with realistic goals and KPIs and are kept in check by our sustainability China 172,464.30 43,034.40 working group. We aim to reduce the environmental Fuel Electricity impact of our products by applying eco-design principles and using Performance in fewer or more sustainable materials. Indicator Metrics Measured Target for FY2020 FY2019 This also answers growing demand from our customers to help them Total Energy reduce the environmental impact Consumed ( China 0.039 MJ / million To maintain similar of the products that they purchase Energy Intensity and Singapore) / total revenue energy intensity from us. Total Revenue (China and Singapore DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 OUR ENVIRONMENT As part of our long-term goal to be carbon neutral, we are monitoring our own emissions and identifying opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint. Through a combination of good practices such as route optimisation and consolidation of shipments, we have reduced the frequency of deliveries which in turn has helped us to reduce 16.8% of our Scope 1 emissions in Singapore. To offset our emissions, we participated in carbon offset projects which have been independently verified. In FY2019, we were carbon neutral and voluntarily reduced our annual carbon emissions through a carbon-offset project based in Zhengzhou, China, which features the largest fleet of hybrid and electric buses worldwide with more than 3,100 units, 100 km of bus-only lanes and an integrated smart ticketing system. The project is also expected to promote reduction of the social and economic costs of congestion, thus improving social well-being as a result of achievement of less time lost by citizens in congestion, less respiratory diseases in citizens due to less particulate matter pollution, less noise pollution and fewer accidents per passenger transported. This carbon-offset project allowed us to contribute to social and environmental benefits outside of our organisation in addition to the emission reduction. Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG Emissions (kg CO2) Singapore 2018 37,471.0kg 5,401.0kg Singapore 31,141.89kg 6,279.8kg 2019 China 11,947.7kg 22,371.6kg 2019 Scope 1 Scope 2 Emission factors for fuel are sourced from Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools, March 2017. Grid emission factors for Singapore were sourced from EMA Singapore, grid emission factors for China were sourced from Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (2019). List of Grid Emission Factors, version 10.7. EMISSIONS Our Target in 2020 305-1, 305-2 We will continue monitoring our emissions and strive to maintain a similar emissions intensity. In our bid to reduce emissions, we encourage the Performance in use of sea freight instead of airfreight. In order Indicator Metrics Measured Target for FY2020 FY2019 to allow for adequate time for the delivery of our products, planning 3-6 months ahead of a GHG Emissions scheduled promotion is required. We work with GHG ( China and our regular sea freight forwarder to consolidate 0.003 kg CO2 / million To maintain similar our products into one shipment. We are looking Emissions Singapore) / Million total revenue emissions intensity to expand our factory network to include more Intensity Revenue (China and places in ASEAN to shorten the distance between Singapore our clients and our suppliers’ factories. Our Performance WASTE In FY2019, the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 306-2 carbon emissions from our Singapore and China operations was approximately 60 tonnes. Our Our Approach Scope 1 emissions accounts for 72% of the Our waste is managed effectively ensuring that it is either properly transported, reused, recycled or total carbon emissions and our GHG intensity disposed of responsibly. DTC operations in Singapore do not generate any hazardous waste. All of our was approximately 0.003 kg CO2/million total non-hazardous waste is sent for recycling. Recycling bins are also placed in our offices to collect nonrevenue. hazardous waste which can be recycled. Electronic waste are gathered and disposed off responsibly at RENEW (Recycling the Nation’s Electronic Waste) recycling bins available at several locations. 17 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR ENVIRONMENT We have centralised our printing to one multifunction printer with an energy saving feature. It allows for printing on both sides of the paper, which will save the company a considerable amount of paper usage. Employees are encouraged to use ink toner-saving modes for printing drafts that do not require high-quality printouts. Used ink and toner cartridges are set aside for refill or recycling. Recycling Initiatives DTC accumulates excess stock of various items such as apparel, containers, stationary, etc every year. These items are in good condition and are donated to organisations that recycle these items in various forms either by reusing or repurposing. • Salvation Army We donate new stationary, clothes, towels, food containers, water bottles, etc. on an annual basis • H&M Clothes Donation In 2019, we donated 35kg apparel wear to H&M under its Garment Collecting Programme – this programme is a global initiative that collects unwanted apparel and textiles to prevent them from going to landfill. The garments will be reused, recycled or repurposed Our Performance In FY2019, 100% of wooden pallets and carton boxes were sent for recycling. DTC recycled a total of 545kg of waste, comprising carton boxes, plastic (largely from shrink wrap), paper and electronic waste. DTC has been practising reducing and reusing our otherwise unwanted waste. Our Target in 2020 We aim to maintain a 100% recycling rate for our wooden pallets and carton boxes received, as well as recycle other packaging waste. Performance in Indicator Metrics Measured Target for FY2020 FY2019 • Maintain 100% recycling rate for wooden pallets and 100% of wooden carton boxes • Aim to recycle Wooden pallets and pallets and carton Recycling other packaging carton boxes boxes were sent for waste received recycling • All electronic waste to be sent to e-waste vendors for recycling Total Waste Recycled (kg) Singapore 2018 359 165 48 Singapore 332 160 50 2019 China 48 60 Carton Box Paper Plastic DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 OUR ENVIRONMENT ECO-PRODUCTS 417-1 Our Approach We educate our consumers through creating awareness of products that can be reused or recycled. For example, we have a recycle/reuse note included with each product to encourage consumers to recycle and reuse. Definition of Eco-Products Our Eco-Products are products that are either • Made from recycled products • Made from sustainable sources • An alternative to plastic or, • Biodegradable Through meaningful company-customer engagement, we create awareness for our customers to ensure they are aware of making sustainable choices. Our Performance As customers are becoming more environmentally conscious, they are looking for more eco-friendly promotional gifts. We are constantly introducing more varieties in our eco range to meet the increasing demand of eco-friendly products, such as jute bags. Our range of eco-friendly products increased to 34% in FY2019. Examples of other products in our eco-friendly range include cotton bags, recycled polyethylene terephthalate or recycled PET bags, eco-friendly pens, bamboo fibre lunchboxes, wheat straw tumblers and sustainably sourced notebooks and notepads, Our Target in 2020 We aim to increase new products in our eco-friendly product range by 5% in FY2020. Indicator Metrics Measured Performance in FY2019 Target for FY2020 Eco-friendly products in our Approximately 34% of our Aim to increase new products in Range of eco-friendly products products range products are in the eco range our eco range by 5% 19 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE WELFARE 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 406-1 Our Approach DTC cultivates a positive working environment with a commitment to fair employment practices and only hire based on merit. Employee retention is key in maintaining continuous sustainable success at DTC, thus boosting employee morale is crucial in creating a positive influence on retaining our employees. Creating a positive work environment where employees are inspired to perform at their PILLAR 3: OUR PEOPLE best reduces our employee turnover rates. By promoting equal opportunities, DTC ensures our hiring practices are solely based on relevant and objective factors. We condone any form of discrimination based on colour, race, religion, political inclination and any other type of distinguishing characteristics. At DTC, we ensure the well-being of all our employees are taken care of. We are guided by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) and Ministry of Manpower Singapore on our relationship with our employees with regards to remuneration and benefits requirements. As Singapore wage laws do not impose a minimum wage, DTC uses the Adecco Salary Guide as reference to industry average to determine a fair and competitive compensation package for our employees as shown below. In other countries where we operate, we comply with local employment laws and regulations. All our employees in Singapore, China, Vietnam and Malaysia are offered attractive staff welfare and benefits, as shown under the section “ Employee Benefits ”. For all new hires, we provide an orientation manual to guide them on our internal policies, standards AT DTC, we believe that our and requirements at DTC. Our code of conduct is also communicated out to reflect our expectations employees are our biggest asset and of all our employees and their individual rights as an employee. We ensure an adequate and fair are critical to the long-term success remuneration based on progress in reaching their individual key performance indicators. DTC strive of our business. We are committed to select the right people in our recruitment drives and provide a comparable and fair remuneration to provide an inclusive working package and benefits accordingly. By boosting our remuneration package and benefits, DTC aims to increase employee productivity. We believe their well-being and health is predominant in ensuring environment with opportunities consistent productivity and we provide medical and dental compensation as well as annual check-ups for continual development in an for all. inclusive nurturing and safe working environment. Keeping our employees Our Performance engaged is key in high productivity DTC hires based on merit and objective factors. There were no reported cases of discrimination in and retention rates. DTC places high 2019 across all the countries that we operate in. importance in the highest standards of health and safety practices. DTC embraces diversity in gender with 72% female employees. As our business continues to grow in Singapore and in our new regional offices, we require additional headcount to manage our operational activities. In FY2019, our hiring rate across all locations was 45.3%*. By fostering a culture of understanding and respect for everyone, we promote a positive work environment. By providing competitive benefits to our employees and having a robust employee engagement process, we aim to keep our turnover rate low. In FY2019, our turnover rate across all locations was 30.2%*. We further strengthen our close, family type atmosphere through birthday celebrations for colleagues, regular staff get-togethers and an annual company trip. * The hiring rate and turnover rate is calculated based on total number of new employees hired in 2019 or total number of employees who left in 2019, using a denominator of total number of employees as at 31 Dec 2019 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 OUR PEOPLE Total Employees by Gender 38 15 Male Female DTC understands the challenges of having children while juggling a full-time career. We strive to Male lighten the load of new parents by promoting parental leave for all employees with newborns. While parental leave continues to be provided, no parental leave was taken in 2019. Mothers with young children can take advantage of DTC’s flexible working arrangements including the option to work from home. By providing such flexibility for our employees, DTC continues to boost employees’ retention, 9 productivity and morale. Our Target in FY2020 We continue to prioritise the welfare and well-being of our employees and continue to reduce the 5 employee turnover rate. Performance in Indicator Metrics Measured Target for FY2020 FY2019 1 0 30.2% overall Aim to have less than Singapore China Employee turnover Rate of employee turnover rate across 10% overall turnover Vietnam Malaysia rate turnover all locations rate Female 23 Total Employees by Employment Contract and Gender Temporary Contract 1 14 Permanent Contract 9 22 Part Time Employee 1 0 1 Full Time Employee 9 22 China Singapore Vietnam Malaysia Male Female 21 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR PEOPLE Employee Hiring GRI 401-1, GRI 405-1 The figures below are consolidated numbers based on employees from Singapore, China, Vietnam and Malaysia. Hiring Number & Rate by Age Group Employee Turnover by Age Group 37.74% 11.32% 20 6 16.98% 9 7.55% 1.89% 4 0 1 Under 30 30 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 50 Over 50 Years Old Years Old Years Old Years Old Years Old Years Old No.of Hires No.of Employee Turnover Hiring Number & Rate by Gender Employee Turnover by Gender Male 5 9.43% Male 6 11.32% Female 19 35.85% Female 10 18.87% No. of Hires No.of Employee Turnover DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 OUR PEOPLE Employee Benefits GRI 401-2, GRI 401-3 All employees are provided statutory benefits as well as other company benefits such as for physical exercise, cultural activities and commuting, which in FY2019, expanded to cover wellbeing services. To recognise and reward the contributions of our long-service employees, we initiated the Recognition Award in FY2019. Our employees will be awarded a generous special reward of $1,000 for every 5 years of service at DTC. Benefits provided to full-time permanent employees 1 2 3 4 5 Medical/ Workers Medical/ Dental Annual Eye Check Daily Lunch Hospitalisation Compensation Reimbursement of up and Talk, Annual Provided / Daily Insurance Insurance to S$300/annum Body Check Up Lunch Allowance* 6 7 8 9 10 Bonus Scheme Get Together (Annual wage Annual Lunch Time Activities Wellness supplement and Company Trip* Talks* (birthday celebrations), Programs* special bonus) festivities celebrations, e.g. during Chinese New Year, Christmas and Halloween Other Incentives: 1 2 3 Flexible working arrangements. Opportunities to be involved in Staff recognition awards e.g. work from home projects of employees’ interest. i.e. long service award, best employee. (* Benefits also apply to China, Vietnam and Malaysia Locations) GRI 401-3 Parental Leave ( Paternity & Maternity Leave ) Male Female Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave1 0 0 Total number of employees that took parental leave 0 0 Total number of employees that returned to work from after parental leave ended 1 4 (Period of 1 Jan 2019 31 Dec 2019) Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended and were still employed 12 months after 1 4 return to work Return to work rate of employees that took parental leave 100% 100% Retention rate of employees that took parental leave 100% 100% 1 This includes paternity, maternity and childcare leave. 23 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT GRI 404-1 Our Approach AT DTC, we recognise the importance of developing our employees and provide continuous learning opportunities to ensure they stay relevant with changing times. Appropriate development and training are essential for our employees to be better equipped to contribute effectively and at optimal levels to DTC’s performance. Creating the freedom for our employees to grow professionally will boost their morale and in return reduce our turnover rates. Performance appraisals are conducted annually to help ensure a clear career route for our employees so that individual capability and competency can be met. Performance appraisal provides a great career management perspective, which evaluates the competency and capability of our employees as well as setting out a clear career route for all our employees. Our Performance DTC provides a variety of learning and development opportunities for our employees across all locations to enhance their potential and drive progress. In China, our employees attended courses in: In FY2019, each employee attended an average of 9.3 hours of training. • International logistics, All new hires are required to attend the DTC Orientation Internal training • Supplier Management, which includes; DTC Business Ethics, DTC Information Security Procedures, • improving procurement process, DTC HR Policy, DTC Human Rights & Labour, DTC Environment Sustainability, • China responsible supply chain, • Internal auditor course, DTC Whistleblowing, Eco Office Guidelines, Fuel Efficient Driving Techniques • Quality Control, • Emergency Evacuation and Readiness, Other training courses that our employees in Singapore attended include: • Healthy and Safety Office, • Emergency Evacuation and Readiness, Healthy and Safe Office • Protecting our vision, • Sustainability Reporting • Safework Procedure • Future Proof Your Business • How to build a brand in the Digital Age • Applying Design Thinking to SME GRI 404-1 Training hours as of 31th Dec 2019 Average No. of Training Hours by Gender Average No. of Training Hours by Employee Category Management 10.3 Male 16 Executive 9.1 Female 6.2 General 7.8 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 OUR PEOPLE Our Target in FY2020 We will continue expanding our variety of development programmes to cater to the changing needs of the industry and that of our employees and increase our training hours per employee. Indicator Metrics Measured Performance in FY2019 Target for FY2020 Average number of training hours Achieved an average of 9 training Aim to have average of 11 hours Training Hours for each employee hours for each employee of training for each employee HEALTH & SAFETY OF EMPLOYEES GRI 403-2 Our Approach A safe working environment is of prominent importance at DTC. It is our duty to protect our employees from occupational hazards and work-related accidents. We enforce a strong work safety and well-being culture to allow our employees to perform their best in their daily work activities. We introduced a Workplace Safety policy that addresses our high expectations of safety control in our company, which is communicated to all employees, contractors and other stakeholders. Training and education in occupational health and safety are provided to ensure employees understand to avoid unsafe situations. Our Performance A risk assessment team was introduced at DTC to oversee all our health and safety processes and identify hazards and actions to minimise the dangers. We also work with a risk assessment consultant to assess our workplace and advise us on any hazards and actions, so as to minimize any safety and health risks. DTC adheres to the Workplace Safety and Health Act in Singapore, as well as the local health and safety rules and regulations in the other countries where we operate. We set ambitious goals and have maintained zero work related accidents over the past 3 years and in 2019 maintained zero work related accidents and injuries across all countries that we operate in. For ensuring continual workplace safety, DTC achieved the BizSafe Level 3 certification in 2018. We will continue to work at maintaining a clean record while improving processes for a greater safety culture across all our offices. DTC championed safe driving practices and have implemented the Safe Work Procedure Training and Vehicle On Time Program to encourage our employees to take the necessary precautionary measures when driving. Our Target in 2019 We strive to maintain zero work related accidents and injuries across all the countries that we operate in. Indicator Metrics Measured Performance in FY2019 Target for FY2020 Annual number of Continue to maintain Work related accident Zero cases of work accidents work related accidents and zero cases of work accidents and & injuries and injuries across all locations injuries per 100 workers injuries across all locations 25 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR COMMUNITY PLANT A TREE PROGRAMME DTC pledged our support in the greening of our City In Nature by Gardens City Fund. We contributed to a small donation and planted trees in Yishun Park. Garden City Fund is an independent charity established by NParks. PILLAR 4: OUR COMMUNITY At DTC, we are driven by our core values to look after our communities that we operate in. We seek to enrich the quality of life of our communities and serve as good stewards of society. Our corporate social responsibility approach is instilled with the culture of giving back to our communities in need. DTC contributes to several charity organisations and worked with a number of community programmes in Singapore and China. DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 OUR COMMUNITY SHARELLA VISIT TO OLD FOLKS HOME As part of the Share Umbrella initiative by Republic Polytechnic (RP) The DTC team in China visited an old folks’ home in guangzhou where they students. We distributed our excess stock of umbrellas to 2 locations around spent a day doing simple cleaning chores and keeping the elderly company the surrounding office area: Sun Plaza and a crossing on Sembawang Vista. by chatting with them, sharing the latest news, learning about and solving This initiative allows the sharing of umbrellas when crossing the road on their problems. We also presented them with flasks to keep their drinks rainy days. The umbrellas are placed on both sides of the road and anyone warm. can simply use the umbrella and drop it off after using it. VISIT TO CHILDRENS HOME The DTC team in China visited a childrens’ home in Yiwu, Central Zhejiang province, where they spent a day doing simple cleaning chores and playing with the children. The majority of the children in the home suffer from some form of illness or disability and had been abandoned by their parents. WILLING HEARTS As part of our community engagement programmes to raise awareness of the needy in Singapore, about 10 DTC staff participated in voluntary work for half a day at the Chai Chee Willing Hearts Centre. Our staff helped to prepare and deliver lunch to the elderly beneficiaries around Singapore. 27 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles Report Section Report Page Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 Employee Welfare Pg. 17-19 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Ethical Sourcing Pg. 13 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 Employee Welfare GRI 102-41 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Ethical Sourcing Pg. 13 Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour Ethical Sourcing Pg. 13 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 Employee Development Pg. 20 occupation Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 Our Environment Pg. 14-16 environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 Our Environment Pg. 14-16 responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 Our Environment Pg. 14-16 friendly technologies Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 Ethics and Compliance Pg. 12 extortion and bribery DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Pg. 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pg. 1 102-3 Location of headquarters Pg. 4 102-4 Location of operations Pg. 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served Pg. 4 102-7 Scale of the organization Pg. 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pg. 20-22 102-9 Supply chain Pg. 14 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Pg. 14 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pg. 6-7 102-12 External initiatives Pg. 7 102-13 Membership of associations Pg. 7 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pg. 3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Pg. 1 102-18 Governance structure Pg. 8 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pg. 9 There is currently no Union within the Company. As signatories to the UN Global Compact we recognise 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements employees’ right to belong to unions, and we also follow the local Law in this regard. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pg. 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pg. 9 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pg. 10 For 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Pg. 12 Singapore only 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Pg. 4 102-47 List of material topics Pg. 10 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting Pg. 4 102-50 Reporting period Pg. 4 102-51 Date of most recent report Pg. 4 29 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Pg. 4 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Pg. 4 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Pg. 4 102-55 GRI content index Pg. 29-32 102-56 External assurance GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 12-13 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 12-13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 12-13 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Pg. 12-13 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 12 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 12 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-1 Pg. 12 local minimum wage GRI 204: Procurement Pratices 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 12 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 12 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Pg. 12 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 13 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Pg. 13 GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 13 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and 206-1 Pg. 13 monopoly pratices DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 16 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 16 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Pg. 16 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 17 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 17 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pg. 17 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Pg. 17 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 17-18 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 17-18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 17-18 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Pg. 17-18 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 14-15 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 14-15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 14-15 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Pg. 14-15 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 20-23 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 20-23 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 20-23 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Pg. 20-23 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 401-2 Pg. 20-23 to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Pg. 23 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 25 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 25 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 403-2 Pg. 25 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 31 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page No. Omission GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 24 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 24 404-1 Average hours of training per employee Pg. 24 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 22 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 22 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pg. 22 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 20 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 20 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Pg. 20 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 14-15 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 14-15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 14-15 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Pg. 14-15 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 13 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 416-2 Pg. 13 impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pg. 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Pg. 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pg. 13 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Pg. 13 DTC WORLD CORPORATION · 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 WWW.DTCWORLD.COM.SG
