UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) pervormance international 2020 COP 2020 Human Rights Labour COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Anti-Corruption pervormance international joined the UN Global Compact of the United Nations on October 23rd, 2012 and is expressly committed to the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anticorruption. This communication of progress shows our values, guidelines and measures in relation to the goals of the UN Global Compact. Ulm, october 2020 Gabriele Renner Sabine Stein CEO CEO WHAT IS OUR PURPOSE? Vision & Philosophy We transform heat climate friendly into performance, health and wellbeing PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN HUMAN RIGHTS. RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. HUMAN RIGHTS Respecting human rights and ensuring that we are not complicit Our company is specialized in innovative functional textiles in human rights abuses has been an obligation for us since the in the field of active cooling , in the area of occupational safety HUMAN RIGHTS company was founded. and health care. So we are helping to ensure that more and Although customers and suppliers, cooperation partners, banks more employees working in heat of more than 26°C are or interested investors have repeatedly demanded that we relieved of the problems of heat stress at high temperatures, relocate our textile production to low-wage countries for the both nationally and internationally. Thus, with our cooling purpose of further cost savings and price reductions. But we have apparel international standards in the area of climate refused to do so. requirements at the workplace can be fulfilled and people stay safe and healthy. Since even large corporations often have no control over the activities in many of these countries, and working conditions there Not only pervormance international but also our partners in are still often not compatible with UN human rights standards, manufacturing companies have a high proportion of women we, as a growing family business, cannot safely guarantee the not only in production, but also in management positions and protection of human rights there. top level management. As long as we cannot ensure that the chosen partners implements We specifically promote the area of women's empowerment in our guidelines, we will not take this step. cooperation with UN Women. Therefore we produce fabrics and our apparel in Germany and Europe. Here we know all production sites and their responsible persons personally, we have regular meetings with the responsible persons and their employees and can therefore guarantee that the principles of human rights for social standards in working conditions and non-discrimination are respected. PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF LABOUR FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR. PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR. PRINCIPLE 6: NO DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. LABOUR Communication in our company is guaranteed by a lean pervormance international signed the principles of the management philosophy, a female share of over 50% even Global Compact Women's Empowerment as 529th in leading positions and in the top management, high company in the world. transparency and a direct and open communication style. This means that pervormance international not only Due to our still manageable number of employees, guarantees compliance with labor standards, but also LABOUR communication with and among employees is thus goes beyond this in the promotion of women and in guaranteed. the area of flexibility of employment as demanded by many experts, politicians and in the Women's The integration of employees after a long period of illness Empowerment Principles of the UN Global Compact. has been carried out since 2013 by means of a gradual integration with flexible working hours. Soft drinks for all employees have been provided free of charge by the company since its foundation. Flexible working hours, especially for mothers with children, make it easier for them to work, although In case of no childcare, it is also possible to bring and supervise children, take vacation days or work from home. Especially this year with Covid-19 all employees were able to work from home. LABOUR As can be gathered from numerous publications, the According to international climate reports, the number of situation of human rights in the textile industry is still hot days is expected to double in the next years. unclear and unsatisfactory in many areas. Particularly in Therefore cooling apparel is an investment in health & the areas of child labor, forced labor, lack of employee occupational safety for employees now and in the future. participation rights and lack of compliance with labor pervormance international received recognition for this LABOUR standards, there is still no absolute guarantee of safety. technology and its development with the Prevention Prize of the German Employer's Liability Insurance Therefore, as already mentioned in the human rights Association for Trade and Goods Distribution and in 2018 section, we decided against relocating our production to pervormance internation got the Climate Protection Asia despite high price pressure in the textile industry and Prize 2019/2020 of the Senate of Economics. the cancellation of partners due to higher production costs in Europe. Our German and European suppliers are known In the last 2 years, we continued to increase exports and to us personally. Therefore we can easily check and targeted customers in hot countries (Asia/Middle East, guarantee the compliance with labor standards. South Africa, Australia), which are more affected by heat problems, in order to prevent the number of We develop, produce and distribute cooling textiles for heat-related accidents and illnesses as well as secondary warm and hot workplaces. Therefore we can contribute to diseases resulting from years of working in temperatures the preventive protection and health relief of employees in above 26°C or heat-related deaths. other companies at higher temperatures. This expansion will continue in 2021. PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES ENVIRON PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL MENT RESPONSIBILITY since 2013 PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES PROTECTION OF OUR ENVIRONMENT Pervormance international is actively engaged in the field Thus, pervormance is internationally active in the of prevention, sustainability and technology promotion as development and dissemination of environmentally well as innovation in environmental protection. According friendly technologies and has participated in the UN to publications such as the UN Climate Reports, climate ENVIRONMENT Global Compact event Caring for Climate as well as the change will lead to more and more intensive weather European event GC15+ in addition to the Leader's effects. One of the most devastating predictions will be Summit event in New York. made in terms of temperatures and heat waves. For the technology and development of its products, Not only does global warming pose many risks. Especially pervormance international received the Germany Land regionally, there will be more and more hot days, which of Ideas award, which is presented by the President of has already been confirmed in the hot summer of 2018 the Federal Republic of Germany. In order to make the and 2019. By 2020, the number of hot days is expected to production of our products as well as the entire company double in Europe alone. Other regions of the world are climate neutral, we have commissioned the agency already suffering from the extreme effects of heat. climate partner to analyze our company every year since With the development of our cooling technologies in the 2013 and to make it climate neutral each year. textile sector, we can act preventively in view of these visions for the future and protect people from the effects Through appropriate compensation measures with Gold of heat not only in hot workplaces, but also in the area of Standard, pervormance international has been working keeping the population healthy in a climate friendly way. climate neutrally since that time. A part of our fibers is Our technologies do not require any energy sources but produced by upcycling. Already from 2012 to 2013, 25% water, so no additional CO2 is produced. Conventional air of electricity consumption was saved through improved conditioning systems and other energy-dependent cooling energy-saving technologies and a more conscious use of technologies can thus be partially replaced or do not resources. Further measures were developed to further even have to be produced. According to climate partner's reduce energy consumption and thus CO2 emissions in analysis, this saves over 90% of CO2 emissions compared the future. to air conditioning systems. PROTECTION OF OUR ENVIRONMENT In 2019, the headquarters in Ulm was converted to 100% Since then over 5,000 trees were planted and the initiative natural electricity. Thanks to climate neutrality, companies will continue in 2021. can use our products to cool people without a carbon footprint and thus make a significant contribution to Pervormance international is also involved in the ENVIRONMENT environmental protection. pervormance international Plattform Umwelttechnik e.V., an initiative in Badenreceived the 2019/2020 climate protection award from the Württemberg. We are also a member of the Business Senate of Economics. does climate protection dialog forum of the German This organization, which includes more than 500 companies Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature in Germany and Austria and works with politicians and Conservation and Nuclear Safety. committed organizations in Germany and around the Here we are actively working in the area of Innovations world, is also actively involved in sustainability and climate for Climate Protection under the direction of Ernst protection policies. These activities also gave rise to the &Young (EY) on various forms of innovation in the context Alliance for Development and Climate of the Federal of climate protection, e.g. in the area of technological Ministry for Cooperation, headed by Federal Minister Gerd development, of production processes, but also with Müller, where pervormance international has been a regard to the development of new business areas, for supporter since 2018. example by recombining different products and services, taking into account the possibilities of digitalization. In addition, at the beginning of 2018, as part of the Trillion Trees campaign and the launch event in Monaco, we supported the children's organization Plant-for-the-Planet launched the initiative ulm-pflanzt-bäume.de in Ulm and presented it at the climate protection day in Ulm together with the unw (Ulmer Initiativkreis nachhaltige Wirtschaftsentwicklung e. V.) as well as the mayor of Ulm, the Volksbank Ulm-Biberach, the company Trivis and the German premier league basketball players of BB0 ratiopharm Ulm. CO2 REDUCTION We use natural power, upcycling of our fibers and reduce our CO2 footprint as much as possible. With our products, our customers save more than 90% THE FIRST CO2 compared to conventional air conditioning systems. CLIMATE NEUTRAL CO2 CALCULATION We calculate all CO2 emissions according to the TEXTILE Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (TÜV Austria approved). COMPANY CO2 COMPENSATION OF THE We are compensating all unavoidable emissions WORLD through the recognized Gold Standard project April Salumei in Papua New Guinea. There we preserve the CO2 storage and the local livelihood. PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK ANTIAGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, CORRUPTION INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. ANTI CORRUPTION ANTI CORRUPTION pervormance rejects corruption in all business In addition, every employee is obliged to avoid activities. activities and to report inquiries in which a conflict Business transactions will not be carried out if these of interest could arise. could only come about through breaches of the law. A renowned law firm is available to advise on The 4-eyes principle will be applied to the conclusion compliance problems, to draw attention to them, of contracts in order to avoid personal advantage. to review and to comply with standards. Transactions over 10.000.Euro require the approval of the management. CONVENIENCE AT THE EXPENSE OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND PEOPLE IS NOT COOLING TEXTILES CONVENIENCE AT ALL FOR A BETTER FUTURE heworld ecoolt #w UN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) GLOBAL October 2020 pervormance international GmbH © COMPACT pervormance international 2020 pervormance® international GmbH, Mühlsteige 13, 89075 Ulm, Germany, phone +49 (0)731 14071-0, fax +49 (0)731 14071-14, email info@e-cooline.de, web www.e-cooline.de
