ANNUAL INTEG RATED REPORT 2019 Transformation Rotoplas [ A N N U A L I N T E G R AT ED R EP O RT 2 0 19 ] MENU What is transformation? Transformation is about evolution and change, from the simplest aspects to the most complex. We change the way we do things and our cells renew so that we can continue to grow. Our capacity to transform ourselves goes further, so substantial that it forever divides before and after. We have transformed the water industry, here at Rotoplas. Now we are challenging ourselves once again. We are transforming ourselves from within to reach our maximum potential, to become the ally that addresses every water need with services and products of the highest quality. [ A N N U A L I N T E G R AT ED R EP O RT 2 0 19 ] MENU Table of We transform... Contents p.27 p.43 p.50 p.04 Key figures and milestones ideas into actions services and products our operation into experiences into efficiency Strategy Innovation, quality, and customer Operating efficiency p.07 Letter From the Chairman experience p.09 Letter From the CEO p. 12 Rotoplas at a glance p. 21 Report on the Sustainable Bond p.60 p.69 p.78 p.83 p.93 About this report talent into necessities into investment into decisions into passion opportunities results value p.95 GRI content index Human capital Availability of water and sanitation Economic results Corporate governance [ KEY FIGURES ] MENU REVENUES BY SOLUTION Key figures 7.7% services 92.3% products (GRI 102-7) 27 3 Product categories Service lines 2019 19 4 3,213 +11,500 Plants1 Distribution Employees Direct Customers centers2 (Distributors) EBITDA BY SOLUTION +27,500 +18,800 131 22,255 Points of sale Points of service million liters of million liters of 3.4% services (direct users) water purified wastewater treated 96.6% products $73 $8,086 $260 million Mexican pesos invested million Mexican pesos in revenues million Mexican pesos in net profit3 2019 in research and development 1 The difference compared to 2018 is due to the sale of the 3 rotomolding plants that we owned in the U.S. 2 Grupo Rotoplas plants also serve as distribution centers. 3 Net profit before discontinued operations. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 4 [ MILESTONES ] MENU • Appointment of Carlos • Renewal of the Board’s Rojas Aboumrad by the composition, including the Board of Directors as new appointment of three new CEO, as part of the members. Strengthening of succession plan and in order generational and gender to give continuity to the diversity; as well as an business development. increase of representation of other markets outside Mexico. • Inclusion for the first time • Adhesion to the CEO Water in the S&P/BMV Sustainable Mandate, an initiative Index of the Mexican Stock fostered by the United Nations Exchange, a national sample and comprised by a group of Milestones of the issuers with the best performance in sustainability matters. leading companies committed to encouraging water management and the wellbeing that this resource brings to society. • Launch of the Diversity • Alliance with Imagine H2O, • Creation of the Center of • Cash reimbursement to Policy, which encourages an internationally renowned excellence in user shareholders in the amount equal treatment and respect accelerator for water-related experience, to strengthen of $0.38 Mexican pesos per for every employee integrity. projects, to foster third-party the knowledge on how to use share. innovation. our solutions and incorporate them into innovation processes. January March April—June ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 5 [ M E VI E LEN ST TOOS NDEES S ]T A C A D O S ] MENU • Asset sale of three • Launch in Mexico of the • Startup of the first rotomolding plants in the “Gana más con Rotoplas” Electrochemical Advanced U.S., to focus our efforts on loyalty program, targeting Oxidation Plant resulting strengthening the plumbers and retailers, based from the partnership e-commerce platform. on the Club IPS program in agreement with the Advanced Argentina. Studies Research Center of the Instituto Politécnico Nacional (Cinvestav-IPN), • Development of the first • Launch of Flow, an • Launch of the Climate destined to sanitize the water edition of the Hablemos de organizational transformation Change Strategy, which of the Chalco Canal (Mexico agua open forum, organized program focused on the includes the company’s City). by Grupo Rotoplas, with the business’ growth and priorities for addressing the participation of experts in profitability. challenges and the water and climate change. opportunities that global warming brings. • Volunteer program in • Rotoplas was included for • Fitch ratified Grupo Mexico, where employees the third consecutive year Rotoplas’ ‘AA(mex)’ rating carried out a reforestation in the DJSI MILA Pacific with a stable outlook. activity in the Desierto de Alliance Index, which los Leones area. acknowledges the most sustainable companies in • ─S&P Global Ratings the region. confirmed the ‘mxAA-‘ rating with a stable outlook. July—September October—December ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 6 [ LETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN ] MENU Letter from the Executive Chairman (GRI 102-14, 102-15) This has been a key year for Grupo Rotoplas, as we have entered a new growth stage for the company. Supported by an intense organizational transformation program, we have bolstered our strategic focus on growth as well as profitability, while maintaining at the forefront our company purpose that has served as a guiding principle since the onset at Rotoplas: for people to have more and better water. On a personal note, 2019 has been especially important as I have passed the baton of CEO after 30 years to Carlos Rojas Aboumrad, as part of a succession plan that was previously announced. The decision was supported unanimously by the Board of Directors and will ensure continuity and sustainable development for Grupo Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco Rotoplas in the long term. Executive Chairman of the Board ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 7 [ LETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN ] MENU It has been an honor to build Rotoplas together with all of you to create We have made important progress this year, consolidating positions in the great company that it is today. It gives me enormous satisfaction markets where we operate. We are confident of our international strategy; to share our evolution and track record over the past three decades; we observe the evolution of each market, constantly strengthening our we have innovated and penetrated numerous markets with high-quality teams, and diversifying our portfolio to increase operating efficiency and products and services, while continuously improving technology as we provide clients with a higher-value experience. overcome market challenges. At Grupo Rotoplas, we maximize the way our solutions contribute to I am proud to see how Rotoplas has evolved from a company focused the development of society. We tackle the challenges of water access on a single product in Mexico City to a market leader with a range of and sanitation, especially in areas where infrastructure is insufficient water-focused products and services in 14 countries throughout the due to population growth. Americas. Today we are pioneers in green finance and recognized as a social, environmental and governance leader in Latin America. In line with our commitment as a sustainable company, we promote the efficient use of materials, renewable energies and design optimization I look forward with keen enthusiasm to sharing all my knowledge and of our products and services in accordance with the circular economy. experience to ensure the success of our CEO by providing support The incorporation of recycled resins in our processes highlights our to develop future business strategy from my position as Chairman innovation and technology as these materials maintain the same quality of the Board. as virgin resins. Likewise, we will continue to evaluate the water and carbon footprint of our operations and principal products to strengthen The long-term vision of Rotoplas in the current challenging scenario our actions to combat climate change. requires corporate governance that is diverse in profile, knowledge and experience. This is why, in 2019 twelve members of the Board of Directors With this report, we invite you to become further acquainted with our were ratified and three new directors were appointed. Under this new economic results and the shared social, environmental, and governance structure, we increase the participation of independent members value that we have created throughout the year. and achieve greater geographic diversity, in line with our operations. Likewise, we have progressed in our commitment with gender and generational diversity. Best regards, Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco Executive Chairman of the Board ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 8 [ LETTER FROM THE CEO ] MENU Letter from the CEO (GRI 102-14, 102-15) I’m very pleased to present the balance of an intense year of work, thanks to a firm commitment from the entire team at Grupo Rotoplas. In May, I took over as CEO, deeply honored and driven to continue contributing to the purpose of this Carlos Rojas great company, which I have been a Aboumrad CEO part of for over 15 years. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9 [ LETTER FROM THE CEO ] MENU After an extensive diagnosis of the Group in 2019, we launched Flow, results confirm the resilience of our business model, and I believe we are the organizational transformation program that creates a roadmap at a turning point with the company’s financial performance. for the coming years that allows us to strengthen our business model. Flow sets the primary goal of growing profitability, focused Continuing with a disruptive growth strategy, we have outlined three on optimizing ROIC and maintaining the guiding principles of key income sources for the coming years: the optimization of our sustainability, organizational health, innovation, customer/user current product portfolio, services in Mexico, and our e-commerce experience, and digital technology. platform in the United States. Flow develops a work culture that fosters innovation and continuous Throughout the year, we focused on our product line with a business improvement at every level of the company. Together with model that provided stability despite a lack of economic growth in the stakeholders, we coordinated technology skills to collaboratively region. Demand for these products is relatively inelastic since they explore and meet needs related to water in a decentralized and provide solutions to basic needs, such as access to water and sanitation. sustainable manner. With our services platform, our main motivation is to offer quality Within the analysis of our operations, we mapped asset performance by water solutions for companies and families that also decrease business unit and geography, developing action plans to trigger environmental impacts. During 2019, bebbia – a subscription-based growth or consider possible divestments. In the United States, we drinking water service – doubled the number of clients to over 18,000 closed a deal with a strategic ally for the sale of manufacturing points of purification. assets, while maintaining an appealing supply agreement for both parties. This divestment helped us strengthen our balance sheet Likewise, in our water treatment and recycling plants, we have and reduce our net debt position. diversified our client base, expanding our product supply to new industries and complementing our value proposition with rainwater In 2019, despite a challenging environment in Latin America, we increased harvesting and desalination. our EBITDA margin, improved ROIC, and optimized working capital. These ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 10 [ LETTER FROM THE CEO ] MENU As part of the relevant milestones and within the framework of our Finally, I believe we have all the Sustainability Strategy, we have identified the company’s principal risks and opportunities related to climate change, proposing a comprehensive tools and talent to capitalize on the strategy that contributes to the fight against global warming. global trends in the water industry Given our knowledge of efficient use of energy and materials based on the to propel a financially sustainable principles of the circular economy, we have made particular progress in the use of recycled resins to manufacture our storage products. business model that will lead to a positive effect on society and the The strong commitment to sustainability has enabled us to enter the Mexican Stock Exchange’s IPC Sustainable Index and be part of the environment. Dow Jones Sustainability MILA Pacific Alliance Index for the third consecutive year. Likewise, this year, we ratified our adhesion to the CEO Water Mandate, continued to progress in the implementation of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and sought to maximize our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Looking forward, we envision that the key to bolster our leadership in the countries where we operate is a deep understanding of clients, the Regards, expertise to develop decentralized solutions, innovation of our products Carlos Rojas Aboumrad and services, digital technology, and sustainability. CEO ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 11 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS At Grupo Rotoplas, we are leaders in the development of products and services to solve the challenges faced throughout the water cycle. Our solutions include storage, waterflow, sanitation, treatment, and recycling of this resource. Thus, we improve the quality and solve intermittent water supply, combining our expertise with the potential for innovation. Rotoplas at a Water is essential to life, and at Rotoplas glance we are committed to care for it, improving people’s day-to-day lives. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 12 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Values Service-oriented attitude Collaboration (GRI 102-2, 102-16) We identify the needs of our internal and We have a committed attitude, which external clients and focus our efforts on enables us to align our efforts and work achieving and surpassing the level of service with joint responsibility to achieve a they expect. common goal. Social and Environmental Humility mission I purpose For people to have more and Responsibility We display an attitude that enables us We are committed to generating actions to accept other points of view, valuing better water. that will foster the wellbeing, standard of the contributions that others make and living, and care for the environment in all encouraging constructive feedback. the communities where we are present. vision To offer non-centralized and sustainable water solutions, with relevant Passion for Business Integrity benefits to our customers, We share the conviction, enthusiasm, We act with honesty, fairness, and ethics, within the Rotoplas Way. and commitment to do our best and make being consistent in what we think, say, things happen. and do. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 13 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Solutions (GRI 102-2, 102-6) We offer the population a broad range of products and services, designed specifically for a better use of water. We reach our end users either directly or through our allies in distribution, retail, installation, and maintenance, sharing the value generation in the end-toend process. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 14 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Products STORAGE • Water tanks • Cisterns We offer products for water management in rural and • Industrial and agricultural • Storage tanks for Water and urban spaces, to meet the needs of storage, waterflow, Chemicals • Inductor tanks • Horizontal tanks • Feeders and improvement. We also have auto-sustainable solutions where, by combining various Rotoplas products, WATERFLOW AND PRESSURIZATION a system is created to solve a specific issue of the water • Pipes • Hydraulic Tuboplus pipe • Tuboplus Fortech-CT® pipe cycle, such as sanitation or rainwater harvesting. • Plastic Bolts and Connectors • Valves The primary clients are home improvement stores, hardware • Pumps • Hydropneumatic Systems • Centrifugal Pump stores, construction companies, non-government agencies • Peripheral Pump • Submersible Pump • Circulation Pump (NGOs), among others, through which the products • Sanitary Catch Pits solutions are made available to end users. IMPROVEMENT In 2019, we should note the overhaul of the storage • Heaters • Water Heaters • Heaters • Electric showers category, where we incorporated a change in the • Self-cleaning Biodigester manufacturing process, using induction, which • Filters • Standard Filter • Jumbo Filter • Refrigerator Water Filter translates into greater energy efficiency. • Tap Water Filter • Water Filter Jug • Water purifiers • Water purifiers • On-Sink Purifier • Under-sink Purifier • Reverse Osmosis Purifier • Water purifier and alkalinizer • Family-Orchard-Type Agricultural Irrigation System AUTO-SUSTAINABLE • Rural Rainwater Harvesting System • Urban water harvesting • Outdoor toilet with biodigester ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 15 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Services 1 With particular WATER TREATMENT AND For customers from various industries, we offer a water treatment plant design, construction, emphasis on users’ RECYCLING SERVICES operation, and maintenance plan to match needs, we provide: their hydric and wastewater needs. This solution contracts for the construction and can further be complemented with rainwater operation of water treatment plants. harvesting systems. • Wastewater Treatment Plants, Post-Industrial Water, and Pre-consumer Water • Water Purification Plants • Water desalinating plants • Rainwater harvesting systems for industries (complement for water treatment plant) MLE IANNTUEAGL RI A AI NNFNOUR A NTT EE D AE G RR DP O O2R0T1 92 0 1 9 16 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Services 2 With particular PURIFIED DRINKING The drinking water platform, under the bebbia brand, includes customized purification options that emphasis on users’ WATER SERVICES match the water quality in the end user’s location. It also considers the initial installation and periodic needs, we provide: maintenance of the selected solution. With this plan, subscription and monthly rental plan for we make drinking water available for homes, offices, the residential and institutional sector, and industries. in addition to drinking water fountains for schools. Moreover, we provide installation and maintenance of drinking water fountains in schools. • Residential and commercial; drinking water service (bebbia) • Drinking water fountains for schools During 2019, bebbia doubled its revenues and went from having a base of 8,500 purification points installed in 2018 to over 18,000 in 2019. Moreover, the platform is present in 107 municipalities in Mexico. MLE IANNTUEAGL RI A AI NNFNOUR A NTT EE D AE G RR DP O O2R0T1 92 0 1 9 17 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Distribution Channels (GRI 102-2, 102-6) We aim to make our solutions e-commerce platform in available anywhere and anytime users the United States require them, so we have diversified Products of different brands and suppliers the marketing options of our are sold through our websites. These product portfolio. websites are also supported by a specialized call-center and seven boutique stores, which Besides selling through third parties, organized retail, and other also act as showrooms and product specialists (e.g. hardware stores), we are adding direct product-pickup facilities. commercialization through our own e-commerce platform. Available in the U.S., this is a hybrid model evolving from physical sales to online sales. It includes the sale of third-party storage From Grupo Rotoplas, we manage both products for residential, industrial and agricultural use. commercialization and logistics. As for services, we have specialized commercial teams within the The platform is leader in online sales of company through which we cater to businesses, companies, and/ water storage products. or families directly. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 18 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS Our presence (GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6) The growing range of solutions that we offer, as USA a result of investments in innovation and the incorporation of companies identified as strategic, has strengthened our international presence1. We have worked on the consolidation of the solutions Mexico portfolio for each country, seeking synergies among Central America the various product categories based on the needs and potential of the different markets. In the case of services, we are maturing the offer Products in Mexico in order to spread it to the rest of the continent later, placing particular emphasis on Storage Brazil Peru and Brazil for the development of water Flow treatment and recycling plants. Peru Treatment & Heating Services Presence in 14 countries throughout Purification the American continent. Treatment & Recycling Argentina E-commerce 1 In 2019, the innovation centers in Canada and Chile ceased operations. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 19 [ ROTOPLAS AT A GLANCE ] FOCUS SOLUTIONS DISTRIBUTION OUR PRESENCE MENU CHANNELS The strategy in Mexico focuses on maintaining leadership in Within the water heater category, we launched a middle-range line products and boosting the service platform. Regarding products, to complement our initial offer focused on the premium segment. efforts have focused on improving the marketing models, processes In the United States, following the manufacturing asset sale of the for delivery to retailers, and end customer/user service. three rotomolding plants in July, we have focused on the e-commerce platform, due to its territorial scope and growth potential. In services, the water treatment and recycling plant portfolio of clients has been expanded to reach various industries. In In Peru, we maintain our market leadership in storage solutions purification, bebbia has reached 107 municipalities in Mexico and and we are working on the development of the waterflow segment, doubled its user base, totaling over 18,000 clients. supported by the export platform in Argentina and Mexico. Within the water heater marketing model, we should note installation In Argentina, we made progress in the management of IPS, a process, where we work with allies, managing to install 72% of waterflow company we acquired in 2018. We have placed special total orders in under 24 hours after the purchase. emphasis on increasing exports, as well as on making the operations more efficient and increasing our presence, always focused on In Central America, we continued with the efforts to develop the safeguarding the business’ profitability. heater offer, following the inroads we made in 2018, and we are exploring further diversification of the solutions solutions portfolio As part of the marketing strategy, we should note the cross-selling and business segments served. pilot tests where we use a model of single sales teams in charge of commercialization, technical assistance and collection involving Through our Acqualimp brand, in Brazil, we developed a new line all three categories (storage under the Rotoplas brand, waterflow of open water tanks, which enables us to offer a broader range of under IPS, and water heaters under the Señorial brand). products to retailers and strengthen our presence in the point of sale. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 20 [ REPORT ON THE AGUA 17X AND 17-2X SUSTAINABLE B OND ] MENU Report on the AGUA 17X and 17-2X Sustainable Bond At Grupo Rotoplas, we develop solutions for water and sanitation needs in the region and we favor the availability and quality of this resource for consumption in households, workplaces, and education centers. Moreover, through treatment, we enable the reuse and improvement of the conditions under which water returns to the environment. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 21 [ REPORT ON THE AGUA 17X AND 17-2X SUSTAINABLE B OND ] MENU In 2017, we issued the first sustainable bond in social and environmental impacts that will in turn As a highlight outside the Latin America1; this bond has had two issuances contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable (respectively, under tickers AGUA 17X and 17-2X), Development Goals (SDGs). period covered by this totaling $2 billion pesos. In 2018, we launched a reopening of the second issuance for an additional The Corporate Practices and Strategy Committee Report, we should note $1 billion pesos. In all three events, demand has oversees the selection of the projects to which that in February 2020, we exceeded the offer by close to four times. the resources from the Sustainable Bond will be allocated, and it is comprised by 3 independent held the second The goal of raising funds is to finance and refinance board members. The resources obtained are reopening of the AGUA sustainable initiatives that improve access to water destined to the development of solutions under and sanitation. The bond’s framework is aligned to 4 categories, depending on the objective they 17-2X issuance for a total the Green Bond and Social Bond Principles, as well seek: 1) Drinking water supply, 2) Water storage, as to the guidelines for Sustainable Bonds, and 3) Sanitation and domestic wastewater treatment, of $1.6 billion pesos, was rated by Sustainalytics as the independent and 4) Wastewater treatment and recycling. where demand exceeded third party. By the end of 2019, we had used 80.5% of the net the offer by 3.04 times. The corporate bond program has enabled us to resources obtained through the Sustainable bond We will report on the use strengthen the long-term financial structure. issuances. Of the sum used, 18.5% was destined The use of the resources has aligned to the to drinking water solutions (Category 1) and the of said resources in the company’s Sustainability Strategy, committing to remainder 62.0%, to water and wastewater the development of water solutions with positive treatment (Category 4). next Sustainable Bond review. 1 Drafted in line with the framework of the International Capital Market Association (ICMA): Green Bonds Principles and Social Bonds Guidelines for the issuance in 2017; the reopening in 2018 was carried out in line with the Green and Social Bonds Principles and Sustainability Bonds Guidelines (once the full framework was published). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 22 [ REPORT ON THE AGUA 17X AND 17-2X SUSTAINABLE B OND ] MENU Below, we present the main indicators related to the use of these resources and the results by solution. These CATEGORY 4 figures are the accrued allocation of resources since the first projects in 2016. Water and wastewater treatment CATEGORY 1 PURPOSE Drinking water solutions To improve water quality and increase efficiency in the use through recycling and reusing wastewater, for instance, wastewater treatment and recycling PURPOSE plants, acquisition of technology for treatment, To provide access to clean water for people in a recycling, and purification. situation of scarcity or where tap water is not safe to drink; for instance, through drinking water fountains, water filters, and purifiers. 22,254,825,600 liters 4.1 Treated water 7,789,188,960 liters 4.2 Reused water 1.1 Purified water (liters of 130,901,747 liters purified water for human consumption) The amount of reused water shows a 35% rate of reutilization on 1.2 Children benefited the total of treated water. 1,147,962 children (students) (school enrolment) 1.3 People benefited by 123,864 people the drinking water service (dispensers and purifiers)2 2 It is obtained from the total dispensers as at December 2019 * average number of users per dispenser; likewise for purifiers. 1.4 Reduction of CO2 21,077 tons emissions compared to 3 It Is obtained from the total liters purified divided by 0.5 to identify the number of 500ml bottles and multiplied by 82.8 grams of CO2 per bottle, and the result is converted from grams to tons. PET bottled water3 Finally, the amount of emissions in tons generated by Rotoplas’ purification solutions are subtracted from the avoided tons. 4 It is obtained from the number of drinking fountains installed * average days of operation (up to The amount of purified water translates into the sum of the December 2019) * average number of users * average water consumption per user per day. operation of our drinking water fountains (since the first installations 5 Water treated in the dispensers: average number of dispensers in the year * average daily in 2016)4, dispensers, and purifiers (institutional and domestic consumption per dispenser (obtained from meters in dispenser sample) * 365 days of the year. Water treated in the purifiers: average number of purifiers in the year * average daily consumption drinking water service, respectively, since 2017)5. per purifier (obtained from meters in purifier sample) * 365 days in the year. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 23 [ SUSTAINABLE B OND CERTIFICATION LETTER ] MENU Grupo Rotoplas SAB Sustainable bond Type of engagement: Annual Review Date: March 2020 Certification letter Project Lead: Jonathan Laski, Project Manager, jonathan.laski@sustainalytics.com, +1(647) 264 6640 Introduction In 2017, Grupo Rotoplas SAB (“Rotoplas”) issued a sustainability bond aimed at financing and refinancing environmentally and socially beneficial projects. In March 2020, Rotoplas engaged Sustainalytics to review the projects funded through the issued sustainability bond and provide an assessment as to whether the projects met the Use of Proceeds criteria and the Reporting commitments outlined in the Rotoplas Sustainability Bond Framework. Evaluation Criteria Sustainalytics evaluated the projects and assets funded in 2017, 2018 and 2019 based on whether the projects and programmes: 1. Met the Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework; and 2. Reported on at least one of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for each Use of Proceeds criterion outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. Table 1 lists the Use of Proceeds, Eligibility Criteria, and associated KPIs. Table 1: Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria Use of Proceeds Eligibility Criteria Potential Impact Indicators 1. Drinking Water Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the clean water for individuals in areas Solutions need for such infrastructure in various that lack water supply or where tap water is unsafe to drink; communities • Number of water fountains installed • Number of schools benefitted • Volume of water (m3) purified 2. Water Storage Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the water for households or need for such infrastructure various commercial facilities in watercommunities scarce areas or areas lacking • Volume of water (m3) captured/stored reliable water supply; 3. Sanitation and Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the Sewage adequate sanitation facilities in need for such infrastructure various Treatment areas with underdeveloped sewage communities infrastructure; • Number of sustainable bathrooms installed by region • Number of self-clean biodigesters installed by region • Number of households benefitted 4. Water and Projects that improve water quality • Descriptions of projects including the Wastewater and increase water-use efficiency need for such infrastructure various Treatment through water recycling and reuse; communities • Volume of water (m3) treated/recycled © Sustainalytics 2020 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 24 [ SUSTAINABLE B OND CERTIFICATION LETTER ] MENU Annual Review Annual Review Rotoplas Rotoplas • Metrics on improvements in water quality e.g. Biochemical Oxygen Appendix 1: Impact Reporting by Eligibility Criteria Demand (BOD) Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Environmental Impact Reported by Eligibility Criteria Criteria Category (Cumulative, until December 31, 2019) Issuing Entity’s Responsibility 1. Drinking water solutions Rotoplas is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details of the projects that have been funded, including description of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, Litres of water purified 130,901,747 and project impact. Independence and Quality Control Children benefited through the 1,147,962 installation of water fountains Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, (school enrolment) conducted the verification of Rotoplas’ Sustainability Bond Use of Proceeds. The work undertaken as part of this engagement included collection of documentation from Rotoplas’ employees and review of documentation People benefitted from PoU 123,864 to confirm adherence to the Sustainability Bond Framework. purification (users) Sustainalytics made all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process and Tons of avoided CO2 emissions 21,077 enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to oversee the process. versus bottled water made from PET Conclusion 4. Water and Wastewater Treatment Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted,1 nothing has come to Sustainalytics’ attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the reviewed bond projects, funded through proceeds of Litres of water treated 22,254,825,600 Rotoplas’ Sustainability Bond, are not in conformance with the Use of Proceeds and Reporting Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. Rotoplas has disclosed to Sustainalytics that 80.5% of the proceeds of Litres of water reused 7,789,188,960 the sustainability bonds were allocated as of December 31, 2019. Detailed Findings Table 2: Detailed Findings Eligibility Criteria Procedure Performed Factual Findings Error or Exceptions Identified Use of Proceeds Verification of the projects funded by All projects reviewed None Criteria the sustainability bond in 2017 and complied with the Use of 2018 to determine if projects aligned Proceeds criteria. with the Use of Proceeds Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework and above in Table 1. Reporting Verification of the projects funded by All projects reviewed None Criteria the sustainability bond in 2017 and reported on at least one 2018 to determine if impact of KPI per Use of Proceeds projects was reported in line with the criteria. KPIs outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework and above in Table 1. For a list of KPIs reported please refer to Appendix 1. 1 Sustainalytics limited assurance process includes reviewing the documentation relating to the details of the projects that have been funded, including description of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, and project impact, which were provided by the Issuer. The Issuer is responsible for providing accurate information. Sustainalytics has not conducted on-site visits to projects. 2 3 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 25 [ SUSTAINABLE B OND CERTIFICATION LETTER ] MENU Annual Review Annual Review Rotoplas Rotoplas Disclaimer Sustainalytics © Sustainalytics 2020. All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm reproduced, transmitted or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of that support investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment Sustainalytics. strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading issuers, from The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for second-party responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the Climate Bonds form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the development and Opinion and/or the information provided in it. verification of their frameworks. In 2015, Global Capital awarded Sustainalytics “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Ratings Firm” and in 2018 and 2019, named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider. The firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that the as well as Environmental Finance in 2018, and in 2019 was named the “Largest Approved Verifier for Certified information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. Climate Bonds” by the Climate Bonds Initiative. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan for its Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or contribution to the growth of the Japanese Green Bond Market. implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation and monitoring. 4 5 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 26 [ STRATEGY ] MENU We transform ideas into actions Under the premise for people to have more and better water , we seek to generate a positive impact that transcends and contributes to more sustainable societies. más sustentable. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 27 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS • Open innovation • Focus on sustainability Organizational • Synergies in the portfolio • Talent transformation • Expense control • Operating efficiency development • Distribution capacity Our path as a company is marked by the offer Thus, in late 2019, the Flow Program was FLOW of innovative and high-quality solutions, the launched, with the initial goal of increasing the internationalization of operations, and the return on invested capital (ROIC) to the levels • Development of business cases diversification of the portfolio to products and of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), • Cost-benefit ratio • Prioritization of initiatives services. Likewise, in the last four years, we prioritizing the creation of economic value and • Diligences in execution have incorporated some companies into the thus contributing to the business’ sustainability • Monitoring by top management Group through acquisitions to complement and in time. • Multidisciplinary-interarea strengthen our presence. talent integration MAIN PILLARS OF THE During 2019, a new way of operating was outlined, TRANSFORMATIONAL PROGRAM, FLOW: which will give us the strength to face the coming • Increase the profitability of the current years. This will be done through an organizational portfolio through revenue, cost, and working transformation program that is based on our capital levers. track record and recurring operations, but that • Execute growth initiatives, fine-tuning capital Leadership Growth also meets the needs of a larger company, with a allocation decisions. complete portfolio of solutions and presence in • Improve organizational health addressing various markets. change management, accountability, and identifying main areas of opportunity through Profitability Capacities surveys. Client/user orientation ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 28 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS Flow Transformation Program The initial stage of the Flow Program was a comprehensive diagnosis of the company to locate areas of opportunity and levers to maximize profitability and boost growth. Subsequently, all the Group’s areas participated in defining the new initiatives, which are backed by a business case quantifying the economic return. Said business cases were put to test to prove their viability. Finally, the areas in charge of the work were aligned, as were the support ENHANCE PERFORMANCE GROWTH INITIATIVES IMPROVE ORGANIZATIONAL teams and the timeline for the milestones. OF CURRENT PORTFOLIO HEALTH The program also includes a new work discipline emphasizing the Revenue levers Improve quality and Change management monitoring of each stage, from the idea stage to the implementation • Price & volume optimization execution on growth and quantification of the impact achieved. opportunities Project diligence and Cost levers accountability As part of the Flow initiatives and within the capital allocation • Material procurement Main opportunities Organizational climate decisions, in July, the manufacturing assets of the three U.S. plants • Manufacturing efficiency • Cross Selling • Distribution costs • Boost the water-as-a-service revision through OHI and were sold to focus efforts on the e-commerce platform in that optimization platform GPTW Surveys country. Moreover, the transaction contributed to strengthen the • Bolster growth of the balance sheet and increase returns on invested capital (ROIC). Working capital levers e-commerce platform • Inventory levels optimization The set of initiatives implemented throughout the year under Flow • Customization of accounts Improve capital allocation led to a 250 bp increase in ROIC by yearend 2019. receivable & accounts payable decisions policies 1 More information in the section called Our Presence (chapter Rotoplas at a glance). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 29 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS TO D AY Business model Products Services E V O LU T I O N (GRI 103-2, 103-3) Residential Commercial Water Purifying Schools B2C At Grupo Rotoplas, our goal is to facilitate access we offer diagnoses, advisory, installation and to decentralized water and sanitation solutions maintenance services, and customer service. As Maintenance that improve people’s quality of life. for services, our offer is unique and innovative, and Service +18,000 points of treatment, as it covers a drinking water platform under a recycling and purification In the last few years, we have driven the growth subscription and monthly rental model, known as B2D of the service platform and strengthened the bebbia. Furthermore, it includes the installation e-commerce product portfolio with ongoing innovation. Our and maintenance of drinking water fountains, current conception of the water solutions bets on as well as contracts for the design, construction, Water treatment an integral value offer and the achievement of operation, and maintenance of water treatment and recycling Products B2B customer satisfaction. and recycling plants. +27,500 points of sale Within the products business line, we are present With these solutions, Rotoplas becomes a reliable in various points of interaction during the user’s partner to meet the needs of a society concerned Treatment experience. Thus, directly or through our allies, with water quality and environmental protection. & heating Storage Water flow B2B business to business B2C business to consumer B2D business to distributor ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 30 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS Our business model is based on the identification and understanding • The detection of a need stresses the discovery of points that of users’ needs. However, in order to be able to deliver a higherare relevant to the end user, based on the various ways in quality experience, we have done an in-depth analysis of our which that user interacts with water. operating method, triggering changes in our processes, our market approach, and our relations with our value chain. • The design of the solutions focuses on the added value for the user, either in the home or industry, targeting ongoing In the year, we began to create the User Experience Center of improvements based on innovation. Excellence, to institutionalize the understanding of our users through innovation methodologies, data analytics and the identification of • Agile iteration consists in generating viable prototypes that design opportunities. Moreover, this center’s mission is to promote go on to be validated by the user, so feedback is obtained a client/user-focused culture within the company. during the design process, ensuring a delivery of value for users. We have integrated the user focus into our various Macroprocesses. • Selecting and interacting with suppliers seeks to develop In the case of Innovation to Market (ITM), this outlook extends top-quality products, including the joint work on innovating to the various stages, from detecting the need, to understanding raw materials. the user, designing our solutions, agile iteration, marketing through various channels, service during the user experience, and monitoring • Product manufacturing, we work in strict adherence to quality customer satisfaction levels. standards, focused on process efficiency and the knowledge provided by the company’s experience. • Distribution to market is done through multiple channels. Regardless of whether marketing is direct (services) or through third parties (products), we ensure that users have at their disposal the most adequate solution for their needs. • We reinforce users’ experience with the installation and/or maintenance through specialized third parties, whom we support with training and development plans. 2 Greater detail in the section on Innovation management (Chapter on Innovation, Quality, and Efficiency). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 31 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS S A LE S A N D D I S T R I B U T I O N C H A N N EL S Organized trade: including self-service stores, department stores, price clubs, and convenience stores. Retail: including hardware, plumbing, finishes, materials, and retail stores. Direct: marketing our solutions through Rotoplas direct sales. Distributors: sales points devoted to marketing products for construction in general (government and construction sales). e-commerce: marketing through online platforms. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 32 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS Ojo de agua Technological platform for The integrality of the experience that we aim Drinking water fountains for public spaces, identification, sampling, users to have is particularly noteworthy in: particularly schools, parks, and hospitals. We provide diagnosis, installation, and maintenance and algorithmic prediction Drinking water service, under the bebbia brand. through a network of local technicians who have of the amount of water per We provide residential or corporate/institutional been trained by Grupo Rotoplas. geographic point in Mexico. purification equipment under a monthly subscription It enables us to provide plan. Rent includes a diagnosis of water quality, Water treatment and recycling plant service. We specific and customized installation, and maintenance, as well as the are in charge of designing and building treatment periodic replacement of filter cartridges through a plants for various industries, in addition to solutions for each client network of external specialists who receive training operating them and giving maintenance with our within the water as a service from Rotoplas. own specialized personnel. platform (bebbia, water drinking fountains, and water We offer a customized solution, as we consider Water harvesting service for large rooftops a treatment and recycling the water characteristics in each location. This novelty this year. We calculate average rainfall is possible due to the development of Ojo de and the amount of rainwater harvested based on plants). agua, Grupo Rotoplas’ own intelligence platform, the geographic region; thus, we design and offer which has a database on the hydric resource rainwater harvesting solutions to supply industrial quality in different geographic areas of Mexico. warehouses, shopping centers, and supermarkets, among others. We complement this offer with water treatment and recycling solutions. Thus, we help clients to diversify their supply sources. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 33 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS Our products and services position us as a solid use efficiency and the possibility of reuse through company, key supplier of water and sanitation, treatment and recycling; in this way, we contribute with solutions present throughout the water to the reduction of extraction from the natural cycle. We contribute to water accessibility through environment and to ensure that water discharge is storage and waterflow. Moreover, we facilitate its done in favorable conditions for the environment. Availability and Storage water harvesting water arrival to the provisioning to people, distribution point in industries and adequate conditions communities from the water source: Potabilization superficial / shallow necessary quality for human consumption Distribution Reinsertion to the flow towards water environment GRUPO ROTOPLAS networks and human reuse IN THE WATER CYCLE consumption Treatment Use pollutants removal immediate availability from the wastewater for its use and consumption Sewage wastewater disposal ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 34 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS Sustainability Strategy andy progress (GRI 102-13, 102-16, 102-18, 102-20, 102-21, 102-22, 102-26, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) Contributing to sustainability is an essential part of the foundation of the way we operate and the purpose of the company. It is present in the whole of our relations with our stakeholders through a comprehensive value generation scheme all of them. Four years ago, we materialized that understanding through our Sustainability Strategy, co-designed with the involvement, with the involvement of various areas, and based on the materiality study with direct consultation among our stakeholders. This strategy has served as a roadmap of our performance and it has strengthened trust in the company. Its implementation goes hand in hand with the commitment and involvement of the senior management and all the employees, also supported by the development of policies, procedures, and corporate guidelines. Below, we list the 4 focal points that comprise the Strategy1, in turn integrated by their lines of actions, under which a broad set of initiatives are organized. In turn, they have the leadership and participation of several of the company’s areas. Following are the main milestones in the year: 1 The detail of areas and lines of action comprising our Sustainability Strategy is available at: https://rotoplas.com/sustentabilidad/sustainability-model/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 35 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS FOCAL POINT 1 C o r p o ra t e s u s t a i n a b i l i t y g o v e r n a n c e • Design of progress indicator scorecard • Report from the Sustainability of the Sustainability Strategy. Committee to the Corporate and Strategic Practices Committee. • Reporting route approach for environmental, social and governance • Creation of processes for the resolution indicators. of cases of gender violence. • Design of the Strategy for Climate • Revision and launch of the Code of Change, which depends on the Ethics and of Conduct, with a training Sustainability Strategy. course for employees. • Launch of the Diversity Policy. • Intensification of the scope of the Sustainability Strategy in Peru and • Implementation of the training program Argentina. on risks, sustainability, and Corporate Governance for the Board of Directors. • Ratification as members of the DJSI MILA Pacific Alliance; our rating • Quarterly presentation of the increased by 45%. company’s sustainability results to employees and investors. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 36 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS FOCAL POINT 2 C o l l a b o ra t i v e i n n o v a t i o n w i t h p u r p o s e • Development of program with suppliers • Energy efficiency projects at to generate recycled resins to be rotomolding and compounds plants incorporated as a raw material. (e.g. thermal sleeves on gas injectors). • Partnership with universities, research • Development of blowmolding process centers, and other agencies. 58 players to manufacture water tanks, as it is linked to innovation during the year. more efficient in energy and water requirements. • $72.9 million Mexican pesos invested in research and development. • Greater efficiency in the logistics delivery of orders with the operation of • Creation of the user experience Center the RTMS (Rotoplas Transportation of Excellence and joint work with the Management System). new Business Model Lab. • Internal environmental audits at work • Alliance with Imagine H2O, an centers to detect and prioritize issues internationally-renowned accelerator for to be addressed. water-related projects, to foster thirdparty innovation. • Continuity of fuel substitution program in the rotomolding process, in order to • We were selected to host and devolp a achieve efficiency improvements and challenge under the Imagine H2O program. reduce emissions. • Start of operation of solar panels at 5 plants. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 37 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS FOCAL POINT 3 Driving economic and social development • Diversification of industries served with • Rainwater harvesting solutions: the wastewater treatment service. +1,390,000 people benefitted to date. • Integration of insights and experience • Participation in the main project for in communities into User Experience installing rainwater harvesting systems Center of Excellence processes in Mexico City, through a collaboration with Isla Urbana. Expected installation • Boosting the drinking water service of 100,000 systems in 6 years. (bebbia); doubling the number of users. • Launch of the plumber loyalty program, • Marketing of the rainwater harvesting “Gana más con Rotoplas” (Earn more system for large rooftops (industrial and with Rotoplas), which includes training. commercial). • Strengthening of the plumber training • Serving drinking water needs at schools program in Mexico and Central America, through the drinking fountain service. with 5,768 plumbers trained. 1,147,962 children and teenagers benefited to date. • Collaboration with organizations in Mexico, Peru, Argentina, Brazil, and • Sanitation solutions: +817,000 people Guatemala in high-impact projects for benefited to date. access to water and sanitation. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 38 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS FOCAL POINT 4 S a fe g u a rd i n g w a t e r a s a re s o u rc e fo r t h e f u t u re • First edition of Hablemos de agua (Let’s • Redesign of the “Fan del Agua” (“Water talk water), a forum organized by Fan”) platform to increase its dynamism Grupo Rotoplas, where experts speak and the content it communicates. about various water issues. • Collaboration with agua.org, the second • Institutional campaign to spread the Spanish-speaking most visited site on concept of water footprint. water topics. • Launch of a short information capsules • Implementation of awareness talks series “El futuro ahora” (“The future with customers of the wastewater now”), tips for the use and care of treatment service. water “H&H Aconseja” (“H&H Recommends”), hydric footprint • Volunteering in community-awareness measurement “Empieza por Algo” and water-body cleaning. 100 (“Start somewhere”). All this under the employees participated in actions framework of “Cuenta con cada gota” carried out in Mexico, Guatemala, (“Make every drop count”) in alliance and Peru. with Discovery Networks. • Participation in forums with an impact • Design and execution of a plan for the on water and sanitation. adoption and sensitization in water awareness as part of the purified • Diversification of Grupo Rotoplas’ drinking water service at institutions. communication channels and websites, based on our geographic presence. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 39 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In compliance with the corresponding policy, the (environmental, social, and governance) topics, and Sustainability Committee coordinates the execution we set the guidelines to maximize value creation of the initiatives established in the Sustainability and distribution to our stakeholders. It is further Strategy and supervises their progress. complemented by other specific policies for the Sustainability Hygiene, Workplace main matters related to our operations. Policy Security and This year, we strengthened our management Environment Policy approach by defining a related scorecard and The set of related policies and procedures creates monitoring progress through indicators. Additionally, a management system which is key for the in the Committee meetings, the concerns of the alignment of our employees in the exercise of their various stakeholders are presented, the operation activities and in the relationship with the different contexts are analyzed, and the company’s main stakeholders. Moreover, we invite our suppliers, Climate Change Human Rights impacts, risks, and opportunities regarding the distributors, plumbers, and other members of the Policy Policy various topics related to sustainability are resolved. value chain to join in the commitments we declare in the policies, as well as to declare their adherence The Committee is composed of representatives to the Code of Ethics and of Conduct. from various areas of the company that own initiatives included in the Sustainability Strategy, Our employees receive training in sustainability Diversity Sustainable as well as the leaders designated in each country through talks with the various work areas, provided Policy Purchases Policy to follow-up the Strategy. It is chaired by the by the sustainability team; likewise, newcomers to Vice President of Sustainability and Institutional the company receive training during their induction Business, who reports the main results of the process. Last, the sustainability leaders in each strategy to the Corporate Practices and Strategy country are responsible for taking a more in-depth Committee, which in turn brings noteworthy approach in the training, based on the needs and Institutional Anticorruption aspects to the notice of the Board of Directors. context of each operation. Relations Policy Policy Through the Sustainability Policy, we express our understanding and collective commitment to ESG You may view the policies at: https://rotoplas.com/sustentabilidad/ policies-and-certificates/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 40 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS At Grupo Rotoplas, we identify our stakeholders considering a Customers multivariable analysis, which includes their prioritization from the dual approach of the impact caused on them by our operations, but also of their influence on our activity and on the achievement of our business goals and targets. For the various stakeholders, Community Employees we also determine the key agencies and players in the interaction, in accordance to the Policy on Institutional and Stakeholder Engagement Policy. Stakeholders In all cases, we understand the relationship from the mutual generation shared value. Through our business model, corporate strategy, and operations, we aim to contribute to the socioeconomic Authorities Suppliers development and environmental protection of our surroundings. and regulatory bodies You may view our value proposition for each stakeholder, the communication channels, and the key topics we identify through each interaction at: https://rotoplas.com/sustentabilidad/rtp_ resources/descargas/stakeholders.pdf Financial Board of community Directors and its internal bodies ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 41 [ STRATEGY ] OR G ANIZ ATIONAL BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MENU TRANSFORMATION AND PROGRESS At Grupo Rotoplas, we are an active part of our Linked to water and sanitation, and other We should note that, during the year, we chaired sector, as well as of the overall entrepreneurial and environmental aspects Aquafondo—the water fund for Lima and Callao— innovation community, in the various countries • Aquafondo – The water fund for Lima and as part of our commitment to the issue in the where we operate, while also being recognized as Callao (Peru) country, and with the aim to strengthen the experts in water and sanitation matters. We • Consejo Consultivo del Agua CCA (Water creation of alliances. Moreover, represented by our understand that our commitment to sustainability Advisory Board, Mexico) Chairman of the Board, Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco, is shared by other organizations, and we seek to • Consejo Consultivo de Finanzas Verdes, Bolsa we participated in The Nature Conservancy and build bridges to work collectively on the challenge Mexicana de Valores (Green Finance Advisory Fundación Gonzalo Río Arronte in Mexico, which of sustainable development, including the Board, Mexican Stock Exchange) work to preserve natural resources as a guarantee achievement of SDGs. • Consejo de Cuenca de la Península del Yucatán for future generations. CCPY (Basin Committee of the Yucatan We should note our participation in the following Peninsula, Mexico) organizations: • Edge Advisory Board, Duke University (U.S.) • Foro Argentino del Agua, FAdA (Argentine Water Business and sector Forum) • Associação Brasileira dos Fabricantes de • International Water Association (IWA) Materiais para Saneamento, ASFAMAS (Brazil) • Cámara Guatemalteca de la Construcción, CGC With a comprehensive approach to (Guatemalan Chamber of Construction) sustainability • Cámara Nacional de la Industria de la • Alianza por la Sustentabilidad (Alliance for Transformación, CANACINTRA (National Sustainability, Mexico) Chamber of the Transformation Industry, • Global Compact Network Mexico Mexico) • Confederación Patronal de la República Others: Mexicana, COPARMEX (Confederation of • Instituto Trata Brasil (ITB) Business Owners) • OTT network Mexico ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 42 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] MENU We transform services & products into experiences In Rotoplas we innovate in each of the solutions we create by following the highest quality standards so that our users can count on every drop. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 43 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU Innovationla management For Grupo Rotoplas, innovation is an open and inclusive process, (GRI 102-12, 103-2, 103-3, 201-4, 203-1) built collaboratively among all the areas that integrate the company. Alliances with the academia and other organizations linked to innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as the incorporation of the needs and vision of clients and users, are essential to strengthen Innovation is essential to this process. The Innovation Policy presents our guiding principles on the matter. our value proposal for clients and users (henceforth We seek to develop products, services, and business models that will foster an efficient management of the water resource, and that clients), developing solutions will also contribute to economic and social development, while safeguarding the environment. to meet their needs and The sustainability criteria also guide innovation in the processes incorporate state-of-the-art and in our operating performance to reduce or eliminate negative technology. externalities that we may be generating directly or in the value chain; for instance, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from product distribution. In the year, we allocated $72.9 million Mexican pesos to research and development. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 44 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU To foster creative capacity and keep our employees informed, we have the following tools and channels: • Innovation Fridays • Research, Development, and Innovation bulletin • Open spaces for sharing ideas Focused on our client orientation, at yearend, we launched the User Experience Center of Excellence. Based on a study of our current and potential clients, and data analytics, it will reinforce the identification of needs, materializing them in design guidelines that will be passed on to the teams in charge of developing the solutions. It will work in coordination with the Lab for New Business Models and our Innovation Center in Leon, the latter of which specializes in materials. We will also be keeping an eye on the particularities of each of the markets and geographies we serve. Moreover, we contribute to the development of the innovation ecosystem regarding water and sanitation through alliances and participation in third-party programs. Such is the case of our support to the Mexican network of Technology Transfer Offices (OTT). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 45 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU We followed up on the research projects that we have been working On the other hand, we established an alliance with ImagineH2O, on since the last few years, in collaboration with various centers, one of the most important accelerators worldwide in waterand incorporated new collaboration agreements and joint effort related projects. Under this partnership framework, we acted initiatives: as jury in the international Urban Water Challenge (UWC) 2019 competition, which awards ideas that tackle the problem Continuing the development of the desalination system in of water availability, granting commercial deployment and collaboration with the Mexican Institute of Water Technology technological pilots. (IMTA, for its Spanish acronym), for which Grupo Rotoplas received $2.48 million pesos from the Institutional Fund for During 2019, we launched 19 new products in our portfolio Regional Development through the Promotion of Science, which, in their different versions, translate into over 200 Technology, and Innovation (FORDECyT, for its Spanish references. We are also placing special emphasis on the acronym), of which we have already used 33% by yearend 2019. incorporation of IoT (Internet of Things) into the solutions we offer. We have started with the equipment of the drinking Signing of collaboration agreement with the Center for water service (bebbia), industrial water treatment, and storage Research and Advanced Studies of the National Polytechnic products. The goal is for users to be able to obtain the main Institute (CINVESTAV, for its Spanish acronym) to progress in data, becoming empowered to make consumption decisions, the development of an advanced electrochemical oxidation and being better informed of the state of their products. system destined to the treatment of polluted waters, which Thus, we have established alliances with the Purdue School we also started implementing at 2 pilot plants in Xochimilco, of Engineering and Technology (IUPUI) and engineering and (Mexico). software firms, allocating $3 million pesos. This is only the beginning of great advances for the coming years. Joint work with the Research Center for Applied Chemistry (CIQA, for its Spanish acronym), to formulate recycled resins using post-consumption materials. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 46 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU Quality At Grupo Rotoplas, we deliver excellent products and services, resulting from our commitment to clients and users, the work (GRI 103-2, 103-3) with suppliers, and the high standards both of production and of service during the stage of use. All our manufacturing plants operate in adherence with the Quality Policy and the international standard ISO 9001; additionally, 15 of them are certified on the norm, including those in Mexico, Guatemala, Peru and one out of two plants of IPS in Argentina. As a corporate best practice we monitor compliance with standards through internal audits performed by the quality department and by specialized third parties. For the products, we consider the technical standards of each country, whose compliance we confirm through independent certifications. We should note the certification of storage, waterflow, and purification solutions in Mexico and Central America. As for the heaters, in Argentina, they are certified by the Argentinian Gas Institute (IGA, for its Spanish acronym). S TA N D A R D C ERT I FI ED S I T E S ISO 9001:2015 1. Lerma 9. Golfo 2. Leon rotomolding 10. Pacífico 3. Leon injection 11. Sureste 4. Peru 12. Tuxtla 5. Compuestos 13. Guatemala 6. Monterrey 14. IPS 1 7. Anáhuac 15. IPS 2 8. Guadalajara ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 47 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU Customerla experience (GRI 103-2, 103-3, 203-2, 416-1, 417-1) Since our first years of operation, at Grupo To serve our distributors and retailers, we Rotoplas, we have been concerned with how our have developed the Rotoplas Transportation clients use the solutions and with their degree of Management System (RTMS) which, through the satisfaction with the products, working closely with website, enables them to place orders and track retailers and plumbers. Through the development them. The system makes it possible to plan the of the service line, we strengthen our connection, delivery considering the optimal logistic route. It participating directly throughout the use phase. has already been implemented at all the plants in We have evolved towards the comprehensive Mexico and we expect to spread it to our centers conception of customer experience, from the throughout the region over the next year. design of the product and/or service to the end of its life cycle. Moreover, we continue to strengthen employees’ skills, training them in commercial functions We tackle the various stages of the solution’s through the Sales Academy. life cycle, focused on the client, introducing changes in the various processes. Likewise, hand We also care for our relations with plumbers and in hand with the members of our value chain, we installers, for whom we have developed a training have outlined initiatives related to distribution, program on our solutions portfolio. In 2019, in marketing, and installation. Mexico and Central America, we offered 649 courses, training 5,768 plumbers. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 48 [ I N N O VATI O N, Q UALITY, AND CUSTOMER EX PERI ENCE ] INNO VATION MANAG EMENT QUALITY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MENU In the particular case of Mexico, our most advanced plumber In the case of distributors, we assist them with the signage at program has the CONOCER certification, with curricular value, the point of sale, items, and merchandise for their business. By issued by the federal authority to recognize technical skills. yearend, we had 7,753 active participants. The program is based on Participants graduate as “Water Solutions Advisors”, with 500 prior experience with the Club IPS loyalty program in Argentina, plumbers certified in the year. In Argentina, we trained 12,381 which was greatly successful among salespeople and installers, installers of Rotoplas, Señorial, and IPS. with 9,415 active members. We decided to go one step further in delivering value to plumbers, As for our products and services, we aim to provide the clients with distributors, and sales assistants, launching “Gana más con the necessary information to make the best purchase decision Rotoplas” (Earn more with Rotoplas) in Mexico. This is a loyalty based on their needs, also offering them post-sales assistance. program, which rewards their trust through different benefits; For Mexico and Central America, we have the Customer Service plumbers and sellers receive points for purchasing our products, Center (CAC, for its Spanish acronym), which is responsible for which they can use to obtain medical insurance, pay for utilities, dealing with possible claims; in 2019, 83% of the calls resolved the make purchases, and leisure activities at different locations. client’s query. Moreover, the program provides training and a referral system for the provision of installation services. The Customer Service Center takes periodic satisfaction surveys and, based on their results, we work on the improvement opportunities detected. C U S TO M ER S AT I S FA C T I O N 1 2019 Mexico 93% Argentina2 86% Central America 89% Peru 81% 2018 94% 84% 87% 84% 2017 93% 83% 86% 77% 1 Customer satisfaction is measured on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 is the lowest rating and 10 the highest. The percentages of satisfied customers consider the ratings from 7 to 10 for both halves of each year. Given the context of the operations, the satisfaction survey has not been carried out in Brazil nor in the U.S., given the size of the operations. 2 Does not include the satisfaction data from IPS, which is gauged separately. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 49 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] MENU We transform operation into efficiency We are a company that for over three decades has challenged itself to generate constant change in the water industry. Today, through technology, we have built a more efficient business that promotes a culture of innovation, creativity and collaboration. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 50 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Introduction to efficiency We seek to be efficient for an optimal use of the resources, hand in hand with our employees’ expertise, and always adhering to the quality that characterizes our products and services. Thus, we intend to make progress in the We establish the needs for raw materials considering sustainable practices of our operations, reducing the estimate of future sales, inputs inventory our environmental impact. We extend this already on hand, and the production plan. This plan commitment to the life cycle of the solutions, distributes the load among the different plants and working with our value chain for this purpose. sets the production schedules. At Grupo Rotoplas, we work through processes, With regard to production processes, our personnel with a focus on ongoing improvement and strict is essential to the identification of efficiency adherence to optimal income and spending. opportunities. We launched a program in the year These aspects are being reinforced by Flow, the so the teams could propose ideas to improve organizational transformation program that we procedures. While the scope began with a pilot started implementing in 20191. selection of plants, in 2020 it will be spread to other locations. 1 More information in the Organizational Transformation subsection (chapter on Strategy). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 51 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Based on our clients’ needs, we manage inventories On the other hand, in the United States, we have and coordinate distribution through third parties, specialized consultants who assist users of our in accordance with our Service Policy. For that e-commerce platform in choosing the best product purpose, we launched in Mexico the Rotoplas to meet their storage needs. Transportation Management System (RTMS), after two years of development. Our goal is to When proposing changes to the efficiency of the spread the scope to the plants outside Mexico as processes, we consider our commitment to the of next year2. environment, which is part of the guidelines of the Hygiene, Security, and Environment Policy We have strengthened our customer service; (HSA, for its Spanish acronym). Among the main especially the direct service during the stage of goals is the reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) use, in which we provide periodic maintenance emissions from our operations and the value to the purifiers and drinking fountains, as well as chain; this focus further supports our Climate to the treatment plants and rainwater harvesting Change Policy. We should note that all our plants, systems. Included in the monthly service fee, four of which are certified3, operate under an such maintenance can be provided by company environmental management system based on the personnel, or through our network of plumbers. guidelines of standard ISO 14001. S TA N D A R D C ERT I FI ED S I T E S ISO 14001:2015 1. Lerma 2. Leon rotomolding 3. Leon injection 4. Peru 2 More information in the subsection on Customer experience (chapter on Innovation, quality, and customer experience). 3 Both plants in Leon (Mexico), the plant in Lerma (Mexico), and the plant in Lima (Peru) are certified. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 52 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Procurement S P EN D I N G O N S U P P LI ER S 2 0 19 (GRI 102-9, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1) Equipment and Materials transportation Focused on the quality of the products and services in our portfolio, we work closely with suppliers in defining the materials and 44% 12.4% characteristics in order to guarantee the supply. In innovation, we work continuously to offer solutions that generate added value, both in products’ technical attributes and in their social and environmental impact. Technology Fees In the year, we destined $4.92 billion Mexican pesos to the acquisition of goods and services, particularly for the procurement of materials. We should note our contribution to the development of the industry in the various countries where we operate, with 4.7% 4.1% 75% of the spending destined to local suppliers. We extend our commitment to sustainability throughout the value chain, working on the life cycle of the products and Services Others services we offer. For this purpose, we have established a series of requirements on environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) topics for our suppliers, which are found in the Sustainable Purchases Policy. 0.4% 34.4% ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 53 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Circularity in energy G R U P O R OTO P L A S A P P R O A C H T O and materials CIRCULAR ECONOMY (GRI 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4) Renewable energy supply Just as water follows a cycle, at Grupo Rotoplas we Incorporation of recycled resins understand that our operation must facilitate the (own and third parties’) harnessing of energy and materials in line with the principles of circular economy. Maintenance of performanceThe diversification of our portfolio towards the enhancing products (heaters) offer of services contributes to this purpose, as we and services accompany users and extend the useful life of the products through periodic maintenance. We work on the risks and opportunities that we identify in our operation and throughout the value chain. Development of drinking water services Reusing water through offer of treatment and recycling service ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 54 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Among the materials we require are resins, mainly made up To evaluate the impact of the various efficiency initiatives, we of polyethylene and polypropylene. We consumed 69,607 tons monitored the energy intensity, measured as consumption of resins in 2019, 11% more than in 20184; in addition, we have compared to the amount of resin processed. In 2019, this indicator packaging materials, namely 62 tons of plastic film. totaled 1,731 kWh per ton for the main processes, in line with the previous year5. While we make progress year after year in the incorporation of recycled resins, our growth in 2019, resulting from a change in We should note that we extended to all the rotomolding plants strategy, is noteworthy. Faced with the impossibility of obtaining in Mexico the installation of thermal heater sleeves for injectors, the amounts that we need through the available offer in the which we had previously tested in Lerma and Leon. Moreover, we market, we started working with specialists on the development developed a new range of storage solutions generated through a of these materials, with a greater supply guarantee. Moreover, we blow-molding process with lower energy consumption than the continue to harness those materials that are byproducts of our traditional rotomolding operation, which will be launched in 2020. processes. The set of initiatives for the supply of recycled resins— both our own and third parties’—has generated $70 million pesos ENER GY CONSUMPTION ON MAIN PRO CESSES ( kWh) in savings in 2019. PRO CESS S OURCE 2017 2018 2019 Of the resins we used in the year, 13% came from reuse and Extrusion, Electricity 42,144,284 41,390,169 39,764,911 injection, recycling; the random polypropylene copolymer and high-density and milling polyethylene are noteworthy (with 37% and 28% of secondary Rotomolding Natural gas 129,642,667 123,486,844 119,494,729 origin, respectively). On the other hand, all the polypropylene LPG homopolymer comes from reuse and recycling. Regarding energy, Electricity we consumed 165,962,521 kWh in all the company’s operations. 96% was used in rotomolding, milling, extrusion, injection, and blow-molding processes, which are the most energy-demanding operations. 4 Regarding the information presented in the previous report, the figure of total resins consumed is restated, shifting to 62,822 tons, after adding both the ones of primary origin and those recycled from previous uses. 5 Considers only the energy consumption in the rotomolding, milling, extrusion, injection, and blowmolding processes. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 55 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY On the other hand, we started to make use of our the stage of use of our drinking water fountains, GHG EMISSIONS (ton CO2eq) – SCOPES 1 AND 2 own energy through the solar panels installed at dispensers, purifiers, and treatment plants, which five of the plants in Mexico in the previous year, stood for 5,186 tons of CO2eq. 2017 2018 20198 which generated 594,797 kWh6. This measure Scope 1 Direct from fuel combustion 27,468 26,524 25,707 contributes to the reduction of our Greenhouse Gas We worked on reducing our emissions together and refrigerant leaks (GHG) emissions and it is further complemented in with the processes’ greater efficiency in energy Scope 2 Indirect from the generation 21,063 19,628 18,651 Mexico with the purchase of 37,643,531 kWh from a consumption and the provision of renewable of the energy consumed third party, produced through cogeneration. energies; with the energy generated by the solar Scope 1 + Scope 2 48,531 46,152 44,358 panels, we prevented the emission of 300 tons of We emitted 44,358 tons of CO2eq in Scopes 1 and 2, CO2eq. which consider 0.48 tons of CO2eq per ton of resin processed7. Moreover, we calculated the emissions The combustion of LP and natural gas in the from third parties transporting our products, which rotomolding processes generated 28 tons of nitrous GHG EMISSIONS (ton CO2eq) – SCOPE 3 totaled 63,780 tons of CO2eq; on the other hand, oxides (NOx) and 1.5 tons of particulate matter (PM). for the first time, we estimated emissions during 2017 2018 2019 Scope 3 Indirect from fuel combustion in 17,671 17,726 63,7809 freighters’ vehicles during the distribution of Grupo Rotoplas’ products 85% of the energy consumption is S3. Use of products and services sold: Not Not 5,186 from cogeneration and solar energy—more drinking fountains, purifiers, dispensers, available available and treatment plants efficient and cleaner sources, Scope 3 Total 17,671 17,726 68,966 respectively. We measured the fuel consumption of the transportation of our products by third parties for distribution, which was 235,314,236 kWh, including both gasoline, diesel and LP gas. 8 Not including the emissions from the rotomolding plants in the U.S., due to their sale in the year. 9 The increase vs. 2018 is mainly because the emissions of transportation from the distribution 6 Plants of Anahuac (Mexico City), Guadalajara, Los Mochis, Merida, and Veracruz. centers in Mérida (Mexico), Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Peru were not included 7 Considering the Scope 1 and 2 emissions. in the scope. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 56 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY About water consumption, although our operations are not In our corporate practices that considers particularly water-intensive, we continue to work towards optimizing circular economy criteria, waste management the requirements of our various processes. In the year, we consumed is key. We seek to promote their reuse or 105 million liters, 2% of which correspond to reused water from our recycling, making a differentiated separation own processes; the water consumption intensity totaled 1,130 liters and working with specialized suppliers so this per ton of resin processed. waste can be harnessed. All the hazardous waste we generate follows that process; 54% Concerned about the utilization of this resource, we reused 2.1%. is treated through coprocessing and the rest Moreover, we are assessing the installation of water treatment is confined in accordance to the law. We plants in our production centers, and already have pilot tests in should also note that we had no significant Guadalajara (Mexico) and Guatemala, to be followed next year by spills at our plants during the year. Merida (Mexico). W AT ER C O N S U M P T I O N B Y S O U R C E ( M I L LI O N S O F LI T ER S ) 1 0 W A S T E G EN ER AT ED ( TO N S ) Source 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Municipal 68.27 76.71 40.25 Hazardous 103.0 166.8 58.7 Surface waters 3.56 4.00 16.78 Special handling 267.0 446.9 361.9 Groundwater 51.50 66.10 32.32 Urban solid waste 516.8 478.2 668.5 Other (water trucks) 9.34 12.27 13.27 TOTAL 886.8 1,091.9 1,089.1 Reused (from our own operations) 23.75 25.11 2.05 TOTAL 156.42 184.19 104.65 D E S T I N AT I O N O F T H E W A S T E G EN ER AT E D (%) Coprocessing End-of-life Recycling 10 Except for the reused water consumption, the rest is from Hazardous 54.26% 45.74% 0.00% water harvesting. There is a restatement of the information for 2017 and 2018 vs. the data published in previous reports, Special handling 0.88% 0.00% 99.12% as the water that the company reuses in its processes was Urban solid waste 0.51% 99.49% 0.00% included under consumption. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 57 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY Product maintenance and efficiency (GR 103-2, 103-3, 302-2, 302-5) To achieve our users’ full satisfaction, we consider Regarding product durability, we should stress that the training of plumbers and other technicians the heater guarantee is in a range of 3 to 7 years, who install or maintain our solutions to be key. We depending on the features of the product. continue to develop services where we can have a more direct relation with the final user through With regard to bebbia, our subscription-based installation and maintenance. drinking water service, we install the most suitable purification system for the client’s area The case of the heaters is particularly worth noting, (activated carbon, reverse osmosis, among others). given the post-sales service efforts we are making This information is obtained by our Ojo de Agua in Argentina, where we are leaders in the country’s platform, which comprises a database on the water heating market. We are emphasizing the characteristics and quality of water in Mexico by training of our service team, as well as consolidating geographic zone. As part of the service, we offer a team of external specialized technicians, which maintenance every six months for cleaning or now total 160 professionals throughout the country. substituting the cartridges used by the purifiers. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 58 [OPERATING EFFICIENCY] INTRODUCTION TO PROCUREMENT CIRCULARITY IN ENERGY PRODUCT MAINTENANCE MENU EFFICIENCY AND MATERIALS AND EFFICIENCY As part of our portfolio, we offer products that As part of the efforts to reduce the environmental require electricity for the stage of use: drinking impact of our products, we calculate the carbon fountains, institutional dispensers, residential footprint and water footprint of a selection purifiers, and treatment plants. In their design, of the most significant solutions, pursuant to we seek to move towards increasingly energystandards ISO 14067 and ISO 14046, respectively. efficient models. In the case of drinking water fountains, the type of purifier is essential, as the The purpose of this calculation is to find out reverse osmosis models require six times more the effect throughout the life cycle, including energy than the activated carbon and colloidal the stages corresponding to our value chain: silver filter. materials generation and transportation, as well as distribution, use, and end-of-life of the product. Below, we present an estimate of the energy Based on this, we can identify measures to be consumption of these solutions in the year in the implemented in our operation and/or promote stage of use. among third parties, and thus reduce the footprint of these products. E X T ER N A L EN ER G Y C O N S U M P T I O N 2 0 1 9 Likewise, we make available to the public the (kWh) environmental data sheets, which contain the Drinking water fountains 634,333 carbon footprint and the water footprint of some Water purifiers 125,938 of our products, to create awareness in users and Dispensers 428,826 those involved in the stage of use. The information is available at: https://rotoplas.com/sustentabilidad/ Treatment plants 9,079,740 results-water-carbon-footprints/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 59 [HUMAN CAPITAL] MENU We transform talent into passion We believe in the transformative power of our team to turn ideas into reality. We are committed to them and trust in their talent and abilities to unleash the change and generate a positive impact on the society and the environment. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 60 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT Workforce description (GRI 102-8, 102-10, 102-41, 102-49, 103-2, 103-3, 201-3, 401-1, 405-1) 3,213 employees Our employees are key to the company’s We know that diversity and ensuring people’s development; together, we materialize the strategy integrity guarantee team’s strength and continuity. and achieve the business goals. Moreover, we To that effect, we have professionals who specialize create value for clients and users, in collaboration in various fields, who are also members of different with the rest of the members of our value chain. generational groups, which enriches the decisionmaking process. We work on simplifying access By yearend 2019, Grupo Rotoplas had 3,213 without gender discrimination, in an industry that employees1. This year, we included in the figures traditionally has a greater presence of men; at the reported under labor demographics the staff of end of 2019, 22% of our employees are women2. IPS and, following the sale of the manufacturing assets in July, we registered the termination of the We respect the freedom of association right. labor bond with the staff from the rotomolding At Grupo Rotoplas 43% of our employees are plants in the U.S. members of some union, distributed among 13 organizations. At Rotoplas, we are committed to job stability, 85% of our employees have a permanent contract; in terms of working-hours, 99.6% work fulltime. 1 The information presented in the subchapter Workforce Description considers all our operations, including IPS. The information on training, benefits, and health and safety excludes IPS, whose will be integrated in the next period. 2 The decrease in the percentage of women compared to 2018 responds to the incorporation of the IPS team, which is mostly comprised by male employees. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 61 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS E M P LO Y EE S B Y C O U N T R Y E M P L O Y EE S B Y A G E G R O U P A N D G EN D ER 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Under 30 years old 30 to 50 years old Over 50 years old N° of employees Mexico 64 320 384 3,213 2,171 2,901 2,238 2,851 2,238 155 598 753 Brazil 79 85.1% 80 Women Men Total 80.7% 76.6% 82 Argentina 6873 493 1,583 2,076 274 % of permanent 289 contracts Central America4 E M P L O Y EE S B Y P R O FE S S I O N A L C AT E G O R Y, G EN D ER , 87 AND AGE GROUP 87 Executives Middle management Individual contributors Operations staff 86 Peru N° of employees 122 22.2% 123 48 1,146 23.5% 115 22.2% 218 1,801 United States 675 Women Under 30 Between 30 and Over 50 99 (%) years old (%) 50 years old (%) years old (%) % of women 86 Executives 14.6 0.0 85.4 14.6 Total Middle management 26.6 2.8 79.8 17.4 3 Considers for the first time, the integreation of the IPS workforce. 3,213 Individual contributors 29.1 20.2 71.6 8.2 4 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. 2,901 5 It doesn’t include the employees of the rotomolding plants, following their Operations staff 17.4 28.7 57.7 13.6 sale during the year; it does include the employees from the e-commerce 2,898 platform. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 62 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT Our activity and market development require the continuous The severance of the employees of the rotomolding plants that we incorporation of new talent. In the year, we hired 1,067 employees, owned in the U.S. was done respecting their rights. The factories’ 82% of them in Mexico. Although we add talent in different age activity remains, so those employees kept their positions, except for groups, we are eager to develop young people, who accounted for those who chose not to take part under the new management, who 54% of the new hires. As for gender, the sector in which we operate received compensation above market standards as consideration is predominantly male; nonetheless, 24% of the new additions for the services rendered to Grupo Rotoplas. were women. We seek to provide our employees with a satisfactory work environment in which they can develop and commit to the company. Turnover in the year was 21%, figure lower than 20186. NEW HIRES BY AGE RANGE7 Under 30 Between Over 50 Total years old 30 and 50 years old years old Women 141 106 12 259 Men 435 327 46 808 Total 576 433 58 1,067 6 We calculate turnover as: no. of severances with permanent contracts (voluntary and involuntary)*100/n° of employees at December 31. 7 It does not include new additions to IPS, which will be included in the next report, but it does consider the rest of the Rotoplas Group's operations. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 63 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT Training and development (GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-1 404-2, 404-3) We support our employees by providing them with technical training based on their position’s profile, which we complement with transversal skill development, and training on the guidelines included in the company’s various policies and codes. In the year, we provided 19,715 hours of training, with an average of 7 hours per employee. We destined $9.4 million pesos to it, convinced of the potential that it provides to the company and its importance for our employees’ growth. The leadership program, designed with the aim to generate high-performance teams, is noteworthy. T R A I N I N G B Y P R O FE S S I O N A L C AT E G O R Y Following the vice-presidents’ participation, this year we expanded it to include all the directors. 2017 2018 2019 Likewise, we offer several online seminars, with Total hours Average hours Total hours Average hours Total hours Average hours per employee per employee per employee current topics. We seek flexible formats that Administrative 6,343 5.5 10,913 8.8 7,978 6.1 will enable employees to obtain knowledge, Operations staff 21,978 12.9 13,117 7.9 11,737 7.8 managing their own learning schedule according Total 28,321 9.9 24,030 8.3 19,715 7.0 to their workload. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 64 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT We offer our employees individual performance evaluation on competencie, productivity, and plans. They combine training and learning in adherence to the safety guidelines and the three blocks: 1) Self-learning, based on operating company’s values. We consider employee seniority performance; 2) Offered by others in the company; and type of contract to define the required and 3) External, focusing on very specific concepts evaluation process; through this scheme, we and techniques. The plan is set at the beginning assess all our workforce. We also acknowledge of the year, and it is reviewed by the employee and the outstanding efforts in our team, recognizing their immediate superior at midyear and yearend employees with unique contributions. as part of their periodic evaluation. As part of our efforts to attract the best talent, we Employees are evaluated on their performance, have initiatives to incorporate students and recent with different processes based on the position. graduates, as well as to receive international interns. Administrative staff is subject to a process We should especially note the Professionals based on the achievement of individual goals Under Development Program (PRODES, for its set at the beginning of the year between the Spanish acronym), to whose participants we assign employee and their leader. If they also supervise projects within the company; they participate other staff, a 360° evaluation is carried out on during their stay in different areas, as a high how they have performed their responsibilities performance program. We also have a version of as team leaders, on this metric, 885 employees the program for students and/or postgraduates were assessed in 2019. (Masters Under Development, or MADES for its Spanish acronym). In 2019, these temporary stay Regarding operating employees, we focus the programs had 18 participants overall. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 65 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT Commitment and work environment (GRI 102-48, 103-2, 103-3, 201-3 401-2, 401-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-8, 403-9, 403-10, 405-2, 406-1) At Rotoplas, we understand diversity as a made it possible to resolve them in the same year. W O M A N / M A N S A L A R Y R AT I O strength in our team, and we ensure respect Fixed Fixed + variable for the integrity of everyone who is part of Equal treatment between women and men is a Executives 0.93 0.75 the company. Together with the guidelines on maximum standard in the company. Among other Middle management 0.97 0.96 this matter, included in our Code of Ethics and aspects, it materializes in the support provided Individual contributors 1.16 1.02 Conduct and the Human Rights Policy, this year to employees who decide to make use of their Operations staff 1.07 1.01 we went one step further, launching the Diversity maternity or paternity leave, a right exercised by Policy. This policy will serve as a guide for our 92 employees in the year. Of them, 29% were behavior both in selecting and incorporating women and 97% of them returned at the end of Compensations are always set through a formal new employees, as well as in internal promotion, their leave. process that considers the profile of the position delivering compensations and benefits, and the and the situation in the sector. From our employees, daily interaction within the teams. Regarding compensations, we strive for salary 50% have a variable part linked to performance equality in equivalent positions and with equal goals8. In the case of top management, some Together with the guidelines, we work actively on seniority, regardless of gender. Below, we present of them have metrics linked to the company’s promoting a culture of respect, and provide our the ratios broken down into the main professional performance in sustainability, in addition to other employees with channels to report any situation. categories; the differences presented between business and/or department indicators. In 2019, we identified 3 cases of discrimination, genders are due to how they are distributed among for which we established various measures that the different profiles included in each category. 8 Includes the IPS staff. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 66 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT Concerned with the employees’ wellbeing, we have developed certified management system in accordance with the OHSAS various initiatives. In Mexico, it is worth noting the launch of 18001 standard; this translates into a coverage of 20% of the the Employee Assistance Program (PAE, for its acronym) in staff (643 employees). 2019. This program works as support for our staff and their direct family members in preventing or resolving situations Each plant has a Safety and Hygiene Committee that, linked to personal or job concerns that could generate stress together with the supply chain personnel and the HSE and/or affect their emotional state, with the assistance of team, carry out safety tours to identify risks. The HSE team external specialists. Users can communicate on the phone, consolidates the findings and adds them to the notices through internet, or through an app, safeguarding their that may have been submitted by employees directly and/ anonymity. In its first year, it served 180 people. or through the report channels, and to the information held by the medical team. With all this, work priorities are In the year, moreover, we made progress in the compliance established in each center. It should be noted that the Safety with Official Mexican Standard NOM-035-STPS-2018, with the and Hygiene Committees include representatives from the diagnosis of the causes affecting wellbeing and their monitoring. employees, guaranteeing their participation in the various management and monitoring functions. We safeguarded the staff’s health and security, granting them suitable work conditions, as well as promoting self-care and Moreover, we have developed an annual safety training prevention. We should also note that compliance with the program at each plant, for the prevention of accidents, that guidelines in this respect is part of the conditions we set in tackles the main risks; this is added to the performance of the agreements with the unions. drills. Through the trainings, we have got 30% of the employees at the plants to become brigade members, having teams Our Hygiene, Safety, and Environment (HSE) Policy includes available in all shifts. the main guidelines; both our employees and external contractors who work at the various plants must comply with S TA N D A R D C E RT I FI E D S I T E S it, and it is evaluated through internal and external audits. The OHSAS 18001:2007 1. Lerma Leon rotomolding, Leon injection and extrusion, and Lerma 2. Leon rotomolding 3. Leon injection plants in Mexico, as well as the one in Lima, Peru, have a 4. Peru ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 67 WORKFORCE TRAINING AND COMMITMENT AND W ORK MENU [HUMAN CAPITAL] DESCRIPTION DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT On the other hand, related to employees’ health, we offer periodic Together with the training in various topics and the promotion of medical exams that we complement with campaigns for vaccination wellbeing, we provide employees with another series of benefits, and/or specific issues. similar for the staff that work part time and those who work full time. Among the benefits, we include; life insurance, medical Thus, we reduce the risks in our processes, which are mainly insurance, savings fund, Christmas bonus, paid vacation, and damages to limbs and ergonomic ailments, particularly in the extended maternity and paternity leave. rotomolding activity. Moreover, in Mexico, since 2018, we have been testing a pension We also aim to promote healthy habits, with nutrition plan, which is applicable to all employees with a permanent recommendations and sports activity options. We encourage the contract. Employees can contribute up to 3% of their salary, use of bicycles to commute to work; it is part of an economic and the company, based on seniority and other variables, can bonus system to reward alternatives to using their own car, as is match up to that sum. This year, 10 employees retired using carpooling and the use of public transportation. that scheme; 236 employees are already participating in the program, after its launch in 2018. Rotoplas contributed $1.34 million pesos to this plan. H E A LT H A N D S A FE T Y I N D I C ATO R S9 2017 2018 2019 Concerned with our employees’ expectations and the work Number of minor injuries 0 30 25 environment in the teams, we carry out an annual work climate Number of incapacitating accidents 95 76 58 survey annually. In 2019, we obtained 75% satisfaction, which Number of occupational illnesses 1 4 0 continues to show a significant improvement compared to 201710. Number of casualties 0 0 0 Moreover, under the organizational transformation program, Flow, Number of days lost due to injury 1,164 1,074 894 we carried out a diagnosis of the organizational health, as a Accident rate 16.8 13.2 10.5 complement to the work environment survey. Rate of occupational illnesses 0.2 0.7 0 Absenteeism rate 0.2 0.1 0.1 9 With regard to previous reports, there is a restatement in the value of the indices and exchange rates in the calculation formulas. Accident index= number of incapacitating accidents/total hours worked*1,000,000 Occupational illness rate = number of occupational illnesses/total hours worked*1,000,000 Absenteeism rate= % of days lost (due to injury)/total working days in the year (excluding vacations) of the whole staff. 10 84% of those employees invited participated; in turn, 76% of the staff, on a regional level, was invited to participate. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 68 [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] MENU We transform necessities into opportunities Through our solutions we collaborate to improve the quality of life of individuals, families and communities; as well as to raise awareness on water preservation. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 69 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Context of the water issue O N A G L O B A L L E V EL Around 90% of natural 6 out of every 10 people In low and middle income disasters are related to lack access to hygienically countries, 38% of health water (UNESCO) safe sanitation facilities centers lack access to (UNESCO) improved water sources. (UN) 3 out of every 10 people Over 2 billion people live By 2025, half of the world lack access to safe drinking in countries experiencing population will live in areas I N L AT I N A M ER I C A water (UNESCO) high levels of water stress facing water scarcity (UN) (UNESCO) ˜37 million people ˜110 million people 2/3 of the world population Over 80% of the wastewater Climate Change impacts in lack access to safe lack access to experience serious water flows back into the ecosystem precipitation variability, clean water. sanitation. scarcity, at least one month without adequate previous freshwater availability, and a year (UNESCO) treatment (UNESCO) faster pollution of water bodies, among others (UN) Only 31% of water 72% of water Daily 1,600 liters of water sources in the world extraction in Latin per person are currently are located. America is intended extracted (FAO) for agriculture. (FAO) ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 70 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Challenges and trends Households The main challenge is having a constant supply and the quality of the resource The acceleration of climate delivered, as well as awareness in its change, population growth, responsible use, as public investment and its uneven geographic in infrastructure is not enough to meet distribution trending towards the water needs. urbanization are posing significant challenges. As a result, water demand increases while availability decreases. In this context, decentralized solutions for water storage, waterflow, purification, treatment and recycling are even more necessary. Industry A g r i c u l t u re It is becoming more critical to have given an ever-greater scarcity, price supply alternatives to the public grid, as hikes, and high intensity in water well as to have water treatment and consumption, the focus is placed on recycling tools, given the ever more use efficiency. Technology is essential demanding environmental requirements to the development of SMART systems and intermittencies in the supply of applicable to irrigation and other this resource. A similar situation is seen processes related to agriculture. in the commercial sector, where water utilities prices have increased. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 71 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Commitment and water culture (GRI 102-12, 103-2, 103-3) In 2019, we adhered to the CEO Water Mandate, fostered by the We were also able to present at forums organized by Universidad United Nations; this initiative encompasses the public commitment Anahuac and Universidad Panamericana, or the operator of the of outstanding companies in six fields of action, including water Mexico City Water System (Sistema de Aguas de la Ciudad de México, security for their activity, safeguarding ecosystems’ health, and SACMEX), among others; moreover, we participated in encounters society’s wellbeing through collective action1. We have adopted fostered by The Nature Conservancy and the Mexican Agency for an active role in this initiative, participating in the international International Development Cooperation (Agencia Mexicana de forums organized by the CEO Water Mandate. Cooperación Internacional para el Desarrollo, AMEXCID), entrepreneur accelerator Make Sense, and the National Association of Water and We seek to promote awareness in people regarding the responsible Sanitation Enterprises, among others. Our presence in those spaces use of water, through different campaigns and forums. We want seeks to foster a new water culture where citizens, companies, and people, communities, and industries to be able to have access to public agencies join to meet the challenges of water and sanitation each drop of the resource. in Latin America. In Mexico, we organized the first Let’s Talk Water forum—a space On the other hand, we continued to offer talks on water awareness for devoted to the exchange of knowledge and experiences among corporate clients of services both of bebbia and of water treatment various specialists and the general public. In this edition, we discuss plants, through which we talked with our clients’ employees regarding the relationship between climate change and the main challenges the importance of the proper use of water, thus increasing their to water availability, with lectures by The Nature Conservancy, trust in our products and services. In addition, we held sessions in 1 Throughout this report, we inform our contribution to the areas of commitment established by the CEO Instituto Internacional de Recursos Renovables (IRRI), Cuatro al schools that have drinking water fountains, which we have installed Water Mandate. More information at: https:// Cubo, and Isla Urbana. under various government programs. ceowatermandate.org/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 72 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES We are also spreading the water culture initiatives to other Through this agreement, we promote the generation of content, countries where we operate. In Argentina, we held trainings at materials, and research communicating a new water culture. In this schools, and we donated purification systems to the Safe Water framework, we should note the publication of interactive maps with Project, which develops social programs for water access. The IPS georeferenced information on water in Mexico. Race is also noteworthy, as it commemorated Water Day, with the participation of over 3,000 people, including employees and Our employees are a key element of the company’s commitment their families. On the other hand, in Peru, we held awareness to water culture. Throughout the year, we hold various internal workshops at school centers, and participated in fairs where our awareness events; we extended the scope adapting our activities employees communicated the importance of having safe water; with employees towards hydric topics at all our work centers. An in Brazil, we should note the public campaign, based on the example of this is Family Day, where employees and their families closeness of our local mascot, Acquafantinho. participated in educational, fun, and friendly activities whose main message was water consumption for health and efficient We have made available to the public Water Fan (fan del agua), use of the resource. a recently designed platform through which we broadcast content regarding the use and care of water. In it, we offer each user We also encourage employees’ participation in volunteering the possibility of calculating their water footprint, and we thus activities, linked to the improvement of water. We should note that seek to foster awareness of water consumption2. Likewise, we 70 employees participated in the reforestation of recharge areas include informative material with our products and services to of Mexico City’s watershed. As for waterbody cleanup activities, in sensitize people on the responsible use of water. These brochures Guatemala, our teams collaborated in the Atitlan lake, and in Peru, are complementary to the instructions for the proper use of the in the Rimac river. We developed these activities together with local solutions. organizations. We signed a collaboration agreement with the website agua.org, the second Spanish-speaking most visited site on water topics. 2 https://fandelagua.com/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 73 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Impact of products and services (GRI 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 203-2) Our solutions improve We favor the population’s resilience to the effects reutilization of wastewater, causing a double of Climate Change on the amount and quality positive effect for the environment as, by reusing people’s quality of of available water. We also contribute to the the liquid, it is necessary to harvest a lower development of rural communities with water amount of the resource, and the conditions of life, contributing to the access, sanitation, and hygiene solutions, in effluents improve. This treatment and reutilization particular, rainwater harvesting and outdoor toilets scheme can even lead to closed circuits that availability of water, as with biodigester. Thus, we collaborate on reducing eliminate dependence on water from the public well as to its safekeeping inequality gaps. supply, fostering the climatic resilience of the facilities where these plants operate. for future generations, We offer availability to drinking water through purification and filtering products, as well as We drive innovation and development of through its responsible integral services, such as bebbia. These solutions knowledge, both in internal processes and through use, treatment, and are important alternatives to the transportation alliances with the academia and specialized and marketing of bottled water, and the ensuing organizations. recycling. use of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) or other plastic substances in linear use schemes, gas Through all this, we contribute to the Sustainable emissions, and waste generation, which have a Development Goals (SDG), firmly committed to significant impact on the environment. this international roadmap that tackles the main challenges of society. Our Sustainability Strategy In the industry, we enable the treatment and has been designed to maximize this contribution. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 74 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Grupo Rotoplas’ main impacts and their relation to SDGs It is particularly worth noting our contribution Population’s resilience to Climate Change. to SDGs 6 and 9, due to the type of products Communities’ hygiene and health. and services that we offer the population, the relationship with various agents specializing in Reduction of inequalities, with special impact water and sanitation, and with the innovation on children and women. ecosystems, the promotion of responsible water Access safe drinking water. use, and the projects for community assistance in which the company participates. Reduction of PET or other plastic substances, an alternative to linear use-and-dispose We support projects from various social schemes. organizations focused on access to water and Reutilization of water in industry. sanitation, product donations, including a 1+1 contribution plan where we double the number of Release of treated water into the environment, solutions purchased by those agencies. In the year, safeguarding water bodies. we destined $2 million pesos to this in Mexico, Knowledge about water quality. added to the contribution in other countries. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 75 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES Below, we present some of R A I N W AT ER H A R V E S T I N G S A N I TAT I O N the main indicators of our impact impact Greater water availability; economic savings and reduced Improvement of environmental quality through the treatment contribution to SDG 63: illnesses. of domestic wastewater by biodigesters, benefiting people’s health. programs / initiatives indicators 12 programs in 2019 Dignity, greater safety, and health through the use of toilets (outdoor toilet with biodigester systems). 58,392 benefited programs / initiatives indicators Supply and installation in 2019 of solutions in Mexico, 51 programs in 2019 1,390,000+ benefited Supply and installation Central America, and since 2012 of sanitation solutions Brazil (since 2012). 25,000 benefited in 2019 35,000 m3 of rainwater in Mexico and Central storage capacity America (since 2012). 817,000+ benefited (in 2019) since 2012 D R I N K I N G W AT ER— S C H O O L S 10,000 systems installed impact Participation in the 25 million liters stored Improvement in health due to an increase in the consumption Mexico City program, of quality water among children and teens, instead of highcooperating in the 40,000 people benefited calorie beverages. systems installed by Isla Urbana. programs / initiatives indicators Rotoplas tanks and pipes were provided 4 main programs Supply, installation, and 5,171 drinking fountains 259 million liters of maintenance of drinking installed (since 2016) fountains at public Rainwater harvesting rainwater to be harvested per 92 million liters of water schools in Mexico (since systems in industries, year (retail) (259,000 m3) purified (since 2016) 2016). under leasing plans. 19 harvesting projects on 1,147,962 children benefited industrial rooftops (since 2016) 3 With regard to SDG 9, we present our contribution in the subchapter on Innovation management (chapter on Innovation, quality, and customer experience). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 76 CONTEXT OF THE COMMITMENT AND I M PA C T O F P R O D U C T S MENU [AVAILABILITY OF WATER AND SANITATION] WATER ISSUE W A T E R C U LT U R E AND SERVICES D R I N K I N G W AT ER—H O U S EH O LD S, W A S T E W AT ER T R E ATM E N T O FFI C E S, A N D I N D U S T R I E S ( b e b b i a ) AND REUSE impact impact Improvement in health, due to favoring the availability of Reduction in water intake from the environment thanks to safe-drinking quality water. post-process reutilization systems. Alternative to schemes for transporting and marketing water Discharge of water in improved conditions into the in plastic containers, contribution to a lower environmental environment, safeguarding the latter’s condition. impact. programs / initiatives indicators programs / initiatives indicators 18,800 units installed Wastewater treatment 22 million m3 treated plant design, construction Development of bebbia, 123 thousand people and installation, and 35% water reused offering a drinking water benefited operation services for system subscription commerce and industry plan for leasing and Presence in 107 (since 2016, when we maintenance of purifiers. municipalities of Mexico 11 sectors of activity acquired Sytesa). We are served4 500+ people trained diversifying the activity sectors served. W AT ER S TO R A G E I N V U LN E R A B LE COMMUNITIES impact Greater availability of water and economic savings. Resilience to supply intermittency, unavailability and Climate Change-related effects. programs / initiatives indicators Serving the population in 169 thousand people vulnerable communities benefited through programs to 4 Retail, mining, food & beverages, petrochemicals, automotive, supply storage and 39 programs manufacturing, hotels, desalination, large construction works, paper, waterflow solutions. in communities government. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 77 [ E C O N O M I C R E S U LT S ] MENU We transform investment into results In Rotoplas we seek to create and share value with all our stakeholders throughout company's operations, generating economic value and contributing to the development of societies. Always faithful to our mission: for people to have more and better water. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 78 [ E C O N O M I C R E S U LT S ] RELEVANT FINANCIAL DATA DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE MENU Relevant Financial Data (GRI 103-2, 103-3) FIGURES IN MILLIONS OF This year has been highly relevant Despite various macroeconomic and political issues in the MEXICAN PESOS countries where we operate, our revenues grew 4.0%, totaling for Grupo Rotoplas, as we have $8.09 billion. Moreover, it is worth noting the 8.4% increase in Adjusted EBITDA1, the expansion of the EBITDA margin to overhauled the way we operate, 17.5%, and an improvement in the return on invested capital (ROIC) as well as in working capital. placing special emphasis on the diversification and profitability With a 250 bp improvement in ROIC, going of the current products and from 7.3% in 2018 to 9.8% by yearend, an inflection point has been reached, marking services portfolio. Likewise, a change in the trend. during this period, we continue to With Flow, the organizational transformation program that consolidate as the main began at the end of the year, we are preparing for the future, benchmark in water solutions in strengthening the sound bases we already had, and providing the business with a new focus on growth and profitability for the continent. the coming years. 1 Adjusted EBITDA excludes non-recurring expenses (donations and expenses related to M&A). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 79 [ E C O N O M I C R E S U LT S ] RELEVANT FINANCIAL DATA DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE MENU As for the strategy by country, in Mexico, the product category proved On the other hand, in Peru, storage sales increased in a context to be resilient to the lack of economic growth and to the impacts of water supply restrictions due to maintenance of the hydric on the construction industry. This because these solutions help the infrastructure in Lima and other peripheral areas. Likewise, we population to fill their basic needs, regardless of the economic cycle, continue to develop the improvement and waterflow segments to such as access to water and sanitation. In services, we managed have a full product portfolio in the country. to expand the scope of treatment plants to various industries, and bebbia doubled its sales and number of users. In Brazil, the growth of storage sales was mainly related to the launch of the low-range open water tank line, which complements On the other hand, in Argentina it was extremely important to the premium portfolio. maintain a dynamic strategy that would anticipate possible events such as inflation, currency depreciation, or regulatory changes, As part of the general analysis of operations, we assessed the and thus increase the brand positioning and gain market share, profitability of our assets to detect potential improvements, which including both, the domestic market and foreign trade through led us to propose various action plans. In the case of manufacturing export sales. assets in the United States, we managed to obtain a sales contract with a strategic ally, maintaining an appealing supply agreement for In the remaining countries, the United States stands out for its both parties. This divestment helped us to strengthen our balance strategic refocusing towards e-commerce and its future potential. sheet and reduce our net debt position. In the year, we updated the technological platform, we strengthened the commercial team, and consolidated a multichannel sales Leverage measured as Net Debt/EBITDA settled at 0.8x—a ratio strategy, which includes physical retail stores. below the internal target of 2.0x. Peru and Central America continue to provide stability to the Throughout the year, a strict discipline on spending, efficiencies in Group, as these operations have steady growth and profitability. manufacturing processes, benefits in raw material prices, and the In Central America, we implemented a new commercial policy divestment of unprofitable operations led to an 8.4% increase in segmented by country, which has made it possible to manage a Adjusted EBITDA, which settled at $1.41 billion. The margin expanded more suitable price allocation. Special emphasis was placed on by 70 bps to 17.5%. the North Cone (Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras), which boosted sales volumes in the region. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 80 [ E C O N O M I C R E S U LT S ] RELEVANT FINANCIAL DATA DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE MENU E C O N O M I C FI G U R E S ( i n m i l l i o n M e x i c a n p e s o s ) Infrastructure investment (CAPEX) stood 2017 20181 2019 ∆ 19-18 for 4% of revenues, with a special emphasis Net revenues 6,660 7,777 8,086 4.0% on water treatment and recycling plants in COGS 4,032 4,674 4,692 0.4% Mexico, as well as resources for updating Gross Profit 2,628 3,103 3,395 9.4% the e-commerce platform in the US. Gross Profit margin (%) 39.5% 39.9% 42.0% 210 bps Operating Expenses 1,899 2,178 2,327 6.9% Finally, net profit before discontinued Operating Profit 730 926 1,067 15.3% operations reached $260 million, with a Operating Profit margin (%) 11.0% 11.9% 13.2% 130 bps 34% decrease compared to 2018, given Adjusted EBITDA2 1,004 1,303 1,413 8.4% higher financial expenses as a result of EBITDA Margin (%) 15.1% 16.8% 17.5% 70 bps interest payments on debt, the impact of Net profit before discontinued operations 533 397 260 (34.2%) the currency devaluation in Argentina, and impacts from the FX hedging instruments. Net Profit margin (%) 8.0% 5.1% 3.2% (190) bps Number of shares outstanding (in millions) 486 486 486 During the year, $260 million were recognized as losses from discontinued operations, as C A P I TA LI Z AT I O N ( i n m i l l i o n M e x i c a n p e s o s ) a result of the sale of manufacturing assets 2017 20181 2019 ∆ 19-18 in the USA, and the recognition of deferred Total Assets 10,786 11,850 11,430 (3.5%) taxes on losses from previous years. Total Debt 1,976 2,923 2,935 0.4% Total Shareholders’ Equity 7,295 6,764 6,411 (5.2%) Market capitalization 14,689 10,741 7,809 (27.3%) S U S TA I N A B LE B O N D A G U A 1 7-2 X 104.00 1 For comparison purposes, the figures vary from those $89.88 $101.15 reported in 2018, as they exclude the operations of the manufacturing business in the US, given that they are considered discontinued due to their sale in 2019. 2 Adjusted EBITDA excludes non-recurring expenses (donations and expenses related to M&A). 84.00 Dec-18 Dec-19 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 81 [ E C O N O M I C R E S U LT S ] RELEVANT FINANCIAL DATA DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE MENU Distribution of economic value (GRI 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 204-1) E C O N O M I C V A LU E G EN ER AT ED A N D D I S T R I B U T ED ( E V G A N D E V D ) ( m i l l i o n M e x i c a n p e s o s ) 2017 20183 2019 ∆ At Grupo Rotoplas, we know that value must be Revenues (Economic Value Generated, EVG) 6,660 7,859 8,086 3% created integrally for each of our stakeholders, Costs and Expenses (Economic Value Distributed, 7,280 9,030 8,197 -10% including compensation for our employees, EVD) purchases from our suppliers, tax payments to the Operating Costs and Expenses4 4,769 5,757 5,804 1% authorities, and profit-sharing to investors. Salaries and benefits (for employees, labor + G&A) 960 1,116 1,215 9% Payment to capital providers5 365 465 519 12% Following, we present the economic value generated Payments to government (taxes and contributions) 196 218 250 15% and how it is distributed. Investment in Research and Development (R&D)6 49 53 73 38% Acquisitions 581 9837 -100% Infrastructure investments (CAPEX) 328 434 329 -24% Donations (community) 33 4 6 39% Retained (EVG-EVD) -620 -1,171 -110 3 2018 was not adjusted for discontinued operations. 4 For 2017 and 2018, it does not include operating costs and expenses of IPS. 5 Not considering the purchase or sale of stocks through the buyback program. 6 Not considering salaries nor depreciation and amortization. 7 Corresponding to the price after the guarantee on IPS results. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 82 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] MENU We transform decisions into value We create and share value with our stakeholders, in line with our values and the Rotoplas Way. Therefore, we strengthen the diligence in our processes and in business management. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 83 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Structure (GRI 102-5, 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-27, 102-28, 102-33, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 405-1) Our Corporate Governance is established following the best international practices and regulations applicable to a variable stock corporation. Grupo Rotoplas’ shares are traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV for its Spanish acronym) and the float totals 29% of its shares; by yearend, the company’s market cap was $7.8 billion Mexican pesos. The corporate governance structure and the assigned responsibilities seek to guarantee the exercise of the fiduciary duty of those who comprise it and the due diligence in the decision-making process. The General Shareholders’ Meeting appoints the members of the Board of Directors, proposed by the Corporate Practices and Strategy Committee. It is also in charge of approving the report of operations and results presented by the Board, including the consolidated and audited financial statements. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 84 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU 53% of our The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing the You may view the composition of the Board of Directors and company’s strategy and monitoring its implementation by the the details on the board members at: https://rotoplas.com/ Board of Directors management team. Moreover, it sets the guidelines for internal investors/corporate-governance/ > Board of Directors is comprised control and auditing, it appoints the CEO, and it establishes the compensation policies for senior management. As a noteworthy decision by the Board, we should mention the by independent appointment of Carlos Rojas Aboumrad as new CEO, in order members. The Board is chaired by Mr. Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco, cofounder to give continuity to the business’ development, and as part of the company, and is comprised of 15 members, 8 of whom are of the succession plan that had been underway for some time. independent. Carlos has broad knowledge of the company, given his 15 years of experience with Rotoplas, his performance as Vice-President In 2019, the Board was renovated, appointing 3 new members. of Solutions with Services since 2014, and his participation on The goal is to achieve greater representation of the countries the Board. where we operate. Our Board has now 5 international members coming from Argentina, U.S. or Brazil, and has the characteristic We should note that the Board meetings are ordinarily held on a of being gender and age diverse. quarterly basis. In 2019, there were 4 meetings, with an average attendance of 82%. Board members receive the fundamental With the new profiles, we seek to integrate members who are information on the state of the company prior to the meeting experts in emerging trends that will be essential to the business, for a proper decision-making. On the other hand, they take such as e-commerce and customer experience. This is added an annual self-assessment, as well as an assessment of the to the experience of our more veteran board members, who organization and the Board’s operation; in 2019, participation have deep knowledge of the company, as well as of the risks totaled 93%. and opportunities of the industry. The Board has an annual mandate, and the average seniority of the current board, after Board members receive compensation for their duties; the sum the aforementioned changes, is 9 years. is established by the Compensations Committee and approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 85 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Together with the Compensations Committee, the Board’s As with board members, vice-presidents’ and directors’ activity is backed by the Audit Committee and the Corporate remuneration is established by the Compensations Practices and Strategy Committee, all chaired by independent Committee. For some vice-presidents, there is a Stock Option Board members and holding quarterly meetings. These committees Plan, and an Allocation Plan of Reference Value Units (UVR for have different functions and report their performance to the its Spanish acronym), both linked to their performance, and Board and to the Shareholders’ Meeting. in some cases, to metrics linked to environmental, social, and governance topics. You may view the main functions of the Committees and their members at: We have different bodies to coordinate the various directors, https://rotoplas.com/investors/corporate-governance/ evaluate the company’s operation, and monitor indicators. The main gatherings include strategic alignment meetings, project We have an experienced and high-performance management management teams' presentations and Sustainability Strategy team comprised by 5 vice-presidents and 14 directors. During 2019, follow-up sessions. In 2019, we added various committees the Vice-Presidency of Individual Solutions and Solutions with and meetings under the framework of Flow—an organizational Service for Argentina and Brazil was created, to continue with transformation program1. the consolidation of the strategy, caring for the operations in the Southern Cone, whose relevance and complexity have increased. 1 More information in the Organizational Transformation section (chapter on Strategy). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 86 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Ethics (GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-25, Integrity is part of the corporate values that sustain our organizational framework is further strengthened with the Anticorruption Policy. 102-26, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1 culture. Those values are materialized in the guidelines of the Code 205-2, 205-3, 412-2, 415-1) of Ethics and Conduct and pervade various policies. The Code was We make available to our employees and all other stakeholders approved by the Board of Directors and applies to all employees, as the “Confia Rotoplas” reporting system, a whistleblowing well as board members2. platform managed by an independent third party, that makes possible to make anonymous reports. The cases are submitted to New employees participate in an induction course to the Code a committee comprised by senior management to be analyzed and of Ethics and Conduct when they join the company, and commit then channeled to the corresponding departments, mainly: Human to comply with it. Moreover, all employees annually sign a proof Capital, Corporate safety and control. After said departments of acquantaince with it; we also reinforce the promotion of its propose the steps to be taken, the committee is ultimately in content through trainings. Regarding the updating of our Code of charge of authorizing them. Ethics, we provide 2,077 hours of training during the year to both administrative and operational personnel. Through a classroom Given its nature as a collegiate body, the Committee is essential for and digital scheme, we trained 2,503 employees of our staff. As the process to guarantee the rights of all parties. This is in addition a result, we reached 76% of Grupo Rotoplas' employees, 75% of to the evaluation and response to the observations raised in the the administrative staff and 87% of the operational staff. internal audits carried out at all our work centers. We also seek to extend the Code to our value chain, having started Our efforts support a culture of ethics and compliance, and with suppliers, whom we request to sign in agreement before employees’ adherence to the guidelines. However, and thanks to beginning to operate with them. the reporting and monitoring mechanisms, we identified 2 cases of corruption in the year within the employee base, which triggered As a key part of our integrity as a Group, we monitor to ensure the dismissal of the employees involved. There were no other the absence of corruption practices and conflicts of interest; in line significant breaches of the Code of Ethics and Conduct in the year. with this, contributions to political parties are prohibited. The Code’s 2 Click here to know more ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 87 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Risk Management (GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 206-1, 307-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 419-1) At Grupo Rotoplas, we are aware of the risks related to our operation, to the achievement of our business goals and targets, and to the relations with the various stakeholders. The risks may result from the context of the sector and of the countries where we operate, but also from aspects inherent to the company, such as the degree of adherence to the internal guidelines and processes, the portfolio diversification, and the development of new businesses. We have a risk map that we update in a yearly basis, and it includes the outlook of the various areas and of specialized third parties. It serves as the foundation to establish and prioritize prevention and mitigation measures. They are monitored through our internal control system, with the participation of third parties for certain assessments. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 88 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Category Risk Details RISK Market Increase in raw material prices > The main raw materials we use are oil derivatives whose prices vary based on market conditions. M A N A G E M EN T Changes in consumers’ income and > We are exposed to the disposable income of our clients, including government agencies, given the preferences economic situation of each country. Economic > In a changing environment, consumer confidence can become affected and they can modify their preferences for one type of solution or other, particularly faced with an increasingly more global Social competition. Environmental Macroeconomic conditions that affect > Demand for our solutions in sectors such as construction or agriculture is influenced by shortthe sectors that compose our market and medium-term macroeconomic conditions. Decrease in the return on investment > The water solutions business requires a significant capital investment to design and build plants destined to increase and improve near the points of sale and distribution. production capacity, given the changes > Increased exposure to local sales, and thus, to the economic conditions of the country where we in the macroeconomic environment are operating, making it difficult to sell that production in markets with better trends. Difficulties for the successful entry > We continously analyze and explore the possibility of expanding our operations and entering new and expansion of operations in new markets. Although decision-making is based on business plans, there are factors inherent to each markets market that are beyond our control. Regulatory Effects on the limits of foreign trade > We are exposed to disruptive measures on issues of imports and exports in the countries where operations we have operations, those from where we import, and/or those to which we export. Unforeseen costs of complying with > We are subject to various laws and regulations on environmental, labor, and security issues, which environmental, labor, and security laws can be modified. Said modifications may represent additional costs, as well as costs derived from penalties for noncompliance. Operational Operations affected by extreme > Extreme weather conditions and/or natural disasters could hamper our operations or damage the weather conditions and/or natural infrastructure including production plants and distribution centers. disasters Stoppage and temporary shutdown of > Substantial interruption at production plants, supply chain, distribution centers, or distribution plants and/or distribution centers network for reasons beyond our control. Inability to develop high quality and > The strength of our brand could face difficulties if we are unable to supply innovative and quality innovative products and solutions solutions. High turnover and inability to attract > We are exposed to the loss of technical and strategic knowledge, as well as of investment in talent development due to turnover. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 89 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Category Risk Details RISK Financial Inability to manage the Company’s > We are exposed to a lack of own resources, sources of financing, processes, controls, and M A N A G E M EN T growth efficiently adequate systems to manage the Company’s growth. Emerging Availability and quality of water for our > Some of the technologies we use consume water for certain processes. Depending on the region Economic operations where our operations are based, the availability, supply and quality of water may vary as a result of climatic phenomena, pollution and other external environmental, social and political-legal factors. Social Cybernetic vulnerability > We are exposed to cyberattacks and data leaks in the corporate information security. This risk Environmental also applies to the internet sales business line and the offer of services contracted by phone. Political instability > Political and social movements are experienced in the region and could generate unstable situations. This may affect various processes, from the operation to the sale of products and services. Transition to low-carbon economy > The risks and opportunities of climate change, as well as the effects that it is already having on companies and the population, trigger measures by both governments and companies, as well as changes in the scenario of production costs, sales, etc. Our understanding of the risks, as well as of the business model and the Sustainability Strategy, considers the environmental and social implications and the relation with corporate governance (ESG). The company is no stranger to the ever more relevant emerging risks that mark the international agenda, such as the effects of Climate Change and the cybersecurity hazards. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 90 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU C LI M AT E C H A N G E S T R AT E G Y In 2019, we launched the Stakeholders Strategic work lines Climate Change Strategy, after Clients Distributors developing various initiatives • Developing commercial strategies attending the regional impacts of climate change (developing water Distributors capable of generating a solutions for adaptation and mitigation) under the Sustainability Strategy climate value offer for their clients. • Training distributors and marketers in the impacts of our solutions, that increase the climate resilience of framework. We decided to carry the population. Governments and NGOs capable of Governments and NGOs out a more in-depth analysis achieving their climate change objectives. • Enhancing the development of projects that enable the population to endure the effects of climate of the risks and opportunities change. End users with more climate resilience End users that climate change presents to • Bolster awareness on the effects of climate change in water scarcity and availability. Grupo Rotoplas and to bolster Employees Processes and operations our response. We present the • Develop measures to reduce GHG emissions, additional to the energy efficiency initiatives. Strenghten the operative efficiency and • Adjoin the relationship with the climate change as a variable for our innovation process. main work axes, organized based resilience • Accelerate the implementation of circular economy initiatives. on our stakeholders: Resilient, and climate active – based on Employees knowledge employees • Create awareness on the staff about the impact that water solutions deliver towards the climate resilience of our end users. • Link the work activities with the climate-impact generated by our products and services portfolio. • Address the labor disease-related issues that may be associated with the climate change phenomenon (e.g. due to variations on average temperatures). Suppliers • Assess and monitor suppliers in accordance with their environmental performance, as part of Grupo Rotoplas' s cycle of product and service delivery. Climate-aware and proactive suppliers • Support the development of lesser impact and risk raw materials. • Promote the efficiency and reduction of GHG emissions among our logistics network. Board of Directors and its • Consider the climate-related performance in the KPIs, remunerations and corporate strategy. • Promote the public engagement and leadership in issues concerning environmental topics, specially water. internal bodies Climate change strategic governance Financial community • Deliver relevant information regarding climate issues to the financial community interested on environmental performance. Generate climate value to our investors • Reinforce our metrics and monitoring practices to address the information requirements received and and insurers promote its accounting. • Prioritize green financial schemes and contribute to its development and adoption in the markets. Authorities and regulatory • Reinforce the audit processes and bolster third-party assessments. • Promote an environmental compliance culture in the company. bodies Deliver certainty on our regulatory compliance Community • Take place in collective initiatives that address climate change (including water availability and hygiene) • Promote and participate in research and assessments through alliances and collaborative efforts. Enhance a portfolio that collaborates • Generate KPIs linked to climate change. towards the climate resilience of communities ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 91 [CORPORATE G OVERNANCE] STRUCTURE ETHICS RISK MANAGEMENT MENU Moreover, we are developing the Cybersecurity Strategy. We started with risk identification and assessment, continuing with their prioritization. Based on the results obtained in this first stage, we have established the main initiatives to be carried out by various areas in the short and medium term, including prevention measures. Likewise, a review was done of the insurance policies in terms of cybersecurity. In 2019, it is worth noting the Access Control Policy, which will be followed by another internal self-regulation rule, and efforts to encourage a culture of security. In the year we received 4 monetary penalties. 1 corresponds to labor violations, for $937 pesos; 3 are due to environmental violations and amounted a total of $47,860 pesos. We did not have significant non-monetary sanctions due to another subject. Also is noteworthy the absence of sanctions related to regulations on impacts of products and services on the health and safety of users, labeling and marketing of solutions, or anti-competitive practices. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 92 [ ABOUT THIS REPORT ] MENU About this report (GRI 102-10, 102-32, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56, 103-1) We are presenting our fifth annual integrated report, The contents of the report reflect our performance which includes the company’s economic, social, regarding material topics. These were defined through a environmental, and corporate governance performance process that included the point of view of our stakeholders during 20191. Lending continuity to the previous years, regarding the topics that most affected them, which were this report has been prepared in line with GRI Standards: prioritized through various survey mechanisms. Their Exhaustive2 option. In addition, we subjected the report assessment was combined with the company’s outlook to external verification by an independent third party; on the most strategic topics to achieve the goals and the scope is described in the verification letter. targets of the business. Thus, the material topics were established from a dual viewpoint and served as the Linked to the maturity in the management of information, basis to build our Sustainability Strategy. this report contains some restatements of information presented in previous reports, which we explain in the Moreover, the topics were validated by the Sustainability corresponding chapters in order to provide a suitable Committee and communicated to the Corporate comparison of the data. Practices and Strategy Committee. Likewise, these bodies reviewed the information contained in this report. 1 The collection of Grupo Rotoplas’ subsidiaries may be viewed in the Financial Statements presented at the end of the report. 2 We also applied the most recent versions of the Water and effluents (GRI 303) and Occupational health and safety (GRI 403) standards, both launched in 2018. 3 The detail of the process followed to determine the material topics and limits (coverage) by topic may be viewed in the Sustainability model chapter of our Annual Integrated Report 2016, page 26. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 93 [ ABOUT THIS REPORT ] MENU Below, we present the materiality matrix. List of names associated with each number label presented in the matrix 1 Employees' attraction and development 5 2 Organizational Culture Impact on Stakeholders 3 Employee development 4 Diversity and inclusion 11 12 5 Health and safety of employees 6 Access to water and sanitation 7 Quality 3 6 8 Water consumption 1 4 22 9 Water culture 19 10 Legal compliance 11 Economic development 9 17 25 12 Operational efficiency 7 13 13 Strategy, business model and trademark 2 24 14 Ethics and anti-corruption 8 15 Environmental Management 20 21 5 16 Supplier Management 3 14 17 Risk Management 16 10 18 Corporate governance 15 26 19 Contribution of products and services to the 4 environment 18 20 Socio-economic impact 23 21 Incidence of climate change 22 Innovation 23 Lobbying and advocacy 0 3 4 5 24 Materials 25 Customer Relationship Influence on Company's strategy 26 Customer and user health and safety ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 94 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) G R I S TA N D A R D 1 0 2 : G EN ER A L D I S C LO S U R E S 2 0 1 6 UN Global Compact Material Issue GRI Contents Page/Link Omission SDGs and targets Principle Organizatonal 102-1 102 Profile 102-2 13, 14, 18, 19 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 102-3 102 102-4 19 102-5 84, 102 102-6 14, 18, 19 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 102-7 4 102-8 61 Principle 6 8.5, 9.2, 10.3 102-9 53 9.2 102-10 61, 93 102-11 88 102-12 44, 72 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.7, 6.8, 17.7 102-13 35 Strategy 102-14 7, 9 102-15 7, 9, 88 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, Ethics and Integrity 102-16 13, 35, 87 Principle 10 16.3 102-17 87 Principle 11 16.3 Governance 102-18 35, 84 102-19 84 102-20 35, 84 102-21 35 16.6 102-22 35, 84 5.5, 16.6 102-23 84 16.6 102-24 84 5.5, 16.6 102-25 87 16.6 102-26 35, 87 102-27 84 102-28 84 The correlation between GRI contents, SDGs and its targets has been established by using the reference framework Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets, so as the strategic analysis of the SDG contribution performed by Grupo Rotoplas. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 95 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU G R I S TA N D A R D 1 0 2 : G EN ER A L D I S C LO S U R E S UN Global Compact Material Issue GRI Contents Page/Link Omission SDGs and targets Principle Governance 102-29 88 16.6 102-30 88 102-31 88 102-32 93 102-33 84 102-34 Classified due to internal policies. 102-35 84 102-36 84 102-37 84 16.6 102-38 Classified due to internal policies. 102-39 Classified due to internal policies. Stakeholder 102-40 35 engagement 102-41 61 Principle 3 8.8 102-42 35 102-43 35 102-44 35 Reporting practice 102-45 93 102-46 93 102-47 93 102-48 54, 66, 93 102-49 61, 93 102-50 93 102-51 93 102-52 93 102-53 102 102-54 93 102-55 95 102-56 93 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 96 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU D I S C L O S U R E S B Y M AT ER I A L I S S U E Material Issue GRI Standard GRI Contents Page/Link Omission UN Global Compact SDGs and targets Contents Title Principle Access to water GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 and sanitation Approach 2016 103-2 74 103-3 74 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 44 5.4, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 9.1, 9.4, 9.5, 9.7, Economic Impacts 2016 11.2 203-2 48, 74 1.2, 1.4, 1.5, 2.1. 2.4, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.8, 3.9, 4.5, 4.8, 5.1, 5.5, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 10.2, 11.1, 11.5, 12.4, 12.5, 13.1 Employee attraction GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 and retention Approach 2016 103-2 61, 66 103-3 61, 66 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 61 Principle 6 5.1, 8.5, 8.6, 9.2, 10.3 2016 401-2 66 3.2, 5.4, 8.5 401-3 66 Principle 6 5.1, 5.4, 8.5 Quality GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 Approach 2016 103-2 47 103-3 47 GRI 103: Customer 416-1 48 health and safety 2017 416-2 88 16.3 Water awareness GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 Approach 2016 103-2 72 6.4, 6.8 103-3 72 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 97 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU D I S C L O S U R E S B Y M AT ER I A L I S S U E Material Issue GRI Standard GRI Contents Page/Link Omission UN Global Compact SDGs and targets Contents Title Principle Employee GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 development Approach 2016 103-2 64, 66 103-3 64, 66 GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 66 Health and Safety 2018 403-2 66 403-3 66 403-4 66 8.8 403-5 66 403-6 66 403-7 66 403-8 66 8.8 403-9 66 3.3, 3.9, 8.8 403-10 66 3.3, 3.9, 8.8 GRI 404: Training and 404-1 64 Principle 6 4.1, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1, 8.2, 8.5, 10.3 Education 2016 404-2 64 8.2, 8.5 404-3 64 Principle 6 8.5, 10.3 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 61, 84 Principle 6 5.1, 5.5, 8.5 Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 66 Principle 6 5.1, 8.5, 10.3 Economic GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 performance Approach 2016 103-2 79, 82 103-3 79, 82 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 82 8.1, 8.2, 9.1, 9.4, 9.5 performance 2017 201-2 74 88 Principle 7 1.5, 2.4, 11.5, 13.1 201-3 61, 66 201-4 44, 66 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 98 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU D I S C L O S U R E S B Y M AT ER I A L I S S U E Material Issue GRI Standard GRI Contents Page/Link Omission UN Global Compact SDGs and targets Contents Title Principle Operating efficiency GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 Approach 2016 103-2 53, 54, 58 103-3 53, 54, 58 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 53 8.3 Practices 2016 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 54 Principles 7 y 8 8.4, 12.2 301-2 54 Principle 8 8.4, 12.2, 12.5 301-3 Does not apply. Given the durability of the Principle 8 8.4, 12.2, 12.5 products that the company manufactures, the useful life extends in such long intervals that the utilization when it ends does not generate a significant impact. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 54 Principles 7 y 8 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 2016 302-2 54, 58 Principle 8 7.2, 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 302-3 54 Principle 8 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 302-4 54 Principles 8 y 9 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 302-5 58 Principles 8 y 9 7.3, 8.4, 12.2, 13.1 GRI 303: Water and 303-1 54 Principles 7 y 8 Effluents 2018 303-2 Not available; we will work to have this information in the next report. 303-3 54 Principples 7 y 8 6.4 303-4 Not available; we will work to have this 6.4 information in the next report. 303-5 Not available; we will work to have this Principles 7 y 8 6.3, 6.4, 8.4, 12.2 information in the next report. GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 54 Principles 7 y 8 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 14.3, 15.1 2016 305-2 54 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 14.3, 15.1 305-3 54 3.9, 12.4, 13.1, 14.3, 15.1 305-4 54 Principle 7 13.1, 14.3, 15.1 305-5 54 Principles 8 y 9 13.1, 14.3, 15.1 305-6 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 8 3.9, 12.4 information in the next report. 305-7 54 Principles 7 y 8 3.9, 12.4, 14.3, 15.1 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 99 [ GRI CONTENT INDEX ] MENU D I S C L O S U R E S B Y M AT ER I A L I S S U E Material Issue GRI Standard GRI Contents Page/Link Omission UN Global Compact SDGs and targets Contents Title Principle Operating efficiency GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 8 3.9, 6.3, 6.4, 6.6, 12.4, 14.1 Waste 2018 information in the next report. 306-2 54 Principle 8 3.9, 6.3, 12.4, 12.5 306-3 54 Principle 8 3.9, 6.3, 6.6, 12.4, 14.1, 15.1 306-4 54 Principle 8 3.9, 12.4 306-5 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 8 6.6, 14.2, 15.1, 15.5 information in the next report. Strategy, business GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 model and brand Approach 2016 103-2 30, 88 103-3 30, 88 GRI 206: Anti206-1 88 16.3 competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 87 Principle 10 2016 Risk management GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 Principle 4 Approach 2016 103-2 66, 87, 88 Priniciple 5 103-3 66, 87, 88 GRI 205: Anti205-1 87 Principle 10 16.5 corruption 2016 205-2 87 Principle 10 16.5 205-3 87 Principle 10 16.5 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 88 Principle 8 16.3 Compliance 2016 GRI 406: Non406-1 66 Principle 6 5.1, 8.8 discrimination 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 88 16.3 Compliance 2016 Innovation GRI 103: Mannagement 103-1 93 Approach 2016 103-2 44 103-3 44 Customer GRI 103: Management 103-1 93 Relations Approach 2016 103-2 48, 88 103-3 48, 88 12.8 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 48 Labeling 2016 417-2 88 16.3 417-3 88 16.3 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 100 [ VERIFICATION LETTER ] MENU Conclusions Verification Letter of the 2019 Integrated Annual Report The report verification process did not present any inconsistency that leads us to consider that: “Transformation Rotoplas”  The principles of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and To Grupo Rotoplas S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias Board of Directors: timeliness were not applied correctly.  The Integrated Annual Report does not meet the requirements requested by the Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan, carried out a limited verification of certain GRI Standards in accordance with the Comprehensive option. information presented in the Integrated Annual Report “Transformation Rotoplas”  The published data contains errors. corresponding to Grupo Rotoplas S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias 2019 financial year based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards in accordance with the Comprehensive An internal report of recommendations is delivered separately exclusively for the client, option. which contains the areas of opportunity detected for a future report. Our commitment is to issue impartial opinions about the presentation and quality of the information contained in the Integrated Annual Report prepared by Grupo Rotoplas, S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias, who is responsible for the selection of material topics and reported GRI contents. Our work took as reference International Norms and Standards, such as: ISAE 3000 Ethical Principles of Independence and the GRI publication The Alma Paulina Garduño Arellano External Assurance of Sustainability Reporting. Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan S.A. de C.V An independent and objective verification of a sample of GRI contents related to the list Pico Sorata 180, Jardines en la Montaña, of material topics of Grupo Rotoplas, S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias, which are indicated in the following table: Tlalpan, C.P. 14210, CDMX. paulina@redsociales.com 102-1 102-11 102-21 102-31 102-41 102-51 303-1 404-1 102-2 102-12 102-22 102-32 102-42 102-52 305-1 405-1 T. (55) 54 46 74 84 102-3 102-13 102-23 102-33 102-43 102-53 305-2 415-1 April 3rd, 2020 102-4 102-14 102-24 102-34 102-44 102-54 306-2 416-2 102-5 102-15 102-25 102-35 102-45 102-55 307-1 417-2 102-6 102-16 102-26 102-36 102-46 201-1 401-1 419-1 102-7 102-17 102-27 102-37 102-47 203-1 403-2 102-8 102-18 102-28 102-38 102-48 204-1 403-3 102-9 102-19 102-29 102-39 102-49 205-3 403-9 102-10 102-20 102-30 102-40 102-50 302-1 403-10 Our verification process covered the following activities:  Understanding of the information gathering processes, as well as the visualization of the information management systems.  Analysis and verification of qualitative and quantitative information through visual, documentary and public evidence of the GRI contents sample.  Validation of the methodological compliance of selected content (listed above) Declaration of independence and competence of Redes Sociales LT based on the GRI Standards. Redes Sociales en Línea Timberlan employees have the level of competence necessary to verify the compliance with standards used in the preparation of Sustainability Reports, so they can issue a professional opinion of non-financial information reports, complying  Comparison of information presented in previous reports. with the principles of independence, integrity, objectivity, competence and professional diligence, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In no case our declaration of verification can be understood as an audit report and therefore no responsibility is assumed for the systems and processes of management and internal control from which the information is obtained. This Letter of Verification is issued on April, 3rd, two thousand twenty and is valid as long as there are no subsequent and substantial modifications to the 2019 Integrated Annual Report of Grupo Rotoplas S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 101 [ CONTACT INFORMATION ] MENU Contact Information (GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-53) INVESTOR RELATIONS GRUPO ROTOPLAS, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Mariana Fernández Headquarters mfernandez@rotoplas.com Calle Pedregal No. 24 piso 19. agua@rotoplas.com Col. Molino del Rey. Del. Miguel Hidalgo. María Fernanda Escobar mfescobar@rotoplas.com Zip Code 11040, Mexico City SUSTAINABILITY +52 (55) 5201 5000 Abraham Jacobo Pineda apineda@rotoplas.com rotoplas.com Rotoplas ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 102 rotoplas.com Rotoplas
