Communication on Progress 2020 1. Our Statement of continued support October 18th, 2020 by our CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that jp.ik reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the fields of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jorge Sá Couto Chairman OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 3 4 Communication on Progress Our Commitment We are dedicated to contributing for a more sustainable world for everyone, no exception. We believe education is transforming our World and technology is powerful. Our goal is making information accessible to everyone and everywhere. Through education and technology, together, we can build authentic Knowledge Societies and, consequently, a more sustainable world for everyone! We believe great companies are inspired by purpose and can change lives! OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY OUR CEO 5 Index 1. Our Statement of continued support by our CEO 3 Our Commitment 5 2. Description of Actions 9 Human Rights 9 Labour 17 Environment 21 Anti-Corruption 22 3. Measurement of Outcomes 23 Human Rights 23 Labour 26 Environment 27 Anti-Corruption 27 Our Manifesto 28 How to reach us 28 INDEX 7 2. Description of Actions HUMAN RIGHTS FROM OCTOBER 2019 TO It is already common-sense Human Rights advocates claim every child has OCTOBER 2020 a right to education and this claim is rooted in two fundamental premises. Firstly, if children receive basic primary education, they will likely be literate and numerate and will have the basic social and life skills necessary to secure a job and to be an active and engaged member of a peaceful community. Therefore, and considering Education as a Universal Human Right, we engage frequently with strategic global and local stakeholders in the fields of Technology for Education, Education, Innovation and Sustainable Development. In addition, we engage with our close partners who share our vision and who have deep knowledge of the communities. So, in order to strengthen our relations and share our vision and mission, jp.ik participates in some referral events regarding Education, Technologies and Innovation, namely: Relevant ICT – Events Innovation Africa, Accra, Ghana | December 3 – December 5, 2019 This is Africa’s Official Ministerial Summit for Technology for Education and Innovation whose 10th edition took place in Ghana, under the patronage of the Government of Ghana led by The Honourable Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, Minister of Education and co-hosted by The Honourable Ursula Owusu-Ekuful, Minister of Communications. Innovation Africa, the “must go to” event, is established as the continent’s number one high level ministerial forum where industry partners gather in pre-scheduled meetings, which enable committed engagement with Ministers and Senior Government Officials from over 40 countries, such as Angola, Benin, Cape Verde, Kenya, Lesotho, Mozambique, Senegal, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 9 Bett Show, London, UK | January 22 – January 25, 2020 BETT Show is the first education technology event of the year, and probably the loudest, gathering companies, edtech start-ups, government agents linked to education and ICT and thousands of attendees from over 130 countries. In this perspective, BETT is considered a referral global forum to exchange experiences and challenges regarding the future of education, as well as the role of technology in the teaching/ learning experience and the revolution of the education paradigm. Learning Everywhere – Education now and beyond Coivd-19, @livestorm | June 30, 2020 Covid-19 brought a multiplicity of distresses that all together might represent the biggest challenge of the century. Following a never seen global appeal to social isolation to slow down Covid-19 spread, more than 890 million students were sent home. In the face of this global challenge, parents were called to step in as co-educators alongside teachers, while their homes became their children classrooms and teachers needed to fit urgently to this education paradigm shift. Therefore, this Public Health emergency highlighted the learning everywhere phenomenon that probably is here to stay. This evolving phenomenon is empowered by ICT for Education and web technologies (such as social media and Web 2.0 tools) and by a kaleidoscope of mobile devices. In front of this learning phenomenon, this webinar brought together experts in Education, Technologies applied to Education and Technology, aiming to foster the debate, analysis and sharing of experiences about the response to the current educational emergency, ensuring the digital transition of the community in the future and the continuity of the country's Education Master Plan. 10 Communication on Progress Jorge Sá Couto, Chairman of jp.ik, was invited as a speaker to this event, taking the opportunity to share our vision of a ICT-education project capable to answer the needs and challenges imposed by Covid-19 pandemic, as well as beyond this challenging time we are living. Virtual Educa Connect @kenes | July 21 – July 23, 2020 This online event was considered as the leading virtual meeting in education of the year. Preceding the annual World Congress, Virtual Educa Connect addressed the most urgent issues arising from the challenges Covid-19 pandemic has posed to the global educational community. Furthermore, the implementation of technology in education and training was also discussed, aiming to foster the fulfillment of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) defined in the 2030 Agenda. During this event we had the opportunity to network with educational agents from different parts of the globe. Sustainable Education Meeting @Teams | September 23 – September 25, 2020 Every year, and during the UN General Assembly, this meeting is held aiming to foster critical thinking and debate by gathering high-level representatives of Universities and Non-profit Organizations whose focus roots in Education, Sustainability and Innovation. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 11 This year’s edition was unrolled under the theme “Hybrid Education – From Broadband to Broad Connectivity” with the purpose to promote a discussion regarding priorities, challenges and needs to overcome the hurdles of ensuring children have access to a quality education wherever they are and whenever they need. Meaningful ICT-based Education Proofs-of-Concept Training Initiative targeting low and Upper Primary Education Teachers, Gaia, Portugal | October 2019 This training initiative entitled “On-board pedagogy: redesigning learning environments by significantly integrating educational technologies” aims to capacitate this group of teachers towards the integration of technologies as meaningful educational technological resources into the learning environments. Aiming to foster the further development of this project, the classrooms of the two education institutions were equipped with technological devices for students and teachers. This capacitation initiative lasted 50 hours and reached 40 teachers who showed a lot of enthusiasm, curiosity, and interest in this pedagogical approach. 12 Communication on Progress Our Contribution for the Community Donation of 10 tablets to Agrupamento Escolas Eugénio de Andrade |April 2020 We have a close connection to this educational community. In an inclusive environment this school welcomes a group of children with special needs. In this present context of global coronavirus spreading, we are trying, as much as possible, to support our local community. And we are doing it in our field of expertise by providing technological devices for education to children. By doing this, we contribute to their learning journey regardless the educational model adopted. Donation of 9 educational laptops to Fundação António Silva Leal| May 2020 This non-profit Organization works towards the protection of children, youth, adults, citizens with special needs, and the senior citizens at risk of social disintegration and exclusion. The Fundação António Silva Leal provides care and solidarity, supporting the most vulnerable groups. Donation of 2 laptops to Associação Humanitária de Bombeiros Voluntários de Esmoriz| June 2020 This is a Firefighter Institution whose mission is to protect and save people and goods (public and private). Their work is vital for the community's wellbeing. The mission of these professionals lies in the protection of persons and property, including the rescue of the injured, sick, shipwrecked and the extinction of fires. Donation of 501 student devices to TECH4COVID| June and July 2020 TECH4COVID is the Portuguese technological community that is suppressing Covid-19 impact. This is a social movement of more than five thousand people: engineers, scientist, designers, marketeers, health professionals, among other fields. This team of volunteers is working 24/7 to develop solutions towards the mitigation of the damaging consequences of this pandemic. Currently TECH4COVID has more than 30 active projects, more than six thousand donators and more than 620 video-consultations. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 13 Donation of 7 tablets to AJUDARIS | August 2020 AJUDARIS is a Portuguese non-profit Institution of national scope whose mission is to mitigate hunger, poverty, and social exclusion. This Institution was founded in 2008 by a group of volunteers who started by promoting social initiatives for the most vulnerable groups in Porto. Confronted with constant calls from the supported community, this group felt the need to create a more regular, organized, and efficient responses rooted in a vision of multidisciplinary work. Donation of 1 laptop to Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa | August 2020 The Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa (Portuguese Red Cross) ) strives to prevent and alleviate human suffering in Portugal and around the world. Therefore, the Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa provides humanitarian and social assistance, especially to the most vulnerable groups, preventing and retrieving the suffering and contributing to the defense of life, health, and human dignity. Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares | June 2019 – June 2020 The Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares strives to prevent food waste by using these products to be distributed to vulnerable groups of citizens. The network collects and distributes several thousands of tons of goods. These goods are used in cooked meals and food baskets to citizens in need, assisting over 390,000 people. In this context, we continue to foster an internal campaign entitled Papel por Alimentos, which can be translated as “Paper for Food”. In collaboration with Banco Alimentar, per each ton of paper, donated by individuals, companies and institutions to the Banco Alimentar, a waste is generated that GREENPAPERS, Lda., as the only environmental partner, prepares the waste for recycling. GREENPAPERS, Lda. values economically every ton of paper waste, converting it into food products, helping countless families in need of assistance. On June of 2019 we had already deliver a total of 1.143kg of paper. As a company commited with the environmental sustainability of the Planet, we encourage all collaborators to diminish as much as possible the printouts. However, if we still must print some documents, we can use that paper to help a noble Cause. 14 Communication on Progress Covid-19 Internal Campaign for additional support to Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome | August 2020 We are not aware yet of Covid-19 impact in the different societal spheres and, of course, in the world’s economy. Nevertheless, we are already dealing with some challenging effects. In times of pandemic the Portuguese Food Bank has warned of an enormous increase of the requests for assistance. Aiming to mitigate Covid-19 spread from march until end of May 70% of our team was working from home, while 30% of the team worked at the Headquarters. Next, from beginning of June until September 10, half of the team worked from the staff and the other half from home with a rotation model. In August we challenge our community and take part in a group photo, ensuring the needed physical distance. So, we invited everyone working at the office for a group photo on July 3, at 1:55 pm., at the entrance of the Head Office. And to this mini challenge, we added a request: bring one unit of rice, pasta or canned food to give to the Food Bank. With this gesture we meant to ensure an additional support to the vulnerable families and institutions in need. “Our paper is worth food” Internal Campaign for additional support to Banco Alimentar contra a Fome | September 2020 September is the month of going back to school. Plus, it is also the time for cleaning up and organizing before the school routine kicks in. This internal campaign fostered the recollection of paper, magazines, books, notebooks, and single sheets that are no longer useful. After the recollection we gave this paper to Food Bank to be recycled. All the paper we collected represented putting food on the table of people in need. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 15 Our Contribution into fostering an online community in the Education spectrum INSPIRE web edition | April 2019 – currently INSPIRE was born in the beginning of 2016 with the purpose of bringing to the spotlight themes, such as education, technology, and sustainable development, fostering critical thinking, productive debate and exchange of experiences. At the beginning of 2019 we decided to print one edition of the Magazine per year instead of two editions; this means less paper and less ink, reinforcing our commitment to a more sustainable world. Afterwards, INSPIRE landed at the digital sphere of life, aiming to be a digital global community where people around the world whose work, commitment and research in the fields of Education, Innovation, Technology for Education and Sustainability, can share their experiences, projects, approaches and best practices. We believe together we learn more, we move faster, and we grow stronger. B2RUN This initiative was born in Germany (Munich Olympic Stadium) and quickly conquered other European countries. It combines informal sports practice with the business environment, mixing teambuilding with moments of leisure, content, and entertainment. B2Run believes sport promotes a positive transformation of mentalities. After all, people who make a difference in their companies are the ones who comprehend the importance of the balance between the mind and the physical. For 2020 B2Run went virtual and brought novelties. In addition to the digital format, a partnership was established with the Portuguese app UPNDO that translates the human movement into financial support for social organizations. jp.group has chosen the Liga Portuguesa contra o Cancro, which assists cancer patients and families in health promotion, cancer prevention and in stimulating oncology training and research. For each kilometre equals to one euro and all the money raised was donated to this Institution. 16 Communication on Progress LABOUR Diversity and equality of opportunities are the central pillars of our own DNA. So, we continued to be strongly committed to building and sharing transparent and clear policies of non-discrimination for recruitment processes, training, and career progression, as well as fostering engagement, open horizontal and vertical communication, and collaboration. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June 2018 currently JP.HUB is our internal collaborative digital platform, which is an open channel for all employees, whose purpose is to foster synergies between the diverse areas. With this digital platform our purpose relies in foster an open communication and a collaborative environment. This initiative holds a continuous purpose rooted in: • Promoting a collaborative environment, a fluid communication among departments and enhancing a multidisciplinary landscape. • Fostering an authentic cooperative environment where cooperation and competitiveness interlink and join efforts towards a more proactive attitude, engaging and reliable relations and a sustainable business for all parties. Training Policy Through training we aim to contribute for the professional development and individual growth of our collaborators, while fostering professional and personal fulfilment, and the development of new skills. Covid-19: Contingency Plan and its Operationalization | January 2020 – currently Since the very beginning of Covid-19 worldwide spread our commitment was contributing to the deceleration of the spread of the new coronavirus. In addition, our goals rooted in ensuring the health of employees, customers, partners and suppliers and their families; and in ensuring the operationality of the business during the crisis for the purpose of ensure the sustainability of the Group and the income of employees. In the context of designing and implementing a Contingency Plan and its operationalization our employees, clients, partners, distributors, and their families are our main target groups. Within our Contingency Plan we highlight some of the most relevant initiatives we implemented to mitigate the risk of spreading of the new coronavirus: DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 17 • Team of designated employees: this group is responsible for operationalizing the Crisis Management. This team includes a Security Officer, Security Delegates, a Communication team; the Intervention Team; and the Surveillance Team. The purpose that supports the constitution of this team is interlinked with the need to having a group of trained and prepared employees ready to act appropriately and adequately in the face of the presence of an employee infected by the new coronavirus. • News and warnings published on our collaborative portal: In this portal known to all jp.hub, are published all the news and essential information that must be accessible to all employees and, second, to be known to all. Among these news and information are, for example, the sharing of measures adopted and the publication of the Contingency. The employees of Manufacturing and Logistics do not use the computer during their working hours. So, the data were posted in strategic locations so that the employees could easily access and read them. • Training session for the team of designated collaborators: this training workshop aimed to provide this group of employees who are part of the team with the information and techniques necessary to respond adequately and promptly to the deployment, routing and isolation of a suspicious case. • Contingency Plan: the evolution of the spread of the new coronavirus requires jp.group a daily attention to the pair of continuous surveillance, for which contributed daily assessments and reports of the evolution of the virus and its impact on the operationalization of the group's various companies and business units. The Contingency Plan is a regulatory document that has always been amended necessary and the purpose of which is to contribute to the reduction of spread of this virus. 18 Communication on Progress In this way, some of the topics covered in this document are, for example, the definition of suspicious case; transmission of the infection; preventive measures in the following scenarios: travel, visits, hygiene in the workplace, holidays of the collaborators and study visits; identification of the essential activities of the jp.group; or the procedure to be adopted in the face of a possible case of SARS-CoV-2. • Informational Meetings: held in March and open to all employees, aiming to share the Procedures and preventive measures adopted in the face of the threat of the spread of the Pandemic Covid-19. • Questionnaire for visitors to our facilities: must be filled by all visitors to our facilities. Written in Portuguese and in English and its completion is mandatory, i.e. those who do not fill this document will not be allowed to enter the premises. • “Are you working at home? These tips are important”: already in a context of following the declaration of the Covid-19 Pandemic, the establishment of this editorial space at JP.HUB, our collaborative platform, aimed the sharing of relevant suggestions to a good and efficient experience when working at home. • At home but Always Close : published on our collaborative platform jp.hub aiming to sharing our colleagues’ experiences and challenges who are working at home, fostering the convergence of the diversity of roles we had to endure during confinement. • Email messages: sent to customers, partners, and suppliers with the aim of communicating the changes in operationalization implemented in March 13, 2020, such as the temporary closure of JP's Customer Desk and the transition of more than 70% of employees to the teleworking regime. • Guide Returning to work at the Headquarters: this document explains and illustrates the group of measures and practices, which aims to facilitating this return to the office. This guide is vital within this environment of relative normality , in which is crucial to rethink the forms of social and professional interaction. It is important to highlight this document will be reviewed whenever it reveals necessary. • 10 single-use masks kit: delivered to all employees whenever necessary. • Questionnaire aims to assess the level of job satisfaction in times of pandemic: this access link was published in our collaborative portal and it was also sent via e-mail to all employees. The purpose of this questionnaire was to comprehend how the members of the diverse teams dealt with and overcome the challenges brought about by Covid-19 pandemic. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 19 Therefore, and after the analysis of the data aggregated, we understand 98% of our people consider the prevention and safety measures defined by our company were adequate. Plus, 96% of our people consider the teamwork between the various areas and directions has been maintained or increased; 95% of our people consider that, despite this pandemic, they feel motivated for work, and 65% say they feel always motivated to work. In addition, 92% of our people consider having systems and computer tools to be able to work in a way that production in the new work model; and 99% of our people consider their commitment to the company remained or even increased during the confinement period. • Training Sessions: this second wave of sessions for all our employees was held in May via Teams platform anticipating the return to work at our facilities. This set of sessions aimed to present and explain the Guide Returning to work at the Headquarters. • Communication on the possibility of doing serological tests: on May 25, the Directors of the various unities of the company inform their teams about the possibility of doing the serological tests. This testing, which was paid by the company, was optional and anonymous. The Serological tests: were carried out at our facilities. The communication of the results was confidential by accessing the digital platform of the health organization responsible for the testing procedure. • COVID SAFE brand: APCER offers the COVID SAFE service that aims to support the Organization in restoring trust and security among employees, clients and partners. This service is based on the guidelines of the Portuguese Directorate General for Health (DGS), the Portuguese Authority for Laboral Conditions (ACT) and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in the framework of the pandemic Covid-19 worldwide. In addition, this service intends to carefully verify the implementation of safety and health procedures and practices. 20 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Earth is the only home we have, so our mission must be protecting and nurturing it. Plus, we must remember we are all accountable for the destiny of our home! jp.ik believes we have our own share when it comes to contributing for the sustainability of our Planet. Lights Off, Nature On | 2017 currently We invest in implementing initiatives of awareness, which targets jp.ik’s employees about the importance of energy saving towards a more sustainable Planet. Since 2017 we continue with this internal initiative of awareness ‘Lights off, Nature on’. Paper and Plastic Recycling | since 2019 currently Within the environmental perspective our purpose is to contribute for a more sustainable Planet, while raising awareness about environment issues within our own internal community. We do recycle the waste (paper and plastic) we produce at the office. Nevertheless, one of our environmental goals is contributing to reduce plastic, so within the new employee welcoming initiative our welcome kit includes an aluminium bottle for water and a reusable cup for coffee. Through this initiative we pledge to reduce plastic use in our facilities. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems Certification jp.ik worked very hard to achieve this normative and its requirements for an environmental management system to enhance our environmental performance and to seek managing our environmental responsibilities in a systematic perspective while contributing to the consolidation of the environmental pillar of sustainability. In this context, ISO 14001:2015 assists our organization towards the achievement of main outcomes within our environmental management system, providing value to the environment, the organization itself and our interested parties. Towards the achievement of our mission, jp.ik accomplished this certification ISO14001:2015, and continues to work hard to maintain it. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS 21 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption is an undeniable obstacle to ecnonomy, social development, and ultimately, environmental sustainability. Plus, corruption represents an enormous cost for the sustainable development and it particularly affects the most vulnerable communities. Code of Ethics | since April 2017 Our Code of Ethics reflects our ethical values and principles of conduct. >> Plus, this document’s purpose is to share how these values and principles should be reflected in our relationships with our stakeholders (individuals and entities, individual or collective, which may affect or be affected by our activities, products, or services). The category of stakeholders also includes, but not exclusively: employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, service providers, counterparties, business partners, competitors, government authorities and regulators, financial institutions, and local communities. Therefore, our Code of Ethics expresses the respect for our corporate values, as well as the rejection of all types of practices related to bribery or favoring other entities. Annual Account Report | April 2020 The publication of our annual Account Report guarantees the communication to all stakeholders regarding the relevant information concerning our activity, namely financial situation, investments, and performance indicators. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June 2018 currently Our internal digital platform, (referred earlier in this document), is a collaborative channel open to all employees, which has a multiplier effect concerning the Code of Ethic themes through the dissemination of articles by the Ombudsman. 22 Communication on Progress 3. Measurement of Outcomes Measuring the outcomes means evaluating the impact of our initiatives and actions in our own communities and in the social and professional FROM OCTOBER 2019 TO groups we engage with. OCTOBER 2020 Investing in the measurement of outcomes also means acknowledging the importance of our actions and interrelating them with a sphere of significance. In this context, most of our outcomes are intrinsically qualitative, which allows us to create the best conditions and situations towards a continuous development and the transformation of our community and the surrounding communities. HUMAN RIGHTS “All human begins are born free and equal in dignity and rights” Relevant ICT – Events Eleanor Roosevelt, US First lady (1933-1945) Innovation Africa, Accra, Ghana | December 3 – December 5, 2019 Fostering the engagement with local and global stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives and private sector partners in the field. Establishing strong partnerships and collaborations with these stakeholders to join efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Bett Show, London, UK | January 22 – January 25, 2020 Fostering the engagement with local and global stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives and private sector partners in the field. Establishing strong partnerships and collaborations with these stakeholders to join efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 23 Learning Everywhere – Education now and beyond Coivd-19, @livestorm | June 30, 2020 Fostering the engagement with local and global stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives and private sector partners in the field. Establishing strong partnerships and collaborations with these stakeholders to join efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Virtual Educa Connect @kenes | July 21 – July 23, 2020 Fostering the engagement with local and global stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives and private sector partners in the field. Establishing strong partnerships and collaborations with these stakeholders to join efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Sustainable Education Meeting @Teams | September 23 – September 25, 2020 Fostering the engagement with local and global stakeholders, such as governmental agents, ONGs representatives, private sector partners in the field. Establishing strong partnerships and collaborations with these stakeholders to join efforts towards a quality education and a sustainable development for all. Meaningful ICT – based Education Proofs-of-Concept Training Initiative targeting low and Upper Primary Education Teachers, Gaia, Portugal | October 2019 Promoting a learning environment and experiences that empowers students to develop the 21st century skills, such as problem solving, critical thinking, media literacy, creativity, allowing them to learn at their own pace and build their own knowledge. Empowering teachers to guide their students in achieving their best academic performance. 24 Communication on Progress Our Contribution for the Community Donation of 10 tablets to Agrupamento Escolas Eugénio de Andrade |April 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which help children in more vulnerable situations. Donation of 9 educational laptops to Fundação António Silva Leal| May 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which help children in need. Donation of 2 laptops to Associação Humanitária de Bombeiros Voluntários de Esmoriz| June 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to support key organizations for the local communities’ safety and protection, such as the firefighters. Donation of 501 student devices to TECH4COVID | June and July 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which help children in need. Donation of 7 tablets to AJUDARIS | August 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which help children in need. Donation of 1 laptop to Cruz Vermelha Portguesa | August 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which help children in need. Federação Portuguesa dos Bancos Alimentares | June 2019 – June 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which assist more vulnerable social groups. Covid-19 Internal Campaign for additional support to Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome | August 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which assist more vulnerable social groups. “Our paper is worth food” Internal Campaign for additional support to Banco Alimentar contra a Fome | September 2020 Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which assist more vulnerable social groups. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 25 Our Contribution into fostering an online community in the Education spectrum INSPIRE web edition | April 2019 – currently Engaging the multiple communities of thinkers, academics, pedagogical practitioners, experts, and teachers into one global digital community where they can share priorities, challenges, experiences, and best practices; and where they can reflect on a certain perspective; and where they can experiment and wonder. INSPIRE Web Edition represents an amazing opportunity for all of us, because we really do believe together, we learn more, we move faster, and we grow stronger. B2RUN Within our mission of promoting sustainable development, we aim to assist the achievement of initiatives, which assist more vulnerable social groups. “Without trust, we cannot face LABOUR the difficult challenges in our world today.” JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June, 2018 – currently António Guterres, UN Secretary-general Fostering a collaborative environment, a fluid communication and catalysing a multidisciplinary landscape. Promoting an authentic cooperative environment, which means catalysing an environment where cooperation and competitiveness interlink and join efforts towards a more proactive attitude, engaging and reliable relations and a sustainable business for all parties. Training Policy Promoting professional development and individual growth to our collaborators to assure professional and personal fulfilment. Covid-19: Contingency Plan and its Operationalization | January 2020 – currently • Contributing to mitigate the risk of Covid-19 spread in our community. • Contributing to the healthy and well-being of our employees, clients, partners, distributors, and their families. • Ensuring our business’ sustainability through this uncertain time due to Covid-19 pandemic. 26 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT “It is both ethical and good business sense to invest in Lights Off, Nature On | 2017 – currently sustainable development for all Promoting awareness about environmental issues by promoting the shift people on a healthy planet” of behaviour within our work community. António Guterres, UN Secretary-general Paper and Plastic Recycling Fostering the transformation and reuse (if possible) of the paper and plastic we still use. Fostering environmental awareness and simultaneously promote a community sense of mission. We do have a business, but we also should give back to our community. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems Certification Within our scope of work, and in order to comply with ISO 14001:2015, our organization is now identifying the risks in the areas of: > Threat and opportunity Management; > Answer significant aspects for the environment; > Fulfillment of compliance obligations. ANTI-CORRUPTION “Corruption harms all, but the poor and vulnerable suffer most. Code of Ethics | since April, 2017 We need to unite against it; The purpose of this document roots in fostering a collaborative environment tackling corruption is tackling of transparency, accountability, and integrity, both vertically and horizontally. poverty itself.” António Guterres, UN Secretary-general Annual Account Report | April, 2020 This annual document aims to cultivating a cooperative environment of transparency, accountability, and integrity among inside the organization, but also with external key stakeholders. JP.HUB Digital Platform for collaboration and communication | June, 2018 currently Our collaborative platform embodies a multiplier effect regarding the dissemination of the Code of Ethics’ themes, empowering the reach of the corporate responsibility messages. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 27 Our Manifesto How to reach us jpik.com Check out our growing online community for education: inspire.jpik.com 28 Communication on Progress
