un global compAct [ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ] 2019 Our commitments 2020 Communication on Progress contents Action Plan OVERVIEW Chairman’s Message Gender Equality HUMAN RIGHTS Actions in Disaster Stricken Countries CSR Activities LTG Social Ethics Committee LABOUR VIE Programme Training Initiatives Planète Urgence ENVIRONMENT Environmental Impact of Business Bilan Carbone© ANTI-CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management Communication on Progress 10 PRINCIPLES of the GLOBAL compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour and; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Communication on Progress Pg2 OVERVIEW ACTION PLAN UN PRINCIPLES MOBILITAS ACTIONS STAGE ACTIONS FOR 2019 ACTIONS FOR 2020 GENDER EQUALITY 4th year: Action Continued commitment to the promotion of gender equality Continued commitment to the promotion of gender equality ACTION IN Crisis management in Continued involvement with local communities to ensure fast Remain closely involved with local communities to ensure fast DISASTER STRICKEN affected countries response to crises response to crises COUNTRIES CSR ACTIVITIES >5 years communicate Continued involvement in local communities and charitable initiatives Continued involvement in local communities and charitable initiatives HUMAN RIGHTS >5 years LTG SOCIAL ETHICS Renewed focus on the five general ethical principles in implementation Renewed focus on the five general ethical principles in business COMMITTEE business of policies VIE PROGRAMME >5 years Continued active participation in the VIE programme Continued active participation in the VIE programme LABOUR TRAINING INITIATIVES >5 years Skills growth and development of training portfolio Skills growth and further development of training portfolio PLANÈTE URGENCE >5 years Commitment to continue working with Planète Urgence Commitment to continue working with Planète Urgence ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT >5 years Continued encouragement of environmental initiatives at local Continued encouragement of environmental initiatives at local branches OF BUSINESS branches Environment BILAN CARBONE >5 years Bilan Carbone© Demepool / AGS Paris Bilan Carbone© Demepool / AGS Paris SUPPLY CHAIN Continued improvement of supply chain management Continued improvement of supply chain management processes >5 years MANAGEMENT processes throughout the Group throughout the Group Anti-Corruption Communication on Progress Pg3 Communication on Progress Pg4 Communication on Progress CHAIRMAN’s MESSAGE MOBILITAS The MOBILITAS Group is committed to reporting we have with our customers. THIS REPORT HIGHLIGHTS Comprehensive anti-bribery and on our role in promoting and enshrining the SOME OF THE corruption and anti-trust policies, universal principles defined in the United Nations privacy policies and compliance INITIATIVES TAKEN BY Global Compact. surveys ensure that our OUR SUBSIDIARIES suppliers comply with UN Global AND STAFF IN VARIOUS Compact Principles and adhere Over the last 46 years, we have grown into a to internationally recognised COUNTRIES IN 2019. environmental, social and I WOULD LIKE TO global company, present on four continents. Our corporate governance standards. FOCUS ON THREE OF international reach raises challenges which our THESE INITIATIVES, Group is committed to taking on in a manner that AS CHAIRMAN OF THE MOBILITAS GROUP, I AM MOTIVATED BY is true to our core values of quality, performance, PLEASED TO REAFFIRM OUR SOLIDARITY AND A innovation, respect and solidarity. These values COMMITMENT TO THE TEN L O N G T E R M form the pillars of our commitment to sustainable PRINCIPLES OUTLINED IN DEVELOPMENT VISION. THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT. business practices across the globe. WE WILL CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THEM IN ALL OUR ACTIVITIES AND CRISIS RESPONSE OPERATIONS. crisis that engulfs the world knowledge sharing and capitalise We believe it is vital for businesses economy, it is clear that showing on staff strengths in the context of to be involved in their local solidarity with our communities our environment, our international communities and come to their aid on a local level will form the focal presence and the difficulties that in potential crisis. The MOBILITAS point of our commitment in 2020. sometimes present themselves. Group has demonstrated year after year its dedication to this TRAINING AND SKILLS SUPPLY CHAIN key principle of solidarity, and in 2019, contributed to local efforts DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT to alleviate the impact of natural As the MOBILITAS Group expands Supply chain management is a disasters in Southern Africa in and develops new activities, the vital aspect of our business and particular. progression of our staff is our we do our utmost to ensure that Alain Taïeb key concern. Focused training our high standards of service and Chairman As I write today, at the start of of the Supervisory Board and skills development enable quality go beyond the direct contact April 2020, amid the global health QUALITY At MOBILITAS we are devoted to finding a better way. We believe that quality begins by focusing on our clients’ needs. All else will follow. peRFORMANCE Excellence is at the heart of MOBILITAS. We aim to exceed expectations and demonstrate to our clients that our standards are world class. Innovation Innovation is the keystone of our success and sustainability. We set trends in technology and methodology, measuring them by customer feedback. In this way, we aim to create ideas with the potential to change our industries and improve customer service. RESPECT We value others’ viewpoints and diversity of thought. We respect honesty and believe in the highest ethical standards, earning trust through commitment, consistency and principled actions. Solidarity We commit ourselves to working with our neighbours and communities around the world, recognising that although we may not be the same, we live on common ground. In standing together, we believe we are always stronger and wiser. Communication on Progress Pg5 Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Gender Equality ENDORSEMENT OF THE WOMEN’S must acknowledge that mobility relies heavily on male workers because the EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES job by its naturerequires physical strength, an inherently male attribute. Nevertheless, we are pleased to report that, in 2019, 36% of our staff was MOBILITAS recognises that women remain under-represented in nonfemale. This is a year-on-year improvement of 4% from 2018, and a total traditional industries and occupations, also in the mobility sector. To of improvement of 13% since 2016, when we first implemented the UN better understand the representation of women in this industry, we Women’s Empowerment Principles. Approx. Approx. 36% 62% are employed of our workforce in sales or is female administrative roles % of female employees at the MOBILITAS Group % of female employees per staff category 100 90 135 sales reps 395.75 admin 80 out of a total staff out of a 100 of 274 are 70 total of 629.25 90 female 56 managers are female 60 80 out of a total 50 70 198.7 are female 114 ops staff 60 40 32% 49% 62% out of a total 50 of 1137.9 are 30 36% 23% 40 female 20 25% 30 28% 10 20 13% 10 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Management Sales Admin Operational We affirm our commitment to the UN Women’s Empowerment 4) We have a comprehensive grievance procedure in place for all Principles through our actions: employees so that they can inform us if they feel they are being treated unfairly, and we encourage our managers to have an opendoor policy. 1) We aim to increase female representation within the MOBILITAS Group by another 2% in 2020 to further focus on the professional 5) When selecting suppliers, we use non-discriminatory selection development of women. criteria to ensure that female-owned companies are given fair opportunities. 2) Each manager completes an annual HR metrics report which is distributed internally to raise awareness for gender equality. In 6) Our marketing materials respect the dignity of women. this way, we encourage hiring and internal promotion of female staff. 7) We participate in community initiatives that promote gender equality, and we use non-discriminatory selection processes when 3) Our human resources department focuses on changing attitudes selecting event sponsorship opportunities and charities with towards women to ensure that they are treated equally. which to partner. Communication on Progress Pg6 Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS IN DISASTER STRICKEN COUNTRIES BUSHFIRES IN SOUTH AFRICA After bushfires devastated Knysna and the greater Overberg region in January 2019, the Laser Transport Group and its subsidiaries donated their services and resources, collecting donations of clothes, food and water for the victims of the blaze. Our trucks delivered the donations to fire relief in the Overberg, while our HR department set up an operations point in Betty’s Bay to house residents who had lost their homes. Donations were handed out at collection points, manned after hours and over two consecutive weekends. The Stuttaford van Lines Johannesburg and Sandton Office Removal teams with 67 Blankets for Mandela founder Caroline Steyn (bottom row, centre) FLOODING IN MOZAMBIQUE Following the destruction caused in Mozambique by Cyclone Idai in March 2019, Stuttaford Van Lines Johannesburg stepped up to help those who had been displaced due to flooding and wind damage. In partnership with the 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela Day organisation, volunteers at the Gauteng logistics hub collected thousands of donations, including food, clothes, blankets and toys, which we delivered to Mozambique to be distributed to the victims of the cyclone. Knysna bushfires Communication on Progress Pg7 HUMAN RIGHTS CSR ACTIVITIES MOBILITAS is committed to engaging and supporting the local communities in which our subsidiaries operate. In 2019, MOBILITAS staff around the world got involved in projects and fundraisers aiming to improve the lives and conditions of vulnerable people everywhere. ANGOLA – AFRICAN LIBRARY PROJECT ROMANIA – FOR THE CHILDREN SOUTH AFRICA – LOVE STORY IN THE EASTERN CAPE By establishing libraries in rural Africa, the African Library Project (ALP) aims to improve literacy, education, and self-empowerment amongst Africa’s children. In support of the ALP, Stuttaford Van In 2019, AGS Movers Bucharest teamed up with the Inocenti Foundation, a Pickfords Removals Port Elizabeth was one of the main partners of a campaign designed Lines Lesotho provided import customs clearing services and delivery of ALP containers free of non-governmental organisation that aims to prevent child abandonment by to restore hope to the city’s residents through the collection of everyday essentials for the charge in that country. The containers were filled with books and educational supplies collected by supporting Romanian families and children in need. poor and marginalised. The campaign, organised by a local relief organisation, Love Story, ALP volunteers in the US. The books are not for resale but are donations to schools in Lesotho so that ran from August to November 2019. they may develop libraries of their own. The next container is due to arrive in Maseru in mid-February Every day, 36 Inocenti staff members and more than 500 volunteers serve 2020. more than 2 000 abandoned, at-risk and special-needs children in Bucharest and Pickfords Port Elizabeth acted as one of the main drop-off points for members of the public Bistrita-Nasaud County. AGS Movers contributed to the cause by distributing food wanting to donate to the campaign. The branch also collected items from donors who were The ALP is organising a conference in Lesotho in March 2020 where all US and African representatives packages to pupils at three schools located outside the Romanian capital. unable to bring them to the depot personally. will be present, as well as Lesotho ministers, the US embassy ambassador and the US Peace Corps director. Stuttaford Van Lines has been invited as a guest of honour. Love Story opened its first soup kitchen in Port Elizabeth city centre in 2012, and within a few months was feeding over 200 people, five nights a week. To date, it has established 20 soup kitchens, serving an average of 30 000 meals a month. SOUTH AFRICA – VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN Stuttaford Van Lines is proud to be the logistics partner for the Jessica Foord Handbag Project, an initiative that collects new and used handbags filled with toiletries and personal SOUTH AFRICA – DESMOND TUTU HIV FOUNDATION care items to give to rape victims after they have reported their trauma. The ‘Kiddi Packs’ are packed for children under the age of 12 and sadly make up 60% of the monthly quota. Every AGS is supporting the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation (DTHF) in South Africa, specifically to handbag is the beginning of a survivor’s new life after their ordeal and gives them hope, raise funds for the DTHF’s Tutu Tester mobile clinic programme. The Tutu Tester mobile which is a fundamental step in recovery. clinic offers a ‘Health on Wheels’ wellness service, providing family planning services and point-of-care testing and screening for a range of chronic illnesses. These include HIV, tuberculosis, STIs, diabetes and high blood pressure. The advanced point-of-care technology allows patients in under-served communities, with limited access to primary healthcare clinics, to receive their test results in under 20 minutes. SOUTH AFRICA – DELIVERING HAPPINESS TO DIEPSLOOT In 2019, Stuttaford Van Lines Johannesburg supported Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot, a Steyn City CSI project that supplies much needed educational items to the township’s children during the festive season. A fleet of our large trucks transported backpacks and handmade blankets to various SOUTH AFRICA – CYCLETHON schools in the Diepsloot area, providing each child with their own, brand-new school bag loaded with stationery, sweets and toys. Many of the township’s children previously relied on plastic bags to carry their As national sponsors of the Smile Foundation’s Cyclethon charity drive, Stuttaford Van Lines schoolbooks, so we are proud that we could play even a small role in building our nation, one child at a time. and Pickfords Removals transported Planet Fitness-sponsored spinning bikes and media trucks to and from many of the Cyclethon events around South Africa. During these events, members of the public could donate to the Smile Foundation by paying to cycle on a spinning bike for a pre-determined amount of time. As the name suggests, the mission of the Smile Foundation is to transform the lives of South African children struggling with facial conditions. SOUTH AFRICA – MUDDY PRINCESS PARTNERSHIP Pickfords Removals signed up as a national corporate partner for Muddy Princess, a womenonly 5km outdoor obstacle course held in various, preferably muddy, locations throughout South Africa. Muddy Princess aims to raise funds for the Cancer Association, and Pickfords Removals was pleased to provide logistical support to achieve this goal. SOUTH AFRICA – WATER SHORTAGE SOUTH AFRICA – FOOD GARDEN INITIATIVE In 2019, the Laser Transport Group continued to support Water Shortage South Africa (WSSA), a national volunteer network that emerged at the end of 2015 in response to the urgent need for water in communities most affected by the ongoing drought. As part of the Pickfords Removals continued to support the Mother of Peace Organic Garden and Food network’s WATERDROP campaign, the group assisted in regional water collection activities Forest initiative in Illovo, KwaZulu-Natal, again focusing on food gardens for abused, in Cape Town, transporting water from designated collection points to the areas most in abandoned or orphaned children. A team of volunteers, among them Pickfords staff members, need. planted a wide variety of produce, including cabbage, turnips, avocado and naartjie trees. The gardens support the greater aim of the project, which is to offer workshops to residents on food security and sustainability. Communication on Progress Pg8 Communication on Progress Pg9 Communication on Progress LABOUR SOCIAL ETHICS THE LASER ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES BROAD-BASED BLACK ECONOMIC TRANSPORT The Laser Transport Group continued EMPOWERMENT (BBBEE) GROUP its proactive approach in 2019 by increasing information sharing on Empowering the poor and disadvantaged remains a key priority CONTINUED fraud prevention and the importance for The Laser Transport Group. As of remaining vigilant in the workplace, such, our BBBEE strategies focus on TO FOCUS with a dedicated, renewed focus the empowerment and upskilling of on ethical business alignment in all staff from previously disadvantaged spheres of operation. ON THE FIVE communities. To that end, and in partnership with Tsiba Education, To raise awareness for anti-corruption 12 learners were recruited and GENERAL and anti-trust measures, and in line with the Group’s Ethical Employee placed in a business administration ETHICAL learnership programme designed Conduct Pledge, we introduced to develop future business leaders employee EU GDPR training modules by accommodating disability in the PRINCIPLES IN in accordance with international standards. The Group’s zero tolerance workplace. After their excellent performance, three of the learners BUSINESS IN approach towards anti-competitive behaviour, anti-corruption and were offered extended contract positions within the Group. In 2019 unethical business practices was also highlighted during various roadshows 2020, we will see a new group of 12 learners embarking on a learnership in 2019. Further roadshows are and intern workplace experience. planned for May 2020. Alignment with the FIDI and FAIM charters on anti-corruption, • Principle A: confidentiality and protection of Beneficence and non-maleficence personal information, particularly at a time when identity fraud is rife, remains critical to the transport • Principle B: logistics and warehousing sector Fidelity and responsibility when it comes to winning the trust of clients and suppliers. Our FIDI FAIM accreditation is one of our guarantees • Principle C: in this respect. FAIM is the strictest Integrity quality programme and the most recognised accreditation within the international moving industry to • Principle D: protect the interests of our society. Justice • Principle E: Respect for people’s rights and dignity by resolving ethical issues, creating competence and building human relations. Communication on Progress Pg10 Communication on Progress DIVING INTO THE TALENT POOL VOLUNTEER FOR INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE AT MOBILITAS, WE KNOW THAT TO GROW OUR BUSINESS WE NEED ENERGETIC, TALENTED EMPLOYEES WHO WILL BE AS COMMITTED TO OUR GROWTH AND SUCCESS AS WE ARE. FOR THAT REASON, WE CONTINUED OUR PARTICIPATION IN THE VOLUNTEER FOR INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE (VIE) PROGRAMME IN 2019. • The VIE programme aims to develop the talent pipeline for • As an established French company, we are proud to be able French businesses by offering a structured programme for to nurture young talent and offer deserving candidates the young French university graduates who wish to gain entryopportunity to expand their professional horizons, while at level work experience abroad for periods ranging from six the same time benefitting from the energy and dynamism months to two years. that they bring to our organisation. • Programme participants are recruited and managed through • MOBILITAS has hired 400 VIE participants since joining the Business France (previously UBIFRANCE), the French Agency programme. for International Business Development, a division of the French Ministry for Economy, Industry and Employment. • 61 of our VIEs have gone on to be employed at management level. FIGURES: Number Number Number of VIE for of VIE in of VIE in 2019 Europe AFRICA 14 5 9 Communication on Progress Pg11 Communication on Progress LABOUR INTERVIEW WITH ARTHUR DESAULES, 27 YEARS OLD, VIE AT AGS BENIN AND EXECUTIVE RELOCATIONS AFRICA, CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICa What was your role during your time as a VIE participant? I started the programme at AGS Benin, where I was assigned the role of deputy branch manager. My responsibilities included organising day-today operations, import and export, and heading the customer relations department. I then joined Executive Relocations in Cape Town, South Africa, where I supervised the Executive Move Management (EMM) department. This involved not only supervising client moves but also handling invoicing and debtors, submitting tenders, collating statistics and overseeing the implementation and improvement of new and ongoing processes. While I was at Executive Relocations, a decision was made to move the EMM department from Cape Town to Brest, France, which is where I am now. I’m setting up the department in its new location, supervising employee training and training my successor. What have your learned from the experience? How did you integrate into Benin, and Mainly I would say that I have improved my ability to subsequently South Africa? understand the needs and concerns of the customer. But also, being part of the VIE community, and as a service provider to expats, I have learned to be a good ambassador I was well supported when I arrived in Benin. Professionally, the AGS by always behaving in a manner that is appropriate and Benin branch manager, Frédéric Léomant, explained many aspects of upholds the positive image of those I represent. the removals industry to me and gave me sound advice that I follow to this day. Socially, I found it easy to meet people, because Benin is a lot like a small village where everyone knows each other. About a month Did the VIE programme contribute to after I arrived, the French embassy in Benin organised a VIE meeting for programme participants and together we arranged other social activities, your professional and personal growth? including visiting different sites around the country, going to Lomé, Togo, The VIE programme contributed to my growth in several for the weekend, and playing sport. I love tennis so I was happy to find ways. Firstly, it gave me the opportunity to formulate other tennis enthusiasts to play with. my own perception of the environment I was in, as living overseas shows you a reality beyond what you will During my time in South Africa, I received excellent guidance from the experience as a tourist. Secondly, living and working in people at Executive Relocations Africa (ERA). Everybody was very warm another country makes you more openminded in your and welcoming. I found it easy to navigate my way around Cape Town as profession as it shows you another perspective. You learn South Africans are very hospitable. to think more out of the box. The VIE programme is an amazing opportunity to have responsibility and get out of There is also a strong sense of community among VIE graduates and your comfort zone while you are young. regularly connecting with them was very helpful when it came to learning about life in a particular country. Were you able to share your experiences with other VIE graduates? What were the main challenges you faced as a Yes, I was. The VIE programme is like a community. The VIE participant? participants meet each other whenever possible, share our experiences and even do business together if we can. I think my biggest challenge was understanding the local culture and how Then there are the social networking events organised by it differs from country to country, both socially and professionally. For Business France, where I give advice to other participants instance, in Europe customers are accustomed to very quick service – if my experience is relevant to them. especially in the removals industry – so they find it hard to understand that, because the import and export processes in Africa are more complex What are your plans for the future? than anywhere else in the world, there may be shipment delays. After being overseas for more than two years, I am not Also, as a VIE graduate, you often find yourself in situations where you ready to stay in France. In the time that I have been with are the youngest person in the room. Since age is considered a sign of the AGS Group, I have enjoyed learning about the many wisdom in many African countries, you do have to prove yourself as a facets of the industry and I am open to continue in this young foreigner to the local staff. area. Communication on Progress Pg12 Communication on Progress LABOUR TRAINING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT As a group, MOBILITAS recognises that our human resources ensure our continued success. To this end, we are committed to supporting and highlighting the talents of our CORPORATE employees through training programmes. We train our staff across various platforms, including the internet, corporate universities, internal experts and external training UNIVERSITY providers. In 2017, in partnership with five other mid-sized ownermanaged companies, Achievements in 2019 MOBILITAS the Aletia created Corporate University. The university allows employees to €350 000 participate in training and management programmes that address their shared challenges, giving them the opportunity to compare invested at Group level for management, their experiences and learn 30 admin, technical training & sales from one another. coaching In 2019, Aletia began the creation of five “Talentia” 2 280 modules, aimed at trainers (95% internal) equipping participants with the skills they need to progress to senior courses given on 3 continents management positions. 20 000 (25% desktop training) In addition, it launched a full range of new courses 1 500 and hired an Englishspeaking trainer to develop hours trained courses for Englishspeaking participants, people trained including a module titled Time Management and (4% management, 96% admin & technical staff) Prioritisation. 17 MOBILITAS employees participated in Aletia courses in 2019, and more A FOCUS ON E-LEARNING same level of training, regardless of their location, and than 24 employees have thereby offer our customers the same high-quality taken courses in the first service worldwide two months of 2020. In 2019 we continued to make e-learning the go-to platform for skills In 2020, we will continue to encourage skills growth ACCREDITATIONS development by creating and testing multiple internal online training across the Group. Key focus areas will include: AND modules scheduled for launch in 2020. The modules MEMBERSHIPS are designed to assist in the onboarding of new • Sharing expertise and promoting our internal The AGS Group was staff, providing background information that will experts awarded the FIDI enhance further face-to-face training. We also • Sharing good managerial practices internally and Platinum Award in 2019, promoted existing training modules, encouraging with our partners in recognition of driving employees to complete the courses most beneficial • Digitising the training portfolio on a shared online and promoting industry to their positions. training platform knowledge amongst its • Developing targeted training courses for specific employees. Only two FIDIaccredited companies Moreover, in October we entered into an agreement groups, regardless of their position in the company earned the Platinum with the International Association of Movers (IAM) (technical, sales, new hires, etc.) Award, and we are proud that allows all AGS staff to complete the IAM Move • Supporting end users during the deployment and to be one of them. Coordinators Training Program. use of new applications (Arcania, IRISE, mobile Experience has shown us that e-learning is the best applications, virtual survey, etc.). way to ensure that all our employees can access the Communication on Progress Pg13 environment TREE PLANTING MOBILITAS COMMITMENT MOBILITAS has partnered with the NGO Planète Urgence for the last 10 years to support their Environment & Development Programme. The programme works towards ensuring a sustainable future for the people of Mali, Madagascar, Indonesia and Haiti through reforestation actions in their local communities. To offset the environmental impact inherent to our activities, we have contributed towards the reforestation of these countries, planting one tree for every international move we carry out and one tree for every 15 archive boxes stored in our warehouses. MOBILITAS has planted a total of 244 000 trees since joining the programme in 2009. 15 boxes stored with PRO ARCHIVES SYSTEMES = 1 TREE HAITI COMPLETED PROJECT INDONESIA SINCE 2010 2015 2016 Following a vast reforestation project on the island of Sumatra, during which over 4.3 million trees were planted, Planète Urgence now concentrates its efforts on the conservation and Following the devastating 2010 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL restoration of the Mahakam Delta mangrove forests. The region is home to hundreds of earthquake, Planète Urgence species of fish and birds, and its inhabitants rely on aquaculture and fishing. The project 2 500 12 500 18 000 32 500 31 981 26 519 24 000 24 000 24 000 24 000 24 000 244 000 partnered with the Haitian supports local families by providing them with the skills and financial resources to develop a Movement for Rural Development sustainable aquaculture industry. to lead a reforestation project in the south and south-east of the Our partner country. The project aimed to 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL Planète Urgence works with local organisations in countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate disturbances. Through various projects rebuild the forested areas that had spread throughout the globe, Planète Urgence provides communities with the skills and resources they need to develop their local economy, been destroyed and to provide 5 000 7 000 10 400 4 900 8 500 6 000 6 000 12 000 12 000 12 000 83 800 in an environmentally and economically sustainable manner. sustainable resources to the local people. Unfortunately, the Mali project was concluded at the end of 2016 due to deteriorating security in that country. As it successfully supported local families for the eight years that it was active, Planète Urgence is keen to pursue other projects in Mali when security improves. The Haiti 2015 2016 TOTAL project was also finalised at the end of 2016 for safety reasons. With tree planting capacity to spare, we shifted our focus to planting more 6 000 6 000 12 000 trees in Indonesia and Madagascar. MADAGASCAR SINCE 2012 MALI COMPLETED PROJECT 2009-2016 Planète Urgence is leading a project for the restoration of the tapia forests of Madagascar, Until its completion in December 2016, the project combatted desertification in the home to an ecosystem vital to the development of the region. The reforestation project Mopti and Ségou regions of Mali. By providing sustainable resources for fruit and wood supports the development of the wood, fruit, silk and honey industries, while it contributes to production, it allowed local families to achieve income and food security. raising awareness to environmental and economic issues. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 7 950 18 431 9 519 6 000 6 000 12 000 12 000 12 000 83 900 2 500 7 500 11 000 14 150 8 650 8 500 6 000 6 000 64 300 Communication on Progress Pg14 Communication on Progress Pg15 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES SOUTH AFRICA spekboom challenge To combat climate change at an individual level, hundreds of South Africans answered the call to plant spekboom trees (Portulacaria afra) in their gardens and around their workplaces, neighbourhoods and schools. The spekboom is a succulent native to South Africa which has a positive impact on the environment: SOUTH AFRICA Water conservation • 10 times more effective at reducing As part of the Make Every Drop Count campaign, we rolled out various water-saving measures carbon than an entire rain forest at our operations across the Western and Eastern Cape. These measures include water tanks for harvesting rainwater, water-saving devices, recycling and using grey water. Similarly, we gave our • 1 tree can remove 8.5kg of CO2 per year branch gardens a makeover, replacing many of the plants with waterwise succulents. • Needs 25ml of water per year to survive • Easily propagated from cuttings In 2020, the Laser Transport Group and our subsidiaries will resume our commitment to planting spekboom trees around impoverished schools and local businesses. Communication on Progress Pg16 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT CARBON FOOTPRINT ASSESSMENT FOR DEMEPOOL HQ MOBILITAS is committed to sustainable and environmentally friendly factor. In the mobility industry, activity is defined as the total business practices. That’s why, in 2012, we started using the Bilan number of moves carried out each year, taking into account all Carbone® method to calculate the carbon footprint of our French modes of transport (sea, air and land). subsidiaries. In 2019, Demepool headquarters in Gennevilliers applied the method to its activities. Monitoring and measuring greenhouse gas emissions is the first step to effectively reducing our impact on the environment. We use Bilan Carbone® quantifies organisations’ greenhouse gas emissions the information we gain from Bilan Carbone® to work together with by multiplying data on an organisation’s activity by an emission our clients to implement solutions that reduce our carbon footprint. BILAN CARBONE 2019 IT equipment 9.71 Vehicles 33 Building 1.46 Consumables 0.16 Air travel 11.24 Daily commute 19.08 Business trips 52.09 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Equivalent to 126.74 tonnes of CO2 35% BILAN CARBONE 2019 Percentage of greenhouse gas emissions by category TRAVEL AIR TRAVEL CONSUMABLES ASSETS 0% 9% 56% Communication on Progress Pg17 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AT AGS PARIS AGS Paris continues to monitor a range of environmental sustainability indicators to identify areas for improvement and implement appropriate corrective measures. Reduction of Ordinary Industrial Waste Ordinary Industrial Waste (OIW) is waste that is neither dangerous nor inert and can decompose, burn, ferment or rust. The increased awareness of our employees regarding sorting these types of wastes has resulted in an average annual reduction of 67% in OIW since 2012. OIW 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (in tonnes) 836 452 442 170 69 144 300 336 Recycled cardboard Owing to the disruption caused by the coronavirus, the tonnes of recycled cardboard for 2019 are estimated. Our recycling partners had to close their facility before the final numbers could be confirmed. A more accurate figure for 2019 will be included in next year’s report, along with next year’s figures. RECYCLED 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CARDBOARD (in tonnes) 95 380 306 230 214 263 236.38 102 Fuel consumption A well-maintained vehicle fleet and the introduction of eco-driving methods has resulted in a noticeable year-on-year reduction in fuel consumption. AGS Paris is also Masternaut “Flotte Bronze” (Bronze fleet) certified, which confirms our commitment to reduce CO2 emissions. DIESEL 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CONSUMPTION (in litres) 117 623 107 923 100 906 90 963 92 887 Communication on Progress Pg18 Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION The quality of our service is, at least in part, dependent on the quality of the services in our supply chain. To ensure a high level of service from our partners, we collaborate exclusively with companies that like ourselves are FIDI accredited. The FIDI-FAIM certification is globally recognised as the benchmark of quality in the international removals industry. It ensures that all FIDI-accredited companies work toward a common standard in the management and execution of international moves, thus leading to a worldwide level of consistency in the range and quality of the services offered. FAIM 3.2 is the current version of the FIDI standard. It aims to raise the level of global quality to meet the industry’s current market needs and regulatory requirements. In 2019, FIDI implemented the Anti-Trust Charter, which complements the anti-corruption and anti-bribery processes that were already in place. Internally, the Group has also begun development of a new operations management platform called ARCANIA. The platform will automatically verify that our suppliers are complying with their service-level agreements, thereby giving us greater supervision of our entire supply chain. The supplier management module in ARCANIA is due to be implemented by the end of 2023. Data protection and privacy Following the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) in 2018, we amended our supplier code of conduct to ensure that our supply chain treats customer data as securely as we do, according to regulation. In 2019, all MOBILITAS staff members underwent online training to help them understand the regulations and to know how they should be applied. Certificates were awarded upon completion of the course. Communication on Progress Pg19 IN SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
