Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the CEO Long-term target carbon neutrality 100 years of innovation for the benefit of our customers, employees, shareholders and the community – that is the hallmark of Datwyler. Building on our strong roots, we have developed our own style with high standards and unique values: − We are entrepreneurs. − We bring value to our customers. − We excel in what we do. − We have respect for others. We strive to deliver sustainable profitable growth as the foundation for adding long-term value and preserving corporate independence. In our efforts, we are addressing the challenges of our times. For example, since the sale of the distribution companies Distrelec and Nedis at the end of February 2020, we are focusing on the business with system-critical elastomer components. With a new organisational structure, we will further strengthen our market focus, our core competencies and our agility. The concept of Objectives and Key Results (OKR), which was also newly introduced, will motivate our employees to work towards the same overriding goals. As a company with a long-term focus, we are aware of our responsibility towards our stakeholders, Society and the environment. This is reflected, among other things, in our continued support of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in 2009, and our Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. I am very pleased that in 2019 we succeeded for the third time in a row in reducing the relative consumption per unit of sales for all resources. We have achieved our public reduction targets for electricity and water consumption and waste volume. Also particularly worth mentioning is our proactive chemical compliance management, with which we go far beyond the legal requirements and thus set leading global standards in the elastomer industry. Our commitment to sustainable management has also been recognised by independent bodies. For example, Datwyler has received the silver award from the globally recognised rating agency EcoVadis for the second time in succession and is in the top 25% of more than 65,000 companies surveyed. This motivates us to do more: an interdisciplinary project group is currently working on further developing Datwyler’s sustainability and climate strategy with the long-term target of becoming carbon neutral. In this way, we live up to our social responsibility as a reliable partner to our stakeholders and contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Dirk Lambrecht Group CEO Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 1 Integration of the Global Compact Communication on Progress in the sustainability reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative Since 2008, the Annual Report published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. has followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Together with the detailed GRI Content Index, the Sustainability Report meets the latest internationally recognised GRI guidelines as confirmed by GRI. Since 9 November 2009, the Datwyler Group has been a member of the UN Global Compact. The table below summarises the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. More information about the specific actions and outcomes can be found on the referenced pages of the Sustainability Report and this GRI Content Index. All documents are available for downloading at https://datwyler.com/company/sustainability . Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Sustainabilithe GRI Content ty Report 2019 Index 2019 Human Rights Principle 1: BusiDatwyler’s Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the companies and Page 19-21: Page 5: nesses should employees of the Group respect the human rights, dignity, privacy and Attractive employEthics and integsupport and repersonal rights of every individual. Datwyler does not tolerate any form er, agility and rity (102-16) spect the protection of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or offence. In the empowerment Pages 7/8: of internationally reporting year 2019, the Compliance Officer (currently the CFO) Pages 24/25: Social topics, proclaimed human received no complaints of alleged discrimination in Datwyler Fair business human rights rights. companies. In its Code of Conduct, Datwyler commits to ensuring a practices assessment safe and healthy working environment. (412) Principle 2: BusiIn its Code of Conduct, Datwyler commits to open and honest behavPages 22/23: Page 5: nesses should iour with integrity. Datwyler gives its suppliers fair contractual terms Sustainable Ethics and integmake sure that and reasonable valuable consideration. In return, Datwyler also exsupply chains rity (102-16) they are not compects the suppliers to treat their employees and suppliers fairly and Page 24/25: Page 5/6: plicit in human honestly. Fair business Stakeholder rights abuses. practices engagement Since 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. Pages 7/8: Social topics Labour Principle 3: BusiDatwyler’s Code of Conduct explicitly states that employees are free to Pages 19-21: Page 5/6: nesses should upjoin trade unions. The Datwyler companies maintain a constructive Attractive emStakeholder hold the freedom of dialogue with internal employee representatives. Employees in Switzerployer, agility engagement association and the land are subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement of the Swiss and empower(102-41) effective recognition mechanical and electrical engineering industries. Company wide, ment of the right to collec67.6% of the Datwyler workforce, were covered by collective bargaining Pages 24/25: tive bargaining. agreements in 2019. Fair business practices Principle 4: In its Code of Conduct, Datwyler commits to protect human rights. It Pages 24/25: Page 8: Businesses should categorically rejects the use of forced and compulsory labour. The Fair business Social topics , uphold the eliminsystematic sustainability reporting shows that all companies of the practices forced or comation of all forms of Datwyler Group comply with this. pulsory labour forced and compu(409-1) lsory labour. Principle 5: In its Code of Conduct, Datwyler commits to protect human rights. It Pages 24/25: Page 8: Businesses should categorically rejects the use of child labour. The systematic sustainabilFair business Social topics, uphold the effective ity reporting shows that all companies of the Datwyler Group comply practices child labour abolition of child with this. (408-1) labour. Principle 6: BusiThe Code of Conduct lays down that Datwyler does not tolerate any Pages 19-21: Page 5: nesses should form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or offence. Attractive emEthics and integuphold the eliminaIn the reporting year 2019, the Compliance Officer (currently the CFO) ployer, agility rity (102-16) tion of discriminareceived no complaints of alleged discrimination in Datwyler and empowerPage 7/8: tion in respect of companies. ment Social topics, employment and Page 24/25: diversity and occupation. Fair business equal opportunity practices (405-1), nondiscrimination (406-1) Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 2 Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Sustainabilithe GRI Content ty Report 2019 Index 2019 Environment Principle 7: BusiFor Datwyler, environmental protection is an important mission and, as Pages 12/13: Page 7: Enviness should supsuch, is embodied in the company’s values and Code of Conduct. This Leading quality, ronmental topics port a precautionencompasses both environmentally friendly production with efficient products ary approach to use of resources and the development of products that are made of the Pages 14-17: environmental most environmentally sound components possible. Resource-friendchallenges. ly production The environmental data in the sustainability reporting covers more than Pages 22/23: 98% of resource consumption, more than 96% of waste and more than Sustainable 96% of the workforce of the Datwyler Group. supply chains The company is continuously investing in the maintenance and modernisation of its production plants worldwide. In the reporting year, 2019 investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to CHF 104.6 million (previous year: CHF 138.5 million). The impact on the use of resources is also considered when any investments are made in equipment and buildings. Principle 8: BusiAt the end of 2019, 13 Datwyler plants were certified to ISO 14001. Pages 12/13: Page 7: Enviness should underAdditional plants are working towards ISO environmental certification. Leading quality ronmental topics take initiatives to Thanks to measures that were implemented, in 2019 Datwyler, for the products promote greater third consecutive time, succeeded in reducing the resource consumpPages 14-17: environmental tion per revenue unit: electricity -3.2%, fuels -0.5%, water -15.0%, and Resource-friendresponsibility. waste volume -5.5%. ly production Pages 22/23: With the publication of the 2019 sustainability report, Datwyler has Sustainable announced carbon neutrality for the whole Group as long term target. supply chains In Switzerland, Datwyler produces CO2-neutrally already by using a wood-fired heating plant for process energy and heating power as well as hydropower for electricity. As a result, every year the company saves 500’000 tonnes of fuel oil and 3’600 tonnes of CO2. By putting into operation a modern cogeneration unit at the Italian facility, Datwyler reduces the CO2 emissions by some additional 900 tonnes per year. Principle 9: Environmental protection at Datwyler encompasses both environmenPages 12/13: Page 7: EnviBusiness should tally friendly production with efficient use of resources and the developLeading quality ronmental topics encourage the ment of products that are made of the most environmentally sound products development and components possible. With its proactive chemical compliance managePages 14-17: diffusion of environment, the company goes above and beyond the legal requirements. Resource-friendmentally friendly Datwyler proactively identifies substances of concern that are particuly production technologies. larly hazardous to health and harmful to the environment and prohibits the use of these substances for the development and production of new elastomer products. In many cases, Datwyler products directly help to protect the environment. One example is the new rubber gaskets for environmentally friendly natural gas engines or for Selective Catalytic Reduction technology to reduce nitrogen-oxide emissions from diesel-powered vehicles in the automotive industry. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: BusiDatwyler’s Code of Conduct strictly prohibits collusion, bribery and Pages 22/23: Page 5: nesses should work corruption. The Code of Conduct is reiterated to employees regularly Sustainable Ethics and integagainst corruption in during internal training sessions. Once again, no legal actions for antisupply chains rity (102-16) all its forms, includcompetitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices were brought Pages 24/25: Page 6: ing extortion and against Datwyler during 2019. Nor were any significant fines or nonFair business Economic topics, bribery. monetary sanctions imposed on Datwyler for non-compliance with laws practices Anti-corruption and regulations during the reporting year. In accordance with the Code (205-2, 205-3), of Conduct, Datwyler does not provide financial support to political Anti-competitive parties, organisations or office holders. behaviour (206-1) Since 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. Page 7/8: Social topics, supplier The internal auditors regularly monitor compliance with laws and obsocial assessservation of the Code of Conduct in all organisational units of Datwyler. ment (414-1), compliance (419-1) Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 3 GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Sustainability Report 2019 Integration of Sustainability Information following the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines The Sustainability Report 2019 published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for the tweltht time. The report, together with the information compiled in this detailed GRI Content Index, has been prepared according to the latest internationally recognised GRI guidelines as confirmed by GRI. GRI is the world’s leading standard for corporate sustainability reporting (www.globalreporting.org). The GRI guidelines require disclosures that set the overall context for understanding an organisation’s sustainability performance. Furthermore, they cover disclosures on the organisational profile and numerous performance indicators relating to the organisational profile as well as to economic, environmental and social topics. By adopting these guidelines, Datwyler is seeking to provide its stakeholders with comprehensive and transparent information on the company’s sustainability focus. The GRI Content Index below shows where to locate specific information in the Sustainability Report or in the Annual Report. If you have any queries about Datwyler’s sustainability reporting, please contact: Guido Unternaehrer Head of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Dätwyler Holding Inc. Gotthardstrasse 31 6460 Altdorf / Switzerland T +41 41 875 19 00 F +41 41 875 12 05 guido.unternaehrer@datwyler.com www.datwyler.com Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 4 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 5 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 6 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 7 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2019 8
