2020 Sustainability Report Improving every life Growing our business by enabling action and impact on some of humanity’s greatest challenges. Science for Circular | Science for Climate | Science for Community Contents Our leadership Feature stories Who we are How we work What we create About report Message from our CEO 4 Introduction  10 Introduction  46 Introduction 84 Introduction 190 About report, scope,  216 and boundaries Message from our CSO 6 Feature stories 12 3M Value Model 48 Corporate governance 86 Our customers 192 Sustainable Development Goals 220 Site spotlights 34 Our Vision 49 Enterprise risk 94 Innovation management 198 GRI index and UNGC 226 Our Values 49 Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Our products 208 SASB index 236 Our Strategic  50 Human rights 106 Sustainability Assurance statement 238 Framework Compensation 116 Metric tables 244 Advancing impact 56 Employee programs 120 Communities 60 Health and safety 132 Employee diversity and inclusion 70 Environmental management 140 Recognition 78 Circular materials 146 On the cover Climate and energy 160 In 2019, the 3M Industrial Mineral Products Division California site installed solar cells containing 3M™ EPE Film. For information Suppliers 176 on our renewable energy efforts in 2019, please see “Flipping the switch on renewable energy.” For information on our technologies in the renewable energy market, see “Leveraging light for innovative solar energy solutions.” And for information on our Industrial Mineral Products California site, see the Site spotlight. A message from Mike Additionally, we moved our St. Paul The climate, Over the last few decades, Roman headquarters to 100% renewable electricity, while committing to move environmental, and 3M has reduced our our entire global operations across public health challenges greenhouse 70 countries to renewable electricity by 2050. And we took several other the world faces gas emissions by may seem daunting, 68% actions to accelerate our Sustainability leadership — from partnering with but they are not Clean Air Asia to create more livable cities, to establishing a new goal to insurmountable — 3M is a long-time leader I am tremendously proud of how our provide 300,000 hours of skills-based 96,000 employees have stepped up especially if tackled with a in Sustainability. with urgency to advance solutions volunteerism by 2025. collaborative, purpose-driven, and for all of our stakeholders — from science-based approach. In addition We started our groundbreaking communities around the globe and the We also continue to to our ongoing support for the Since 1975, 2M tons Pollution Prevention Pays program back in 1975 — preventing over two health care teams that serve them, to advance the knowledge UN Global Compact, as CEO of our customers, employees, investors 3M, I commit to doing our part and million tons of pollution to date — and business partners. and importance partnering with others to make this and we are continuously working to build on our leadership. Over the last of science itself. a decade of action — for the sake of This shared global experience further two decades, for example, as 3M’s deepens our commitment to continue We’re finding new and more exciting our business and the greater good. of pollution have revenues have doubled, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions advancing science and Sustainability, ways to support STEM education, —M  ike Roman been prevented which includes our three priority areas: and you’ll see examples throughout 3M Chairman of the Board by nearly 70%, and moved 35% of our this report. We have appointed one and Chief Executive Officer by our Pollution manufacturing sites to zero waste. •S  cience for Circular: Design solutions of our top engineers, Dr. Jayshree Prevention Pays program. At the same time, we’ve intensified our that do more with less material, Seth, to be 3M’s first-ever Chief focus on creating a range of innovative advancing a global circular economy Science Advocate. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1 solutions that help our customers be https://www.epa.gov/greenvehicles/ I think often more sustainable — from glass bubbles that enable lower vehicle weight •S  cience for Climate: Innovate to decarbonize industry, accelerate And we continue to partner with Nobel Media to support science. greenhouse-gas-emissionstypical-passenger-vehicle In 2019, 3M technologies helped our customers avoid about the 17M metric and improved fuel economy, to films climate solutions and improve our In 2019, we hosted events with that make homes, businesses, and own environmental footprint Nobel Laureates and students in electronics more energy efficient. Asia, Europe, and Latin America. impact I want I’m pleased that last year alone, 3M Science helped our customers avoid • Science for Community: Create a more positive world through science Our commitment to Sustainability tons of emissions to make on 17 million metric tons of emissions, and inspire people to join us includes active management of which is the equivalent of taking more PFAS (perand polyfluoroalkyl the equivalent of taking 3M+ In 2019, we took several substances) related issues. As with the world than three million cars off the road.1 The COVID-19 pandemic underscores big actions as part of everything, we are guided by the principles of sound science, corporate in my personal life and in the the critical role that science and the this new framework. responsibility, and transparency, and organization I am honored to lead. business community have in solving global challenges. Starting last year, we are formally are committed to being part of the solution. I encourage you to visit our cars off the road. embedding Sustainability into every 3M For 3M, our purpose is articulated PFAS Stewardship website to learn As a science-based company, our product, meaning that each new product in our vision statement, ending with more about the actions we are taking. highest priorities have been the safety must help solve an environmental or “improving every life.” It’s also reflected of our employees and the safety of social challenge. Several new products in our commitment to Sustainability, the public, which includes supporting — such as our 3M™ Smog-reducing which is a value that matters deeply our heroic health care workers and Granules and Scotch-Brite™ sponges to our people, to our customers, and first responders with vital products with scrubbing fibers made of all to me personally. and supplies. recycled material — reflect this value. 4 Our leadership A message from our CEO 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 5 A message from Gayle To advance Science To advance Science I am proud that Schueller for Climate, for Community, Sustainability we continued to improve our own energy footprint. In February, CEO we unveiled an additional 2025 Sustainability Goal. Through the remains at the Mike Roman committed to moving expansion of 3M Impact, our skillsheart of 3M. our entire global operations to 100% based employee volunteer program, renewable electricity by 2050 through we committed to 300,000 work It anchors purpose-driven innovation membership in the RE100 and doubled hours of service across the globe. in our products, manufacturing We began directing our efforts to To advance Science our interim target to 50% by 2025 This program builds upon existing processes, and new technologies — align with the Strategic Sustainability (having already achieved our goal of philanthropic and social Sustainability and we’re always trying to do more. Framework announced in November for Circular, 25%). Shortly after, we flipped the programs supporting the workforce We know that together with our 2018, advancing our core pillars — switch to 100% renewable sources of of the future — both in science, employees, customers, partners, Science for Circular, Science for we moved 35.4% of our manufacturing electricity at our global headquarters. technology, engineering and government, and communities, we Climate, and Science for Community. sites to zero waste to landfill status, We expanded upon one of our most mathematics (STEM) disciplines, as can collaborate to solve shared We also implemented a new gained membership in the Ellen innovative climate solutions to date — well as skilled trades. 3M products global challenges and achieve the requirement, announced in December MacArthur Foundation CE100, and 3M™ Smog-reducing and Cool Roofing are improving lives around the world, future vision we seek. As always, 2018, that every product entering established Circular Economy Working Granules — with a commercial whether it’s increasing physician I look forward to sharing our progress 3M’s new product commercialization Groups within 3M to increase the use application, allowing buildings of all productivity with our M*Modal® at 3M and partnering with others to process must have a Sustainability of renewable and recycled materials. types to fight air pollution and rising Fluency Direct™ speech recognition improve lives around the world. Value Commitment (SVC), We built upon 3M’s history of creating temperatures. Externally, 3M had system or responding to the global demonstrating how it drives impact sustainable solutions and collaborating — Gayle Schueller strong executive participation and the crisis by rapidly ramping production for the greater good. with our customers to help them Vice President and opportunity to share best practices of personal protective equipment, reach their own Sustainability Chief Sustainability Officer with global climate leaders at the such as the 3M™ 8210 (N95) and These foundational elements provided goals, launching products such as United Nations Climate Action Summit 3M™ 8511 (N95) respirators, aiding an invigorating start to a year filled 3M™ Thinsulate™ 100% Recycled and Climate Week in New York City the fight against wildfires and the with new commitments, engagements, Featherless Insulation, which mimics World Health Organization. https://www.who. 1 as well as COP25 in Madrid. global outbreak of the COVID-19 2019 was the warmth and performance of down int/health-topics/air-pollution#tab=tab_1 partnerships, and progress toward pandemic. According to the World our 2025 Sustainability Goals. I am through tiny fibers made from postHealth Organization1, more than seven consumer recycled plastic. a year of pleased to share some of the highlights, million people die prematurely each as well as our commitment to further year due to air pollution. Because action in the months and years ahead. Sustainability most of the world’s 50 most polluted cities are in Asia, we formed a new partnership with the international action and non-governmental organization Clean Air Asia, which will leverage 3M’s commitments expertise to improve air quality and the lives of people in New Delhi and metro Manila. from 3M. 6 Our leadership A message from our CSO 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 7 Feature Who Introduction 10 Collaborating for a circular economy 12 Embedding Sustainability 14 Parka partnership makes history  16 stories we are Flipping the switch 18 Cooler trains 20 Leveraging light 22 Taking inventory 24 Working to combat antimicrobial resistance  26 Helping close the skills gap 28 Making an impact around the world 30 You make it real: STEM + VR 32 Site spotlights Columbia, Missouri 34 Kuan-Yin, Taiwan 36 Springfield, Missouri 38 3M IMPD, California 40 Nevada, Missouri 42 8 Feature stories Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 9 3M at a glance Our four business groups Our Vision Transportation Safety & Industrial & Electronics Health Care Consumer 3M Technology Advancing Every Company 3M Products Enhancing Every Home 3M Innovation Improving Every Life Sales in 100+ straight years ~200 countries of dividends $11.6B $9.60B $7.43B $5.09B 50+ customer centers around the world $32.1 billion * 2019 sales 2019 sales 2019 sales 2019 sales in sales Our markets Our markets Our markets Our markets $1.8 billion 96,000 Abrasives Automotive $1.41B $1.24B Advanced materials $1.25B Drug delivery Food safety $0.41B $0.34B Consumer health care $0.38B in R&D spend employees globally aftermarket Automotive and $1.94B Health $1.18B Home care $0.99B Closure and $1.11B aerospace information Home $2.31B masking Commercial $1.76B systems improvement One of 51 Technology Platforms solutions 30 Electrical $1.20B Medical $3.41B Stationery and $1.37B companies on the applied across four business groups markets Electronics $3.71B solutions office supplies Dow Jones Industrial Index Industrial $2.74B Transportation $0.95B Oral care $1.32B adhesives safety Separation $0.79B and tapes >120,000 >200 sites and purification Personal $3.51B sciences safety patents Roofing $0.37B granules More than Over 800 brands 55,000 products *In addition to our four business groups, $32.1B includes elimination of dual credit, and corporate and unallocated business segments. 10 Feature stories Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 11 Collaborating for a circular economy by joining the Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 Photo credit: GreenBiz Group In 2005, Ellen MacArthur Ellen wanted to change this, so she Joining the CE100 is part of 3M’s Within its supply chains, 3M also plastic “frames” to protect the product Reducing paper instruction left the sport of solo sailing and strategic focus on Science for Circular, continually looks for ways to recover, during shipping and enable robotic inserts is projected to save became the fastest person 86 shifted her focus to creating a more with the ambition to design solutions reuse, and recycle byproducts and handling of the material, the latest to sail single-handedly “circular” economy — where resources that do more with less material, other surplus materials. advancement helps dentists and dental and power are recirculated and advancing a global circular economy. labs make the most of their evolving around the globe. regenerated, rather than used and 3M’s Health Care Service Group milling technology, providing them thrown out. Set on finding a new way “We are delighted to welcome 3M, helps extend the life of about 150,000 with options that reduce the number The 71-day, 27,000-mile journey required scrupulous planning, since to design, make, and use things within another major U.S. brand taking a leadership position on circular devices each year globally, which of steps and materials required to tons of paper annually. the boundaries of our planet, the Ellen keeps electronic waste out of landfills. produce crowns and bridges. what she took with her on the sailboat MacArthur Foundation was created in economy,” says Joe Murphy, the had to last for the entire race. “We managed it down to the last drop 2010 with three guiding principles: CE100 lead for the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. “We look forward to 3M is also moving to Through careful control of raw materials and a wide range of zirconia We collaborated with NIOSH (National more recycled and of diesel and the last packet of 1. Design out waste and pollution 3M contributing to our diverse and processing equipment now available Institute for Occupational Safety and food,” she said in a 2015 TED Talk. 2. Keep products and materials dynamic community to achieve faster, to dental labs, the latest advancement Health) to reduce paper instruction The experience gave her a very real understanding of what it meant to have in use greater success than any individual renewable materials of the product, Lava™ Plus Zirconia, inserts for respirator cartridges. in its product and organization could alone.” can be reliably shipped in a new Customers said our respirator packages a finite set of resources. “Suddenly, 3. Regenerate natural systems multi-patient disc format. This new came with too much paper and felt I connected the dots. Our global economy is no different. It’s entirely In 2019, 3M joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Circular Circularity at 3M package designs. format allows for multiple restorations to be milled from a single zirconia the required inserts were not adding meaningful clarity. NIOSH listened dependent on finite materials we only Economy 100 (CE100), the world’s Two new products that demonstrate We have removed PVC from more than disc, eliminating the need for the to the feedback, re-evaluated its have once in the history of humanity,” leading circular economy network, how 3M scientists innovate to create 500 SKUs in an effort to improve the surrounding plastic frame. In addition, requirements, and is authorizing she said. which brings together businesses, products that promote a circular recyclability of our packaging. We have there is no need for a porcelain overlay changes to reduce the number of paper For more than 150 years, our economy innovators, cities, governments, and economy are: also joined the How2Recycle® program or the steps required to make one. inserts. 3M’s first-wave implementation has been linear. We take products out universities committed to working and have labeled close to 300 consumer And if a dentist starts with a digital of this change is projected to save • Scotch-Brite® Heavy Duty of the ground, make something, and together to learn, share knowledge, products with recycling instructions. impression, the lab will work with that 86 tons of paper annually. It is a Scrub Sponges, sold in the dispose of it once we are finished with and build new approaches. file, avoiding the need to generate great example of helping customers United States, made with 100% it. A linear economy uses things up and We created Lava™ Zirconia all‑ceramic a gypsum-based model otherwise meet their Sustainability goals while recycled scrubbing fibers creates waste, and it is not sustainable dental restorations in 2001. While required for lab work. Labs and maintaining performance and health • 3M™ Thinsulate™ 100% Recycled the original system included a singledentists can go model-free, with less and safety standards. long-term — our natural resources are Featherless Insulation, made from patient block of zirconia mounted in material left behind at the dental lab. dwindling and won’t last forever. 100% recycled plastic bottles 12 Feature stories Science for Circular 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 13 Embedding Sustainability • The 3M™ Molecular Detection System is a rapid molecular method with ready-to-use pre‑dispensed reagents, a single protocol for all pathogens, and the ability to test The 3M Molecular Detection System reduces energy and water use, waste generation, and greenhouse gas emissions relative to traditional Salmonella culture into every new product for multiple types of pathogens simultaneously. When used with the 3M™ Molecular Detection methods because the result is obtained via a streamlined test for a unique Salmonella genetic Assay 2 — Salmonella, the system sequence, without the need is the primary Salmonella testing for multi-staged cultural and 3M launches hundreds This commitment can also include Products that method of the USDA Food Safety biochemical tests performed products with a core purpose of of new products each helping to solve an environmental or incorporate the Inspection Service and has individually in Petri dishes and test year, spanning nearly social challenge, such as improving new 2019 requirement been validated and certified by tubes. This simplified molecular air quality, reducing greenhouse gas numerous international and regional method uses fewer consumable every industry. emissions, and improving worker span all 3M organizations. materials and less energy in order Beginning in 2019, each 3M and patient safety in health care and business groups. to screen out negative samples product entering the new product industrial settings. 3M will measure the progress and impact of this A few examples include: commercialization process will include a Sustainability Value Commitment commitment and report on it annually. • The Post-it® Flex Write Surface is that demonstrates how it drives a whiteboard surface that can be • 3M™ Natural Pozzolans, an SCM “Sustainability has always been at the impact for the greater good. written on with permanent markers. (supplementary cementitious core of 3M — but we’re looking to do To remove the marker, just spray it material) used in the making This new, formal requirement embeds more,” said Chief Technology Officer with water and wipe it off. Regular of concrete, has an impactful Sustainability into the pipeline that John Banovetz, when he announced dry erase markers also work on this Sustainability Value Commitment. produces 3M’s diverse global products. the new product requirement. “We are surface and can simply be erased. This product helps reduce CO2 Historically, about one-third of 3M’s proud to formalize our commitment Post-it Flex Write Surfaces can be emissions as a 1:1 replacement of annual sales come from products to this next step in innovating for a used to refurbish poorly performing cement in concrete, a very large created in the past five years, so the sustainable future.” dry erase boards and chalkboards, global source of CO2 emissions impact will expand greatly with each which reduces landfill additions. Requiring Sustainability Value (from cement’s calcining step). successive year. The adhesive on the product Commitments in all new products It is estimated that each ton of SCM entering the new product contains at least 60% plant-based used to displace cement reduces Beyond impacting 3M’s own operations, commercialization process builds on material. The lightweight rolls weigh CO2 emissions by 0.75 tons another primary reason for the goal 3M’s history of creating products 9% of what a leading whiteboard is to help customers achieve their • 3M™ Envision™ Print Wrap Films that emphasize reuse, recycling, of the same size weighs, which Sustainability goals. This new product are made in part with bio‑based and reduced resource use for 3M’s reduces the transportation footprint goal creates even more opportunities to materials and are made without operations and for their customers. and decreases customer shipping collaborate with customers on solutions PVC, phthalates, or halogens. Those products are wide-ranging, costs. The liner, core, and box are that improve lives around the world. 3M Envision Print Wrap Film including energy-saving window films, also recyclable. Permanent markers can be removed from the surface 480mC has earned the prestigious Examples of 3M’s Sustainability materials that help in lightweighting with water instead of solvent GREENGUARD™ Gold Certification, Value Commitment for new products vehicles, and water and wasteawarded to products passing strict include reusability, recyclability, reducing cleaning solutions. testing standards for low emissions energy savings, waste reduction, water of volatile organic compounds savings, responsible sourcing, and into indoor environments the use of renewable materials appropriate to the specific product, from the beginning to the end of each product’s life cycle. 14 Feature stories Science for Circular 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 15 Parka partnership “We sampled our parka in down and synthetic fibers from a few sources, “But our understanding of recycled fibers and how we would use them Each parka uses ~17 makes history and we had a hard time telling the 3M and blend them into our products has product apart from natural down.” improved. We had the internal tools. It’s the onward march of science.” The new featherless insulation had not yet been released to the market, 3M Thinsulate 100% Recycled but since the quantity the Askov team Featherless Insulation has received recycled plastic bottles needed was small in the scheme of the OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 Class I worth of insulation.* 3M production, they were able to Certificate, is bluesign® approved and by introducing 3M Thinsulate get the product ahead of time. is certified to the Global Recycled They launched in November 2019 Standard (GRS) by Control Union *Calculation is based on a 20-gram plastic with 3,000 parkas, each using about Certifications, which verifies recycled bottle and the average 3M Thinsulate 100% 100% Recycled Featherless Insulation Recycled Featherless Insulation usage for 17 recycled plastic bottles worth of material and tracks it from the source The Winter Parka from Askov Finlayson insulation,* with a plan to expand to the final product. (Male and Female fit, size S to XL). production for next season. According to Askov Finlayson founder Eric Dayton, “The fact that this partnership In November 2019, “All the fibers are post-consumer “Every parka of his had a 3M Thinsulate came together, and the technology 100% recycled polyester with high patch on it. 3M was a partner of Minneapolis-based performance,” explains 3M’s Lead his, and we thought, ‘3M has really was already being developed here, is something that is hugely valuable to outerwear brand Askov Specialist Application Engineer invested in this — maybe they can do us. I love that it’s a local partnership Ken Cox. “It’s the kind alternative it with us.’” Finlayson, known to natural down.” between two companies in Minnesota,” he says. for its celebration of The Askov Finlayson team set up an When Askov Finlayson decided to informational meeting with 3M, during winter and the hashtag create a climate positive parka, the which they learned about the 3M Getting from 75% #KeepTheNorthCold, look and design were critical. “We had Thinsulate 100% Recycled Featherless to 100% recycled introduced what they the environmental/Sustainability focus Insulation. It was an exciting option, on it from the get-go, but part of being but would it perform up to Askov’s The new 3M Thinsulate 100% Recycled are calling the world’s sustainable is having a design that requirements? They began testing Featherless Insulation is 3M’s latest first climate positive you will want to wear year after year, it, and according to Smith, “it kept step in creating filling that uses recycled content. Two years ago, 3M winter parka — and made in a way that’s going to last year after year,” says Askov Finlayson passing every test we could put in front of it.” launched a 75% recycled product which they say is made from Marketing Director Laura Smith. using a two-fiber blend. “Marmot was When washed, many other insulation one of the earliest adopters of the “radically sustainable materials created Connecting all the elements — design, options tend to ball up and clump 75% recycled product and one of the by a climate positive business.” performance, and Sustainability — together — but 3M’s didn’t, even after stronger voices wanting to move in that The Winter Parka, as it is aptly became their focus. As they began 10 washes. Because of this, Askov direction,” says Cox. Marmot and other named, is the first product to feature looking at insulation, the options were was able to design the structure of outerwear companies are evaluating the new 3M™ Thinsulate™ 100% either down or a synthetic product. the jacket so the finished product the new 100% recycled product for Recycled Featherless Insulation, which They were interested in synthetic feels like down — a huge win from their 2020/2021 product lines. became available in September 2019. insulation because of its performance a design standpoint. The featherless insulation is made benefits and leading Sustainability “It was a little bit of a hurdle to get to innovation. “Our entire design team, with decades 100% and the high performance we from recycled plastic bottles — and of collective technical apparel wanted,” says Cox, who worked with is an example of 3M’s commitment to “Spending time with polar explorer experience, has never seen a synthetic a broad team in both China and the using science to advance the circular Will Steger and looking at his old product that feels as close to down United States to bring the featherless economy, part of which involves outerwear gave us inspiration,” says as the 3M Thinsulate 100% Recycled insulation to market. designing solutions that keep products Devin O’Brien, Askov Finlayson’s Featherless,” says O’Brien. in use instead of creating waste. Vice President of Marketing. 16 Feature stories Science for Circular 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 17 Flipping the switch New solar farm powers 3M Industrial Mineral Products This energy generation helped the 50‑acre site progress toward its goal of reducing energy use by 3% per year. on renewable energy “The solar panels at our headquarters Division (IMPD) site are a tangible symbol of our Sustainability culture,” says 3M Canada In sunny California, a new solar farm Sustainability Director Richard installed on a hill above 3M’s IMPD Chartrand. “In addition to generating site provides 20% of the plant’s total renewable energy, they serve as a On March 1, the 409‑acre “By joining RE100 and switching to 100% electricity. daily reminder to 3M employees of renewable electricity globally, 3M is campus at 3M’s global building Sustainability into its business The 1-megawatt solar system will the company’s global commitment. headquarters flipped growth strategy and showing that produce 2.6 million kilowatt-hours Canada’s solar panel installation is one of the steps we’re taking to engage the two go hand in hand,” says Helen of electricity each year — enough to the switch to become Clarkson, CEO of The Climate Group. supply power to about 750 homes. employees in Sustainability every day.” powered by 100% “Seeing such a large manufacturer While 3M converts its operations to The site will also sell back excess renewable electricity. commit to ‘go all in’ on renewables to power to the grid during peak times. wind and solar power, the company produce sustainable new products is continues to support the global This was the first step in a commitment an encouraging step forward.” The 70-year-old plant manufactures renewable energy sector by producing to move to 100% renewable electricity With this commitment, 3M has roofing granules, including the solutions for customers that improve the in all its facilities around the world, become the largest company in award‑winning 3M™ Smog-reducing reliability and efficiency of renewable beginning with its own headquarters partner Xcel Energy’s Midwest service Granules and 3M™ Cool Roofing energy, including solar and wind. in St. Paul, Minnesota. area of nine states to move to 100% Granules that help reduce pollution As part of this commitment, 3M joined renewable electricity. The majority and improve public health. In 2019 alone, RE100, a global corporate leadership of the power for 3M’s headquarters initiative led by The Climate Group in will be supplied by Xcel wind farms “Although a lot has changed over the past 70 years, one thing that 3M’s products partnership with CDP (formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project), that located near Pipestone, Minnesota. remains consistent is 3M IMPD helped customers California’s commitment to advancing brings together influential businesses committed to sourcing 100% Sustainability and continually improving avoid more than renewable electricity. 3M has set an Since 2002, greenhouse our operations and products,” says Site Manager Angie Byars. 17 million metric interim target to obtain at least 50% gases produced by 3M of its total electricity from renewables tons of greenhouse have decreased by The solar farm is helping advance by 2025 and 100% by 2050. gas emissions. 68% 3M’s goal of providing 50% of the company’s electricity from renewable Committing to wind and solar power sources by 2025. “We are continuing to step up our sources is part of 3M’s strategic leadership toward a more sustainable focus on Science for Climate, with the aspiration to innovate to decarbonize Solar panel installation at future — in our own operations and industry, accelerate global climate 3M Canada headquarters in solutions for customers,” says 3M CEO Mike Roman. solutions and improve the company’s environmental footprint. The Also contributing to 3M’s Science for commitment will help decrease Climate goals is a 10-kilowatt solar panel greenhouse gases produced by 3M, that was installed on the rooftop of already down 68% since 2002. 3M Canada’s headquarters in London, Ontario. The system went live in spring 2019 and generated 12,000 kilowatthours by the end of the year. Photo credit: Lumos Solar 18 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 19 Cooler trains thanks to a new 3M coating By reducing It’s a hot summer day, and you have the heat that to get to work. You squeeze onto the crowded train. It isn’t air-conditioned. penetrates the Outside, the temperature approaches cabin, it reduces 90˚F (32˚C). Inside the train, it’s about five to seven degrees hotter. the power In India and other countries in consumption Southeast Asia, this is reality. The outdoor temperatures are summer‑like needed for air year-round, and the train cars can get very hot; in fact, North India reported conditioning the A 3M product is How does it work? four casualties1 due to the stifling heat trains by more helping to reduce the A special pigmented formulation on trains without air-conditioning than 20%.2 temperature in these reflects solar radiation and reduces during a two-week heat wave in 2019. trains by as much as 15%. the temperature of the metal on which it’s coated. The chemistry of this 3M™ Scotchkote™ RG 700 Solar durable water‑based paint formulation Heat Reflective Coating is a coating allows for outdoor application, with that reflects heat from the sun an expected life of 10 years.3 without absorbing it, effectively 3M India scientists began developing reducing the temperature inside trains Scotchkote RG 700 in 2016. By 2018, and other enclosed structures like small batches were being produced luxury buses, industrial sheds, and and tested. In January 2019, they outdoor enclosures with electronic started producing it for widespread components. commercial use. The Indian government’s railway department partnered with 3M to add The water-based the coating to the roofs of passenger product is low-VOC, trains in order to reduce the temperature inside and increase passenger comfort. making it the first By the end of 2019, Scotchkote RG of its kind in India. 700 had been applied to more than 100 non-air-conditioned train cars, Next up are similar projects in or coaches, with 150 more planned. Singapore and Germany. The priority has been to apply the That’s a lot of cool customers. coating to non-air-conditioned trains, but even trains with air conditioning The Independent. 1 get hot — and can benefit from https://www.independent.co.uk/news/ Scotchkote RG 700. By reducing world/asia/india-heatwave-trainthe heat that penetrates the cabin, it deaths-weather-temperature-hindureduces the power consumption needed pilgrimage-jhansi-a8954736.html for air-conditioning the trains by more 2 Based on a joint exercise conducted and than 20%.2 data collected by 3M and Indian railways inside air-conditioned (AC) coaches. 3 This is the expected life based on artificial accelerated weathering results, which corresponds to 10+ years of expected life. 20 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 21 Leveraging light Ultra Barrier Solar Film Most solar modules have a glass layer, are inflexible, and fairly heavy. Solar Radiative Film A newer, up-and-coming 3M solar energy product is called 3M™ Solar 3M will continue to leverage its Light Management Technology Platform to provide innovative solutions that reduce the cost and increase the for innovative solar 3M™ Ultra Barrier Solar Film (UBF) acts Radiative Film. This film is for reliability of solar energy systems. as a replacement for the glass layer — customers needing more energyAnd light management is just one of 51 it is flexible, lightweight, durable, and efficient cooling systems, such Technology Platforms that 3M combines energy solutions can even be rolled up. It is a solar as those used for grocery store and uses every day as the company solution for anywhere flexibility is refrigeration, building air conditioning, continuously innovates to drive toward needed. UBF is the result of a decade and data center cooling. The a future of clean, inexpensive, reliable, of transparent barrier technology that innovative film is actually cooler and ubiquitous energy. is protected by more than 40 patents. than the ambient air temperature. Innovative solar solutions “This was a great example of the It is also a solution for buildings that This non-intuitive property is achieved 3M product innovation model,” says 1  emonstrated during internal and customer D can’t handle the heavy load of typical by reflecting nearly all incoming Although solar modules don’t have a lot Strommen. 3M leveraged that testing. Some testing is available publicly, solar panels and can work on curved light from the sun, while at the same such as https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/ of components, and many of them are technology and applied it to a new surfaces — one 3M customer has time radiating energy to the sky. files/2014/01/f7/pvmrw13_ps5_3m_nachtigal.pdf. commoditized, plenty of high-value industry with very different needs in even used the film on headsets, where When used in sky-facing panels that 2 3M and customer data shows an approximately needs still exist, especially around the terms of durability. Instead of having the power generated by the flexible are in contact with a closed fluid 2% gain from LRF over tabbing ribbons and a 2.3% better use of light. The team has the film tucked away inside an LCD gain from LRF between cells. These numbers are photovoltaic cell means the headsets loop, the film has the potential commercialized several products to monitor where it is mostly protected conservative and change based on module design. may never need to be plugged in or to efficiently remove heat from meet these needs, including the from the elements, it needed to be 3 Based on current field trial data. charged. The future possibilities are cooling systems, which can result following: used outdoors under intense light, high exciting to consider. in significant energy savings.3 moisture levels, and wide temperature Light Redirecting swings. This presented the team with a whole new set of challenges, but Film (LRF) “we are really good at light management, and really good at making weatherable “Can 3M’s treasure In a typical solar module, up to 15% films, so this was a natural fit for 3M’s of the exposed area is non-active, chest of technologies be which means that light striking those capabilities,” Strommen says. leveraged to help drive parts cannot be converted into Currently, over 300 million solar widespread adoption electricity. Thin wires called tabbing modules are produced each year ribbons cover some of the cell material, of renewable energy?” reducing the power output. Also, the industry-wide, and 3M Light Redirecting Film is used in about space between individual solar cells one-sixth of them. “LRF is three years That was the question the Renewable represents an additional non-active in, and it’s already making an impact Energy Solutions Team in the 3M surface. 3M created a product called by reducing the cost of solar energy,” Electrical Markets Division (EMD) 3M™ Light Redirecting Film (LRF) that says Strommen. “It’s not speculative. aimed to answer when it was formed captures this previously wasted light. 3M is making a real difference.” in 2009, according to 3M Global LRF is a reflective mirror film that is Wind & Solar Light Management placed over the tabbing ribbons and Business Manager Mike Strommen, between cells to reflect light from PhD. The idea was to combine 3M technologies to create solutions for non-active areas of solar modules onto the parts of the cells that do produce LRF increases high-value needs in solar and wind energy systems. energy, increasing the energy output energy output by by approximately 4%. 2 approximately 4% “Our products make solar modules and The technology used to create LRF wind turbines more reliable1 and lower 2 was adapted from a product called the cost of renewable energy,” says 3M™ Brightness Enhancement Film, Strommen, “so we are in the bullseye used in LCD monitors. of Sustainability.” 22 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 23 Taking inventory of greenhouse gas emissions Photo credit: ©FAO/Alessia Pierdomenico As a company rooted in scientific exploration and the belief that every Scope 2 — All indirect emissions from the generation of energy It took three years to create the Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard, “We weren’t How they did it 3M reduced overall Scope 1 and 2 emissions by problem has a solution, in 2019, purchased by the company. and 3M was one of the companies that required to do any The first step in 3M’s current of this,” says Mader. 68% 3M embarked on a journey to calculate Examples include purchased road tested it before it was released by Scope 3 work was compiling the SKU downstream Scope 3 greenhouse electricity, heating, and cooling. the GHG Protocol in 2011. data for all 55,000 3M products as gas (GHG) emissions. well as the quantity of each SKU sold Scope 3 — All other indirect Scope 3 includes 15 separate “The standard we follow called out an and the size or mass of the product. “I cannot stress enough how leading emissions, not included in Scope 2, categories of emission sources, exemption for complex companies Next, they distilled the 55,000 down edge this is,” says Sustainability expert from sources that are not owned or both upstream and downstream like 3M.” And yet they felt it was not to those with a material Scope 3 Lisa Grice, Executive Director, North controlled by the company but are of operations, and, as explained only the right thing to do, it was also GHG footprint and identified 300 America, Anthesis Group. “In my related to the company’s activity — on the GHG Protocol website, necessary in order to take the next fundamental categories based on the Goal setting experience, I am not aware of another for example, the energy used by a “allows companies to assess their steps toward reaching 3M’s corporate composition and use of each product. company with as broad a portfolio consumer who buys and plugs in a entire value chain emissions Sustainability goals. Once 3M has the data, the next step Emission factors were then determined that has done this. 3M is breaking new Filtrete™ Room Air Purifier. impact and identify where to focus for each product category. is to evaluate pathways toward its goal ground and showing other companies reduction activities.” 3M has had GHG reduction goals by determining what makes sense for it can be done.” Since 2002, 3M’s EHS (Environment, since 2007. To continue its industry3M as a company and what they can From there, based on data collected, Health and Safety) Laboratory has “We looked at Scope 3 [in 2011], and leading efforts to reduce its own achieve as far as reducing their carbon they worked to calculate the emissions The World Resources Institute calculated the company’s Scope 1 it was too daunting for us to even GHG emissions, they wanted to footprint. 3M’s global Sustainability for each of the Scope 3 categories. (WRI)/World Business Council and Scope 2 emissions on an annual contemplate,” says EHS Laboratory create a goal in line with the level team, including Chief Sustainability for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) basis, and 3M has reduced its overall Manager Brian Mader, “but in 2012, of decarbonization required to keep “The internal 3M collaboration was Officer Gayle Schueller, will work GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 68.1% we were able to start calculating global temperature increases below invaluable,” Grice says. “The fact that with the different 3M business and Reporting Standard, used by while growing our business. some of those categories.” 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial 3M was able to get all the right people groups to identify top priorities and more than 90% of Fortune 500 temperatures, in alignment with the to collaborate and gather all the data opportunities to advance 3M’s actions companies, is an international What makes Scope The lab calculated Scope 3 categories Intergovernmental Panel on Climate needed was impressive.” on Science for Climate. accounting tool that helps businesses one through eight and category 13, but Change (IPCC). understand, measure, and manage 3 different? due to the complexity of 3M’s multiple By the end of 2019, 3M developed In addition to 3M’s focus on Science their GHG emissions. The GHG businesses and 55,000 products, As Mader explains it, there can methodologies to calculate Scope for Climate, the calculations will help Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions only be a finite amount of GHGs in Protocol separates emissions into categories nine through 12 were not 3 categories nine through 12. Due inform 3M’s activities around Science are difficult to calculate for a diverse, the atmosphere before the global three categories: evaluated (and categories 14 and 15 to these new extensive calculations, for Circular — especially the Scope highly technical manufacturing company temperature rises more than 1.5°C. do not apply to 3M’s structure). quality assurance processes are being 3 category 12, which includes the with more than 200 facilities in over With this detailed science-based Scope 1 — All direct emissions developed in 2020. Results of these emissions associated with end-of-life 70 countries. In 2019, the EHS Laboratory took on analysis, 3M will be able to look at from sources that are owned or efforts will be published in the 2021 treatment of sold products. controlled by a company. Examples the formidable task of calculating where they are today and will then Sustainability Report. Scope 3 emissions, as defined by include a company’s facilities and categories nine through 12 create a plan to do their part to the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) owned vehicles. (9: Transportation and distribution; keep the level of GHGs below this Accounting and Reporting Standard, 10: Processing of sold products; critical value. are even more difficult to calculate 11: Use of sold products; 12: End-of-life because of the sheer number of 3M’s treatment of sold products). products and diverse product portfolio. 24 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 25 Working to combat They identified two key controlling strategies: properly dispensing antibiotics in order to reduce their use and preventing infections before and Victor Miranda, M.D., MBA, Health Care Compliance and Clinical Research Director, 3M Health Care Business Group; and was attended “One of the simplest and most impactful steps [to reduce antimicrobial resistance they occur to reduce the need for by WHO officials, several ministers of antimicrobials in the first place. health, vice ministers, chief medical officers, UN delegates, and advisors antimicrobial For the 3M Medical Solutions Division, preventing health care-associated from various countries and regions including the United States, United resistance] is the use Since the introduction infections has been a primary pillar for many years. This, coupled with 3M’s Kingdom, Latin America, European of proven infection Union, Africa, and Asia. The open of penicillin in the focus on Science for Community, dialogue among the participants focused prevention and made it a natural fit for 3M to sponsor 1940s, resistance to the kickoff event on antimicrobial on promoting national health strategies to emphasize infection prevention control practices,” antibiotics has been resistance held during the UN General and control and to undertake pilot said Dr. Fruchterman during the meeting. a known occurrence Assembly in September 2019. The projects that will demonstrate the value “By reducing healthcare-acquired event, moderated by Foreign Policy of releasing of resources that can be but was considered Magazine, was led by Todd applied to increasing access to care. infections, the need for antibiotic use a minor problem. Fruchterman, M.D., Ph.D., Vice is reduced, therefore dampening the emergence of antimicrobial-resistant President & General Manager, However, in recent years, as the 3M Medical Solutions Division; organisms. The resources saved by development of new antibiotics eliminating infections can then be has decreased and the use of released and targeted toward expanding antimicrobials has increased, a health coverage consistent with national surge of drug-resistant infections priorities,” he added. is visible across the globe and is 3M’s Medical Solutions Division and now defined in broader terms as Health Care Business Group have a antimicrobial resistance. The relentless focus on a future world with World Health Organization (WHO) Photo courtesy of Foreign Policy zero complications. The company is estimated in a 2019 report that at partnering with other organizations least 700,000 people die each year to help improve patient outcomes, due to drug-resistant diseases, and by 2030 antimicrobial resistance The topic of this using its passion for patient-centered could force up to 24 million people historic UN meeting science to create differentiated, efficacious solutions. By tackling into extreme poverty.1 was the growing these challenges with creativity, In 2015, member states of the United global antimicrobial curiosity, and empathy, 3M will make a difference for patients and health Nations (UN) unanimously adopted resistance problem. systems across the globe. This is Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to “end poverty, protect the Since 2016, the member states of 3M Science. Applied to Life.™ This is planet, and ensure that all people enjoy the UN and the WHO have been 3M Sustainability in action. peace and prosperity by 2030.” As working together to address the one of the SDG’s 17 interrelated goals, problem of antimicrobial resistance, World Health Organization, Interagency 1 the UN added this focus on health looking at multiple approaches to and Coordination Group on Antimicrobial care access: “Ensure healthy lives and acknowledging the interconnected Resistance. Report to the Secretary-General promote well-being for all at all ages.” nature of the problem across the food of the United Nations. (April 2019). No Time to Wait: Securing the future from drug-resistant In 2016, for only the fourth time in the chain, health care, and environmental infections. https://www.who.int/antimicrobialhistory of the UN, a high-level meeting health systems. resistance/interagency-coordination-group/ focused on health care was convened. IACG_final_report_EN.pdf?ua=1 26 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 27 Helping close the skills gap SkillsUSA SkillsUSA is a professional leadership organization for high school and trade school students that prepares them to thrive in skilled careers by 3M’s investment of $2.5M+ resulted in: 51 Over the next 10 years, As part of the company’s focus This strategy dovetails with 3M’s focusing on technical, personal, and on Science for Community, 3M is Vision for improving every life and also workplace skills. Participants also educators trained skilled trade jobs are 3,130 helping to create a diverse pipeline supports 3M’s strategic Sustainability have the opportunity to take part in expected to increase of well-trained science, technology, focus on Science for Community. skills competitions and demonstrate engineering, and mathematics faster than the national (STEM) graduates, including those By the end of 2019, the MAP mastery in their skill area, such as in manufacturing, construction, In 2019, 3M and Festo Didactic average of all jobs.1 with advanced manufacturing and initiative included 13 mechatronic transportation, health care, and many North America started a new Meanwhile, the industry is experiencing vocational skills. Not only is it good hubs in seven states, partnering with: more sectors. students reached NC3 “Introduction to Mechatronics” certification for high school 65 for the workers, but it’s also good • 11 post-secondary schools a skills gap in manufacturing and other business for 3M. (technical colleges) 3M was the lead sponsor for the participants in the MAP program, trade jobs: A recent survey found that 2019 SkillsUSA national team, which allowing students to earn this 45% of employers are having difficulty • 39 high schools filling skilled jobs. 2 Manufacturing faced off against young people from credential to prepare them for careers in advanced manufacturing. • 3 middle schools 70 countries at the WorldSkills™ and Academic 3M recruits, hires, and relies on the competition in Kazan, Russia. The scholarships best skilled trade workers worldwide, Partnerships (MAP) 3M’s investment of more than 22 WorldSkills USA team members 3M also has certifications in several other areas: $2.5 million has resulted in: competed in categories like auto body but many of these manufacturing When a business is set in a rural area, • 51 educators trained repair, cybersecurity, mechanical jobs are highly technical and require 3M Worker Health and Safety specialized training. the pool of potential employees can • 3,130 students reached engineering, web design, welding, National Coalition of Awareness Program be small, and the pool of qualified and more. As the global sponsor of employees even smaller. Many of • 65 scholarships in mechatronics the WorldSkills USA team, 3M was Certification Centers • Respiratory hazards 3M’s manufacturing plants in the and advanced manufacturing thrilled to bring the entire team to (NC3) • Hearing hazards United States are in rural areas, and 3M’s headquarters in St. Paul, when the talent pool began shrinking Best of all, 3M has hired five graduates 3M has partnered with National • Head, eye, and face hazards Minnesota, to help them prepare several years ago, the company took as System Multi-Skilled Technicians, Coalition of Certification Centers for the international competition 3M™ VentureClad™ Tape Program action by creating 3M Manufacturing so far, who participated in MAP (NC3) to establish national skills and celebrate their commitment to and Academic Partnerships (MAP), programs. This number will increase standards, provide certifications, • Jacketing, sealing, and insulating represent the United States overseas. designed to fill 3M’s talent pipeline in the near future as these high school and sponsor Train-the-Trainer solutions for HVAC systems by providing students with the students graduate from 3M’s partner “3M and WorldSkills USA share a events. These hands-on development Several other certifications are opportunity to discover meaningful technical colleges. commitment to addressing the shortage opportunities are designed for planned for introduction later in 2020. careers in advanced manufacturing. of qualified skilled workers across many community college, technical college, 3M is also proud to support NC3 with The program continues to grow with industries,” says Mojdeh Poul, Executive and high school instructors. product donations, classroom kits, and MAP takes a holistic approach plans to increase scholarship funding Vice President, Health Care Business other materials to help support the to bridging the skills gap by working and other investments in the coming Led by expert master instructors, Group. “As a global, science-based success of educators and students. with schools to provide grants for years, including expanding MAP to the events last one to five days company, we recognize that STEM equipment and curriculum, professional prepare students and give them the depending on the topic and help skills are the foundation for many trades. development for instructors, tools necessary to succeed in the new instructors become experts in the This sponsorship is about inspiring the 1 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics: https://www.bls. scholarships for students, and involving economy (“Industry 4.0”) with a focus newest certifications, allowing them gov/ooh/construction-and-extraction/home.htm next generation of skilled workers and 3M employees as mentors. on smart manufacturing. to bring their knowledge back to Manpower group survey: https://www. supporting their efforts in Kazan.” 2 their classrooms. manpowergroup.com/media-center/newsreleases/ talent+shortages+at+record+high+ 45+of+employers+around+the+world+report+ Students then benefit from having difficulty +filling+rolestalent+shortages+ additional knowledge and marketable at+record+high+45+of+employers+around+ skills that prepare them for future careers. the+world+report+difficulty+filling+roles 28 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 29 Making an impact Science for Community goal: 300k Lasting relationships Although the global and local 3M Impact projects are designed for KINF is a national organization whose mission is to source free school supplies for students with the greatest need, but they were experiencing a backlog after around the world short-term engagement, in many cases, dozens of school supply drives. During the relationship and collaboration the hackathon, KINF and a half dozen skills-based volunteer continue far past the project end date. 3M employees brainstormed solutions and developed recommendations to hours by 3M employees MySkills Foundation is one of the streamline donation processing. But How many problems “This new commitment will make by 2025 organizations that participated in 3M Impact’s inaugural year. Located the partnership didn’t end there. The effort continued when the 3M Impact 3M Impact the fastest-growing can be solved in skills‑based global pro bono program,” in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, MySkills in a Day team partnered with 3M 300,000 hours? says Gavin Cepelak, Senior Vice is a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing second-chance Optimized Operations employees — a President, Global Pro Bono at rotational program for supply chain and 3M is going to find out because the PYXERA Global, the advisory firm opportunities for at-risk youth in the engineering — and, as a result, reduced company has expanded its 2025 3M partners with to facilitate the ethnic Indian community of Malaysia. KINF’s supply donation cycle time from Sustainability Goals with a new diverse 3M Impact projects. two months to four days during the 112 When discussing the results school supply drives it conducted in 2019. commitment: provide 300,000 work achieved by the 3M Impact team hours of skills-based volunteerism by Strong from the start in 2017, MySkills CEO Devasharma 3M employees to improve lives and help Gangadaran says MySkills “was deeply Supporting 3M’s solve society’s toughest challenges. 3M Impact got its start in 2017 when 3M sent 50 global employees to three impacted by the relentless effort of Strategic Sustainability “NGOs, universities, and social countries (Malaysia, Vietnam, and 3M to transform lives of youth at risk Framework enterprises around the world face in Malaysia. We had a vision for a Indonesia) to work on-site with local resource constraints to address the self-sustaining campus with numerous In addition to assisting groups and nonprofit organizations for two weeks. environmental and social challenges enterprising ventures in the future, organizations in need, 3M Impact in their communities,” says Gayle In its second year, 2018, 3M Impact and they helped us make it real in a volunteer opportunities all align Schueller, 3M Vice President and launched 3M Impact Local in short amount of time.” to 3M’s Strategic Sustainability Chief Sustainability Officer. “With both St. Paul, Minnesota, and Mexico Framework, advancing the company’s More than two years after the initial commitments to Science for Circular, this new goal, we’re empowering our City, Mexico, offering volunteer 3M Impact project, 3M is still involved Science for Climate, and Science employees to give back beyond 3M opportunities for 3M employees in with MySkills, providing a grant in for Community. products and technologies, as well as their own communities. 2018 to help them continue their traditional volunteerism, by leveraging 3M Impact in a Day was added in 2019. life-changing programs and to help The MySkills and KINF projects are their professional skills to help The program organized a week of halfthem implement the 3M Impact team aligned to 3M’s Science for organizations reach their goals.” day service hackathons connecting recommendations. And in 2019, Community pillar. Other examples To reach 300,000 hours, the 100 3M employees with more than 56 3M Malaysia employees, including include designing a structured STEAM company is expanding 3M Impact, its 20 local nonprofits seeking functional 3M Malaysia’s Managing Director, (science, technology, engineering, skills-based service program where expertise on a specific project. Also volunteered at MySkills for an inspiring the arts, and mathematics) curriculum employees lend their business skills, in 2019, the global program expanded Volunteer Day. for students ages 7–12 in China experience, and energy to make a from 50 to 125 participants who (Science for Community), analyzing The Kids in Need Foundation (KINF) the potential for material and energy difference in global communities, traveled to nine cities around the world. is another organization that has recovery through waste management while also developing leadership, In the fall of 2019, 200 3M employees benefited from 3M Impact after in Morocco (Science for Circular), and problem-solving, and interpersonal were selected for the next wave of 3M participating in the 2019 half-day developing a scalable business model communication skills. Impact Global, making up 15 cohorts hackathon, 3M Impact in a Day. for a sustainable transport company in cities around the world to work side in Colombia (Science for Climate). by side with nonprofits, organizations, and local municipalities. 30 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 31 You make it real: STEM + VR Each of the four blocks (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) is 20 minutes long and contains three modules. 3M Spain Foundation partners In each module, the kids visit different locations and scenarios, learn specific content about STEM subjects, and with PlayStation Spain to bring ® must solve challenges together. Each of the players gets the chance to “live” one of the modules by wearing virtual reality video game to teens the PlayStation® VR headset. Topics covered include: • Science: Solar system; classification A virtual reality (VR) of living beings; the cell • Technology: Sustainability When the game begins, a robot“You make it real” reached video game in Spain 7,000 (recycling); fabrication like guide called “Pi” (referring to is changing the way process; inside a computer the infinite decimal π) welcomes young teenagers • Engineering: Graphic expression; the players to the 3M Foundation virtual experience. “You will see that feel about science, types of strength; electrical circuit it is going to be very fun, but I warn technology, engineering, • Mathematics: Neolithic (natural you that you must be alert during students in 2019 numbers); Egypt (triangles our tour since you will have to solve and mathematics classification); Greece (geometry collaborative challenges in order (STEM) subjects. with polyhedrons) to continue,” Pi says. The game was initially available as 3M Spain Foundation partnered The players are then prompted to a free download in Spain in the with VR company Presentys to build and design their avatars for the PlayStation® store and expanded to create a multilingual VR platform on game, choosing hair, outfits, and other be available as a free download in PlayStation® Spain containing the four features to personalize their experience. 21 additional English, Spanish, French, different STEM teaching blocks. Each Once complete, the game begins. and Portuguese-speaking countries. teaching block is divided into three In 2020 it will also be available in the separate modules in order to foster The launch of “You United States and South America. collaborative work. make it real” was a huge Future plans are to use the game as The goal of the project is to encourage success in Spain — 91% an inclusion activity to help students students to pursue STEM careers as part of 3M’s strategic focus on Science of the participants said in difficult social situations or with different abilities, as well as to for Community. Targeted to students they would repeat it. continue promoting activities that ages 12-15, the game was activated “It is a more effective method for focus on STEM careers for girls. in 60 schools (with many more on a waiting list), six summer STEM camps, learning that kids prefer, by including The 3M Spain Foundation is now and seven hospitals, reaching more games,” says one of the students preparing for the launch of its next than 7,000 students in 2019. who tried it. big project: an inclusive video game focusing on recycling that will be A year and a half in the making, the presented at the beginning of 2020. video game, called “You make it real,” is designed to be experienced in groups of three players at a time. 32 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 33 Columbia, Missouri 3M site spotlight The 375,000-square200 hours volunteered foot plant in Columbia, at the annual United Way Missouri, supports 3M’s Day of Caring Health Care Business Group and manufactures thousands of product variations that fall into Environmental Additionally, many employees are Beyond grants and cash funding, engaged on safety teams, where they 3M volunteers participate annually in multiple product groups. performance and take time to focus on hazard recognition the local United Way Day of Caring, employee safety in an effort to improve the safety of the spending over 200 volunteer hours Examples include Littmann® workplace for all employees. helping with the event. Additionally, Stethoscopes (the #1 brand of achievements 3M Columbia employees regularly stethoscope in the medical community), 3M Columbia stopped shipping waste STEM support and more support the local food bank, and the purification filters, and sterilized products to the local landfill in September 2018 site is a sponsor of the FIRST Robotics and solutions used to help protect and is now officially a “zero landfill” Community engagement is a priority at league. 3M Columbia also hosts a surgical patients from infections. designated site. The site accomplished 3M Columbia. One specific objective segment of the Leadership Columbia this by demonstrating a strong focus on is the expectation to “demonstrate a curriculum, enabling community 3M Columbia sits on 100 acres in the strong brand in the community, linked leaders to engage with the plant as recycling, which was the first step in the central part of the United States at through engagement and education.” well as host visits from local schools, process, and then ultimately leveraging a the confluence of two major highway The site is very involved with local such as students from University waste-to-energy facility to process what corridors, with local air and rail science, technology, engineering, and of Missouri and teachers from was unable to be recycled. The zero service. The site has over 50,000 square mathematics (STEM) education and is Columbia Public Schools. This type of landfill efforts removed 180 tons per feet of classified clean rooms, a a fixture in supporting organizations community engagement is not new — year of landfill waste being sent to the 16,000-square-foot high bay warehouse, throughout the community that bring 3M Columbia has been a Partner in Columbia landfill. This accomplishment, and over 175,000 square feet of clean education to those in need. Education with Shepard Elementary together with continued efforts to manufacturing space. “We have strong School for 35 years. reduce its energy footprint, enabled technical expertise in automated 3M Columbia proactively connects the site to be recognized in the city assembly, highly regulated drug and local nonprofits with employees and Visit the 3M Columbia website to of Columbia as a 2019 winner of the medical device manufacturing, cleangrants from 3M or 3M Foundation. In learn more. Mayor’s Climate Protection Award. room manufacturing, specialty coatings the past several years, the site has and vapor processing, microbiology, Beyond its environmental achievements, directed grants toward many local and analytical chemistry,” says Plant the site has seen increasing engagement organizations, including the Columbia Manager Jim Burkhardt. from its employees in driving continuous Center for Urban Agriculture, Columbia improvement, specifically in the area STEM Alliance, Girls in STEM summer The Columbia site is proud of its “customer camp, Columbia College science, first” attitude and customer support of safety. Many employees are active in small continuous improvement technology, engineering, the arts, and success, which are benchmarks in the mathematics Summer Camp, and FIRST industry. Internal and external quality projects — successfully completing 52 projects in 2019, which doubled the Robotics League. levels are extremely high, with excellent service levels. number completed in 2018. 34 Feature stories Site spotlight 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 35 Kuan-Yin, Taiwan 3M site spotlight Alpha Beta Global GTA has a long history Tapes and Adhesives of environmental Co., Ltd. (GTA), has performance. been a wholly owned The site was first registered for ISO 3M subsidiary since 14001 certification in 1998 and received 2011, with two state-ofthe certification of Certified Green Partners® in 2003. One of GTA’s most the-art manufacturing notable accomplishments has been to facilities located in the significantly reduce its volatile organic compound (VOC) usage and emissions. Kuan-Yin Industrial Its packaging tapes are manufactured District on the outskirts using a solvent-free process, and of Taipei, Taiwan. its masking tapes are manufactured using advanced coating equipment GTA manufactures private-label that can recover and reuse more premium pressure-sensitive than 99% of solvents. This not only tapes, including acrylic packaging exceeds regulatory requirements, but it tapes, hot melt packaging tapes, increases profitability by reducing the GTA employees believe and a variety of masking tapes for quantity of solvent purchased. in working together its customers. to give back to their Both GTA factories are equipped communities. with advanced coating equipment, fully automatic warehousing, In 2018, employees and their families quality control labs, research and participated in a local coastline cleanup development labs, converting volunteer activity in partnership with facilities, and conference centers. the Civil Affairs Office of Xinwu District, Taoyuan. GTA is part of 3M’s Safety & Industrial Business Group’s Closure & Masking In 2019, employees volunteered at the Systems Division (CMSD), with almost Reindeer Social Welfare Foundation, 350 employees and sales in nearly rebuilding the local children’s home, 70 countries worldwide. The site was registered ISO 14001 in spending time with the children, and helping meet their day-to-day needs by 1998 and received the certification providing them with daily essentials. of Certified Green Partners® in 2003. Visit the Alpha Beta Global Tapes and Adhesives Co., Ltd (GTA) website to learn more. 36 Feature stories Site spotlight 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 37 Springfield, Missouri 3M’s Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program, which began in 1975, is 3M site spotlight alive and well at 3M Springfield, which had 13 3P project goals in 2019. Springfield, Missouri, But it’s also home to 3M’s Springfield Most of these projects are focused on yield improvements and waste plant, which manufactures a variety may be best known as of adhesives, tapes, abrasives, and 3M Springfield is on track reduction at the production lines and the birthplace of historic films. The products produced here are to save approximately are on track to save approximately 100 used to bond aircraft and automotive 100 tons of waste by the end of 2020. U.S. Route 66, one of components; help protect people the original highways fromfire; make sure boats are sealed; 3M Springfield in the United States. and assemble sporting goodsand electronics — just to name a few tons of waste by the is proud of its applications. end of 2020. close-knit family atmosphere, and it 3M Springfield has been producing shows in the efforts some of the world’s most advanced sealants and adhesives since it opened that employees are in 1967. With 450 employees, the 450,000-square-foot site sits on 100 making regarding acres of land and supports 3M’s Safety & Industrial Business Group (SIBG). Sustainability, both at work and at home. 3M Springfield has been In 2018, they developed a Green Team busy reducing its to focus on Sustainability at the site, environmental impacts. which also encourages employees to take Sustainability home with them. Multiple projects, such as replacing The team increased recycling efforts light fixtures with LED lighting, in the production facility. In 2019, the installing light sensors in the Green Team gave away native Missouri warehouse to eliminate lighting when seedling trees for employees to take no one is in the area, and identifying home and plant. air leaks to reduce the running times of air compressors, have reduced energy Visit the 3M Springfield website to usage at the site. 3M Springfield’s learn more. Quality Department also redesigned its systems to use an energy-saving, on-demand water heater system. 38 Feature stories Site spotlight 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 39 IMPD California Although it is one of 3M’s oldest divisions (Safety & Industrial Business Group, Industrial Mineral Products Division) and facilities, and although 3M™ Natural Pozzolan 3M™ Natural Pozzolan is a new product developed for the cement industry as a 3M site spotlight roofing granules are one of 3M’s Supplementary Cementitious Material oldest products, 3M IMPD California (SCM). By utilizing 3M Natural continues to innovate with new roofing Pozzolan as a cement replacement, the granule products that are advancing greenhouse gas footprint of a yard of Sustainability for 3M’s customers, their concrete is also reduced. 3M has been The roofing granules, shipped to customers, and, finally, the homeowner. customers along the West Coast in manufacturing roofing bags, trucks, and by rail, provide longIn 2019, IMPD California In addition to manufacturing granules in California lasting, weather-resistant protection energized a 1-MW solar 3M™ Cool sustainable products, 3M IMPD California is committed to advancing for the asphalt roofing in an array of colors. The granules are array providing Roofing Granules Sustainability in its operations. 20% dense‚ nonporous‚ UV-ray resistant‚ industry since 1948. and tough enough to withstand 3M™ Cool Roofing Granules are 3M IMPD California is certified to the handling. Made of a natural mineral a 3M innovation and an energyISO 14001:2015 standard, recycles 3M IMPD California occupies product and coated in ceramic‚ the efficiency breakthrough roofing 100% of process water, utilizes low 1,300 acres of land in the Temescal granules meet the toughest tests of granule technology. In climates NOx natural gas burners, and in 2019, Canyon, located in Riverside County, California, about 45 miles southeast time‚ weather, and marketplace. of electrical power with year-round cooling needs, energized a 1-megawatt solar array they can help keep a home cool of Los Angeles. The location includes The rock used to make the granules is quarried at this location from a mine required by the plant. with less energy consumption and which provides 20% of the electrical power required by the plant. In an active mine site, manufacturing site that has been active for over lower energy costs because Cool addition, all forms of the mined rock operations, and acres of open spaces 100 years. Roofing Granules are up to four times are used in 3M products or in the which provide habitat for a variety of more reflective than comparable In 2019, through nominations from aggregate industry, resulting in no plant and animal species, including conventional colored granules. 3M IMPD California, two local mineral waste generated. some that are endangered. nonprofits were recipients of 3M 3M™ Smog-reducing Foundation grants. Santa Rosa Granules 3M IMPD California Environmental Plateau received the In 2018, 3M launched 3M™ Smogis very active in the Eco Grant ($15,000), and CoronaNorco United Way received the reducing Granules, which harness local community, Community Vibrancy Grant ($25,000). the power of the sun to turn roofing shingles into a pollution-fighting using 3M 3M IMPD California also enjoys hosting local schools on field trips surface. When the sun hits the granules, the photocatalytic coating Foundation grants, and has set up learning stations in the areas of personal protective transforms the smog pollution sponsorships, equipment, supply chain, geology, and (nitrogen oxides) into water-soluble ions that safely wash away with board membership, quality testing. 3M IMPD California is also actively involved in the planning, rain. The product has won numerous awards, including being named one and volunteerism sponsorship of, and participation in the Riverside County Women’s Leadership of TIME magazine’s Best Inventions of 2018 in the Sustainability & Social to make a positive Conference, which is a half-day difference. conference with speakers and vendors Good category. aligned to the theme of Celebrating the Power and Passion of Women. Visit the 3M IMPD California website to learn more. 40 Feature stories Site spotlight 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 41 Nevada, Missouri Products One of the product lines manufactured at Nevada is called 3M™ Envision™, a Community engagement 3M Nevada has applied for and received several grants from 3M 3M site spotlight non‑PVC intermediate film option that is GREENGUARD Gold Certified for low emissions of volatile organic Foundation. Over the past three years, these grants were used for science, technology, engineering, and compounds into indoor environments. mathematics (STEM) development and enhancement programs at local Opened in 1971 with Diverting waste schools and within the community. less than 25 employees, Two environmentally focused grants, The Nevada plant is active in 3M’s in collaboration with community 3M’s plant in Nevada, Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program. donors, were used to create an Missouri, has expanded Plant engineers have submitted over outdoor learning space for the local six times over the 30 3P projects from 2018 through community to enjoy. A walking trail 2019, resulting in 1,316 tons of waste includes pedestrian bridges and years and now boasts diverted from landfills. spillway development with signage. nearly 725 employees. The project also includes ADAFrom 2018 through 2019, Employee engagement compliant fishing docks, floating 1,316 3M Nevada is the largest of 3M’s wetlands, and a butterfly garden. Commercial Solutions Division Employee-led teams championed (CSD) sites. CSD provides powerful the recycling efforts at the plant. Another 3M Foundation grant solutions to customers to enhance The teams engaged with employees provided a STEM learning opportunity the impact of their brand. through a poster program designed for Nevada’s local YMCA summer Operations at the Nevada plant tons of waste to raise awareness of recycling program participants, funding a field trip to the Wonders of Wildlife efforts within the plant. The team include compounding, coating, and have been diverted reused containers on-site as recycling National Museum and Aquarium. converting. In addition, 3M Nevada produces products for 16 other from landfills. collection bins, mapped the locations The 3M Nevada staff takes part in for the bins by most use, and 3M Divisions, demonstrating diverse created a material flow map for many STEM programs at local schools, capabilities across this complex continual collection of recyclables including STEM demonstrations, STEM manufacturing site. to pre-selected main collection Night at the local middle school, and and sorting areas. the “Smart Girls Rock” program. You can see products from the Nevada site in many places, They also dedicate time to the Adopt including fleet vehicles, truck/trailer Energy A Highway® program. Employee teams over-the-road hauling, billboards, rotate dedicated roadside clean-up 3M Nevada received the 2018 translucent signage, and more. activities quarterly. 3M Plant Energy Platinum Level Award Their products are also used for for a 7.3% reduction in energy intensity Visit the 3M Nevada website to high-end car wraps and refreshing between 2015-2017. Energy reduction learn more. marketing in stores or restaurants. efforts resulted in an energy use per The plant is involved with several pound of product reduction of 6.1%. initiatives that lend to its focus on Sustainability. 42 Feature stories Site spotlight 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 43 Introduction 46 Who 3M Value Model 48 Our Vision 49 Our Values 49 Our Strategic we are Sustainability Framework 50 Advancing impact 56 Communities 60 Employee diversity and inclusion 70 Recognition 78 44 Who we are Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 45 Impacting the world for the Imagine a Sustainability has long been at the heart of 3M, and we’re always trying greater good. world where to do more. In 2019, we took measures that will lead into a decade of action. every life This is the story of how we are doing it — setting aggressive goals, requiring Sustainability to be built into every is improved. new 3M product, and using science to change the world and make it more sustainable for future generations. At 3M, we look at Sustainability in And we aren’t doing it alone. terms of shared global needs. To have a sustainable future, many challenges We understand that the impact we must be addressed, including limited can make as we improve our business, natural resources, lack of access to our planet, and every life can be far education and health care, inadequate greater when we join forces with our food supplies, rapid urbanization, customers, communities, and partners. stressed water systems, and a global climate crisis. Even though the solutions aren’t always clear, we are ready to take them on. From our highly collaborative work environment to our This is the community of scientists and 51 core Technology Platforms, we have the continued story resources and the desire to make a real difference in the world. of our purpose: #improvinglives 46 Who we are Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 47 3M Value Model 3M’s Value Model requires an intense focus on Sustainability. It is at the heart of our innovation. The power of Our 3M comes from the way we connect commitment Our Vision Our Values our strengths to Our Value Model makes us unique among companies and differentiates us 3M’s corporate Vision inspires Our Values come to life through the our customers. in the marketplace. This Value Model links our Vision, our fundamental and motivates us. It’s our North Star, guiding our work every day: dedicated efforts of our employees who aim to “Be 3M” — by being These fundamental strengths — strengths, the priorities we’re driving, inclusive, respectful, encouraging, and our Values as a company. 3M Technology Advancing Every Company technology, manufacturing, global and by being champions of diversity capabilities, and brand — are the 3M Products Enhancing Every Home and Sustainability. core of 3M. 3M Innovation Improving Every Life How do we become the most inclusive 3M’s Value Model requires an intense Our Vision is about how we use our enterprise we can be? By attracting focus on Sustainability. It is at the technology, our products, and our top talent around the world. This heart of our innovation. We grow our innovation to improve every company, leads to a much more diverse 3M, business by collaborating to help every home, and every life — for a stronger 3M, a more creative 3M, solve some of humanity’s greatest each of our customers, every day. a higher-performing 3M. challenges. Vision Our Vision is aspirational and drives We believe in supporting each us as we look to the future, and it Our Values bind us together and are serves as a daily reminder of what the individual by respecting, encouraging, and challenging everyone in the shared across all regions of the globe. Strengths 3M Brand stands for. These collective ideals exemplify company to be their best. It’s embedded how all employees should act to drive in our company Values, and it takes a growth, development, reputation, and strong, inclusive culture to make it impact with every action. happen. With unequivocal support, 3M employees can succeed in their Technology Manufacturing Global Capabilities Brand individual careers, as part of a team, and as part of the entire enterprise. Priorities Portfolio Transformation Innovation People and Culture Values 48 Who we are 3M Value Model 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 49 f or f or f or c e c e c e ity ie n ar i e n e ie n un Sc ircul Sc limat Sc omm C C C Our Strategic Design solutions that do more with less Innovate to decarbonize industry, accelerate Create a more positive world through science Sustainability material, advancing a global climate solutions and inspire people to Framework global circular economy. Our current global economy’s linear and improve our environmental footprint. join us. By 2050, the world population is Our Vision and our Values drive and business model of “take, make, and expected to surpass nine billion people. There is no question that climate inform our approach to Sustainability waste” is depleting natural resources Science is more important than ever to change is the greatest challenge through our Strategic Sustainability faster than they can be replenished help our growing population live well. we face as a global community. Framework, which guides business and straining ecosystems. Imagine We need scientific solutions to global Its impacts are widespread, and its decisions and strategy where we can repurposing a piece of plastic at the challenges like climate change, risks are not limited by continent, make the greatest impact. end of its use, giving it another life accessible health care, interconnectivity, industry, or even species. as something else. Its use is, in fact, and safe workplaces — and technical Advancing Sustainability for 3M is a circular, and the end of use doesn’t skills are increasingly required for all At 3M, we support the global priority. It’s not just for 3M; it’s for all mean the end of life. types of jobs. consensus set forth in the 2015 Paris of our stakeholders. Agreement, and we are incorporating A circular economy does more with 3M’s 2019 State of Science Index We have set a clear commitment and the 2018 findings of the Special Report less, keeps products and materials in (a survey of 14,000 people across an ambitious, long-term strategy that on Global Warming of 1.5°C by the use, designs out waste and pollution, 14 countries) concludes that attitudes will leverage our passion for science. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate and regenerates natural systems. At about science are complex. Yet We believe this is what makes us Change into our goals, operations, the core is an opportunity to develop around the world, people are curious uniquely capable to deliver on our and actions. The global climate crisis technologies and business models and agree that science needs purpose. Our intent is to use a scienceimpacts business, our communities, that are restorative and regenerative champions to deliver on its potential based approach to tackle challenges and our families. We believe that by design. At 3M, we see the circular for future generations. most material to 3M and critical to by working together, we can drive economy as an opportunity to inspire the systemic change needed. We our planet and the people living on it. leadership, innovation, and disruptive At 3M, we recognize the importance Building on our global capabilities and recognize the work to be done and are of science and use it every day to change, all driving impact for a inspired by the opportunity to chart diverse technologies, we are focusing sustainable future. improve the lives of people in our on three priority areas: our collective path forward. communities and around the world. For more information, see the Circular We know that in order to solve global For more information, see the Climate materials section. challenges we need new technologies, and energy section. creative scientists, and evidencebased policies and decisions to drive impactful change. We also recognize the importance of well-trained Advancing Sustainability for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) graduates and the 3M is a priority. It’s not just for 3M; critical need for a diverse workforce with advanced manufacturing and it’s for all of our stakeholders. vocational skills. We believe in the power of science, sharing our expertise, and investing in the bright minds of tomorrow. Together we will lead and design a sustainable future for all. For more information, see the Communities section. 50 Who we are 3M Value Model 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 51 Our actions Materiality assessment In 2014, 2016, and 2018, 3M Past, present, and future focus areas The feedback from this assessment was incorporated into our consideration for our Strategic 2019 focus areas* We are a science-based company commissioned GlobeScan, an Sustainability Framework, goals, and with many stakeholders: customers, From our 2018 assessment, the top independent research consultancy, actions as we continue to evolve consumers, investors, government focus areas for stakeholders center to assist us in better understanding and advance our company purpose. Ethical Climate change agencies, industry organizations, around climate change, waste from business our stakeholders’ perspectives Moving forward, we will continue subject-matter experts, academia, operations, fresh-water shortages, Community on key issues and assessing our a consistent rhythm to produce a Human rights health & safety/ non-government organizations (NGOs), energy use, human rights, and the corporate reputation and leadership comprehensive third-party focus area development and other corporations. reduction of toxic substances. opportunities. (materiality) assessment. Transparency Most of these focus areas were Water quality When it comes to strategic planning, perceived to have increased in Data provided in this report includes Through an in-depth interview process Energy use importance since 2016, along with Impact on 3M reputation partnerships, environmental and social conducted for the 2018 assessment, information on issues that were goal setting, and reporting, we seek scarcity of raw materials, water found through this assessment to stakeholders shared their short-term and rely on both internal and external quality, social equality, and ethical have the highest potential to impact (0 to 1 year), medium-term (1 to 5 input in order to understand the top business practices. our reputation and that are of great years), and long-term (10-plus years) Impact on 3M reputation social, economic, and environmental importance to internal and external Responding to Treatment of Reducing toxic expectations for 3M. As part of the global challenges. natural disasters workers substances process, they revisited top focus areas stakeholders. Because we are a identified in 2016 compared with diversified company, several other Employment Air quality Water shortages Stakeholder engagement current areas. environment-related topics and 3M’s stakeholder engagement strategy Stakeholders included in the More than ever, performance indicators relevant to Workplace diversity Scarcity of raw materials Reducing waste from operations various sectors of the company are on priority focus areas continues comparative assessment consisted we need science. also included in the report. 3M’s Food safety Improving access Availability to evolve. We continually look to The resilience of our of academia, consultants, customers, executive-level Innovation Steering to education of sustainable our stakeholders to help us increase products and governmental/regulatory agencies, Committee reviews, approves, and services understanding, broaden our awareness, seek technical input and expertise, and group purchasing organizations, NGOs, trade unions, 3M retirees, and planet, our people, assures material topics are covered in our Sustainability Report. In evaluate possible collaborations and strategic partnerships. We rely on their non-3M private-sector businesses. At the same time, 3M conducted a and our economy addition, effective November 2019, Engagement with the 3M Science, Technology, and counsel and expertise to help guide us. similar process through an internal depends on it. Sustainability Committee of the Board citizens on sustainable behavior We believe stakeholder engagement online employee survey. Following of Directors will annually review the should be based on candid and Human health completion of the interviews, company’s Sustainability Report. authentic dialogue — grounded in GlobeScan analyzed insights and Advocating laws the company’s Values — and should inputs from the stakeholders to All material aspects defined within supporting contribute to the evolution of our develop our evidence-based focus this report are deemed material for Sustainability strategic priorities. area matrix. all entities within the 3M organization. The prioritization for the different Stakeholder engagement varies greatly From this matrix, 3M and the readers aspects may vary within 3M by geography, type, and function. of this report can understand operations and geographies, but they Importance to stakeholders For example, we frequently engage stakeholder expectations and the are still material. 3M employees globally through degree of importance they place on Sustainability communications and each issue, the ability of 3M to make Indicates a higher priority on 2018 versus the 2016 assessment events with diverse content based on a positive difference on the issue, our materiality topics. and the level of impact an issue may have on our reputation. *Based on 2018 focus area assessment 52 Who we are 3M Value Model 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 53 n i rd g o wak 2019 stakeholder assessment key focus areas Membership and o L or Unemployment and under-employment partnership External engagements and f Scarcity of collaboration efforts on priority focus raw materials Climate change areas help provide us with diverse The world around us is changing fast. viewpoints, a better understanding Waste and resource scarcity threaten of the positions of our stakeholders, our natural systems and every species. Poor air quality Stakeholders: and a mechanism to learn from the Climate change is accelerating and Academic successes and failures of our peers, all endangers everyone’s well-being. Consultants of which contribute to our commitment People around the world will need to a purpose-driven business. to come together to create a more Customers Violations of positive future in which everyone can Government, regulatory As part of GlobeScan’s 2018 interview human rights thrive. More than ever, we need science. Group purchasing process, stakeholders responded to organizations The resilience of our planet, our people, a series of questions around the topic and our economy depends on it. Non-governmental of engagement tactics. During these organizations interviews, stakeholders mentioned We believe we can help. This is our Other private sector Waste from a variety of groups to prioritize, purpose. That is why we are committed Accumulation manufacturing, of toxic Trade organizations operations including customers/consumers, local to three priority areas — Science substances 3M retirees communities, investors, government for Circular, Science for Climate, 3M employees agencies, and NGOs. In addition, they and Science for Community — and preferred communication that is simple, it is why we are reinventing the intuitive, and easy to understand (e.g., products, processes, and systems Shortages this report, blogs, and news releases). that will improve every life. We are of available Excessive energy, transforming our business and putting fresh water declining energy Stakeholder engagement and Poor water science to work for the greater good. quality collaboration efforts are core to how we are moving our strategies In 2020, we will be conducting another and actions within our Strategic materiality assessment to assist us in for for or ce r ce c e f it y Sustainability Framework. With that better understanding our stakeholders’ ie an n i e te ien un in mind, you will find examples of perspectives on key issues and S c ir cul S c lim a S c omm these efforts throughout this report. C C C assessing our corporate reputation and leadership opportunities. 54 Who we are 3M Value Model 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 55 Advancing n ie ula ce r f or n ie ate ce f or ie mun ce nity f or impact c S irc c S lim S omc C C C Design solutions that Innovate to decarbonize Create a more positive do more with less industry, accelerate world through Accelerating efforts to help solve material, advancing a global circular economy. global climate solutions and improve our science and inspire people to join us. the world’s biggest challenges. environmental footprint. Our We see the opportunity, in the next decade, to create systemic change United Nations SDGs commitment within the three pillars of our Strategic Sustainability Framework. For more than 40 years, 3M has been Our goals align with the United a leader among global corporations Nations 2030 agenda for Sustainable in Sustainability actions and measures, Development, which includes beginning with the creation of our 17 Sustainable Development Goals groundbreaking 3M Pollution Prevention (SDGs). Additional information on Pays (3P) program in 1975. United Nations SDG alignment can be found in the About report section. • Require every new product that • Help our customers reduce their • Provide training to five million Our goals are becoming stronger and enters 3M’s new product GHGs by 250 million tons of CO₂ people globally on worker and gaining momentum as we recognize Our Strategic commercialization process to have equivalent emissions through patient safety by 2025 how much needs to be done in order to make the world more sustainable Sustainability a Sustainability Value Commitment, use of 3M products by 2025 • Invest cash and products for demonstrating how it drives impact for future generations. We are heading Framework helps for the greater good starting in 2019 • Improve energy efficiency indexed education, community, and to net sales by 30% by 2025 environmental programs by 2025 into a decade of action that will help us apply science to • Reduce manufacturing waste by accelerate solutions to the world’s • Ensure GHG emissions are at least • 100% participation in employee biggest challenges. We are committed improve every life. an additional 10%, indexed to sales 50% below our 2002 baseline by development programs to advance to doing much more than just focusing by 2025 2025, while growing our business It also guides our business decisions individual and organizational on what benefits us as a company. • Achieve zero landfill status at more capabilities by 2025 and strategy, as well as how we • Increase renewable energy to We have a commitment — and the than 30% of manufacturing sites focus our efforts for local and 50% of total electricity use by • Double the pipeline of diverse ability — to use our resources and by 2025 global community impact. For that 2025 and to 100% by 2050 talent in management to build capabilities to impact the world. reason, we’ve reorganized our 2025 • Drive supply chain Sustainability a diverse workforce by 2025 Our stakeholders expect this of Sustainability Goals to fit within each through targeted raw material • Donate 300,000 skills-based work us, and we expect it of ourselves. pillar of our Strategic Sustainability traceability and supplier hours across the globe by 2025 In 2015, we launched our 2025 Framework — Science for Circular, performance assurance by 2025 Sustainability Goals, expanding Science for Climate, and Science • Reduce global water use by an beyond 3M to include customers, for Community. additional 10%, indexed to sales suppliers, and social impact. The goals by 2025 we are pursuing reflect a heightened commitment to going beyond • Engage 100% of water-stressed/ compliance and thinking holistically scarce communities where 3M about how our operations and manufactures on community-wide products affect the world and every approaches to water management life in it. by 2025 56 Who we are Advancing impact 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 57 n i rd g o wak L oro f With our Strategic Sustainability Framework, we are cutting across industries and silos to collaborate or or or with suppliers, customers, and f f e ityf communities by working together to ce r ce c build a more resilient world. We at n ie ula n ie ate ie n un 3M have the unique opportunity to c c Sc omm apply our passion and collaboration to S irc S lim help the world prosper. Our Strategic Sustainability Framework will enhance C C C and continue to grow our existing Sustainability goals and commitments. Our customers, and the communities Our actions Design solutions that do more with less material, Innovate to decarbonize industry, accelerate Create a more positive world through in which we operate, deserve it. Our people are motivated by it. Our future will be all the better for it. In 2019, we strengthened our goal to advancing a global global climate solutions science and inspire invest to develop more sustainable materials and products to help our circular economy. and improve our people to join us. customers reach their environmental • Achieved 100% Sustainability Value environmental footprint. • Provided 1.24 million training goals, by requiring that 100% of our Commitment for new products in instances; toward goal of products entering the new product • Improved energy efficiency by 2019; achieving our goal of 100% 5 million training instances commercialization process include 3.2%, indexed to sales; behind a Sustainability Value Commitment. • Reduced manufacturing waste goal of 30% improvement • $73.3 million investment in By embedding Sustainability into by 12.6%, indexed to sales; total global giving; achieving • Increased renewable energy our R&D process, our brands, and exceeding goal of 10% goal of continuing to invest footprint to 32.6%, total electricity the mindset of our customers and in global giving programs • 35.4% (69 manufacturing sites) use; working toward goal of 50% suppliers, we’re able to move 3M’s zero landfill; exceeding goal of by 2025 and 100% by 2050 • More than 59% participation in growth to new levels and advance 30% of manufacturing sites employee development programs; • Scope 1 and 2 emissions 68.1% our commitment to improving our toward goal of 100% participation • Completed over 550 supplier below baseline; ahead of goal business, our planet, and every life. assessments: maintaining our of 50% below baseline1 • Increased pipeline of diverse And in 2019, we upped our renewable commitment to drive supply chain • Over 58.3 million metric tons talent in management from energy goal from 25% to 50% Sustainability through targeted CO₂ equivalent customer32.6% to 41.8%; toward goal renewable electricity by 2025 and raw material traceability and avoided emissions; toward goal of doubling the pipeline 100% by 2050. We also added a new supplier performance assurance of 250 million metric tons • Donated 20,600 skills-based work Science for Community goal to donate • Increased water efficiency by hours across the globe; toward 300,000 skills-based work hours 5.76%, indexed to sales; working our goal of 300,000 hours across the globe by 2025. For more toward goal of 10% reduction information, see our feature stories, • Engaged with 100% of sites (18 sites) “Flipping the switch on renewable 1  002 baseline year; all others have a 2 located in water stress/scarce 2015 baseline. energy” and “Making an impact around areas; maintaining goal of engaging the world.” with 100% of communities 58 Who we are Advancing impact 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 59 Communities Creating a more positive for f or ce nity ce nity world through science and Sc mm n ie u Sc mm n ie u inspiring others to join us. Co Co Our Goal: Invest cash and products Goal: Provide 300,000 commitment for education, community, and environmental programs work hours of skills-based volunteerism by 3M employees 3M and 3M Foundation help build by 2025. to improve lives and help solve sustainable communities through 3M continues to invest in science, society’s toughest challenges strategic investments and the technology, engineering, and by 2025. thoughtful involvement of 3M mathematics (STEM) and business businesses, sites, and employees programs. 3M Foundation also serves In 2019, the company announced it was worldwide who volunteer and leverage the needs of our local communities expanding 3M Impact, a skills-based their skills and experience to make through charitable investments. service program that allows employees a difference in the world. Additional 3M investments include to lend their business skills, accelerating global climate solutions experience, and energy to make a 3M maximizes social impact by difference in global communities and advancing a circular economy to combining 3M employee expertise while also developing leadership, foster sustainable communities and with our products, technologies, and problem-solving, and interpersonal improve the quality of every life. philanthropy. 3M and 3M Foundation communication skills. 3M will provide Cash, in-kind investments, and develop and implement strategies and opportunities for employees in their employee engagement remain at the partnerships with leading community own communities as well as in the core of both 3M and 3M Foundation organizations that have a proven region surrounding 3M’s global strategies. Since 1953, 3M and 3M track record for delivering results. headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota. In Foundation have invested $1.72 billion Governance is provided by the 3M addition to assisting groups and in cash and product contributions in Foundation Board of Directors and organizations in need, each one of these 3M communities. Corporate Contributions Committee, projects is designed to support 3M’s which is comprised of senior-level Strategic Sustainability Framework, company executives. advancing our commitments to Science for Circular, Science for Climate, and/ To assure that our support delivers the maximum benefit to the Since 1953, 3M or Science for Community. See more in our feature story “Making an impact communities being served, 3M and 3M Foundation assess the impact and 3M Foundation around the world.” of prospective grants and employee engagement initiatives and provide have invested signature partners with financial support to help evaluate outcomes. $1.72 billion in cash and product contributions in 3M communities. 60 Who we are Communities 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 61 Our actions In 2019, we supported Team sponsorships are one aspect Science for teachers STEM-equity support STEM superheroes 35 of 3M’s support of FIRST — 3M currently provides an annual total of and students To support efforts in communities campaign Empowering the $1.5 million in product and financial donations, which includes $250,000 Teachers are the most important where our sites are located, 3M awards grants to organizations with To inspire and empower younger next generation to support FIRST’s Equity, Diversity, school-related factor influencing effective STEM-equity programs. students’ love for STEM, 3M and DoSomething.org launched the high schools and Inclusion program to increase student achievement. Since 1984, 3M has selected 40 teachers each year and Below are some 2019 examples. STEM Superheroes campaign. 10 3M empowers the next generation of participation of underrepresented scientists and engineers by supporting helped them improve their classroom • Georgia Tech’s Challenge program, Students (ages 13-25) designed students in robotics. Hundreds of posters featuring superheroes who education initiatives that advance instruction by providing an opportunity also known as “Academic Pre3M employees share their expertise use STEM-related powers to save equitable outcomes in STEM and to experience science in 3M labs and Season,” offers incoming students by volunteering as coaches, mentors, the world. They were encouraged to business for underrepresented and manufacturing sites to discover how an opportunity to prepare for their and judges for the FIRST Robotics display these posters where younger underresourced students. community and Competition program we apply science to real life. college experience. Along with participating in courses that simulate students could see them — such Community training technical schools • Teach For America recruits, The 3M Visiting Wizards are trained their first year, students gain as schools and libraries — to show develops, and supports a diverse 3M volunteers who travel to elementary exposure to resources and networks that STEM is exciting, relevant, and resources and provided network of recent college graduates schools to showcase interesting science relatable. The campaign encouraged 65 that will support their success. who make a two-year commitment demonstrations and fun hands-on The 3M grant enabled more participants to design diverse As manufacturing evolves and to teaching in urban and rural experiments. The goal is to encourage superheroes so all young students companies like 3M invest in facilities individuals to participate in this communities across the United students in grades one through six program, which is targeted to could picture themselves in a future of the future, it is essential that our States. The 3M grant will go to become interested in science and in STEM. Two students who local technical schools and high students from underrepresented toward recruitment, training, and technology and raise interest in STEM. participated in the campaign will schools have access to appropriate scholarships professional development of diverse These simple experiments help groups who may not have had access to such opportunities before receive a $2,500 scholarship. technologies and training. Below are STEM teachers — recognizing students understand how 3M science • 3M has helped close the workforce some of the programs 3M is investing that when teachers reflect student can impact everyday life and show • STEM scholarships for diverse One giant STEP for students in to help keep the workforce gap across many industries around undergraduate students demographics, it is academically that science can be fun. Learn Each year for 48 years, the 3M pipeline flowing. the world by supporting WorldSkills™ attending the University of beneficial for all students and more about supporting science and Science Training Encouragement since 2013 and SkillsUSA since Illinois, Northwestern University, • The 3M Manufacturing and particularly students of color technology teachers by visiting 3M’s Program (STEP) has offered a nine2008 — two programs that provide University of Wisconsin, and Academic Partnership (MAP) Visiting Wizards website. month science encouragement forward-thinking educational Georgia Tech enable the students program provides manufacturing programs, events, and competitions. to develop professional skills and experience to underserved students equipment, teacher training, and Learn more about skilled trade participate in research programs located near 3M’s headquarters in student scholarships through development by visiting our feature as they pursue STEM degrees St. Paul, Minnesota. In 2019, 38 junior partnerships with high schools and story, “Helping close the skills gap” and senior high school students had technical colleges in communities • GEM (National Consortium for the opportunity to participate in • 3M sponsors an annual event called Graduate Degrees for Minorities where we operate. Learn more on-site science training, mentorship “Robots Invade the Plaza” that in 2019 in Engineering and Science, Inc.) about creating partnerships to solve with 3M scientists, and hands-on brought 22 local high school teams Fellowships support graduate the worker shortage problem. experience in 3M labs in the summer. to 3M headquarters to showcase students from underrepresented the robots they designed, built, and populations as they earn advanced 3M has hired many employees who are programmed as part of the FIRST® degrees and gain practical STEP alumni, working in areas across Robotics Competition. The teams experience in engineering and the company. Read about one 3M Teachers are the compete throughout the year at events organized by FIRST®, a 3M STEM applied science fields. The grant will bring a fellow to 3M for an scientist’s journey in the story, “3M’s ‘100-Patent Woman’ Audrey Sherman most important partner. 3M is committed to helping all students gain access to high-quality advanced-level internship and Explains How She Did It.” school-related factor will also enable GEM fellows to STEM programming like FIRST. attend national GEM conferences influencing student To support this goal, 3M established a sponsorship application process to achievement. assure 3M funding goes to robotics teams that enable underresourced and underrepresented students to participate. 62 Who we are Communities 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 63 Inspiring employees Post-graduate learning • Employees from 3M Malaysia spent a day with students at Global community investments Key opportunity to make an impact Volunteer programs MySkills, a nonprofit that equips Foundation boards The 3M Optimized Operations at-risk teenagers with skills to Lithuania STEM-type programs By investing in programs that promote Experience (O2 Engage) is a prepare them for the workforce. Germany Switzerland Latvia 3M Impact projects United States Estonia Together, 3M employees and the Sweden a circular economy, fight against manufacturing and supply chain Netherlands Austria Czech Poland *3M Gulf consists of UAE, Canada Norway Qatar, Lebanon, Egypt, climate change, and create a more development program that provides students completed a landscaping Belgium Denmark Republic Hungary Ukraine Oman, Kuwait, and Bahrain UK Romania positive world through science, 3M recent engineering, supply chain, project, painted a mural, and Kazakhstan inspires employees to make an impact and environmental, health, and participated in fun science games, Mexico Ireland Russia including an egg drop challenge France China on the world. safety graduates the opportunity Guatemala Japan to jump-start their careers. • 3M employees from the Global Italy South Korea Dominican Passion making a difference Service Center in Costa Rica Republic Portugal Spain Taiwan Hong Kong A world of volunteers facilitated Sustainability-themed El Salvador Puerto Rico Vietnam When asked why they love to work for Costa Rica Greece workshops at the Tree Festival at Panama Philippines 3M, many employees say they enjoy Our sixth annual 3M Global Volunteer Morocco 3M the Parque La Libertad, helping Trinidad Gulf* Malaysia making a difference in the world. Day broke records as more 3M sites Turkey 450 public school students learn & Tobago Pakistan Indonesia The company offers a program called got involved this year than ever Brazil Egypt about environmental conservation Colombia Venezuela Nigeria Sri 3M Impact, where employees travel before. Observed in September, 3M Israel Lanka Australia Peru Uruguay Saudi New Zealand to communities around the world Global Volunteer Day encourages Ecuador Arabia India South Africa to work on-site with local nonprofit 3M employees to demonstrate our Chile Kenya Singapore organizations for two weeks. commitment to improving lives by Argentina 3M Impact in a Day was added in dedicating time to volunteer service. 2019 — a week of half-day service More than 30 international 3M sites around the world organized Volunteer programs STEM programs in 15 countries/regions hosted Foundations in hackathons connecting 100 3M in 29 countries/regions 29 countries/regions 3M Impact global projects 5 countries/regions employees with more than 20 local community engagement activities. nonprofits seeking functional expertise Here are a few ways 3M volunteers on a specific project. Also, in 2019, made a positive impact this year: • More than 100 3M Poland • Around three dozen 3M employees • Around 100 volunteers from the global 3M Impact program • Nearly 30 volunteers from 3M employees and their families helped across the North Europe Region 3M global headquarters in expanded from 50 to China brought interactive science with painting and upkeep at two rolled up their sleeves to support St. Paul brought hands-on science 125 experiments and contests to orphanages and a social care home their local communities. Teams from demonstrations to nearly 900 the Shanghai Huahong migrant 3M Bracknell undertook gardening • Nearly 50 volunteers from second-graders in the St. Paul children primary school to increase projects at residential care homes, 3M Mexico took part in forest Public School District — helping students’ interest in STEM and 3M Bangor repainted the maintenance activities at Nevado to inspire the next generation participants who • Fifty volunteers from 3M Colombia visited the main de Toluca, a national protected children’s training room — complete with a mural — at Donaghadee of scientists and engineers area, to help prevent forest fires traveled to 9 cities landfill in Bogotá and planted Sailing Club. 3M Atherstone helped 200 trees in an area prioritized • 3M Korea brought a few nonprofit clear an area for animals at AIM around the world. by the city for reforestation partners on-site, including Educational’s new farm, where In 2019, 20,600 skills-based work The Beautiful Foundation, which young people with disabilities or • Twenty volunteers from 3M Hong creates aids to provide support and hours were donated through 3M special educational needs will gain Kong prepared 1,100 meal boxes mobility for children with disabilities. Impact activities. practical rural skills along with at Food Angel, an organization that Employees helped assemble several traditional academic qualifications rescues edible surplus food from eco-friendly aids for donation Learn more about the 3M Impact different sectors of the food industry program. and turns it into nutritious hot meals for people affected by poverty 64 Who we are Communities 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 65 Standing out among Through the Sichuan University Alessandra Passos Bassotelli Cauduro, Big hearts, matched Volunteer Group, Kevin also spent Project Engineer in Brazil, honored standouts two months in a village where he for her fundraising and volunteer As part of the 3M Foundation For the past 33 years, the 3M organized writing and STEM education work with the Lar Pequeno Paraiso Volunteer Match program, 3M Volunteer Award has celebrated activities for children, helped elementary school. In addition, Foundation donates money to eligible extraordinary 3M volunteers who coordinate best practice sharing Alessandra helps with Instituto 3M nonprofit organizations when a generously share their time and among farmers from two villages, (3M Brazil’s nonprofit organization) 3M employee or retiree volunteers talents to improve lives in the areas and raised donations for families donation campaigns that provide 25 hours or more per calendar year. of education, community, or the affected by an earthquake. school supplies, toys, and clothing environment. In 2019, 26 awardees for local children. Since 2000, were honored globally, including: 3M Foundation has donated $9.13 Dr. Boon Kiat Lim, Application Specialist in Singapore, honored for 2019 giving by focus area his role in STEM education outreach activities. As a mentor and judge for cash In-kind Total Volunteer hours the 3M Science Outreach Program at Community $15,000,000 $14,300,000 $29,300,000 273,000 the School of Science and Technology, Singapore-3M InnoScience Challenge, Education $14,900,000 $26,500,000 $41,400,000 – million in 3M Volunteer Boon Kiat has engaged students in Environment $2,460,000 $127,000 $2,590,000 – Match dollars STEM, helped them develop problemTotal $32,400,000 $40,900,000 $73,300,000 273,000 solving skills, and encouraged them and in 2019, Volunteer Match Grants to innovate. supported 1,064 unique schools and/ 2019 global giving by region or nonprofit organizations throughout Jim Brown, Project Manager in cash In-kind Total Volunteer hours the United States. Indianapolis, Indiana, honored for Asia Pacific $1,640,000 $1,550,000 $3,200,000 16,900 founding and leading the 3M Visiting Giving that starts at home Europe, Middle Wizards program in his city to help $420,000 $34,000 $454,000 8,450 East, Africa inspire the next generation of STEM 3M Foundation’s Community Giving Latin America $2,150,000 $744,000 $2,900,000 10,400 Campaign has increased its matching enthusiasts. Jim also contributes to the restoration of the Goose Pond Canada $706,000 $538,000 $1,240,000 1,170 amount to help employees support Fish and Wildlife Area by performing United States $24,100,000 $33,400,000 $57,600,000 216,000 the organizations they are passionate surveys to monitor bird species, about. 3M’s program now matches OUS, region not serving on the Board of Directors, defined $3,350,000 $4,560,000 $7,920,000 20,800 up to $500 per employee gift. With and coordinating social media for a maximum of $500 in corporate Total $32,400,000 $40,900,000 $73,300,000 273,000 the organization. support per employee, the Community Giving Campaign invested more than Dr. Kevin Qiu, R&D General Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still $3.58 million in current donations and Manager of Health Care Business subject to change. Totals may vary due to rounding. Volunteer hours include employees 2019 pledges. When including the 3M and retirees. Group in China, honored for his Foundation match, this equals more regular involvement in 3M volunteer than $6.14 million in donations to help opportunities, such as visiting solve our communities’ greatest needs. classrooms to perform engaging STEM demonstrations for students. 66 Who we are Communities 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 67 n i rd g o wa k Enhancing As is the case every year, the most Empowering local A walking trail includes pedestrian L or o f requested product donation in 2019 bridges and spillway development communities community was for our respirators, with over 1.6 million donated to disaster relief with signage. The project also includes ADA-compliant fishing 3M United States sites have their own vibrancy efforts. 3M Foundation provided 3M Foundation budgets as well as the docks, floating wetlands, and a support through cash and product authority to determine local community butterfly garden. See the Site spotlight 3M and 3M Foundation enhance donations valued at $4.53 million stories for additional examples. While 3M’s and 3M Foundation’s international needs and set priorities. 3M Nevada, in the vibrancy of our communities through our strategic disaster relief and United States giving efforts share Missouri, used 3M Foundation grants, by assuring access to basic needs, partners — American Red Cross, For information on how 3M a common philosophy, our support for in collaboration with community donors, preparing youth for lifelong success, Direct Relief, GlobalGiving, and products help build sustainable international programs stands out in two ways: to create an outdoor learning space for increasing access to diverse arts MAP International. communities, visit the Our customers the local community to enjoy. • Support for international programs opportunities, and contributing to and Our products sections. originating in the United States is conducted global humanitarian relief efforts. through intermediary organizations based in the United States that have a global reach Go-power for NGOs • Subsidiaries have local community 3M worked with the National engagement programs focused on Association for the Exchange of social concerns specific to their sites Industrial Resources (NAEIR) to Our international approach is evolving to provide needed materials and expand our reach and build local ownership. supplies to a multitude of nonprofit Our goal is to increase international cash organizations, from hospitals to giving (comprising 3M and 3M Foundation schools to shelters. In addition to cash investments as well as subsidiary cash streamlining 3M’s excess product investments) to 25% of total cash giving by donations process, NAEIR is a 3M the end of 2020. strategic partner, administering the 3M Supplies for Community In 2020, 3M Foundation’s Community Giving Partners and the 3M Supplies for Match will double from $500 to $1,000 Schools product donation programs per employee. in 3M communities across the United States. The company has expanded its Science for Community goals with a new commitment: Responding to natural provide 300,000 work hours of skills-based disasters volunteerism by 3M employees to improve lives and help solve society’s toughest In 2019, 3M and 3M Foundation challenges. To reach 300,000 hours, the responded to natural disasters around company is expanding 3M Impact, its skillsthe world, including: based service program where employees lend their business skills, experience, and energy to • Flooding activities in the South, make a difference in global communities, while Midwest, and Southeast United also developing leadership, problem-solving, States, as well as in South Asia/ and interpersonal communication skills. Nepal and Mozambique • Communities in Congo and Rwanda Throughout 2020, 3M will add depth and impacted by an Ebola outbreak direction to the Strategic Sustainability Framework, including Science for Community. • Massive wildfires in California Get updates on 3M’s Strategic Sustainability Framework. 68 Who we are Communities 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 69 Employee diversity and Our affirmative action policies and programs are designed to assure equal opportunities for qualified minorities, Increasing diversity in every region in which we operate is a core part of our Sustainability strategy. Doubling our To date, we have improved our Diversity Index by 9.2 points, moving from 32.6% to 41.8%, progressing inclusion women, covered veterans, and diverse talent in management positions toward our 2025 Goal of 65.2%. individuals with disabilities and also to will ultimately help build a diverse provide reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities. pipeline for executive leadership as well. We recognize that definitions of diversity vary among different Our actions countries and cultures. The 3M Every day, we work to assure that the or definition of diversity includes gender, 3M workforce is representative of the f people with whom we do business. ce nity race/ethnicity, nationality, people with A thriving, diverse, inclusive culture. n disabilities, U.S. military veterans, and This entails strengthening 3M’s ie u reputation as a great place for diverse Sc mm people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, people to work: Co and intersex (LGBTQI+). To measure • Seeking and attracting diverse Our Inclusion leads to engagement, 3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle progress against our goal, we use the and qualified candidates globally which in turn fosters the collaboration, states that “everyone is entitled 3M Diversity Index, which represents the total number of diverse future • Building our global pipeline commitment creativity, and innovation that drive to respectful treatment in the leaders within the company globally. of diverse candidates long-term growth for 3M as well as 3M workplace. Being respectful for our people and our teams. means being treated honestly and Goal: Double the pipeline of Beyond our day-to-day efforts to In the United States and in many other To become the most inclusive enterprise professionally, and valuing each diverse talent in management support diversity in 2019, we also Above all, fostering a culture that countries, we provide our people with the we can be, 3M focuses on engaging all person’s unique talents, background, to build a diverse workforce actively promoted initiatives to engage supports diversity and inclusion opportunity to opt into the index research our employees and on attracting top and perspectives. A respectful our people, attract the best talent, is the right thing to do. Diversity by 2025. and confidentially provide information and create a work environment where talent around the world. Diversity and workplace is free from unlawful and inclusion are about creating such as disability status, veteran status, inclusion are the foundation of our Value discrimination and harassment, but it everyone feels safe and included. intellectual and emotional oxygen sexual orientation, and race/ethnicity. Model. Our Value Model comprises the involves more than compliance with actions we take that make us unique so all people can flourish and the law. It is a work environment that is among companies and differentiate us feel comfortable to collaborate, free of inappropriate or unprofessional in our marketplace. agree, disagree, and respectfully behavior and consistent with 3M’s exchange, learn, and create. ethics and values — a place where all We know that a diverse, global employees can do their best and are workforce — people with different Our Code of Conduct lays out free to report workplace concerns experience, ethnicity, age, gender, what it means to be a 3M employee without fear of retaliation or reprisal.” sexual orientation, personalities, styles, and includes the 3M Respectful and ways of thinking — helps us relate Workforce Principle: To foster this kind of workplace, more closely to the needs of all 3M we follow our Equal Employment Be Respectful: We strive to have a customers, suppliers, and channel Opportunity (EEO) policies, which work environment that reflects and partners around the world. prohibit all forms of discrimination values the best in all of us, where or harassment against applicants, Equally important, we know that we treat each other respectfully and employees, vendors, contractors, inclusion is the key to unlocking professionally, and where individual or customers on the basis of race, the power of diversity. An inclusive differences are valued. color, creed, religion, sex, national culture supports and appreciates origin, age, disability, veteran’s status, differences and provides fair and pregnancy, genetic information, sexual equal opportunities for everyone — orientation, marital status, citizenship a culture of belonging where people status, status with regard to public are respected for being exactly assistance, gender identity/expression, who they are. or any other reason prohibited by law. 70 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 71 Science of Inclusion Speakers included 3M CEO Mike These United Nations standards One of the first actions of the CEO Martin Luther King Jr. Day Employee Resource Roman as well as other leaders who recognize that more must be done to Inclusion Council in 2019 was In 2019, 3M launched a Science shared personal stories and tips for achieve equal treatment for women committing to the United Nations In January, 3M was the lead sponsor Networks of Inclusion training course for advancing diversity and inclusion and individuals who identify as lesbian, Women’s Empowerment Principles of the 33rd Annual State of Minnesota 3M’s ERNs include nine organizations employees worldwide that explored at 3M. Speakers shared how to turn gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex and LGBTI Standards of Conduct Martin Luther King Jr. Day Celebration designed to nurture leadership skills how physiological and psychological moments of exclusion into moments of (LGBTI) around the globe — and that for Business. held in St. Paul, Minnesota, which and collaboration across cultures, responses to inclusion and exclusion inclusion, explored the science behind companies play an important role in focused on themes of equality and lifestyles, and genders through events are connected to health and well-being. creating workplace environments advancing equity. Catalyst CEO representation in STEM (science, and activities as they align to their where everyone feels safe to be The course examined relevant studies, included a quiz to uncover personal themselves, and discussed how to In support of these standards, 3M, Champions for Change technology, engineering, and mathematics). As one of the keynote mission. Open to all employees, these along with other companies, has organizations help 3M recruit, engage, opportunities to be more inclusive, be an inclusive leader and a voice As part of 3M’s commitment to speakers, 3M CEO Mike Roman talked committed to having processes, and retain diverse talent and work with incorporated a “workplace inclusion for change. building a diverse and inclusive work about the importance of facing reality policies, and programs in place that our businesses to provide relevant challenge,” and provided specific ways culture, 3M CEO Mike Roman is a to address socioeconomic inequities. customer insights that can expand employees can increase inclusion and United Nations promote equality and safety, prevent member of Catalyst CEO Champions Attendees included Minnesota our marketplace reach. Learn more by harassment and discrimination, and contribute to workplace well-being. Standards: Support advance women and LGBTI individuals for Change initiative, along with more Governor Tim Walz, Senators Tina Smith and Amy Klobuchar, plus visiting 3M’s ERNs. than 60 CEOs and industry leaders Global Inclusion Day of women and in the workplace and the community. who also have made personal pledges hundreds of others, including busloads 3M’s nine ERNs continue to expand LGBTI community Two of 3M’s Employee Resource to accelerate gender equality and of 3M employees. their reach globally. For example, An environment that encourages inclusion in their organizations. Networks (ERNs), the Women’s people to listen to different 3M joined companies around the International the Women’s Leadership Leadership Forum (WLF) and 3M perspectives, explore new ideas, and world to support the United Nations Global Inclusion Index Forum now has more than Women’s Day 65 Pride, have played instrumental roles hold productive discussions leads to Women’s Empowerment Principles in identifying allies and advocates game-changing solutions. Inclusion and the United Nations LGBTI In 2017, 3M created the Global In March, 3M celebrated International to continue to include and advance and innovation are interconnected. Standards of Conduct for Business. Inclusion Index, based on opinion Women’s Day with global celebrations women and LGBTI individuals. On 3M Global Inclusion Day, survey data, to measure how included around the world. At 3M headquarters, Learn more about these efforts. employees learned how to support employees feel in the workplace. We the 3M Women’s Leadership Forum an inclusive workplace that enables CEO Inclusion Council are using results from the 2019 index and Diversity & Inclusion Team chapters worldwide, everyone to feel heard, valued, and empowered to contribute their best. to guide inclusion action plans across our organization. United States and hosted an interactive celebration that and 3M Pride has The CEO Inclusion Council is a diverse global inclusion teams are activated to recognized women’s achievements and encouraged women to find the expanded to 15 group of 3M leaders from across the company that focuses on action help fortify our culture of inclusion and confidence to be their authentic selves. planning for inclusion and diversity drive improvement in their individual initiatives. With CEO Mike Roman organizations’ Inclusion Index results. Over 600 as the champion, the CEO Inclusion Council met quarterly throughout 2019. chapters around A significant part of the meetings is the globe. the Raising Voices Platform. Two ERN leaders present at each CEO Inclusion Inclusion and 3M employees joined a Council meeting. The purpose is to innovation are You Define You session, interconnected. elevate current inclusion challenges more than 500 participated in a impacting the specific group or Personal Purpose workshop, and broader organization. The focus is thousands more took part in global on accomplishments over the last six celebrations around the world. months, their priorities and strategic plan, and suggestions on ways to improve. The presentation is followed by a group discussion. 72 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 73 ERN Community This development journey is based Continuing support for Best Places to Work Latina Style Award STEM Workforce on a growth mindset and will equip Champions the ERNs to influence, lead, and build our military community for Disability Inclusion In September 2019, 3M was Diversity magazine award mentor, sponsor, and ally relationships selected as one of the Top 50 3M’s nine ERNs aim to address 3M strives to be the premier employer Representing people with disabilities The readers of STEM Workforce Diversity across our four business groups. companies for Latinas to work for in education equity and homelessness for the military community, with is an important dimension of 3M’s magazine voted 3M one of the by participating in local 3M Impact paid leave benefits that reflect our Sustainability goal to double the United States by LATINA Style Inc. projects for underrepresented and Sharing preferred commitment to veterans and the the pipeline of diverse talent in The LATINA Style 50 Report sets the Top 50 underresourced youth, families, pronouns mission of the Military Support management by 2025. standard for identifying corporations that are providing the best career and veterans. The ERN Community Network (MSN). Champions also support skills-based To support the way in which We earned opportunities for Latinas in the United States. The report reflects those The MSN provides active support and volunteer interactions to increase employees choose to express their outreach, professional development, a top score of programs that Latinas are looking for 100% student exposure to STEM, business gender identities, 3M launched system enhancements enabling them to share and focused veteran hiring services when seeking job opportunities. Employers for 2019 careers, and skilled trades. their preferred pronouns in their to current 3M military veterans, their The annual survey asked readers to ERN member personal profiles and email signatures. families, and other military members Best Places to Work choose the companies for which they development program We encourage employees to check seeking to join 3M. for LGBTQ Equality would most prefer to work or believe their colleagues’ email signatures to would provide a positive working 3M offers up to four weeks of paid on the 2019 assure they refer to each other in their For the eighth year in a row, environment for STEM professionals To address crowdsourced feedback preferred way, and provide lanyard military leave for military training each Disability 3M was named one of the who are women, members of minority from our ERN members around pins for employees to wear, if desired, calendar year to support eligible 3M Equality Index® groups, and people with disabilities. professional development, 3M’s Diversity & Inclusion Team partnered to indicate their pronoun preference. employees in the U.S. National Guard making us one of the “Best Places “Best Places to Work or Reserve units. Eligible employees with 3M Learning & Development to to Work for Disability Inclusion.” for LGBTQ Equality” in Domestic partner on leave for annual encampment or 2019 design a progressive development Participating in this index helps us training may be entitled to differential plan that aligns to the goals of our benefits identify ways we can further enhance ERNs, Diversity & Inclusion Team, and pay for the difference between their 3M pay and their military pay. our policies and practices around At 3M, diversity disability inclusion. It’s part of our and inclusion are the company. The ERN members use At 3M, diversity and inclusion are corporate learning tools and resources the cornerstones of our organization. commitment to have an inclusive scoring 100% on the Corporate to create activation plans and accountability. We offer benefits for eligible oppositesex and same-sex domestic partners culture and workplace where people of all abilities can thrive. Equality Index (CEI). The CEI is the cornerstones of employees, as well as their eligible dependents. administered by the Human Rights Campaign and benchmarks corporate of our organization. policies, including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, and transgenderinclusive health care. 74 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 75 Current progress and opportunity – Current progress and opportunity – percentage of female hires, 2019 racial, ethnic diversity Racial, ethnic diversity Minority hires n i rd g k (U.S.) (U.S.) o wa Canada 2019 18% 28% L or o 36% f United Europe, 82% 72% States Middle East, 2% Africa 37% Asia Pacific 18% 29% We will continue to advance 3M 3% 36% through our people and our culture, Latin 2015 America 0% engaging our current employees, 82% 71% 43% attracting best-in-class employees, 15% and increasing the pipeline of diverse talent in management. We will review 55% % change 0% 1% our people and culture strategy, use 7% crowdsourcing insights to improve Diverse Non-diverse our organizational effectiveness, and work toward one global 3M experience for all. 3M’s nine ERNs will continue expanding their reach across the United States and the world. Progress since 2015 Male Female In 2020, 3M will partner with Progyny to provide a comprehensive, inclusive fertility benefit for every unique path to parenthood. The benefit applies Current progress and opportunity – to employees and their partners who percentage of global female employees are covered by an eligible 3M medical plan and includes single parents and Executive Board of LGBTQI+ individuals and couples. Global Management Management Directors We will also accelerate our diversity and inclusion efforts, with the CEO Inclusion Council championing projects 2019 36% 31% 30% 33% that specifically advance our culture of inclusion. 2015 34% 27% 24% 18% % change 2% 4% 6% 15% Male Female 76 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 77 Recognition Here, at 3M, we strive 3M Brazil: Pró Ética to improve every life, Certification Award act with honesty and For the sixth year, 3M Brazil integrity, and ask was recognized by the Brazilian question after question Government with the Pró Ética Certification Award. The award, the to develop innovative first of its kind in Latin America, solutions with a purpose. was created to promote ethics EcoVadis Gold and encourage companies to take FTSE4Good Index Series We value the recognition we receive, voluntary steps to prevent corruption, Recognition Level as it shows we are a company driven creating a more ethical, transparent, FTSE Russell confirmed that 3M, by employees who are truly making and honest business environment. EcoVadis awarded 3M a Gold in 2019, had been independently a difference in the world. 3M Brazil was recognized for top Recognition Level for achievements in assessed according to the FTSE4Good management’s commitment to ethics, the 98th percentile of suppliers assessed criteria and satisfied the requirements their policies and procedures, and in corporate social responsibility (CSR) to become a constituent of the their risk monitoring and analysis. in global supply chains. FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index provider FTSE Best Places to Work Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance for LGBTQ Equality of companies demonstrating strong ESG practices. The FTSE4Good Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s indices are used by a wide variety 2020 Corporate Equality Index is of market participants to create and the national benchmarking tool on assess responsible investment funds corporate policies and practices The World’s Most pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, Euronext World 120 and other products. Ethical Companies® transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) and Euronext U.S. 50 employees. For the eighth straight year, The World’s Most Ethical Companies® 3M earned a perfect score of 100% Euronext and Vigeo Eiris included 3M, program, managed by the Ethisphere® and, along with it, the distinction of for 2019, in the Euronext World 120 Institute, honors companies that being named among the “Best Places and Euronext U.S. 50 based upon excel in “promoting ethical business to Work for LGBTQ Equality.” environmental, social, and governance standards and practices internally, (ESG) performance. Index components enabling managers and employees to make good choices, and shaping future Best Places to Work for are reviewed and updated twice a industry standards by introducing Disability Inclusion year, in June and in December. Companies included in this index tomorrow’s best practices today.” In the fifth annual Disability have achieved the highest scores, as According to the institute, honorees Equality Index® (DEI®) survey, 3M determined by nearly 330 indicators, have also historically outperformed earned a top score of 100%, making assessed by the agency. other companies from a financial 3M one of the “Best Places to Work ISS Environmental and perspective, supporting the notion that sound ethical practices are for Disability Inclusion.” Social Quality appreciated in the competitive 3M earned best-in-class ranking marketplace. This year’s honorees for risk management around spanned 21 countries and 51 industries. environmental and social areas It was the seventh consecutive year of concern by the Institutional 3M made the list. Shareholder Services (ISS). 3M earned the top-performing ISS QualityScore of “1.” 78 Who we are Recognition 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 79 World Business TIME Best Council for Sustainable Inventions 2019 Development, SDG Invest Reporting matters 3M was recognized in TIME magazine’s list of Best Inventions of In 2019, 3M was included in the 2019 in the Productivity category for In 2019, Reporting matters published the Scotch™ Flex & Seal Shipping Roll. SDG Invest portfolio as one of the by the World Business Council for 60 best-performing companies in the world. SDG Invest is a Danish Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Fast Company’s recognized 3M for its good practice investment fund launched in of story-telling and messaging in our Most Innovative 2017, created by investment and Sustainability professionals. SDG annual Sustainability Report: “3M Companies in 2019 introduces inspiring, companyInvest is listed on the NASDAQ stock specific messaging that focuses on In 2019, Fast Company named 3M to exchange and is an active member applying science to improve lives at its list of Most Innovative Companies of Climate Action 100+. SDG Invest the beginning of its 2019 Sustainability once again — with a focus on our only includes companies that address Report. This messaging appears on 3M™ Smog-reducing Granules — a the United Nations’ Sustainable the cover and is expanded on in the sustainable product that harnesses the Development Goals (SDGs) by setting opening CEO message. The messaging power of the sun to help reduce smog. ambitious targets and driving change explicitly ties to its sustainability through actions. strategy which is organized around Fast Company’s 50 ‘Science for Circular,’ ‘Science for MSCI ESG Ratings Climate’ and ‘Science for Community.’ Best Workplaces for MSCI’s ESG ratings provide 3M begins each section of its report Innovators in 2019 with divider pages that feature a institutional investors with a robust In 2019, Fast Company listed 3M as clear tagline and an overview of 3M’s ESG integration solution. In 2019, one of the 50 Best Workplaces for commitment. It ends each section with MSCI awarded 3M the AAA rating, Innovators in 2019 — recognizing a brief forward-looking statement. the highest rating. businesses that encourage innovation. 3M builds all of this into the visual wireframe which ties each issue back to the overarching story and ensures Derwent Top 100 Global an engaging tone throughout.” Innovators 2019 Corporate Responsibility The Derwent methodology examines an organization’s patent portfolio Magazine’s 100 Best strength and quality, assessing not just Corporate Citizens volume of filed patents but success in obtaining granted patents, breadth In 2019, Corporate Responsibility of filing of inventions, and external Magazine named 3M the 22nd best citations. These criteria create a corporate citizen for being a standout combined indicator score used to business in the areas of environmental, identify the top 100 most innovative social, and governance performance. organizations globally. Since 2011, 3M has made the Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators list. 80 Who we are Recognition 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 81 Introduction 84 How we Corporate governance 86 Enterprise risk 94 Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Human rights 106 work Compensation 116 Employee programs 120 Health and safety 132 Environmental management 140 Circular materials 146 Climate and energy 160 Suppliers 176 82 How we work Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 83 How we work Just as Sustainability is embedded throughout our Value Model, sustainable thinking R&D at 3M is a little different: We separate the is embedded into the R and the D. core of 3M and in the First, the “R.” Scientists in our central strategic planning laboratory are free to focus on pure process we use for every research, in search of unscripted, unexpected opportunities for region, every market, breakthroughs. Our unique 15% and every business. Culture gives them the freedom to follow their instincts. At the same In each of our business groups time, our Tech Forum is a key enabler and regions, we have dedicated of collaboration. This self-directed, Sustainability leaders who develop self-organized group unites 10,000a relevant and well-informed plus scientists and engineers who work strategy specific to their market together to solve problems across demands and business goals. oceans and continents, regardless of which business they’re from. Annually, like many companies, we go through a strategic planning process For the “D,” 3M development teams during which our divisions develop within each of our business groups their business strategies for the next draw upon our core technologies to few years. However, unlike other create products for targeted markets companies, we formally require that and geographies. each plan addresses Sustainability factors relevant to the division’s market We will continue to expand beyond needs and business opportunities. our own operations and focus more on 3M Sustainability goals and the needs of our customers and communities. While we recognize the importance of what we do in our own businesses and will continue to innovate there, we see that far greater impact can be realized when we partner with others to understand and overcome the challenges we face together. 84 How we work Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 85 Corporate governance The Board of Directors believes that this leadership structure provides independent Board leadership and engagement while deriving the benefits of having our CEO also serve as Chairman of the Board. Board’s role in the company’s long-term strategy Each year management presents to the 3M believes that good 3M’s Board of Directors has adopted As the individual with primary Board, and the Board discusses and Corporate Governance Guidelines corporate governance which provide a framework for the responsibility for managing 3M’s approves, detailed long-term strategic day-to-day operations and with inplans for the company. In addition to practices serve the effective governance of the company. depth knowledge and understanding the overall strategic plan for 3M and The guidelines address matters long-term interests such as the respective roles and of the company, our CEO is best the business groups, the discussions also focused on breakout sessions with of shareholders, responsibilities of the Board including positioned to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss the directors on strategic corporatestrengthen the Board leadership structure, responsibilities key business and strategic issues. wide themes of portfolio management, of the independent Lead Director, and management, and director independence, membership Coupled with an independent Lead innovation, commercial transformation, manufacturing and supply chain further enhance the criteria, committees, and management Director, this combined structure transformation, and people and culture. public trust 3M has evaluation. The Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible provides independent oversight while earned from more than for overseeing and reviewing the avoiding unnecessary confusion regarding the Board’s oversight Our long-term a century of operating guidelines, at least annually, and recommending proposed changes to responsibilities and the day-to-day strategy is outlined with uncompromising management of business operations. integrity and doing the Board for approval. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Certificate The Board plans the succession to in the 3M Value business the right way. of Incorporation and Bylaws, charters the position of Chairman/CEO and Model. The 3M Value Model is of the Board committees, Director other senior management positions. Our Independence Guidelines, and Board To assist the Board, the Chairman/ of Directors Code of Conduct provide the framework for the governance of CEO and Senior Vice President of Human Resources annually assess what differentiates commitment the company and are available on our website at 3M.com, under Investor senior managers and their succession potential for the position of Chairman/ our company in the Our corporate governance principles Relations — Governance. CEO and other senior management marketplace. govern how we do business daily, positions. As a result of a thorough The Board’s current leadership and thoughtful succession planning It’s how we create extraordinary value enabling us to outperform and lead structure is characterized by: process, in February 2019, Inge G. for customers and premium returns the way to sustainable growth. They provide a framework that defines Thulin, Executive Chairman of the for shareholders. The model is built • A combined Chairman of the Board the roles, rights, and responsibilities Board, announced his intention not to around four elements: our Vision, our and CEO of different groups within the stand for reelection at the 2019 Annual strengths, our priorities, and our Values. • A strong, independent, and highly Shareholder Meeting. The Board Additional details can be found in the organization, the Board’s role in risk experienced Lead Director with wellnominated Michael F. Roman to serve 3M Value Model section. oversight, public policy engagement, defined responsibilities that support as Chairman of the Board, effective and 3M’s commitment to Sustainability. the Board’s oversight responsibilities May 14, 2019, following his election as 3M’s Board of Directors oversees the • A robust committee structure a director by shareholders at the 2019 CEO and senior management and consisting entirely of independent Annual Shareholder Meeting. assures that appropriate procedures directors with oversight of various and controls are in place covering types of risks management’s activities in operating • An engaged and independent Board the company on ethical grounds on a day-to-day basis. 86 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 87 Lobbying and Political It is the intent of the Board that the Board refreshment Corporate governance highlights The Guidelines specify the criteria Board itself will be a high-performance by which the independence of our Activities Principle organization creating competitive We regularly add directors to infuse directors will be determined, including advantage for the company. To new ideas and fresh perspectives Director Tenure Director Age Gender Diversity Board size and strict guidelines for directors and their As a concerned member of our independence perform as such, the Board will be into the boardroom. Five out of the Avg. 7 Avg. 64.3 33.3% immediate family members with communities, 3M actively participates 11/12 composed of individuals who have 10 independent director nominees years years Women Directors respect to past employment or affiliation in public policy and legislative Directors are independent distinguished records of leadership standing for this year’s election have with 3M or its independent registered advocacy, or “lobbying.” As 11 and success in their arena of activity joined our Board within the past four public accounting firm. The Guidelines appropriate, 3M also participates 8 and who will make substantial years. In recruiting directors, we focus also prohibit Audit and Compensation in political activities to elect and 6 contributions to Board operations and on how the experience and skill set 5 4 Committee members from having any work with elected representatives 3 3 effectively represent the interests of each individual complement those 2 2 2 direct or indirect financial relationship and government officials. 3M’s 1 1 of all stockholders. The committee’s of their fellow directors to create a with the company, and restrict both Government Affairs organization and the Board’s assessment of Board balanced Board with diverse viewpoints 0-4 Years 5-9 10-14 15-19 Years Years Years <59 60-65 66-70 71-74 Years Years Years Years Women Men Independent Not Independent commercial and not-for-profit coordinates and oversees 3M’s candidates includes, but is not limited and backgrounds, deep expertise, relationships of all directors with 3M. lobbying and political activities. 3M to, consideration of: and strong leadership experience. Directors may not be given personal Political Activities Board, which is Independent Lead Director Meeting attendance Other public loans or extensions of credit by the made up of senior 3M executives, • Roles in and contributions valuable Shareholder engagement company Boards company, and all directors are required oversees 3M’s political contributions and the activities of 3M’s Political to the business community 96% 1.3 average Board positions to deal at arm’s length with 3M and • Personal qualities of leadership, Shareholder engagement is fundamental its subsidiaries and to disclose any Action Committee (3M PAC). 3M PAC character, judgment, and whether to our commitment to good governance 5 circumstance that might be perceived is a nonpartisan fund comprised of • Independent Lead Director • O verall attendance at Board the candidate possesses and and essential to maintaining our strong with robust authority and committee meetings 3 3 as a conflict of interest. voluntary employee and stockholder 1 maintains throughout service on the corporate governance practices. • C ombined Chairman • There were eight Board contributions that is used to make meetings in 2019 Diversity and CEO positions Board a reputation in the community We engage regularly with our global 0 1 2 3 contributions to U.S. federal, state, Boards Board Boards Boards at large of integrity, trust, respect, investors to gain valuable insights into and local candidates as permitted competence, and adherence to the the governance issues about which For 3M, diversity, in its myriad by law. These activities must always highest ethical standards they care most. We aim to seek a manifestations, is fundamental to comply both with applicable laws collaborative and mutually beneficial innovation, performance, and 3M’s Lobbying and Political • Relevant knowledge and diversity approach to issues of importance to The meetings included an overview Director independence and relevancy. Activities Principle. of background and experience in of the company and a discussion of business, manufacturing, technology, investors that affect our business, and the company’s practices on corporate The Corporate Governance Guidelines The Board of Directors regards diversity Our actions finance and accounting, marketing, to assure that our corporate governance governance, including Board and Director Independence Guidelines practices remain industry-leading from as an important factor in selecting international business, government, refreshment and diversity, director provide that independent directors their perspectives. Board nominees to serve on the Board. and other areas; and evaluation, directors’ skills matrix, must comprise a substantial majority Although the Board has no specific Board membership • Whether the candidate is free of During 2019, members of senior Board leadership structure, as well of the 3M Board. A director is diversity policy, when selecting as on strategic priorities, capital “independent” if the Board affirmatively criteria conflicts and has the time required management met with a cross-section allocation and structure, environmental determines that the director has nominees, it actively considers diversity for preparation, participation, and of shareholders owning approximately in recruitment and nomination of 29% and social matters, Sustainability, and no material relationship with 3M 3M’s Corporate Governance attendance at all meetings directors, such as gender, race, and company culture. In general, investors directly or as a partner, shareholder, Guidelines contain Board Membership national origin. The current composition In addition to these minimum viewed the company’s governance or officer of an organization that has Criteria which include a list of key skills of our Board reflects those ongoing requirements, the committee will practices favorably, including the a relationship with the company and and characteristics deemed critical to efforts and continued importance of also evaluate whether the nominee’s Board Chairman transition, the mix otherwise meets the requirements for serve 3M’s long-term business strategy diversity to the Board. and expected to be represented on skills are complementary to the of our outstanding shares of tenure and overall diversity, and independence of the listing standards existing Board members’ skills, the or approximately the disclosure regarding the Directors’ of the New York Stock Exchange. 3M’s Board. The Nominating and 42% Board’s needs for particular expertise skill sets and qualifications. The The independent directors will make Governance Committee periodically in certain areas, and will assess the feedback from these meetings was the Board decisions on corporate reviews with the Board the appropriate nominee’s impact on Board dynamics, shared with the Board of Directors and governance matters. skills and characteristics required of effectiveness, and diversity of helped inform the Board on corporate Board members given the current experience and perspectives. governance practices and trends. Board composition. of our institutional shareholders. 88 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 89 An inclusive culture at 3M is built on our Be Respectful Principles — to In addition to forming the Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee, As a global Announced by CEO Mike Roman on Investor Day in November 2018, the respect the dignity and worth of individuals; encourage the initiative of the Board has ended the Finance Committee. The responsibilities of corporation, Framework directs our efforts to areas where we can make the greatest At 3M, we are each employee; challenge individual the Finance Committee will be contributing to impact: Science for Circular, Science for inspired and society through capabilities; and provide equal undertaken by the Audit Committee Climate, and Science for Community. opportunity. 3M is continuously and the full Board. motivated by our focusing on building and maintaining an inclusive culture. Additional During 2019, the Board of Directors diverse markets, Vision of advancing information on our inclusive culture can be found in the Diversity and held eight meetings. Overall attendance at Board and committee we believe every company, inclusion section. meetings was 96%. that we have enhancing every Governance actions Commitment to a significant home and improving As we continually seek ways to improve economic, environmental, responsibility every life. corporate governance, our Board and social topics to advance the announced in November 2019 that it had established a new committee At 3M, we are inspired and motivated by our Vision of advancing every United Nations to strengthen oversight of the company’s strategies related to company, enhancing every home and Sustainable improving every life. In collaboration research and development, commercialization, Sustainability, with our employees, customers, Development environmental stewardship and other related activities. The new 3M partners, government, and communities, we apply our expertise and technology Goals across Science, Technology & Sustainability to help solve shared global challenges. Sustainability is at the heart of our the world. Committee of the Board of Directors company. It anchors our purpose-driven We are also a participant of the will help assure 3M is building on innovation in products, manufacturing United Nations Global Compact, its strong innovation capabilities processes and new technologies — and a policy initiative for businesses to while maintaining 3M’s high product we’re always trying to do more. It is demonstrate their commitment stewardship standards. our ambition to meet the increasing to 10 principles in the areas of human As a science-based company that relies expectations of our customers, rights, labor, environment, and antion investments and capabilities in R&D, employees, investors, and stakeholders corruption. We align this Report to commercialization and Sustainability — and grow our business — by the guidelines of the Sustainability for our success, this new committee continuing to make bold Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) aligns with 3M’s strategic priorities and commitments and taking stronger actions. and the Task Force for Climateenables the Board greater focus and related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 3M has a long-standing commitment engagement on a critical element of recommendations for helping to Sustainability, from our our strategy. businesses disclose climate-related groundbreaking Pollution Prevention financial information. Together Pays program that began in 1975 with our ambition of improving to our increasingly ambitious every life and our strong set of 3M set of 2025 Sustainability Goals, values, these commitments drive which are designed to improve the and inform our formalized approach footprint of our own operations, to Sustainability — the 3M Strategic help our customers meet their own Sustainability Framework. Sustainability goals and drive action on global environmental and social issues. 90 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 91 n i rd g o wak Our continued work across the 3M’s Code of Conduct Governance links L oro f Strategic Sustainability Framework helps advance 3M’s progress toward our 2025 Sustainability Goals, which is More than a century of operating with uncompromising integrity has earned For more information on corporate governance at 3M, see: More than a century reported on in this Report. Sustainability at 3M is also guided by our Innovation 3M trust from our customers, credibility with our communities, and dedication • Corporate Officers of operating with Steering Committee which includes from our employees. And for the • Board of Directors uncompromising We regularly post governance news, events, and presentation information our CEO, CTO, and General Counsel. seventh year in a row, 3M has been The committee provides leadership, recognized by Ethisphere® as one of the • Committee Composition integrity has earned in the Investor Relations section of our website. See 3M Events and • Governance Documents oversight and strategy to encourage and assure Sustainability opportunities World’s Most Ethical Companies®. • Annual Reports and Proxy 3M trust from presentations. are recognized, and strong policies and procedures are in place. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors of the company Statements our customers, In November 2019, the 3M Board incorporates long-standing principles of conduct 3M and the Board follow credibility with our of Directors established a new to assure the company’s business communities, and Board-level committee to provide and the activities of the Board are general oversight of the significant conducted with integrity and adherence dedication from scientific and technological aspects of 3M’s businesses and the company’s to the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with the law. our employees. Sustainability and stewardship activities: the 3M Science, Technology Our Code of Conduct applies to all & Sustainability Committee of the employees, including our CEO, Chief Board of Directors. The committee Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting will review the company’s Sustainability Officer. See the Corporate Code of policies and programs, identifying Conduct section for additional details. and analyzing significant Sustainability, materials vulnerability, and geopolitical Lobbying and Political issues that may impact our overall Activities Principle business strategy, global business continuity, and financial results. All 3M Political Action Committee (PAC) receipts, disbursements, and Additional information can be found contributions are publicly disclosed in our 2020 Proxy, Commitment to as required by law. 3M’s reports are Sustainability. available on the Federal Election Commission website. Corporate contributions directly to candidates, political committees, ballot measures, Section 527 organizations, and issue advocacy or “lobbying” are outlined in our Political Activities and Issue Advocacy report. 92 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 93 Enterprise risk Assessing and planning for risk at The Vice President and General Our actions Together with subject-matter experts all levels. Auditor, Corporate Auditing, whose and senior management, the outcomes appointment and performance are mapped to demonstrate the relative is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee, is responsible for Corporate-level level of risk and likelihood of risk. This “heat map” identifies the highestleading the formal risk assessment 3M’s Enterprise Risk Management risk areas and shows where to focus Our and management process within (ERM) initiative, launched in 2001, has our internal efforts. In addition, external the company. The General Auditor, helped assure adequate recognition resources and data are continually commitment consulting with the company’s senior and ownership of the most significant reviewed to assist in the risk management, annually assesses potential risks to the company’s identification process. The results of the major risks facing the company shareholder value, using a process our various risk assessment exercises The concept of risk appetite and and works with those executives that proactively identifies and are shared with the Corporate tolerance is an essential component responsible for managing each specific communicates enterprise risks within Operations Committee and the of our strategic planning, and it’s the risk. The General Auditor periodically the company. This includes confirming company’s full Board of Directors. responsibility of our senior business reviews with the Audit Committee the that appropriate plans and oversight leaders to plan accordingly. major risks facing the company and the steps management has taken to exist for all major risks, providing for ongoing review and assessment of risk, 3M places We firmly believe that good corporate governance practices serve the longmonitor and mitigate those risks. and aiding in generating awareness and particular emphasis on protecting engagement of general risk matters term interests of our stockholders, While the Board’s oversight of risk throughout the company. The approach strengthen 3M’s Board of Directors is primarily performed by the Audit and management, and further enhance Committee, the Board has also provides a customized capability that leverages 3M’s comprehensive, our company the public trust 3M has earned from more than a century of operating with delegated to other committees the oversight of risks within their areas experience-based global knowledge and capabilities while also considering against emerging uncompromising integrity and doing business the right way. Governance of responsibility and expertise. We believe this governance of risks tools often used in financial or risks in an everincludes broad risk oversight by the by Board committees, who share insurance-oriented businesses. changing world. Board and its committees. Risk analysis information with the full Board, is reported to the full Board, the is appropriate for a diversified To assure longCase in point: cybersecurity. Strong General Auditor, and the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer. Both the General technology and manufacturing company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K, Item term success, we cybersecurity programs are essential, and we continue to invest in information Auditor and Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer are appointed by, and report to, 1A outlines risk factors applicable to the company. are committed to technology systems and activities around cybersecurity training and the Audit Committee of the Board. discovering and awareness, especially when it comes to avoiding phishing and other threats Risk oversight preparing for all targeting 3M. The Board has delegated primary potential threats For more information on responsibility for the oversight of to our Vision. corporate-level risks, see 3M’s 10-K, Item 1A, as well as the Climate and risks facing the company to the Audit Risk owners familiar with the energy section and Environmental Committee of the Board of Directors. environmental, economic, and management section. The Audit Committee Charter states that the committee will “discuss business aspects within the company policies and procedures with respect to are interviewed and requested to risk assessment and risk management, complete a thorough assessment for the company’s major risk exposures, their respective risk(s). and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures.” 94 How we work Enterprise risk 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 95 i n g o wa k r d Board members In addition to conducting environmental, L oro f health, and safety risk analysis, we and General have Business Resiliency plans for Auditor meet 1:1 each 3M site. Although we hope to never use them, it’s critically important In 2019, the Vice President and General they are in place, current, and that employees understand what to do 3M will continue to advance our Auditor met with each independent processes to identify and mitigate 3M Board member to discuss risk should an emergency occur. All plans are prepared in accordance with good enterprise risk by engaging all levels management in general as well as of leadership. Our priority is the specific risk-related topics facing the engineering practices and full approval of management. Scenario exercises comprehensive management of company. These meetings gave Board enterprise risks through an ethical members an opportunity to share what are conducted periodically at sites to evaluate the effectiveness of the plans. tone, 3M Leadership Behaviors, risk issues were top of mind for them governance processes, and clear roles, and which should be reviewed and responsibilities, and accountability. addressed by the Board. Business-level Strong 3M serves customers through our four business groups. Annually, leadership cybersecurity from each business group presents to the Board, and the Board discusses and programs are approves detailed long-term strategic essential, and we continue plans for the company, both at the area and business-group level. Each presentation includes the following: an overview of the business group, shortto invest in and long-term financial performance and goals, an assessment of portfolio information growth opportunities, and strategic technology priorities to drive our Value Model. systems and Site-level activities around Our Environmental, Health, and cybersecurity Safety (EHS) management system looks carefully at each 3M site and training and new acquisition and performs a risk assessment that considers factors awareness. such as potential impact to the environment, the community, and 3M employees. Each site is ultimately ranked based on the risk it poses to the company, and necessary steps are taken to minimize potential risks. We also place particular focus on bringing acquisitions into alignment with 3M’s protocols, standards, and training. 96 How we work Enterprise risk 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 97 Corporate Code of Business Conduct Committee The compliance program is designed to meet the U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines and, as designed, meets An annual training plan is established each year based on an assessment of internal and external factors to prioritize Conduct The 3M Business Conduct Committee similar global standards and topics and timing of deployment. Online is comprised of several senior requirements of other countries’ courses are offered in 22 languages. executives and is chaired by 3M’s anti‑bribery laws. Examples of recent training Vice President and Chief Ethics & The program consists of: modules include: Compliance Officer. This committee oversees 3M’s compliance efforts to • A core set of business conduct • Data Privacy and Protection assure that 3M has an effective and principles • Understanding Information Security world-class compliance program — A “Speak Up” culture that keeps • Education and training and Protection one that is agile and anticipates changes in the external landscape • Periodic evaluations, audits, risk • Gifts, Entertainment, and Travel and internal business strategy. assessment, and procedures to • Avoiding Bribery and Corruption: ethics and business conduct measure and assess the compliance A Global Overview The Business Conduct Committee, program’s effectiveness annually or as needed, updates the • Understanding Global Competition • A 24-hour global helpline and front and center. Audit Committee of the 3M Board • Creating a Harassment-Free Workplace website through which employees, of Directors and 3M’s executive customers, vendors, and other • Code of Conduct and Ethical Corporate Operating Committee. external parties can report concerns Decision-Making Additionally, similar committees and ask questions, anonymously in exist at country and regional levels • Recognizing Conflict of Interest Our The Code of Conduct is our guide, Executives and managers are most countries to operationalize and prioritize answering questions and providing accountable for creating an inclusive compliance activities. • Risk-based due diligence on The Ethics & Compliance website commitment direction when the right choice workplace environment that business partners, potential on 3M’s intranet offers additional may not be clear. encourages asking questions and raising concerns. Global compliance acquisitions, equity investments, on-demand online training courses. and candidates for hiring and In addition to offering online training, The Code of Conduct is part of 3M’s 3M’s Code of Conduct program promoting the Ethics & Compliance Department — Value Model and positions 3M for The Code of Conduct is available in 25 in close collaboration with 3M Legal long-term growth. Our Values bind defines the expectations languages and sets clear expectations 3M’s global compliance program is • Investigation expertise Affairs, local compliance partners, us together as 3M employees — for how we work: not only for employees but also for managed and administered by the • Incentives and discipline to address finance, and human resources — relevant stakeholders and business Ethics & Compliance Department, compliance successes and failures across business groups and across provides frequent, tailored, in-person • Be Good partners. All new employees receive led by the Vice President and Chief geographies. training to businesses, subsidiaries, • Be Honest a copy of the Code of Conduct. Ethics & Compliance Officer. The department is staffed with compliance Compliance training staff groups, and third parties. Great companies are built on trust — from customers, shareholders, • Be Fair professionals stationed around the and education Some of this training occurs as part of an annual schedule, while other employees, and communities. We’ve • Be Loyal world. The Vice President and Chief 3M offers a comprehensive online training occurs as requested or when earned that trust and a reputation for Code of Conduct Ethics & Compliance Officer reports • Be Accurate Be 3M compliance training program to deemed appropriate. integrity over many decades, and no directly to the Audit Committee • Be Respectful of the 3M Board of Directors. The employees worldwide. one at 3M is free to compromise it. Be Good Be Honest Be Fair Obey the law and Act with uncompromising Play by the rules, whether Audit Committee assists the Board in 3M employees, including all supervisors, 3M’s Code of Conduct. honesty and integrity. working with government, customers, or suppliers. The program’s training modules are We have one Code of Conduct that overseeing 3M’s legal and regulatory managers, and other leaders, are assigned to employees based on applies to our 96,000 employees Be Loyal Be Accurate Be Respectful compliance efforts. This direct responsible for knowing and following Protect 3M’s interests, Keep complete and accurate Respect one another and our their role and area of responsibility in over 70 countries globally. Our assets, and information. business records. social and physical environment reporting line assures the independence the ethical, legal, and policy requirements around the world. within the company. Most courses are Code of Conduct summarizes 3M’s of the Ethics & Compliance Department, that apply to their jobs and for reporting mandatory for approximately 46,000 compliance principles and raises which is responsible for overseeing any suspected violations of law or the global employees. awareness about how to do business and administering strategic, systemic, the right way, at all times and at Code of Conduct. and operational components of 3M’s every site. compliance program. 98 How we work Corporate Code of Conduct 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 99 Recipients of the Living the Code Based on a project in 2018, the 3M global allegations and Award receive a letter from our Ethics & Compliance Department has disciplinary actions 3M Ethics & Compliance Vice President and Chief Ethics & continued to report metrics from a 非倫理的な行動 報告する義務があります。 Total number 솔직하게 말하기! Tala ut! Compliance Officer along with an broader range of 3M functions that ROZMAWIAJ Z NAMI! Çekinme Söyle! Prehovorte! Parla apertamente engraved crystal glass globe. conduct investigations and track 直言不讳! Ungkapkan! Высказывайте сомнения! 1800 Exprimez-vous Говори открыто 直言不諱! employee concerns. This provides a Spregovori NGRIJE ZËRIN 3MEthics.com is a more complete view of the frequency Speak up! Progovori 1600 and type of concerns reported globally Vorbeste 24‑hour confidential Hãy lên tiếng! ΜΙΛΗΣΤΕ ΑΝΟΙΧΤΑ 1400 Pozovite and better reflects the healthy “Speak Fale! Sprechen Sie mit uns and anonymous (where Up” culture that exists within 3M. Suarakan Kecurigaan! ¡ HAZLO SABER! 1200 อย่าละเลยไม่รายงานพฤติกรรมผิดจรรยาบรรณ permitted by local law) This data is used to prioritize resources 1000 and focus strategies. helpline and online Speak up. Ask a question. 800 reporting system. 3M encourages all employees to Be 3M Raise a concern. Go to 3MEthics.com speak up to raise a concern or 600 It is managed by a third-party vendor suspected violation of the Code of and is available to 3M employees Conduct. The “Speak Up” poster 400 and others internally and externally. that encompasses many of our most 200 The system does not trace phone frequently used languages continues calls or use caller identification, nor does it generate or maintain internal to be widely used globally. Our strong ethical culture 0 Allegations Substantiated Disciplinary connection logs containing internet 3M’s non-retaliation requires and empowers reported allegations actions Reporting concerns: protocol (IP) addresses. Web-based process employees to make the 2018 2019 reports are made through a secure “Speak Up” right choices every day. Data in the present chart may differ from previous reports as case 1 internet portal that does not trace or 3M prohibits retaliation against management progresses Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and show user screen names. anyone who raises a business conduct values is the responsibility of everyone concern in good faith or cooperates in The Ethics & Compliance Department acting on 3M’s behalf. We encourage a company investigation. To monitor has the responsibility to review every our employees to ask questions or this risk, a compliance investigator business conduct concern that is report concerns to management, reported. After review, the department contacts the reporter several times Assessments Our evaluation planning and site Not only do audits, evaluations, and risk 3M’s Ethics & Compliance Department, after an investigation closes to discuss selection process was enhanced in 2019 assessments help detect opportunities determines which reports require an A dedicated team within 3M’s Ethics by incorporating additional data and for improvement and gaps in processes 3M legal counsel, 3MEthics.com, their if the person has experienced any form investigation. If an investigation is & Compliance Department conducts analytical tools to prioritize countries or procedures, they also reinforce the assigned human resources manager, of retaliation. This is done either by needed, an appropriate investigation periodic compliance and anti-bribery and operations for future review. importance of operating in an ethical, 3M Corporate Audit Department, or phone or via email for non-anonymous resource is assigned to the matter. evaluations in various 3M subsidiaries compliant manner. the Audit Committee of the Board of reporters. For anonymous reporters For concerns that are substantiated, and operating units each year. Additionally, a “local evaluation” Directors. Our strong ethical culture who used 3MEthics.com to raise a disciplinary actions may be taken. Subsidiaries or operations are selected process was developed to address requires and empowers employees concern, the follow-up is handled Discipline comes in a range of forms for an evaluation using objective and site-specific risk with more agility to make the right choices every day. through 3MEthics.com to maintain consistent with similar past violations, subjective risk factors. An evaluation and speed. Now part of the annual 3M makes it clear that speaking up anonymity. If claims of retaliation are from warnings to suspensions to process includes a review of financial evaluation planning process, a is the right thing to do. We know our identified, the investigation team will termination. Disciplinary actions transactions, compliance records, local evaluation has a more focused employees care about the company follow up on them. 3M takes a strong may impact one or more persons interviews with business personnel, scope than our standard deep-dive and want to do the right thing. position against retaliation, which is associated with a single substantiated and audits of selected business evaluation, and it can be completed On a quarterly basis, the Ethics & reflected in the Non-Retaliation Policy violation. The 3M global allegations partners. Our evaluation process with fewer resources in half the time. Compliance Department recognizes and within 3M’s Employee Obligations and disciplinary action graph illustrates continues to evolve. In 2019, we This approach is more adaptable to 3M employees around the globe who and Reporting Principle. business conduct-related reports continued to interview at least 10% local needs while continuing to have gone above and beyond to bring raised in 2018 and 2019, using our of non-production employees as part meet the requirements of the Ethics the 3M Code of Conduct and our reporting tools found at 3MEthics.com. of the evaluation process. & Compliance Department. values to life in the work they do and the decisions they make. 100 How we work Corporate Code of Conduct 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 101 Commitment to 3M’s commitment to anti-corruption Finally, the Ethics & Compliance Raising third-party is also reflected in our management of Department has a group of specialists anti-corruption third-party intermediaries and other focused on assuring that 3M awareness of 3M As a participant of the United Nations business partners. 3M conducts dueconducts government contract and Ethics & Compliance diligence reviews of our third parties subcontractor business in compliance Global Compact (UNGC), 3M is based on an assessment of risk factors, with all laws. This group trains, assists, expectations committed to supporting Principle 10 including transaction size, type of and coaches 3M employees on To enhance our communications and on Anti-Corruption. Our commitment relationship, government interactions, all government contracting needs, expectations with third parties, 3M and involvement with the UNGC, and and geography. Depending on the including providing guidance and has an online training course and a with our community of peer companies, outcome of the review, we respond advice on identifying, managing, and brochure for our business partners. provides us with the opportunity to to any identified risks with specific mitigating risk. In 2019, we moved to a new vendor collaborate and share best practices actions, such as training, inclusion of and refreshed the content of the online related to work against corruption in all its forms. Additionally, the compliance relevant contractual terms, and other Political values third-party training course on antirisk-mitigating controls. 3M may end bribery. The course is available in professionals on our team regularly a relationship with a business partner 3M respects our employees’ right 30 languages. The brochure, available participate, present, and are members if the risk presented is determined to engage in the political process, in 27 languages, provides another of organizations and associations to be too high and cannot be and, at the same time, 3M is way for 3M to communicate with working to improve compliance appropriately mitigated. committed to preventing potential our business partners regarding our controls and reduce legal risk. corruption. When allowed by law, commitment to combat global bribery. Further, the Ethics & Compliance any corporate political contributions 3M’s Code of Conduct requires Department collaborates with 3M Legal outside of the United States require compliance with all applicable antiAffairs on due-diligence processes bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery related to potential equity investments approval by the Area Vice President and assigned legal counsel. “For more than a Act, Brazil’s Clean Company Act, and and mergers and acquisitions. These processes help identify risks in the For additional information, please visit century, 3M has local laws where 3M operates. It applies to 3M employees, as well as target company before an acquisition or investment is initiated. This process the Ethics and Compliance webpage. done things the to our business partners. In addition, 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle and antiaccelerates our efforts to integrate an right way, assuring acquired company’s employees into bribery policies and procedures have been communicated to all employees. 3M’s compliance program and culture. integrity is at the Our Avoiding Bribery and Corruption Ultimately, the Ethics & Compliance Department is charged with conducting heart of what we training is required of most nonproduction employees and specifically a risk review and implementing any necessary remediation activities upon do. Our Code of employees in higher-risk roles, including those in legal, audit, sales, the closing of every acquisition. As Conduct provides a part of our ethics and compliance marketing, export, and global trading. The Vice President and Chief Ethics & integration process, in 2019, we the foundation for Compliance Officer provides quarterly completed a compliance culture survey with an acquisition to identify the values we live by. These values updates on all activities to the Audit and prioritize compliance integration Committee of the Board of Directors and activities. Acquisition culture surveys the 3M Business Conduct Committee. help identify whether new employees can be felt all over the world.” understand 3M’s compliance expectations and where further assistance or training can be provided.  — Michael Duran 3M Vice President and Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer 102 How we work Corporate Code of Conduct 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 103 n i rd g o wak Our actions The day featured an outside speaker To assure global accessibility, in 2019, Training enhancements L or o f who discussed his personal experience these publications were translated in making poor ethical choices and the into the languages most frequently In 2019, we transitioned to a new Ethics & Compliance impact such choices had on his personal requested by our global team. This online training vendor for ethics and life and professional career. Additionally, year, the supervisor toolkits covered compliance courses. The new vendor Department several 3M leaders participated in speaking up; conflicts of interest; offers adaptive learning technology the day. All participants shared their respectful workplace; and gifts, and will provide more data to leverage. As 3M’s business models change over time, The teams within the Ethics & Compliance ethics and compliance remain at the core of Department were reorganized in 2019, perspectives on the importance of doing entertainment, and meals. To drive improvement in on-time business the right way, the resources online training course completions, we what we do for our employees, customers, allowing for greater efficiencies and collaboration, further enhancing our available to help employees in the “gray Data analysis implemented a pop-up notification that communities, and shareholders. The Ethics & Compliance Department will continue to zone,” and the potential consequences established Centers of Excellence. of poor choices. The event included a and metrics reminds a user of their need to complete their compliance training each time evolve, establishing appropriate governance A Platforms and Strategic Transactions bodies and partner networks to assure we Team was created to provide greater fair, where representatives from various Through the work of a data scientist on they open certain desktop applications. compliance functions were stationed This pop-up helped on-time online continue to drive a culture of speaking up and focus on simplifying and automating the Ethics & Compliance Team, we have at booths where they held interactive training course completions reach the doing business the right way. As we do so, processes. We also established a seen positive impacts in our reporting discussions with employees. highest level ever achieved. Additionally, we will optimize opportunities to continually dedicated team for risk monitoring and metrics analysis. The cycle time we introduced a third-party code improve our program. We will support and metrics management. to create our compliance reporting Communications to metrics was cut in half, allowing quicker certification in 22 languages that can supervisors and managers globally, so they are prepared with necessary information This year, we rebranded the department, support our employees access to current data. We now also be leveraged any time there is a need to communicate or clarify our Code of and resources. changing its name from Compliance provide our compliance partners and and Business Conduct to Ethics & and supervisors leaders with a user-friendly platform to Conduct expectations. Data analysis will remain a priority for the Compliance. We did this to establish review and analyze their relevant data Ethics & Compliance Department as we We recognize the power in storytelling a name that reflects our mission of through custom dashboards. leverage it to understand our risks. We will to inspire and influence ethical behavior. assuring employees conduct business continue to empower global leadership to In 2019, the Ethics & Compliance ethically. The new name also brings This year, we again implemented Department launched a new video take ownership of key performance indicators greater alignment with 3MEthics.com, an ethical culture survey for 3M series called “My Moment of Truth,” by providing access to tools and metrics. our external website that is used to sales professionals. which leverages the personal stories of In 2020, we will use our technology and raise concerns and ask questions. reporting platforms to create tools and 3M employees who had the courage The survey participation rate Our Chief Compliance Officer became measures that identify risk and increase our to speak up and do the right thing. the Vice President and Chief Ethics improved by approximately visibility into those risks. 20% The series was intentionally unpolished & Compliance Officer. Finally, we and showed real employees in their updated our 3MEthics.com website We will continue to evolve our acquisition workspaces and was filmed on cell to reflect the rebranding and, while integration process, assuring effective phones or other readily available video doing so, created a refreshed and integration of newly acquired businesses equipment. The participants included simplified user interface to facilitate into our Ethics & Compliance program and employees from all over the world Through analyzing the survey results, we the “Speak Up” process. platforms. We will provide those new to and were subtitled in English and nine were able to correlate the frequency of 3M with a strong support network from the other languages. Global Ethics & discussion that a manager has with their Ethics & Compliance Department during employees about ethics and compliance Compliance Day The most frequent resource employees with other measures, including the times of transition. go to with ethical or compliance willingness of employees to speak up. 3M will continue to hold Ethics & Compliance All over the world, we held Ethics & questions is their manager. The Ethics This data finding was used in manager Days around the world to engage global Compliance Day events to further build & Compliance Department publishes training to emphasize the importance of employees in our culture of compliance. employee engagement around the a series of toolkits containing speaking about compliance. These events will be opportunities to create Code of Conduct and doing business reference materials and case studies energy and enthusiasm around compliance, the right way. For the third year in a row, to help supervisors effectively address with active participation from our divisions we held a compliance day at our global employee questions and respond and functions and across levels of seniority headquarters. The theme was “The appropriately when dealing with and tenure in the company. Gray Area: where doing the right thing potential violations of the law or the isn’t always black and white.” 3M Code of Conduct. 104 How we work Corporate Code of Conduct 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 105 Human rights Doing business the right way is It is a work environment that is free Our Human Rights Policy has a the only way we do business. of inappropriate or unprofessional specific subdivision on the freedom behavior and consistent with 3M’s of association, which assures that we ethics and values — a place where all respect “the ability of employees to employees can do their best and are choose whether or not to join unions free to report workplace concerns and engage in collective bargaining, Our Guided by deeply A respectful workplace without fear of retaliation or reprisal.” as permitted by applicable laws in the countries where 3M does engrained principles Working hours and commitment Our Code of Conduct lays out what it business.” In the event of business in our culture means to be a 3M employee and includes the 3M Respectful Workforce Principle: living wages operations changes, we follow all applicable local laws and regulations Our Human Rights Policy applies to all 3M complies with minimum wage regarding notice periods for both Respect for human rights is deeply 3M employees, contingent workers, candidates for hire at 3M, anyone engrained in our culture. Within our own business, 3M’s approach to Be Respectful: legislation globally, and we make every effort to exceed the legal minimum union and non-union employees. Approximately doing business with or on our behalf, We strive to have wage. Our competitive compensation 8% managing and assuring human rights and others acting on 3M’s behalf. a work environment is derived from the 3M Code of reflects our practice of establishing Conduct, which recognizes the right competitive salary ranges based on In 2014, we became a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) participant, of employees to have a respectful workplace. This culture extends that reflects and actual pay data from benchmark peer companies in manufacturing. values the best in thereby committing to align our through our human resources policies, 3M also complies with all applicable operations and strategies with the programs, and management systems, laws relating to overtime and breaks. of 3M’s global UNGC principles on business and human rights. We support its “protect, including 3M’s Leadership Behaviors. all of us, where we Additional information can be found workforce is respect, and remedy” framework and its principles of due diligence. We continue to implement our human rights program through our treat each other in the Compensation section. unionized Furthermore, our Code of Conduct global policies, management system, respectfully and Freedom of association with the number rising to 22% assessments, audits, training, and, and the right to and its underlying principles require compliance with all applicable ultimately, our metrics tracking. professionally, and collective bargaining Our audit process provides us with laws and also require respect for internationally recognized human a global perspective over all of our where individual 3M works diligently to create a work rights in all global operations. sites and our supply chain. differences are culture that affords all employees the when labor We also recognize the International Human rights valued. opportunity to work without fear of intimidation, reprisal, or harassment, agreements are Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and elements brought 3M’s Respectful Workplace Principle in an environment where employees included. can have their questions and concerns Rights at Work. Adopted in 1998, the to life states that “everyone is entitled to addressed in a fair and timely manner. We are aware that, in some countries, declaration commits member states respectful treatment in the 3M In all sites, the company’s relationship collective bargaining rights are not to respect and promote principles Our commitment to upholding human workplace. Being respectful with employees, whether union or protected or recognized. Nevertheless, and rights in four categories, whether and workplace rights is embodied in the means being treated honestly and non-union, is a key responsibility of 3M assures employees that freedom of or not they have ratified the relevant 3M Human Resource (HR) Principles, professionally, with each person’s all company leaders, and is assisted association and collective bargaining conventions: freedom of association which respect the dignity and worth unique talents, background, and by human resources representatives. aspects of our Human Rights Policy and elimination of discrimination in of all individuals, encourage the perspectives valued. A respectful Human resources professionals work apply to all 3M employees worldwide. employment and occupation; the initiative of each employee, challenge workplace is free from unlawful with employees to maintain positive right to collective bargaining; the individual capabilities, and provide discrimination and harassment, but employee relations. elimination of forced or compulsory equal opportunity for development. it involves more than compliance labor; and the abolition of child labor. with the law. 106 How we work Human rights 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 107 Modern slavery Child labor and minimum hiring age Forced and compulsory labor Security personnel Raising, addressing, Modern slavery, as an umbrella term, 3M is committed to doing our 3M complies with all applicable training and procedures and resolving encompasses several human rights part to help abolish child labor. laws and employment regulations With the alarming rise in corporate workplace concerns issues, including forced labor, bonded This commitment is evident in our and does not engage or participate Human Rights Policy and Supplier in forced labor. We have those same security breaches worldwide, our When concerns related to human labor, child labor, human trafficking, Human Resource Security Standard and slavery-like practices. We have a Responsibility Code. Although the expectations for all suppliers doing rights, labor practices, environmental, permissible hiring age for employees business with us. This commitment provides the controls required to or safety issues arise, our employees robust stance against these practices achieve human resource security as set out in our labor, employment, may vary based on the laws of different is evident in our Human Rights Policy and non-employees are encouraged countries, 3M has adopted global and Supplier Responsibility Code. based on industry standards and and trained to raise questions or report and business conduct policies, and our best practices. Supplier Responsibility Code. These expectations regarding the hiring misconduct or potential misconduct. of minors. Even if local law permits Human trafficking policies reflect our commitment to Roles and responsibilities of it, 3M will not hire any employee We provide a variety of mechanisms acting ethically and with integrity in Our approach to human trafficking information security employees, nor engage a contingent worker (an for reporting and resolving concerns: all our business relationships and to is very simple: We do not tolerate it. contingent workers, and suppliers implementing effective systems and individual provided by a third-party must be defined and documented • Employee’s management and/or controls, so this practice does not staffing agency to perform temporary Our Human Rights Policy details our in accordance with the 3M Information human resource manager take place within our organization and work) below the age of 16 for any job. prohibition of human trafficking. Security Management System supply chains. Additional information If the applicable laws impose a higher • 3M legal counsel We are committed to using effective (ISMS). Background checks verify can be found at 3M Supplier Direct, minimum age requirement than 16, systems and controls to prevent human • 3M Ethics & Compliance Department all suppliers, contingent workers, Transparency in Supply Chains and 3M follows the stricter standard in trafficking from taking place anywhere and candidates for employment. • 3MEthics.com Modern Slavery Disclosures. compliance with the law. within our business or supply chains. Background checks must be carried out in accordance with relevant • 3M Global Security Operations These prohibitions apply to 3M and its laws, regulations, and ethics, and Center subsidiaries as well as to our federal must be appropriate for the business See 3M’s Ethics & Compliance website contracts and subcontracts for either requirements, classification of the for more information regarding commercial or non-commercial items. information to be accessed, and the how to report a concern. Additional perceived risks. Contingent workers information can be found in the Our Supplier Responsibility Code and suppliers in the United States are Corporate Code of Conduct section. details expectations regarding labor required to review and acknowledge and human resource practices for all of 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone 3M’s Systems Access Control Standard our suppliers worldwide. 3M suppliers who asks a question, reports a concern and other 3M policies and standards. must comply with all local country in good faith, or participates in a labor and human resource laws and Management requires employees, company investigation. This position is cannot use labor that is obtained contingent workers, and suppliers reflected in the Non-Retaliation Policy through mental or physical coercion, to apply security practices in and within 3M’s Employee Obligations physical punishment, slavery, or other accordance with established policies and Reporting Principle. oppressive labor conditions, and and procedures. All 3M employees cannot engage in any form of human and, where relevant, contingent In addition, we conduct audits of site, trafficking. Additional information can workers and suppliers, must receive workplace, and human resource be found in the Suppliers section. appropriate awareness training and practices, and we conduct assessments regular updates in organizational and audits of suppliers to assure policies and procedures, as relevant compliance with 3M’s expectations for their job function. related to labor practices. See the Suppliers section for more details. 108 How we work Human rights 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 109 Our actions In our view, human rights due diligence requires a holistic approach. We assess our own business as well as those who Segment Salient risk* Action plan to address 3M employees Assuring conformance with See Corporate Code of Conduct section for additional details on Strong support for are acting on our behalf — in supply the 3M Code of Conduct our actions roles, government relationships, human rights charters acquisitions, mergers, and divestitures — to identify the salient Others acting Unsafe working conditions, See Workplace Environmental, Health, and Safety Principle 3M continues to support several human on 3M’s behalf mistreatment of workers rights charters. Among them: human rights issues applicable to our business. We have a grievance • United Nations Global Compact mechanism in place, 3MEthics.com, Suppliers Assuring conformance with See Suppliers section for details on our risk-based which can be used to raise a concern 3M Supplier Responsibility supplier assessment process • Universal Declaration of Code expectations regarding any adverse human rights Human Rights impacts. We also comply with all • European Convention on applicable laws and honor the Government Not adhering to all applicable See Lobbying and Political Activities Principle; Political Activities Human Rights principles of internationally recognized relations laws, rules, and regulations and Issues Advocacy, and Doing Business with Government • United Nations Guiding Principles human rights when faced with Agencies and Contractors Principle for more information on Business and Human Rights conflicting requirements. Acquisitions, Failing to recognize human Prioritize and address human rights issues relative to risk and • International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Assessing human rights mergers, and rights issues during the compliance; see Human Rights Policy, Respectful Workplace divestitures acquisition integration or Principle, and Workplace Environmental, Health, and Safety Principles and Rights at Work Our assessment of human rights divestiture process Principle for more information • OECD — Organization for aligns with our corporate Human Economic Co-operation and Rights Policy, as outlined under our Local communities Inequitable opportunities Assess community partnerships to assure we are providing Development Guidelines for commitment, and includes these points and customers to succeed in science, support to underrepresented populations, so they have equal Multinational Enterprises, including of review: safe and healthy workplace, technology, engineering, and opportunity for success in STEM and skilled trade employment OECD Due Diligence Guidance respectful workplace, workplace math (STEM); skilled trades areas; see the Communities section for additional information for Responsible Supply Chains of security, work hours and wages, occupations Minerals from Conflict-Affected freedom of association, child labor, and High-Risk Areas forced labor, human trafficking, or recruitment fees to obtain employment. • Agenda 21 — United Nations *Risks as per human rights (safe and healthy workplace, respectful workplace, workplace security, work hours and wages, freedom of association, Evaluations are integrated into child labor, forced labor, or recruitment fees to obtain employment, and human trafficking) Convention against Corruption other assessment and management processes and are based on material Holistic approach issues regardless of where they’re to human rights identified within the value chain. due diligence Based on this assessment process, we In our view, human rights due diligence requires a holistic The 3M Corporate Code of Conduct have determined that in our various spheres of influence (our own business approach. We assess our own business as well as those who describes the company’s business conduct principles, or core values, and in others acting on 3M’s behalf), the sphere with the greatest potential are acting on our behalf. which set forth global corporate for human rights impact is within our expectations for all 3M employees and supply chain. third parties who act on 3M’s behalf. The principles in this Code of Conduct remain consistent with 3M’s longstanding business conduct principles, its values, and our shared ethical standards for conducting business with uncompromising honesty and integrity. 110 How we work Human rights 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 111 Within our own business 3M employees, including all Assuring human rights If an employee does not have a 3M supervisors, managers, and other email address in the HR system, it is Within 3M, our approach to managing leaders, are responsible for knowing through training the responsibility of their supervisor and assuring human rights aligns and following the ethical, legal, and (or designated trainer) to inform them We provide training globally to assure with the 3M Code of Conduct, which policy requirements that apply to of their course requirements. The that all 3M employees comply with recognizes the right of employees to their jobs and for reporting any email notifications include a course the law, 3M’s Code of Conduct, have a respectful workplace. suspected violations of law or the announcement and up to three supporting policies, standards, and Code of Conduct. Executives and reminders. procedures, including Human Rights. As stated in the Code of Conduct managers are accountable for creating Global Handbook, which is available an inclusive workplace environment An annual training plan is established In addition to offering online training, in 25 languages, all 3M employees that encourages asking questions and each year based on an assessment of the Ethics & Compliance Department — are held to the same high standards. raising concerns. internal and external factors to prioritize in close collaboration with 3M Legal If the Code of Conduct sets a higher topics and timing of deployment. Online Affairs, local compliance partners, standard than the law, we are For additional details on our employee courses are offered in 22 languages. Finance, and Human Resources — expected to follow the Code of processes, see the Diversity and provides frequent, tailored, in-person Training for 3M employees on the Conduct and do business the 3M Way. inclusion and Employee programs training opportunities to businesses, Supplier Responsibility Code processes 3M’s success depends on each of us sections. subsidiaries, staff groups, and third and tools includes a self-check exercise doing the right thing. No matter our parties. Some of this training occurs as and final quiz to understand the job title, we are all leaders when it part of an annual schedule, and some effectiveness of the training. Training comes to ethics and integrity, and we training occurs as requested or when is provided when there have been must meet these important commitments: No matter our job deemed appropriate. significant changes to the Supplier Responsibility Code, process, or tools. • Know and follow the guidance set forth in our Code of Conduct title, we are all Each manager and supervisor is required to assure that those who Supplier Responsibility Code training • Foster a positive, inclusive work leaders when it report to them complete mandatory compliance training and Code of and information for suppliers reside on the 3M Supplier Direct website. environment and a strong culture of ethics comes to ethics Conduct certification as identified Supplier Responsibility Code in 3M’s Code of Conduct Global • Complete compliance courses and integrity. Handbook. See the Corporate Code of information is sent to suppliers prior to conducting an assessment to assure and certifications on time Conduct section for more information. awareness of expectations — which are • Report suspected violations of also addressed during supplier status Employees are assigned courses the law or our Code of Conduct review meetings. based on their job function, country unless prohibited to do so by location, production/non-production local law status, and supervisor/non-supervisor • Do not engage in workplace and management-level status. retaliation Email notifications are sent to the • Report any known or suspected employee’s or their supervisor’s retaliation 3M email address informing them of their course requirements and their • Cooperate with investigations timeline for completion. The new employee courses are due within 60 days of assignment. 112 How we work Human rights 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 113 n i rd g o wak Others acting on These expectations are laid out in 3M has implemented processes to We have created a robust, stakeholderL oro f the 3M Supplier Responsibility assure compliance with the U.S. Federal driven approach to Sustainability 3M’s behalf Code and support our Science for Acquisitions Regulation, including a materiality that includes human rights. Circular goal to drive supply chain Human Trafficking Prevention Standard. Our materiality assessments and Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and Sustainability through targeted stakeholder engagements are vital values is the responsibility of everyone For more information, see the Doing raw material traceability and supplier components of our company’s acting on 3M’s behalf. Multiple Business with Government Agencies In 2020 and beyond, we are looking performance assurance. strategy and reporting. Details of our processes are in place to assure 3M’s and Contractors Principle. at ways to recognize business materiality assessment can be found principles are being upheld by these For details on our risk-based opportunities that help the company in the 3M Value Model section. parties. Case in point: our approach to health and safety. supplier assessment process, Acquisitions, mergers, Our Sustainability goals and Strategic grow while addressing societal see the Suppliers section. issues. We cut across industries and and divestitures Sustainability Framework were interests to collaborate with suppliers, Under our Workplace Environmental, developed from the materiality Health, and Safety Principle, 3M’s Government relations 3M regularly pursues the sale and assessment. customers, and communities by purchase of business interests. working together to build a more Code of Conduct requires 3M Under our Be Fair Principle, 3M is For additional information on our resilient world. We have a unique employees to select and retain For each business that may be committed to being a responsible stakeholder engagements, see the opportunity to apply our passion and suppliers, contractors, or outsourced acquired or divested, human rights company with uncompromising 3M Value Model section. collaboration abilities to help the world manufacturers and service providers issues are prioritized and addressed integrity in all dealings with local, state/ prosper. This includes collaborating who comply with all applicable relative to risk and compliance provincial, and national governments to continuously improve our duelaws and regulations and meet 3M’s during the acquisition integration and with their prime contractors and diligence management system, identify environmental, health, and safety or divestiture process. subcontractors around the world. and address salient human rights issues As a global values. In addition, at 3M sites, all In all our activities with governments, Additional information can be within our sphere of influence, and visitors, suppliers, contingent workers, we carefully follow all applicable laws, found in our Respectful Workplace stay aligned with internationally and contractors are held to the same safety and health requirements as rules, and regulations. Principle and the Environmental corporation, we accepted frameworks, such as the believe that we management section. United Nations Guiding Principles. 3M employees. Before entering into any government See the Health and safety section contract, or any agreement related to a government customer, 3M Partnering with have a significant for additional information on this assessment process. employees must consult 3M’s local communities responsibility to Government Contract Compliance and customers Our suppliers Department or their business group’s assigned legal counsel. society in general, Under our Be Respectful Principle, At 3M, we recognize the choices we 3M’s core values include treating and especially to Human trafficking and forced labormake for our material and service providers must also reflect our values. related provisions are also included each other and our stakeholders with respect and respecting our social and the communities We want our suppliers to share our in 3M’s government contract flowdown requirements for suppliers. physical environment. in which we commitment to maintaining compliant, responsible, and sustainable operations In the United States, the government has adopted a regulation (Federal As part of 3M’s Vision, we work to imagine a world where every life is live and work. and practices. In addition to full Acquisitions Regulation 52.222‑50) improved. The power is in partnership. compliance with all applicable labor and prohibiting human trafficking, As a global corporation, we believe human resource laws, we expect our including slavery, servitude, forced that we have a significant responsibility suppliers to be committed to upholding and compulsory labor, and coercion to society in general, and especially the human rights of workers and to to induce a commercial sex act or to the communities in which we live treating them with dignity and respect to procure the same — all of which and work. as understood by the international result in the deprivation of a person’s community. This applies to all workers, liberty by another in order to exploit including temporary, migrant, student, them for personal or commercial gain. contingent, and direct employees. 114 How we work Human rights 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 115 Compensation Equitable pay for everyone, Everyone is a leader To foster 3M’s culture of innovation, Earn up to your everywhere. we expect our leaders to create Compensation for 3M employees is an environment that allows and true potential tied to their job descriptions as well challenges all employees to seek out All employees have the opportunity as how they perform in their jobs. new ideas and process improvements to grow through challenging work This holds true for general leadership that drive success. Our “Innovate” and be rewarded for their efforts. Our Director compensation The committee, along with its responsibilities as well as performance Leadership Behavior includes Our employee performance review independent compensation related to Sustainability issues. an expectation to support 3M’s philosophy and elements process directly connects to an commitment consultant, assesses the design of 3M Leadership Behaviors establish Sustainability goals. individual’s compensation. The intent and risks associated with incentive expectations and ways everyone The Nominating and Governance Ratings of achievement against of the process is to align individual compensation, recommending can demonstrate and meet those Committee annually receives measurable targets impact the award goals and performance with business 3M provides competitive marketchanges when appropriate. Any expectations through their actions reports on the status of the Board’s values for those employees who are objectives and outcomes, creating a based pay and comprehensive benefits. recommendations related to and interactions. compensation in relation to other large eligible for incentive compensation. win-win situation for the employee and In addition to a professional work compensation for 3M’s CEO are U.S. companies and is responsible For those employees eligible to receive the company. In addition, the process environment that promotes innovation subject to ratification by all of the The six behaviors of effective leaders for recommending to the Board long-term incentive compensation, helps identify and develop leaders and rewards performance, 3M’s total independent members of the at 3M include the following: changes in compensation for nonratings of Leadership Behaviors impact to meet 3M’s ongoing talent needs. compensation for employees includes Board of Directors. employee directors. In developing its their long-term incentive grant values. a variety of components that support Additional information on 3M’s The Compensation Committee recommendations, the committee is sustainable employment and the ability reviews stakeholder proposals relating guided by the following goals: Play to win employee development and to build a strong financial future. compensation can be found in the to executive compensation matters • Compensation should fairly pay Employee programs section and We pay for performance and recommends to the Board the directors for work required in a at 3M.com. company’s response to such proposals. company of 3M’s size and scope Foster collaboration 3M is a pay-for-performance company. In addition to earning a 3M executives are also eligible to • A significant portion of the total and teamwork participate in deferred-compensation compensation should be paid in base salary, eligible employees are plans that enable them to save for stock to align directors’ interests compensated for their contributions retirement or for other reasons, and with the long-term interests of to the company’s growth, profitability, and other goals. This compensation they receive certain other benefits, stockholders Innovate falls into one of two categories: shortsuch as financial planning services. • The structure of the compensation term cash incentives and long-term should be simple and transparent Approximately 100 equity incentives in the form of annual Annually, at the request of the restricted stock units (RSUs), stock Nominating and Governance Committee, Prioritize and execute options, and/or performance-based Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. conducts awards. In certain circumstances (e.g., a survey of director compensation at for purposes of hiring or retaining key other large U.S. companies and talent), we offer grants of restricted executives were provides expert advisory support to Develop others stock units. eligible for these the committee on the compensation and self of non-employee directors. As detailed in the 3M Board of Directors’ Compensation Committee benefits in 2019 Charter, all incentive compensation including all of the named Act with integrity and all aspects of executive executive officers. and transparency compensation are reviewed regularly by the Compensation Committee, 3M’s 2020 Notice of Annual Meeting which is comprised solely of and Proxy Statement provides independent non-employee directors. additional details on the named executive officers’ compensation. 116 How we work Compensation 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 117 n i rd g o wak Our actions Pay based on role, o L or Delivering on the responsibilities, skills, and performance f promise of fair and We maintain our focus on our global equitable pay compensation principles to provide 3M has the same annual incentive market-competitive, fair, and equitable 3M’s industry-leading formula for plan design for all eligible employees, pay. We continue our journey to compensation helps provide equitable including our executive officers — assure we appropriately benchmark pay for all employees. We factor the same payout curves, compensation within our many sites in performance accelerators based thresholds, maximums, metrics, globally and use consistent methods on an annual performance review, and metric weightings. to analyze our compensation position and the Leadership Behaviors against the market. Efforts continued This year, we will consolidate discussed in our commitment. in 2019 to standardize and simplify our incentive plans to align with our methodology around market pricing, global business model. 3M will At 3M, the proportion of total rewards utilizing data sources from multiple aligned with variable (incentive) pay continue to conduct assessments vendors. As we move forward, we will for the purpose of identifying and increases with job level and reflects continue to look for ways to handle the job level’s influence on both shortmitigating significant economic and this process in an increasingly efficient reputational risks in the design of our and long-term results. Eligibility for and consistent manner. 3M’s Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) and incentive compensation programs. Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is Our Global Market Pricing Process In 2019, 3M announced new based on job level, considering both assures market-competitive business segments and leadership the job level’s ability to influence the compensation for employees and appointments. This new structure will incentive period being measured and drives consistency and transparency increase our customer focus, agility, market competitiveness for these in compensation practices across and productivity in 2020. types of compensation. all regions. Using common job descriptions and grades throughout In late 2018, the Board of Directors the world, this process uses data updated the company’s clawback from three global surveys to policy that covers both cash and equity benchmark pay levels and map job compensation for executives. The grades, which helps drive our pay updates address situations involving principles for fair and equitable significant financial or reputational pay. In 2019, the Compensation harm as well as risk management Committee formally added to its list failures. The Board of Directors of responsibilities a review of matters continues to monitor regulatory relating to internal pay equity. developments relating to recoupment of incentive-based compensation. In 2019, approximately 95% of the shareholder votes cast on our Additional information on 3M Total say-on-pay proposal approved Rewards can be found in the Employee the compensation of our Named programs section. Executive Officers as disclosed in 2018’s Proxy Statement. The Committee will consider the results of this year’s say-on-pay proposal, as well as feedback from our stockholders, when making future executive compensation decisions. 118 How we work Compensation 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 119 Employee programs Investing in our people The professional growth of our people is essential to the growth of our Our learning orientation and philosophy focus on experiential learning and skill building rather than classroom-style training. Additionally, content is organized and aligned to directly support our organizational priorities, including the 3M Leadership Behaviors, Building a meaningful culture. business. In 2019, we provided over company-defined functional 25+ The number of training hours and competencies, LSS, Sustainability, the training cost per employee are and supervisory content. Develop U not our leading indicators of human provides access to tens of thousands capital performance. Instead, we focus of unique, just-in-time learning Our Our actions It’s possible for someone to go from a on indicators that align employees’ resources in over 15 languages, lab, to marketing, to sales, to business hours of training results to the company’s success when assessing our development programs. allowing 3M’s global workforce to commitment engage in employee development. development, and all the way up to the C-suite. 3M is so diverse that Our most valuable resource is our and development Leadership and employee engagement, people, and we invest in their success. employee retention rates, brand Given this breadth, we’ve seen people can reinvent themselves and for full-time equivalent 69% We offer a wide range of benefits and recognition, acquisition integration At 3M, we lead with culture. We want their careers all within one company — (FTE) employees. milestones, and Lean Six Sigma (LSS) our employees to focus on making and so inclusive that they’ll be able discounts designed to help them live an impact on the world and feel to collaborate with other curious, their best lives. We also provide tools, project value are a few examples of We leverage a 70-20-10 development empowered to bring innovation into creative minds wherever they go. For opportunities, and support for people indicators that contribute to 3M’s model which indicates that, over the their work. more information, see the Employee who want to grow their careers. recognition as an industry and global course of a career, of our global 70% diversity and inclusion section. business leader. We know that engaged employees A learning-focused 3M has prioritized learning and workforce engage are more satisfied with their work, tend to stay longer, and are more culture career development opportunities in self-directed training productive and committed. We foster f or Our 96,000 employees do work not only for leaders but for all via online platforms. ce nity of learning is done and reinforce behaviors that support employees. Further, 3M has separate that matters, applying 3M science in engagement on many levels, including n ie u ways that make a positive impact on on the job processes for employee performance Considering job-specific training as Sc mm networking, collaboration, diversity, and career development. This well as self-directed, over 1.5 million people’s lives. In today’s fast-moving 20% gives employees the freedom to training classes were completed. Co and inclusion. We focus on the business environment, it’s more quality and the impact of professional create meaningful development In 2019, we launched 10 data science important than ever to anticipate and plans without performance or and eight digitization functional development and career growth. exceed the needs of our customers, compensation implications. learning paths, leading to over shareholders, and employees. Creating 3,800 completions. These and other 3M is the place to be for employees a high-performance culture built on interested in development continual learning helps 3M achieve comes through Employee development live events pushed our live event opportunities. Our company touches Goal: 100% participation completions total to over 102,000 nearly every industry in every market in employee development business growth for the company and other employees Effective employee development and reached both production and professional growth for employees. 10% globally. If you work at 3M, you have programs are crucial in order to non-production employees globally. programs to advance reach our goal of 100% of employees a range of development opportunities few other companies can offer. Our individual and organizational engaging in development activities. Employees create or update people can live in different countries, capabilities by 2025. With our global online employee development plans that include learn about different cultures, and learning platform, Develop U, activities meant to improve individual develop a variety of skills across We encourage our employees to pursue areas of interest, and we of meaningful employees are easily able to access development resources to support skills and further career development. Employees can use additional skilldifferent industries. support the development of career development their career aspirations and advance mapping tools in collaboration with paths and opportunities aligned with those interests. Development is reached through their strategic capabilities within 3M. Develop U provides employees their supervisors to identify long-term desired goals and define actions programs may consist of formal formal training. with a personalized experience by needed to help reach those goals. training, on-the-job development, recommending relevant content based mentoring, and more. on their role within the organization. 120 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 121 A key part of career development is Setting new employees Global executive and Coaching understanding the available career leadership development paths and resources. Employees up for success 3M has invested in external leadership can access functional competency The 3M Leadership Way is a suite of coaches to support and accelerate the 3M invests in onboarding and high-potential leadership development development of 3M leaders around models that clarify expectations developing new employees so journeys within 3M Learning & the world. These coaches work in a regarding the knowledge, skills, and that they have access to the tools, Development, bringing one consistent variety of ways with 3M leaders. We abilities to be developed over a career resources, and networks they need approach to how 3M develops leaders offer one-on-one time with a coach to within a specific function. Based on to succeed. Our onboarding process across all geographic areas, business help employees apply new learning or shared expectations, career paths begins at the time a candidate groups, and functions. Each program on-demand coaching to work through are aligned with relevant training accepts a job offer and continues is an integration of customer-focused, a change. We also work with teams and development resources. Each through the first year of employment. results-driven, and experience-based to help them stay close to changing function follows a competency model that leverages 3M’s learning learning that takes leaders outside the stakeholder expectations. A consistent, comprehensive platform and directs employees to classroom walls to sharpen their skills onboarding platform provides pre-start relevant training opportunities. with leadership challenges for our information delivery and engagement customers and in our global communities. for new employees on the front end Functions also provide development and clear metrics, reporting, and suggestions that can grow competencies through on-the-job tracking for 3M on the back end. This Development for people leaders Leadership activities or social learning activities, investment sets up new employees to succeed and make meaningful With a focus on the critical skills that leaders need to be successful development is a competitive such as meeting with a coach or contributions from the start. in leading others, the Essentials for mentor. Currently, the competencyPeople Leaders program emerged based resources cover approximately 93% of the non-production Nurturing the leader as a multi-module program with the advantage at 3M. professional employee population. in everyone flexibility to be delivered as faceto-face classroom training or as To maintain this At 3M, wisdom is shared. Just as we share and combine our Leadership development is a competitive online, virtual training. This flexible delivery format is key to providing a advantage, we advantage at 3M. To maintain this technologies, we also share and advantage, we are continually leveraging consistent development experience are continually for all leaders of 3M while still combine our knowledge through mentorship, storytelling, and our new technologies and delivery methods, thereby assuring impact, consistency, allowing for needed localization. leveraging new internal social networking website. We define mentoring as a unique and global inclusivity. All-employee development technologies relationship in which a mentor (a more Many development opportunities and programs are available throughout All our people globally, at every level of and delivery experienced person) helps a mentee (a less experienced person) with their the various stages of a leader’s career the 3M organization, are provided with opportunities to develop themselves methods, thereby journey, spanning every geographic development in a particular area. Further information can be found region and 3M business. Programs as leaders. These leadership development offerings target areas assuring impact, at Mentorship at 3M. At 3M’s internal social networking website, employees include a range of online and selfpaced offerings, from personal of strategic importance, including the consistency, and global inclusivity. development of a growth mindset, can start new topic groups, join effectiveness to financial acumen, that agility, innovation, and customer focus. groups, and engage with others cover core skill development aligned Delivery of content is available face on specific topics to help them to the 3M Leadership Behaviors. These to face in experiential workshops, collaborate and learn. programs also focus on the future through virtual instructor-led training, by embedding inclusive leadership and via self-paced e-modules. strategies, promoting development through corporate social responsibility, and offering mentoring opportunities. 122 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 123 Be rewarded for 3M has long prioritized taking a • Management Team Reviews function Learning from listening Each unit or business group that Total turnover includes voluntary well-rounded view of an individual’s not only to provide comprehensive surveys must review their results, turnover and all other forms of your efforts performance, assuring that information about an employee, but For more than 50 years, 3M has been present them to their employees, and turnover (e.g., termination as a result employees are treated in a fair also to further the goal that rating conducting surveys to solicit employee execute an action plan to address of restructuring, termination for To drive 3M’s successes, we incentivize and consistent manner: considerations will be consistent for observations, attitudes, and opinions. the issues that arise from the results. poor performance, and retirements). our employees to excel. Our process employees within an organization Our Standard Opinion Survey program We built supports into our process Our total employee turnover rate includes two components: measurable • Performance goals, linked to highercovers the entire globe and provides that make it easier to bring about is an annualized rate that measures targets agreed upon by employees level organizational goals, are set Each year, all 3M non-production specific and relevant feedback to successful change through action terminated or retired 3M employees and their supervisor, and Leadership jointly between the individual and employees identify their contributions major units within the company planning — such as accountability during the calendar year, excluding Behaviors ratings, which reflect his or her leader in meeting their specified goals (e.g., divisions, sites, and countries). checks and specific tools to act on the foreign service employees and the extent to which the employee is through an employee performance • Tools provided to leaders facilitate All employees have the opportunity results. We identified key drivers of 3M temporary employees. engaged in core behaviors that allow process. 3M strives to have 100% of conversations between leaders to complete the 3M Standard Opinion employee engagement and developed 3M to execute our strategies and non-production employees complete Temporary employees are 3M and employees to assure mutual Survey, and our average response and deployed learning opportunities meet our objectives. the entire performance review employees hired temporarily with understanding of expectations and rates are typically about 85%. for leaders (e.g., multiple on-demand process. In 2019, all eligible employees intent to be employed short-term. The performance assessment process desired behaviors instructional videos on engagement). were rated through calibration They do not include contingent workers. helps hold each of our employees The Standard Opinion Survey program We continually assess survey content • Feedback on progress toward these meetings, and these employees and accountable for his or her contribution enables us to regularly assess the and update it as needed to assure goals is provided formally, twice their supervisors received tasks to 3M follows all applicable local and everyday behaviors. The process state of employee engagement and alignment with company strategy and a year, and supervisors are taught complete the year-end process in the laws and regulations regarding notice aligns personal goals with organizational other workplace factors critical to high major initiatives. Thus, our surveys and encouraged to provide routine performance system. periods in the event of business goals — we strive to achieve our goals performance and providing a great support strategy and business feedback to help employees adjust operations changes. in ways that support and strengthen our place to work. In 2019, we launched a objectives directed at supporting performance and meet or exceed goals culture and achieve sustainable growth. new survey platform to provide leaders sustainable corporate success through 3M’s Human Resources (HR) of the business groups surveyed with our employees’ behavior on the job. Department is unique in that we an in-depth dashboard of survey have one global system to track results. This is a cycle of continuous Long may your HR information. At every 3M site improvement for us, year after year. curiosity flourish here around the globe, we have instant access to this information through Our global voluntary turnover our global reporting tool. rate continues to be under Workforce experience, 6%, services, and rewards The more an employee contributes to 3M’s success, the more success a source of great pride they create for themselves. We offer a competitive base pay, and for our company. depending on position, variable incentive pay linked to company and We calculate voluntary turnover individual performance. We also separately from retirements, companyoffer a wide range of benefits and initiated turnover, and reductions discounts designed to help employees in workforce. Voluntary employee live their best. turnover is defined as turnover due to employee-initiated reasons (e.g., returning to school or going to another job in a different company). 124 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 125 U.S. parental leave retention rate In 2019, our overall United States work 88.0% 98.4% * and retention rate, those returning after leave, was 98.4%. Further information on 3M’s wide range in 2018 in 2019 of benefits, healthy living program resources, and discounts designed to *2019 numbers may include those that left on leave in 2018 and came back in 2019. help employees live their best can be Some employees on leave in 2019 may return in 2020. found at Working at 3M: Benefits. Highly competitive pay Rewarding employees for their efforts We offer a competitive base pay, and, depending on position, variable Medical, dental, and vision plan incentive pay linked to company and options; savings and retirement plans; individual performance. For more a 3M employee stock purchase details, see the Compensation section U.S. employee parental leave plan; and many other resources and Working at 3M: Pay. can enhance a 3M employee’s Usage of parental leave life, both physically and financially. When and where to All regular full-time employees in do the best work the United States are eligible for In 2018: In 2019: these benefits — regular part-time Based on their job function, employees employees who work at least 20 hours 1,119 and their supervisors can make 1,159 a week are also eligible. Some programs and benefits may differ internationally due to local laws and regulations. individual arrangements for a flexible work practice that maximizes professional and personal productivity. total employees total employees As of January 1, 2019, where applicable, FlexAbility puts into practice a new 354 female employees 322 female employees benefit eligibility also extends to way of thinking: that work life and domestic partners and their children. personal life can coexist. A FlexAbility plan can put the power in the 805 male employees 797 male employees Our parental leave policy helps employee’s hands to make choices that employees be their best selves at benefit them, their work, their team, Parental leave retention home and at work. All U.S. salaried their friends and family, and 3M. For mothers and fathers of newborn or more details, visit FlexAbility at 3M. newly adopted children are entitled to In 2018: In 2019*: up to 20 weeks (10 weeks paid and 10 weeks unpaid) of parental leave. 1,020 1,101 This policy was instituted in late 2016. In 2019, 1,119 U.S. eligible employees participated, including 322 females total employees total employees and — we’re proud to say — 797 males. 288 female employees 330 female employees 732 male employees 771 male employees *2019 numbers may include those that left on leave in 2018 and came back in 2019. Some employees on leave in 2019 may return in 2020. 126 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 127 Our footprint 3M global employees by region 3M regional and global employee hires age distribution 3M global contingent employees by region Data related to employee metrics has Full and part-time, total 2019 percentage Permanent and temporary employment total been derived from our human capital 100,000 100 12,000 management system. For the data 90,000 90 in the charts provided to the right, 100% has been calculated with no 10,000 80,000 80 assumptions. Additional information 70,000 70 on data management can be found 8,000 in the About report section. 60,000 60 50,000 The employee metrics in the charts are 50 6,000 reflective of employee headcount as 40,000 40 of December 31, 2019 (total number of 4,000 30,000 30 3M full-time and part-time employees), not 3M full-time equivalent (FTE) 20,000 20 employees. Due to acquisition 2,000 10,000 10 integration schedules factored into 3M’s human capital management 0 0 0 system, detailed employee information 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Asia Canada Europe, Latin United Global 2016 2017 2018 2019 Pacific Middle America States below may differ from employee totals Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, East, Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Africa in 3M financial reports. Middle East, Middle East, Latin America United States Africa Generation Z Generation Y Generation X Baby Boomers Latin America United States Africa (>1994) (1981-1994) (1961-1981) (1943-1960) Contingent hourly or daily workers only, see GRI 102-8 and employee contract. 3M regional and global employee 3M global new employee hires 3M global female employees age distribution by region by region Full and part-time, percentage of total Total Percentage of total employees 100 16,000 50 90 14,000 80 40 12,000 70 60 10,000 30 50 8,000 40 20 6,000 30 4,000 20 10 10 2,000 0 0 0 Asia Canada Europe, Latin United Global Pacific Middle America States 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 East, Africa Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Middle East, Middle East, Generation Z Generation Y Generation X Baby Boomers Latin America United States Africa Latin America United States Africa (>1994) (1981-1994) (1961-1981) (1943-1960) 128 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 129 n i rd g o wa k 3M global female hires by region 3M global female employees People and culture L or o 60 Percentage of total hires 40,000 Full and part-time In 2019, we published our first-ever 2018 Year in Review of People and f 35,000 Culture magazine. The magazine 50 features stories from a few of the In 2020, we will continue to work 30,000 96,000 employees who represent toward our 2025 Sustainability what culture looks like at 3M. Everyone Goal for employee participation in 40 25,000 has their own journey: how they arrived development by strengthening our at 3M; how they focus their time “development for all” philosophy. 30 20,000 professionally at 3M and externally; how they learn, innovate, and partner As we build 3M for the future, 15,000 20 at 3M; and how they contribute to strengthening our culture is a top one global 3M culture. priority. At its core, culture is how we 10,000 do things at 3M, and it belongs to all of 10 5,000 Leading through us equally. As change occurs, we are engaging our employees by continually 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 change broadening our listening strategies. Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, In 2019, we focused on creating Part-time Full-time Middle East, change leaders. With our background Latin America United States Africa in growth mindset training, we focused on change leadership to guide us through organizational changes that will strengthen our company. Leading change is about helping people move from unaware to full 3M global females in management commitment to the change. We Percentage of total created a Leading Through Change 35 intranet website and provide tools and resources for leaders and others through each phase of the change. 30 20 10 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Values represent the percentage of management positions held by women 130 How we work Employee programs 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 131 Health and safety International travel health Our travel health team prepares 3M Contractor and visitor safety and health 3M requires all visitors, vendors, Protecting our people at home employees for international business contingent workers, and contractors travel through comprehensive travel at 3M sites to follow all applicable health consultations that include 3M workplace safety and health and work. a personal health history review, immunizations, appropriate travel medications, and travel health requirements. For example, contractors must complete a prequalification process before they may education. We assist all employees perform work on 3M premises. This who may require medical assistance process includes, among other things, Our identify opportunities for continuous improvement; and share exemplary Our programs are designed to prevent health-related issues. Clinical while away from their home country. reviewing the contractor’s employee injury/illness rates, experience commitment practices among 3M auditable entities. services for illnesses and injuries Additional details on these efforts are offered at 3M sites worldwide. Healthy living modification rates (EMR), employee training records, and safety committee can be found in the Environmental Some of our preventive programs Health, wealth, wellness, and activities. Contractor performance 3M is at the forefront of the global management section. include hypertension management, resilience create a framework for a evaluations include safety reviews. effort to bring science and innovation cardiovascular risk reduction, stress To assure consistent reporting and collection of programs, resources, and Pre-construction safety reviews to workplace safety. At the same management, physical activity metrics globally, 3M, like many services designed to help employees address potential hazards and controls time, as an enterprise with 96,000 programs, smoking cessation, nutrition multinational companies, follows the and their families achieve their wellrelated to the work. employees working around the world, consultation, and cancer prevention U.S. Occupational Safety and Health being goals. Programs and services we are always taking steps to further in partnership with the 3M Healthy Each 3M site has a contractor Administration (OSHA) recordkeeping vary globally, examples include free advance the safety, health, and wellLiving program. coordinator who is the main 3M rules and formulas to record and flu shots, health-conscious options in being of our employees. contact for working with contractors measure injury and illness rates 3M’s Medical Record Standard the cafeterias, on-site fitness centers and medical care, telehealth, adoption on safety issues. The contractor 3M is committed to helping improve worldwide. At all sites within 3M’s defines the rules that must be and foster care support, and the coordinator is empowered to the safety and health of people operational control, 3M employees followed to protect workers’ medical FlexAbility approach, which provides participate in pre-bid meetings and worldwide, so we can all focus on what and contingent employees are information. The standard covers employees with help optimizing their pre-qualifications for contractors. matters most to us. covered by our injury and illness access, collection, storage, security, work and personal life through one-onThe contractor coordinator and/or recordkeeping rules. transfer of records, record retention, one planning with their supervisor. a trained designated representative Employee safety and record destruction. This standard is on-site and therefore available and health 3M medical programs assures that 3M medical information Additional information can be found for contractor meetings and safety is handled in a manner consistent with and services the 3M Data Privacy Principle and in the Employee programs section of reviews whenever necessary and The 3M Safety and Health Policy this report. appropriate. applies to 3M operations everywhere, 3M is committed to promoting a all applicable legal requirements. including new acquisitions. Hazards culture of health by identifying and Contractors are asked to submit On-site occupational health services in 3M’s workplaces must be well controlling potential stressors in notification to 3M of worker hours are available at specific 3M sites understood and effectively managed the workplace that impact health and any injuries occurring while People are the around the world, based on the risk to protect 3M employees, visitors, and well-being. Employees are performing work in accordance with a factors at each site. 3M supports sites, and surrounding communities. encouraged to take advantage of 3M contract. Any contractor incidents In addition, we continue to evaluate 3M’s health and well-being programs volunteer first responder teams by providing CPR/Automated most important part are reported in the 3M EHS 360 data of our company. that promote disease prevention and management system, including injuries opportunities to raise our safety and External Defibrillator (AED) training health improvement. People are the and contractor worker hours. health standards. We visit sites to to employees. All manufacturing most important part of our company. identify and manage environmental, sites in the United States are 3M aims to support healthy lifestyles health, and safety (EHS) risks; supplied with AEDs and staffed and create a psychologically safe evaluate compliance with regulatory with AED-trained personnel. work environment that empowers requirements and conformance employees to be their best both at to 3M policies and standards; work and at home. 132 How we work Health and safety 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 133 Workplace security 3M secures and monitors its sites to Process hazard management Our actions EHS Cultural Excellence initiative protect 3M’s property, assets, people, 3M uses a variety of tools to manage 3M is committed to rigorously risks related to hazards in the In 2019, our EHS Cultural and operations. 3M sites are accessible managing the risks associated with Excellence initiative launched with badge access. Uniformed workplace. We have successfully used hazardous processes, such as specialized tools for several years in globally. The goal of this new security personnel support and assist those with the potential to result in program is to continually workers and visitors in both emergency the areas of life safety, process safety, catastrophic fires, explosions, and industrial hygiene, and ergonomics. enhance 3M’s EHS culture and nonemergency situations, such sudden release of toxic materials. at all sites worldwide, with a as accidents, incidents, loss or theft, Each of these disciplines uses a risk We use a Hazardous Process Evaluation management approach to categorize key metric of enhancing EHS suspicious items or behaviors, and Tool (HazPET) to categorize hazardous culture through leadership lock-outs. Risk mitigation and hazard levels and define appropriate processes. Process Hazard Analyses levels of control. engagement with site employees. investigation managers provide (PHAs) are used to assess the security expertise and guidance to effectiveness of existing safeguards. Each manufacturing and businesses and sites. 3M’s Global Layers of Protection Analysis (LOPA) Environmental, health, distribution site completed an Security Operations Center (GSOC) is also used in some instances to and safety (EHS) EHS employee perception survey monitors risks and intelligence to gain a baseline measurement. sources worldwide and supports local evaluate safety-critical devices and management system systems, providing more attention to operations in severe situations. Based on survey results, siteindependent protection layers. Facility In 2019, our Global Safety and Health specific action plans direct the siting assessments help us identify Plan (GSHP) Self-Assessment and The GSOC also manages travel site’s leadership team on future and mitigate “maximum credible event” Global Environmental Management safety and provides emergency steps to improve EHS culture, scenarios that could impact workers Self-Assessment (GEMSA) were care and support to workers. such as: at some sites, and is a global initiative combined to create 3M’s EHS that builds on 3M’s existing guidance to Management System Self-Assessment, Incident and crisis our sites around effectively managing which is the basis for our self• Leadership and employee engagement management potential combustible dust hazards. assessment and audit protocols. • Recognition of exemplary work This system defines EHS requirements 3M has plans and processes in place to Another way we manage hazardous that apply to manufacturing, supply • Risk identification and follow-up help prevent and prepare for, respond processes is through mechanical chain, and R&D operations. to, and recover from serious, severe, integrity programs. These programs and crisis situations throughout its help our manufacturing sites manage As part of this system, all sites. Notification and communication critical process equipment to assure manufacturing sites and new processes managed through the they are operated and maintained acquisitions must complete the EHS GSOC inform and engage response in the most effective and safe manner. Management System Self-Assessment teams, leadership, and subject matter In 2019, we focused on increased at least annually. This assessment is experts. When a safety or security training and guidance to support categorized into multiple elements threat arises, a message informs mechanical integrity programs at our that address various areas and workers and provides a response manufacturing sites. standards related to safety and health. mechanism to confirm their safety after a severe or catastrophic event. 3M’s Corporate Crisis Action Team (CCAT) provides global leadership, coordination, and direction in crisis situations. For more information, visit the Enterprise risk section. 134 How we work Health and safety 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 135 Significant injury/illness Online ergonomic training is also Occupational available 24/7 to any employee who and fatality (SIF) and epidemiology significant injuries and wants to learn more and has access to 3M’s intranet. These efforts have paid While many of 3M is one of the few companies events (SIE) rates off, resulting in reduced numbers of ergonomic recordable injury cases. See supporting an internal occupational these programs At the end of 2019, over 110,000 the 3M regional and global recordable epidemiology program. For the past 25 years, this group has are mandated incident rate chart for details. risk assessments resulted in the identification and reduction of risk conducted epidemiologic studies to examine health outcomes among by government associated with more than 30,000 Industrial exposure 3M manufacturing workers and requirements, activities, including 8,300 associated risk management their potential association with with activities that have greater occupational exposures and other others are potential to result in a SIF. To accurately assess exposure management programs and activities, workplace conditions. Occupational epidemiology research is used to established to meet 3M’s From 2012 to 2018, there has been a 3M uses the comprehensive approach inform risk assessments and develop net reduction in the number of SIFs outlined by the American Industrial risk management activities within 3M. of 42.1%. In 2019, we refined and expanded our internal SIF classification Hygiene Association (AIHA). In the more protective past decade, over 95% of all chemical Radiation protection criteria. Previously, our SIF definition included specific types of injury for agents and noise baseline exposure risk standards. assessments have been completed for 3M’s Corporate Radiation Protection inclusion. SIE is more broadly defined all jobs. As prescribed by our Global and Compliance group (CRPC) provides by impairment, disability, and other Safety and Health Plan, we have also hazard evaluations and develops and considerations. It also includes nonconducted proactive assessments provides training for both radiation injury and illness events, such as fires, of dermal exposure, engineered source users as well as site radiation spills, and communicable disease nanoparticles, hazard communication, safety officers to help protect 3M outbreaks. In 2019, we established a personal protective equipment, employees, our customers, and the new baseline for the SIE rate. respirator protection, and ventilation. public. This includes the use of radiation These assessments help us determine in both manufacturing and R&D — Ergonomics risk whether any changes in exposure ionizing radiation sources such as management management programs are warranted. radioactive materials and x-ray emitting devices; and nonionizing radiation 3M’s Ergonomics Risk Reduction Medical surveillance sources such as lasers, microwave and Process (ERRP) is a global, radiofrequency radiation, magnetic comprehensive program that integrates We monitor our employees based fields, and ultraviolet, infrared, and ergonomic job analysis and engineering on their potential exposure to visible light. Periodic program audits design criteria to reduce exposure to chemical and physical hazards in the evaluate site performance in managing commonly identified musculoskeletal workplace. We screen for early signs hazards during routine use and disorder (MSD) risk factors. To of occupational illnesses to protect maintenance of radiation sources, accomplish this, we apply ergonomics workers from further exposure, and we security of radiation sources, training of risk assessment tools globally to provide medical management. We look personnel, and regulatory compliance. identify and assess ergonomic risk for trends in the health data of working in the industrial environment. populations to assure that potential hazards are well controlled. While In 2019, all manufacturing sites were many of these programs are mandated required to complete an ergonomic by government requirements, others footprint assessment. are established to meet 3M’s more protective standards. 136 How we work Health and safety 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 137 i n g o wa k r d Global EHS Team 3M regional and global recordable 3M regional and global lost time L oro 3M’s global EHS Team has continued to evolve. We believe our current incident rate Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) incident rate Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) f operational state sets us apart from 2.50 0.8 our peers. Comprised of business-level EHS committee members, regional 0.7 In the coming year, 3M will be working EHS managers, and corporate subject2.00 to advance the 3M Value Model, with matter experts, this committee will 0.6 safe and sustainable progress at the work with EHS site staff to address top of the list. 3M’s EHS Management and replicate best practices, solve 1.50 0.5 System Self-Assessment will set a new problems, and drive worthy EHS baseline for EHS performance and a 0.4 more in-depth auditing process. initiatives to the operational level. The global EHS Team also supports 1.00 0.3 In 2020, we are expanding the number the professional development of EHS of global EHS audits and are working site staff by holding topic-specific 0.2 0.50 to bring multidisciplinary teams to help meetings, global conferences, and sites achieve risk reduction and EHS providing scholarships for professional 0.1 goals. We will be implementing a new certification training courses. 00.0 0.0 global site EHS management of change 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 system and a new Environmental In 2019, Hazard Assessment (EHA) process 100% Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Global Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Middle East, Middle East, tool; developing standard work for Latin America United States Africa Latin America United States Africa event investigations; and exploring real-time data systems to track EHS compliance, risk reduction, and 3M global recordable incident cultural excellence. of 3M manufacturing rate category sites worldwide Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) had active employee safety 0.5 and health committees. 0.4 Safe and sustainable 0.3 project investments 0.2 In 2019, 3M introduced the safe and sustainable centrally coordinated investment fund to mitigate risk and 0.1 facilitate technologies of the future. Examples of projects funded in 2019 include fixed fire protection upgrades, 0.0 noise reduction, machine guarding, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and dust collection systems. Contact with Exposure, Physical agent object, equipment chemical exposure Ergonomics Miscellaneous Slip, trip, fall Exposure, Noise exposure Transportation biological agent accident 138 How we work Health and safety 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 139 Environmental management Beyond compliance, the company continues to make significant investments to reduce the environmental impact of our operations Quarterly scorecards report data at the site, division, business group, and corporate levels. Scorecards are reviewed by executive management This amount excludes expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters caused by past operations that do not contribute to current or Responsible stewardship. and our products. We incorporate for performance on selected indicators, future revenues, which are expensed. sustainable attributes into our products enabling 3M to monitor and identify Capital expenditures for environmental to help customers reduce their successes, risks, and opportunities purposes have included pollution environmental impact and help meet for performance improvements and control devices — such as wastewater their Sustainability goals. 3M believes footprint reductions worldwide. treatment plant improvements, Our environmental policies and regulations scrubbers, containment structures, should always be guided by scienceEnvironmental, health, solvent recovery units, and thermal commitment based decision-making. oxidizers — at new and existing and safety (EHS) facilities, constructed or upgraded in incident management In 1975, 3M’s Board of Directors Our actions Since 2010, all 3M sites globally are the normal course of business. The company places consistent emphasis on environmental adopted the 3M Environmental Policy, formalizing its commitment Developing and implementing global required to internally report actual responsibility. Capital expenditures to environmental stewardship. This environmental policies, management and potential incidents (i.e., identify (other than for remediation projects) policy established the framework systems, and key performance metrics risks) including, but not limited to, for known projects are presently for environmental management enables 3M to continually integrate injury or illness, fire or explosion, expected to be about $150 million to and conservation of resources, and drive continuous improvement into environmental exceedances, spills, $220 million over the next two years, emphasizing prevention of pollution each of the company’s four business agency notices, and fines through for new or expanded programs to build at the source. groups globally, assuring consistency one dedicated system, which we facilities or modify manufacturing and innovative environmental thinking. call EHS 360. processes to minimize waste and Since then, our environmental reduce emissions. management programs have continued Management EHS 360 has led to continuous improvement relating to awareness to evolve. We work to identify potential risks to the environment, the 3M’s Environmental Management of responsibilities, understanding In 2019, 3M health and safety of our employees, System (EMS) framework provides of the holistic system, and more consistent reporting requirements introduced the structure and consistency for and communities, and we take steps to modify processes, product design, implementing our programs and puts for 3M’s global operations. safe and sustainable and standards to address these the company in a proactive rather than a reactive mode regarding Environmental centrally coordinated risks. We leverage information and technology to assess the risks and our environmental focus. We have investments investment fund drive compliance through data systems extensive global systems in place to identify, track, and manage relevant In 2019, 3M to mitigate risk and technical analysis. information on corporate-wide expended and facilitate approximately 3M’s strategies for sustainable environmental management and implementation $59M development encompass the pursuit of performance. This includes covering customer satisfaction and commercial a full range of environmental of sustainable success within a framework of compliance and operational environmental, social, and economic performance metrics relevant to technologies to align values. We are committed to 3M operations, some of which are with our Strategic complying with all applicable environmental requirements worldwide. provided in this report. for capital projects Sustainability related to protecting Framework. the environment. For more information, visit the Health and safety section. 140 How we work Environmental management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 141 Environmental comprehensive and mandatory to Applying ISO 14001 Third-party assurance Comprised in the maintain compliance with legal or management other internal requirements. Data from The ISO 14001 Environment of Sustainability auditing process: implementation the assessments is validated through Management System (EMS) standard metric reporting • The frequency of environmental audits, site visits by subject-matter is an internationally recognized compliance audits on manufacturing, We continue to advance our EMS experts, and other data systems. approach for managing the immediate APEX Companies, LLC provided distribution, and laboratory throughout the world. and long-term environmental impacts independent third-party verification operations is based on the site’s Our approach calls for each site to Environmental site of an organization’s products, services, of 3M’s 2019 environmental data EHS complexity rating along with (volatile organic compound establish, implement, and maintain assessments and and processes. In 2018, 3M recertified all relevant sites to the current ISO emissions, water, waste, environmental management input documented environmental objectives enhancements 14001 standard. compliance metrics, energy • At least annually, all global and targets. When establishing an consumption, and greenhouse gas manufacturing, supply chain, and EMS plan, each 3M site must address Outside of 3M’s EMS, 3M has To help sites comply with the current emissions), included in this 2020 R&D sites are assessed with respect financial, technological, operational, completed environmental site ISO 14001 standard, 3M provides Sustainability Report. For additional to the standard audit frequencies and business considerations. The assessments at most sites, with ISO 14001 training modules in our information on our third-party to establish a prioritized list of sites objectives and targets should be the goal of identifying potential Global Learning System. Web-based assurance, see the APEX Companies, for compliance auditing measurable and consistent with our historical liabilities. Because of these courses are offered, with topics on LLC Assurance Statement. • 3M uses a variety of tools and environmental policy, including our assessments, we can identify sensitive general awareness, internal auditors, resources for compliance auditing, commitments to prevent pollution, and biodiverse areas. Where applicable, leadership management, and more. Site self-assessments including: comply with applicable regulations 3M conducts searches of public Learning coordinators can assign these and other requirements. databases, which includes a wetland web-based trainings to groups of and auditing ○ Internally developed compliance database. Site visits also identify areas protocols created by subjectemployees, process certifications, and 3M verifies regulatory compliance 3M’s multifaceted strategy for such as rivers, creeks, and potential matter experts in regulatory run reports. Supervisors can then view and alignment with prioritized implementing EMS and global auditing wetlands that are on or near the programs and 3M processes their direct report’s learning activities. sections of the EHS Management of environmental compliance for our manufacturing sites. ○ 3M’s EHS management system operations is key to understanding System Self-Assessment, conducting any potential gaps and quickly gaining Sites throughout the world practice Altogether, our ISO environmental-related audits on a ○ Externally purchased compliance resolution. In 2019, we combined good land stewardship. For example, 14001-certified sites standardized schedule based on siteprotocols, especially for operations our Global Safety and Health Plan Menomonie, Wisconsin, focuses account for approximately specific EHS complexities. In 2019, outside the United States, to assure 92.3% (GSHP) self-assessment and Global on the removal of invasive species our EHS site audits covered sites that local compliance obligations are Environmental Management Selfand has an active bluebird manufactured 34.8% of sales value understood and met Assessment (GEMSA) to create 3M’s management program on its 500of production (SVOP). ○ Internal environmental compliance EHS Management System Selfacre property. Since 2015, 3M experts from around the company Key objectives of audits: Assessment, which is the basis for our headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota, External environmental of 3M’s total ○ self-assessment and audit protocols. has provided a certified and registered consultants, as needed, to provide The EHS management system defines Managing Global Risk EHS requirements that apply to all 3M Monarch Waystation to provide milkweeds, nectar sources, and product output. and Compliance additional expertise and thirdparty verification of our auditing sites globally and has been designed shelter to sustain monarch butterflies protocols to bring more consistency to EHS as they migrate through North Develop Complete and robust assessments at 3M manufacturing, America. 3M headquarters, as well Maintain ○ environmental Manage risk supply chain, and R&D sites worldwide. as the 3M Global Service Center in compliance professionals documentation of audits Wroclaw, Poland, maintain beehives. ○ Findings, with assignments of All manufacturing sites, and new In 2019, Wroclaw’s Service Center responsibility, due dates for closure, acquisitions based on their integration organized beekeeping workshops, Identify and tracking to completion progress, must complete the EHS educating employees on bee Build common Share best common Management System Self-Assessment behaviors, protection, and treatment. understanding ○ Detailed reviews of findings practices areas for at least annually. The environmental of requirements to assure corrective actions improvement elements reflect procedures, are complete systems, and processes that are 142 How we work Environmental management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 143 n i rd g o wak 3M’s EHS auditing program is audited Primarily focused in the United States In addition, 3M holds EHS global 3M is committed to responsible L oro f periodically by 3M’s Corporate and Canada, CAMMS is a system for conferences in the St. Paul/ environmental stewardship and Auditing Department, resulting in maintaining environmental compliance Minneapolis region as well as halfprotecting natural resources. recent improvements to the scope of requirements and determinations. day to multi-day on-site workshops We work with federal, state, the audit program, fully addressing all It allows us to conduct internal around the globe. 3M also offers and local authorities regarding in-scope sites and the verification of compliance audits in the context of scholarships for professional environmental aspects of our applicable regulatory requirements certification training courses operations and are dedicated We will continue to drive EHS audit findings. and company policies and standards and covers fees for professional to acting responsibly and environmental management programs All EHS auditors, except for 3M EHS through the use of CAMMS dynamic certification exams as well as transparently in the way we treat across all our global manufacturing professionals who are guest auditors, audit checklists. In addition, CAMMS recertification dues. our customers and the way we sites. With the supporting technology are required to take a certification utilizes a risk assessment tool for treat the environments in which developed in 2019, we will update test covering the important aspects of prioritizing resources to implement Commitment to we operate. our global EHS management system, including site self-assessments, internal the 3M EHS Auditor Guidelines. 3M corrective actions. EHS professionals are assigned to an PFAS stewardship Globally, 3M has invested millions audits, and a new EHS Management audit team or lead auditor to provide EHS professional Perand polyfluoroalkyl substances on research, technology, and Standard. Our work to reduce the likelihood of significant events will support on the auditing process and/or cleanup efforts related to PFAS. a specific subject during the audit. training (PFAS) are a broad class of chemical For example, more than $50M has continue into 2020, keeping our focus compounds containing two essential gone toward installing water on environmental, health, and safety As part of our ongoing training efforts, elements – carbon and fluorine. Compliance analysis, 3M conducted monthly webinars in The carbon-fluorine bond is strong filtration systems, and more than compliance in our operations. $100M has been invested in testing documentation, 2019 for environmental, health, and and stable even at high temperatures. water sources to better understand In 2020, we are expanding the number safety employees on topics that draw This property lends itself to many and verification global interest. The webinars were useful applications of industrial and the quality of both groundwater of global EHS audits and are working and drinking water in communities. to bring multi-disciplinary teams to In an effort to create more consistency recorded and placed on a website that social significance, including health help sites achieve risk reduction and in auditing of manufacturing sites, allows convenient access for those who care, advanced electronics, and To learn more, see “3M’s Commitment EHS goals. We will be implementing 3M has refined its Compliance and couldn’t attend the live events. A wide replacement of materials with high to PFAS Stewardship.” a new global site EHS Management Auditing Management and Metric range of topics were covered, with global warming potential. of Change system, developing a new Systems (CAMMS). specific focus on the new elements of Environmental Hazard Assessment the EHS management system. 3M is constantly and proactively (EHA) process tool, creating standard examining the environmental impact work for event investigations, and of our products. As the science exploring real-time data systems to of PFAS progressed, we learned track EHS compliance. that some of these materials were 3M EHS audit locations, 2014-2019 becoming widespread and had the We are committed to being part of potential to build up over time. environmental solutions, guided by the As part of our commitment to principles of sound science, corporate environmental stewardship, in May responsibility, and transparency. of 2000, 3M made the decision to phase-out PFOS and PFOA. We chose to stop production ahead of any regulatory requirement to do so, and we shared our learnings with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the rest of the industry. 144 How we work Environmental management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 145 Circular materials Water stewardship Water is an important raw material supporting our product manufacturing WRI water availability information, both on a country and watershed basis. In 2019, 18 sites with annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic ie Sc rcula nce f r or Design solutions that do more processes. We respect our ecological meters were in water-stressed areas as and ethical responsibility and have a vested interest in preserving and defined by the extremely high baseline water stress value, according to the Ci with less material, advancing improving the quality and availability WRI Aqueduct Tool. of water in the communities we serve and beyond. 3M’s Water Stewardship Each 3M site located in a waterstressed area is required to understand Goal: Reduce global water a global circular economy. Standard outlines our commitment to water resources that secure its water use and associated business use by an additional 10%, social equity, economic growth, and risks and impacts and must work with indexed to sales by 2025. environmental protection. Water local water resources to understand potential impacts on the surrounding 3M operations must manage their resources include water intake, Our Renewable and recycled materials, The committee’s roles and area. Those sites are also asked to do water resources through alignment effluent water discharge, and rainwater. water, packaging, and waste are responsibilities include reviewing water conservation planning, outlining with regulatory requirements, conservation, and reuse, as well as commitment materials with critical performance the company’s Sustainability policies The threat of water scarcity is real current and future water conservation indicators for circularity. We believe it and programs; and identifying and and is already occurring in some efforts. Annual stress-level screening by reporting water usage internally. is our responsibility to carefully assess analyzing significant Sustainability, areas of the world. We are continually evaluations are conducted for global or Our current global economy’s linear these materials as we focus on Science materials vulnerability, and geopolitical evaluating risks and opportunities operations using available updates f ce business model of “take, make, and for Circular. It is also our responsibility issues that may impact our overall related to water scarcity. To define from the water tool, an analysis of waste” is depleting natural resources to be strategic, planful, and to mitigate business strategy, global business our high-risk sites, 3M uses the World site operations, and water usage and ie n r Sc rcula faster than they can be replenished risks related to these materials along continuity, and financial results. Resource Institute (WRI) Aqueduct™ local conditions. and is straining our ecosystems. the way. For more information on risk, see the Tool to screen the company’s various Imagine repurposing a piece of plastic at the end of its use, giving it another We believe that risk management is Enterprise risk section. sites and their water use with validated Ci life as something else. Its use is, in fact an essential component of strategic Reusable, renewable, circular, and the end of use doesn’t planning — with broad risk oversight mean the end of life. by the 3M Board of Directors and its and recycled materials Goal: Engage 100% of A circular economy does more with committees and with committee-level risk analyses reported to the full Board 3M continually looks for ways to 3M locations in-scope for the 2025 Sustainability water-stressed/scarce less, keeps products and materials in and executive-level Internal Auditor recover, reuse, and recycle bywater-stressed/scarce communities goal communities where products and other surplus material, use, designs out waste and pollution, and Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer and we include renewable and 3M manufactures, and regenerates natural systems. At appointed by, and reporting directly to, recycled materials in our products on community-wide the core is an opportunity to develop the Audit Committee. technologies and business models that whenever possible. Increasing usage approaches to water The highest level of Sustainability risk of renewable and recycled raw management by 2025. are restorative and regenerative by governance is the responsibility of our materials through product design design. We see the circular economy Science, Technology & Sustainability and operational considerations helps 3M will partner with local communities as an opportunity to inspire leadership, Committee of the Board of Directors. assure our products support the to advance water recycling and innovation, and disruptive change, all The committee oversees the twin circular economy. conservation. Ultimately, we aim to driving impact for a sustainable future. demands of developing products to help these communities build and At 3M, Science for Circular is one meet the ever-changing needs of our United States (nine) manage their own clean water efforts of three pillars of our Strategic customers while assuring that those Mexico (three) into the future. Sustainability Framework and focuses products cause no harm to people or Peru (one) India (two) on designing solutions that do more to our planet. Singapore (two) with less material, advancing a global Japan (one) circular economy. 146 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 147 Packaging Per the standard, each 3M site has a f or Zero landfill Each site reports its waste data in a waste management coordinator who is n ce Our goal resonates with our local corporate database each quarter. This 3M’s product diversity, markets, and responsible for assuring conformance ie r data is third-party validated at select Sc rcula global multi-channel distribution to the standard, including organizing communities as well as our suppliers and sites and at the corporate level. We also customers. However, zero landfill has Ci systems create a complex situation appropriate waste training for all require sites seeking zero landfill status that does not lend itself to a “one personnel. Compliance with all 3M and various definitions for different people to complete an internal assessment to solution fits all” approach. Our other regulated waste requirements and sites. We’ve spent a great deal assure accurate reporting. packaging Sustainability roadmap is evaluated through the internal of time during our goal development environmental auditing program. process benchmarking peer companies By the end of 2019, 35.4% takes into consideration the requirements and needs that are that span relevant business sectors quickly evolving around the world. Our Disposal of Chemical Waste Goal: Achieve zero landfill and industries. Based on our research, Standard calls for appropriate status at more than 30% of we’ve chosen a holistic definition: Our roadmap’s top priorities include: management and disposal of chemical At 3M, zero landfill means no byproduct manufacturing sites by 2025. waste to manage risks and protect is sent directly to a landfill from a 3M • Product protection: Design every the environment. This includes efforts In addition to our waste reduction goal, manufacturing site in a calendar year. of 3M sites had package to optimally protect the product from point of manufacture to reduce the amount and hazards of waste materials generated, to recycle we plan to increase the repurposing, A site will continue to be a zero landfill site as long as no manufacturing attained zero reusing, and recycling of potential waste to point of use or reuse those materials whenever materials to divert them from landfill operations waste is sent to a landfill. landfill status. • Efficient packaging: Minimize the practical, and to control waste disposal disposal. The intention of our zero landfill Waste, as defined here, does not include As we monitor progress toward this goal, amount of material used. Optimize through final disposition. goal is to drive our sites to increase ash generated from 3M material sent to sites listed will change due to operations cube utilization at all pack levels. product and process optimization, on-site a waste-to-energy or incineration site (e.g., site closures, acquisitions, and sites Eliminate all unnecessary packaging f or and offsite recycling, and composting. controlled by a third party. missing zero landfill by one day of the year). ce • Circular packaging: Design Read how one site reached zero landfill packaging to be reusable, recyclable, and/or made with renewable c i lar S rcu e n Our actions status in the 3M Columbia site spotlight. Ci resources. Maximize recycled content of packaging materials Circularity in our Global waste diversion by type Waste management operations Metric tons 350,000 We reduce, recover, reuse, and recycle Goal: Reduce manufacturing Reusable, renewable, byproducts and other surplus material waste by an additional 10%, and recyclable materials 300,000 in our operations whenever feasible. When not feasible, we responsibly indexed to sales by 2025. in our operations 250,000 dispose of waste materials. While reducing waste is the first choice We’ll continue to drive “zero waste” 200,000 thinking with our product designs in the hierarchy of waste management The 3M Waste Management Standard and process technologies and will options, other possibilities, such as applies to all 3M sites and provides 150,000 continue material reduction work reusing, recycling, and composting, can a framework for managing all waste within our manufacturing operations. also fuel the circular economy by getting types from the time of generation until 100,000 Our definition of manufacturing waste more out of our materials and allowing reused, recycled, treated, or disposed. for this goal includes materials sent them to continue into their next life. The standard sets a baseline for several 50,000 core waste program elements and to incineration and landfill. As sites identify opportunities to divert encourages waste minimization and material streams, we protect 3M’s 0 recycling whenever possible. reputation by managing byproducts 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and setting up contracts with our Waste-to-energy Offsite recycle haulers, recyclers, and waste-toenergy companies to confirm that our Offsite reuse* Onsite recycle + reuse* material is handled appropriately. *Does not include on-site recycling & reuse and offsite reuse from 3M’s industrial mineral product (IMP) division 148 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 149 Water conservation A majority of our water-intense This visibility provides a deeper Global water usage Global water usage manufacturing operations are located in understanding of water use reduction in our operations the United States and Europe, in areas opportunities across the company. Million cubic meters Million cubic meters per MM $USD net sales that are not water-stressed or waterWe use this system to create, identify, 50 0.0025 We are continually evaluating our scarce. However, they also contribute and share best management practices water use with a consistent, companysignificantly to our conservation efforts. related to water conservation. As we wide focus on reuse, reduction, 40 0.0020 As the company continues to grow have for decades, we are continuing and internal recycling, as well as globally, thoughtful consideration is our efforts to implement water collaboration with our own technical placed on the type of operations and reduction projects at targeted sites. community, channel partners, and 30 0.0015 availability of water sources. civic and conservation leaders in communities where 3M operates. Global water Packaging in our Global withdrawalwater withdrawal operations 20 0.0010 3M’s total water usage includes 20192019 percentage percentage sanitary, process, heating, cooling, To support our circularity efforts, we remediation, and miscellaneous work internally and with suppliers so 10 0.0005 sources. Water usage data is tracked that we can reduce, reuse, or recycle and reported annually on a global basis packaging of raw materials we receive. for manufacturing sites that produce For example, we continued optimizing 0 0.0000 greater than 4.54 metric tons packaging used for inter-company, 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (10,000 pounds) of product per year. international shipping, aiming to shift The reported data accounts for 99% from single-use wood crate and core of sales value of production (SVOP). to a reusable steel rack and core. This change promoted reuse while 3M Corporate Environmental Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) We use this system to create, identify, Total water amounting to more than 169 metric Operations measures progress and share best management practices tons of solid waste reduction in 2019 consumption in sites across Brazil, India, Poland, toward raw material usage and waste An industry first, 3M’s 3P program, developed in 1975, is based on the related to waste reduction. reduction goals for sites within our decreased and Mexico. global manufacturing footprint. belief that a prevention approach Communication on the added 43.3% The results and raw data are used to pollution is more environmentally functionality of the 3P system was Groundwater 49.4% For more information on our to identify, quantify, and prioritize effective, more socially acceptable, shared throughout 2019 to various supplier circularity efforts, see projects to improve, utilizing Lean and more economical than treatment. stakeholders, including sites, Other sources 10.7% the Suppliers section. Six Sigma (LSS) methodology. In the last 45 years, the program has engineering, and 3M Tech Forum. prevented more than 2.66 million short between 2005 and 2019, Public municipal 19.7% Waste reduction in Raw material utilization is a tons of pollutants and saved over indexed to corporate-wide net sales. Surface 20.2% our operations measurement of overall product $2.30 billion based on aggregated data Results also indicate that the largest and process yield throughout our from the first year of each 3P project. share of 3M water use in operations Within each region, business, and manufacturing processes and is is for processing products in division, results are reviewed quarterly a key metric for 3M. This internal In 2019, we continued to expand manufacturing and heating or cooling and annually against goals and metric is tracked at all manufacturing global project tracking with our of those processes and associated In 2019, we continued to expand tracking metrics. Specialized teams sites and is indicative of operational new pollution prevention system. operations. We continue to improve global project tracking with our work on a variety of projects and excellence in our product design 3M employees can place waste our data accuracy through monitoring new pollution prevention system. programs, ranging from basic office and manufacturing processes. reduction ideas into this system and and measurement. 3M employees can place water recycling to more complex projects, Our raw material utilization includes list any barriers to implementation. reduction ideas into this system and such as developing and capturing the product, the process, and all Engineers, developers, and managers Our water conservation successes list any barriers to implementation. intrinsic waste materials generated byproducts. The first step in waste can see opportunities across our vast have been achieved through Engineers, developers, and managers by a manufacturing line. Through management is reduction of waste, Technology Platforms. This visibility recycling, reuse, product redesigns, can see opportunities across our vast an evaluation process, all aspects of which also increases raw material provides a deeper understanding of and improvements to our buildings Technology Platforms. material reduction benefits or risks utilization. Next are examples of waste reduction opportunities across and manufacturing processes. are reviewed. how we continue to reduce waste the company. in our operations. 150 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 151 Using kaizen events to improve the 3M is also dedicated to operating in For more examples, see the Our Global waste Global waste by disposal type flow of process stream accordance with all regulations and products section and our feature story Metric tons per MM $USD net sales Metric tons managing waste materials safely and “Collaborating for a circular economy.” Kaizen is the Japanese word for responsibly. All 3M sites are required to 7.0 180,000 “continuous improvement.” In 2019, manage all returned, recycled, and waste Water conservation and quality 160,000 in a continuation of previous efforts, materials from the time of generation until designed into our products 6.0 the 3M Environmental, Health, and reused, recycled, treated, or disposed. 140,000 Safety Department conducted several Through our SVC efforts, we 5.0 develop water-saving opportunities kaizen events, including site walkCircularity in our products for our customers. One example is 120,000 throughs, waste-by-cause analyses, 4.0 and identification of circular uses for In 2019, we required 100% of 3M™ Petriﬁlm™ Plates which use 100,000 79% surplus materials. Findings from these products entering our new product 80,000 3.0 events can feed into the 3P system. commercialization process to have 60,000 a Sustainability Value Commitment 2.0 Part of the identification and solution (SVC) to contribute to our 40,000 process requires utilizing LSS within a site to segregate and manage material aspirations laid out in our Strategic less water 1.0 Sustainability Framework. 20,000 flow for material streams and analyze when compared with the availability of internal and external Examples of commitment considerations traditional agar test methods. 0 0 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 by-product handling alternatives. include reusability; recyclability; and energy, waste, and water savings For more examples, see the Our Starting in 2016, waste no longer includes waste-to-energy Treatment, incineration Landfilled Our waste reduction results appropriate to the specific product products section and our feature story, throughout its life cycle. For more “Collaborating for a circular economy.” Starting in 2016, waste no longer includes waste-to-energy Between 2015 and 2019, 3M has information, see the Innovation reduced the amount of management section. material sent for landfill 3P global pollution prevention and incineration by Reusable, renewable, and recyclable achievements: 1975-2019 materials in our products 12.6% First year total pollution prevention cumulative totals, Through our SVC efforts, we develop short tons reusable products and create products 3,000,000 using renewable or recycled materials indexed to net sales. for our customers. Examples include 2,500,000 supporting refurbishment of old products We have decreased our waste, indexed with our Post-it® Flex Write Surface to net sales, by 32.9% since 2005. that can cover existing whiteboards and 2,000,000 chalkboards and can be wiped clean with 3M’s waste metrics include 3M water even when permanent marker is manufacturing sites with total output applied; using renewable resources with 1,500,000 greater than 4.54 metric tons per year plant-based adhesives in our Post-it® (10,000 pounds), which represents 99% Super Sticky Notes and our 100% 1,000,000 of sales value of production (SVOP). plant‑based Scotch-Brite® Greener Clean Non-Scratch Scrub Sponges; Composting materials from our 500,000 and making products with recycled manufacturing sites is an extremely materials such as 3M™ Thinsulate™ small component of our manufacturing 100% Recycled Featherless Insulation 0 operations. 3M does not have any 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and Scotch-Brite® Heavy Duty and waste streams that are managed by Non‑Scratch Scrub Sponges. Total air Total waste Total water deep well injection. pollution pollution pollution prevented prevented prevented � 152 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 153 Circularity in Packaging for our products To learn how we partnered with one customer to understand, in One business’s surplus our packaging In 2019, we continued our longpart, how to reduce waste and to material may be standing commitment to efficient gain insight into a product’s journey 3M continues to convert plastic blister packaging from polyvinyl packaging design by optimizing product protection with the least through a health care system, another business’s raw material. When see the Our customers section. chloride (PVC) to recycled amount of materials. We did this polyethylene terephthalate (PET), including our Command™ and by removing and light-weighting material and maximizing productFor more examples, see the Our products section and our feature story, we expand outside of Post‑it® product lines. This not only increases the recycled content to-package ratios (removing as much empty air space as possible from “Collaborating for a circular economy.” our own value chain, of our plastic packaging, but it also increases the recyclability potential the package). Circularity in our the opportunities can since PET is much more readily Efforts this year communities be endless. accepted at recycling facilities yielded a reduction Reusable, renewable, and than PVC. of packaging recyclable materials in our Because of this change weight by more than communities 1,300 in 2019, a total of 41 One business’s surplus material may Minnesota Sustainable be another business’s raw material. Growth Coalition When we expand outside of our own As a founding member, 3M supports value chain, the opportunities can be metric tons. endless. In 2019, we continued with the newly developed Materials Vision more metric tons our company-wide strategy on reuse, of the Minnesota Sustainable Growth To support our circularity efforts, Coalition, which was finalized at the reduction, and internal recycling, as in North America had we work to prioritize materials on Coalition’s quarterly meeting held at well as collaboration with our own the potential of being the front end so that they can be technical community, channel partners, the 3M Innovation Center in St. Paul, recycled, rather than recovered after use rather than being and civic and conservation leaders Minnesota in October 2019. The goal discarded on land or in waterways. is to eliminate the concept of waste ending up in a landfill. in communities where 3M operates. We continue to increase recycled and thus create a circular materials Packaging for a line of hearing content, make our packaging easier Ellen MacArthur CE100 economy. The Materials Vision lays the protection was moved from a plastic to recycle, encourage reusable groundwork for future systems-focused clamshell to a paperboard carton, packaging where appropriate, and In 2019, 3M joined the Ellen projects. To start, the Coalition will resulting in nine metric tons of plastic increase the use of renewable MacArthur Foundation Circular identify one key project to advance as being removed from the global waste materials. Economy 100 (CE100) Network to a collective group and create project stream. The carton is made from accelerate the movement toward using teams with specialists from across renewable resources and is readily Waste reduction designed recycled and renewable raw materials member companies to further define accepted for recycling at material into our products in our product and package design. and execute the prioritized project. recovery facilities. To help propel the initiative within We develop waste-saving 3M, eight internal cross-functional For more examples, see our feature opportunities for our customers. circular economy working groups story, “Collaborating for a circular Examples include metal-free have been formed in different areas, economy.” Filtrete™ Basic and Clean Living Air including polymers, chemicals, Filters; abrasives that cut faster and packaging, cloths/fibers, and other last longer, increasing efficiency key materials. with less waste; and aircraft paint preparation that reduces paint and solvent usage. 154 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 155 The Recycling Partnership Minnesota Multifamily Recycling For Phase 2 of this work, the Closed Loop Water conservation and Packaging in our Foundation and its sister organizations quality in our communities communities The Recycling Partnership wants to The Recycling Partnership, with require external support to lead specific build the bridge to circularity by support from 3M and the Washington/ 3M granted a total of $250k project workstreams. The Foundation The Nature Conservancy (TNC) Sustainable Packaging Coalition® “putting the new plastics economy Ramsey County Recycling and Energy requested and was granted $50,000 into practice in the United States.” Control Board, will engage with select from 3M to bring on one NGO advisor 3M granted a total of $250,000 in The Sustainable Packaging Coalition One of the keys to making the circular multifamily properties and residents who will serve as a key thought leader on 2019 to TNC for projects that TNC (SPC) is a membership-based economy work is curbside recycling — in Ramsey and Washington counties the project and assess the environmental has implemented to improve river collaborative led by an independent and although it might feel like access in Minnesota to improve recycling impacts and tradeoffs of the chemical systems health in California, Alabama nonprofit organization that believes to recycling is everywhere, only half collection. Results from the work will recycling technologies under evaluation. and the Mississippi River Basin through in the power of industry to make to The Nature of all U.S. households have access to it at home. As a result, only about half of be used to create best practices for waste management, collection, and efforts such as development of natural infrastructure to absorb and filter rain packaging more sustainable. 3M’s commitment to the SPC mission Conservancy all recyclable materials are captured.1 hauling organizations that can be and urban runoff, tree planting, and includes representation on the for projects TNC That reality inspired 3M, along with 40 other major U.S. brands, to become replicated in other cities and states. restoration efforts. executive committee. The executive committee provides perspective and has implemented a supporting member of The Recycling Closed Loop Partners expertise on industry trends, acts to improve river Partnership, a national nonprofit organization that is working to bring 3M initiated our partnership with as ambassadors for the SPC, and provides strategic guidance on issues systems health. Closed Loop Partners in 2014 through curbside recycling to towns across related to SPC goals and activities. a $5 million commitment to invest in America. Since 2015, The Recycling the collaborative social impact fund Partnership has leveraged more that gives cities access to the capital than $55 million in funding for new needed to build comprehensive infrastructure, impacted 60 million recycling programs and to build households, and access to recycled materials for provided use in packaging. 600k curbside recycling carts to In 2019, 3M also sponsored Closed Loop Partners’ Accelerate Circular Supply Chain Initiative. The overarching goal of this initiative is to evaluate and scale technologies that can more than 1,300 communities. meaningfully shift plastics supply With support from 3M and 40 other chains toward more circular material major U.S. brands, The Recycling flows. In 2018, Phase 1 of the initiative Partnership is also partnering with the launched, defining the scope and Sustainable Packaging Coalition® on landscape of technologies that could ASTRX: Applying Systems Thinking to transform post-consumer plastics Recycling, an initiative to build a stronger into building blocks for new materials recycling industry through product and and countless end uses. The results packaging design that reflects the ideals indicate that there is a role for these of the circular economy. technologies, but significant challenges remain before these solutions can become commercially viable. The Recycling Partnership https:// 1 recyclingpartnership.org/circularity/ 156 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 157 n i rd g o wak Advocacy Waste reduction in One 3M Impact project was with L oro f ANCON — an environmental Collaboration has many forms, and our communities Collaboration one of the forms is advocacy. Our non-governmental organization in Panama. Waste management is in 3M Impact has many forms, packaging team is committed to sharing its knowledge with the external its early stages in Panama. ANCON recently began implementing a 3M Impact is a skills-based service and one of the community to create a collaborative network that will accelerate packaging program where employees lend project called “Integrated Waste We will continue applying our scientific expertise to improve the lives of our Management Project for the Taboga forms is advocacy. circularity. This is demonstrated by their business skills, experience, and energy to make a difference in global Island.” The essential objective of the employees, our customers, and everyone engaging and participating in industry assignment is to design a roadmap on the planet. Our Strategic Sustainability panels as well as guest lectures at communities, while also developing for a waste management system on Framework directs our efforts to areas universities and colleges. leadership, problem-solving, and Taboga Island. The island did not where we can make the biggest impact. interpersonal communication skills. have a strong environmental focus Within the Science for Circular pillar but recent investments from Taboga’s of this framework, we will continue to government in tourism have made focus on initiatives that will create a more them more aware of the need to circular economy, driving solutions in participate in ANCON’s project to our operations, in our products, and in keep the island clean for tourists. communities around the world. Tourists that visit the island are mainly backpackers or Panamanians In our operations, 3M will continue with limited resources who spend to mitigate waste to landfill through the day on the island and consume reduction, reuse, and recycling of our large numbers of plastic bottles surplus materials; actively manage and and aluminum cans. If this project work toward reducing our water usage; is successfully managed, it will help and work with suppliers to reduce or Taboga become a more sustainable reuse surplus materials from packaging tourist destination, supporting one of our raw materials. of the few economic activities of the island. It will also help prevent For our customers, we will develop and inhabitants from having to migrate launch products to help them reach their to Panama City, as well as set a Sustainability goals by increasing our standard to be replicated in similar use of recycled raw materials; creating areas of Panama. reusable, renewable, and/or recyclable products and packaging; and we will To learn more about 3M Impact, reduce both their water usage and see the Communities section. waste through the use of our products. We will also be updating our packaging Sustainability roadmap to include a continued focus on plastics. Within our communities, we will continue to focus on advocacy, support, and partnerships in our efforts to fuel a global circular economy. Get updates and learn more about our ongoing work aligning to the 3M Strategic Sustainability Framework. 158 How we work Circular materials 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 159 Climate and energy Public policy engagement 3M is in alignment with the Task • Include provisions that promote the efficient allocation of emissions reductions and assure all sectors contribute to reduction targets, Science-based innovation with the effect of allowing fair Force on Climate-related Financial competition and avoiding market Disclosures’ (TCFD) recommendations distortions within industrial sectors for helping businesses disclose climatefor decarbonization. or across national boundaries related financial information. We understand the need for increased 3M is actively engaged in public focus and transparency of financial policy development to address risks related to climate change. Our climate change concerns. In addition, climate risk process, as described we’ve been involved with the Our Executive-level commitment For this reason, we are incorporating the findings of the Special Report on in the proceeding section, includes disclosures recommended by TCFD. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since 2005. commitment Global Warming of 1.5°C, published by the Intergovernmental Panel on We are committed to innovate to decarbonize industry, accelerate Climate Change (IPCC), in setting 3M endorses voluntary approaches Risk-mitigation planning to GHG emissions management. Any Through the years, 3M has led industry climate solutions and improve our goals and actions.1 This report, mandatory GHG emission reductions Severe weather and long-term in addressing both the challenges our environmental footprint. This prepared by 91 authors from 40 should be developed through trends could aﬀect 3M’s operations and opportunities presented by climate commitment is part of the Science countries and based on over 6,000 international negotiations and follow and supply chain. To address these change and energy conservation. for Climate pillar of our Strategic scientific references, finds that limiting these policy principles: and other risks, 3M maintains a Sustainability Framework. In 2019, global warming to 1.5°C (2.7°F) above formal Enterprise Risk Management Our proactive leadership is best defined 3M CEO Mike Roman announced pre-industrial temperatures would • Apply broadly to countries or groups of Analysis to review enterprise-level by five areas of action: a new commitment to renewable require “deep emissions reductions” and countries and GHG emission sources risk. Additionally, 3M has a Business electricity by joining RE100. “rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented • Be guided by science-based Continuity and Planning Process as • Executive-level commitment to these changes in all aspects of society.” decision-making well as a Crisis Management Program important topics and our related As a science-based company, 3M Achieving this goal also would “reduce principles, commitments, and risk• Utilize a consistent, market-based to coordinate the eﬀorts of local crisis uses the World Resources Institute challenging impacts on ecosystems, mitigation planning efforts approach management teams maintained at each (WRI)/World Business Council for human health and well-being.” 3M site and international subsidiary. • Industry-leading efforts to measure Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • Encourage investment and protect and reduce our own greenhouse gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting intellectual property to facilitate Corporate and local plans consider (GHG) emissions and Reporting Standard to set GHG Special Report on Global Warming of 1 technology breakthroughs the risk of natural disasters, infectious 1.5ºC (Report). Incheon, South Korea: • Extensive public policy engagement emission reduction targets. disease, employee safety, protection Intergovernmental Panel on Climate • Include provisions for carbon on both climate change and energy Change (IPCC). 7 October 2018. emissions trading and/or alternative of assets, customer service, and other conservation investment and compliance programs business continuity requirements. See 3M’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, • A decades-long track record of • Provide full credit for early reductions Item 1A for risk factors applicable to improving energy efficiency at in GHG emissions the company. Additional details on our our sites • Serving our customers through Through the years, 3M has led industry • Balance multiple country-level climate risk process can be found in the following table: a wide range of innovative in addressing both challenges priorities, including energy reliability and independence, national security, products that help them improve energy efficiency and reduce their and opportunities presented by climate and economic growth and employment greenhouse gas emissions change and energy conservation. 160 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 161 Climate risk process Climate risk process Governance The highest level of climate risk governance is the responsibility of the 3M Science, Technology & Identification Managing risk requires integrating a multidisciplinary, company-wide risk identification, assessment, Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors, formed in 2019 as one of four committees of the and assessment and management process. The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing, whose Board of Directors. The committee will oversee the twin demands of developing products to meet appointment and performance is reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee, is responsible for the ever-changing needs of our customers while doing so in an environmentally responsible way. leading the formal risk assessment and management process within the company. One of the committee’s roles and responsibilities is to review the company’s policies and programs on Sustainability, identifying and analyzing significant Sustainability, materials vulnerability, and Climate-related risk is also assessed as part of our analysis of physical risk to our manufacturing geopolitical issues that may impact our overall business strategy, global business continuity, and sites. For example, our analysis of physical risk to our manufacturing sites from sea level rise is based financial results. on modeling for 1.5o, 2o, and 4oC temperature increases. Based on our analysis of physical risks to individual 3M manufacturing sites, none are deemed to create overall enterprise risk due in part to Specific to enterprise risk, the 3M Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has responsibility the diversity of 3M’s global capabilities and our robust business continuity plan. to discuss policies and procedures with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the company’s major risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and mitigate Frequency 3M continually evaluates aspects of risk. The General Auditor, consulting with the company’s senior such exposures. For the purposes of discussing climate-related risks, “substantive financial impact” of monitoring management, annually assesses the major risks facing the company and works with those executives means an event or circumstance that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse responsible for managing each specific risk. The General Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit effect on the consolidated financial condition or operations of 3M and its subsidiaries and affiliates Committee the major risks facing the company and the steps management has taken to monitor and taken as a whole. mitigate those risks. The Audit Committee meets not less than four times a year. Integration into 3M operates in more than 70 countries and derives approximately 60% of its revenues from outside 3M will assess climate-related risks as a part of our analysis of physical risk to our manufacturing enterprise risk the United States. Our company results are impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide as climate modeling advances and as acquisitions or divestitures require. 3M’s business continuity economic, political, regulatory, capital markets, and other external conditions. planning process and our Corporate Crisis Management Program review help manage risks facing the Company’s physical operations and supply chains. Programs are reviewed at least annually. In addition, natural occurrences and human activities are increasingly releasing greenhouse gases In addition, the 3M Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors will into the atmosphere, contributing to changes in the earth’s climate. Climate change, as well as meet not less than three times a year. related environmental and social regulations, may negatively impact 3M or its customers and suppliers, in terms of availability and cost of natural resources, sources and supply of energy, In addition to our Board of Directors’ Committees, climate risk is reviewed throughout the year within product demand and manufacturing, and the health and well-being of individuals and communities our executive-level Innovation Steering Commitee and our Science for Climate Leadership Team. in which we operate. Risk factors Regulatory 3M continually evaluates aspects of regulatory risk during regular business Additional details on our enterprise risk assessments can be found in the Enterprise risk section of through new product development and continuous business improvement. this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A. 3M’s operations are affected by national, state, and local laws around the world. 3M has made, and plans to continue making, necessary expenditures Timeframes Short-term, 0-1 years Medium-term, 1-5 years Long-term, 5+ years for compliance with applicable laws. 3M is also involved in remediation actions relating to environmental matters from past operations at certain sites. Board oversight 3M’s Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors assesses and advances strategic growth areas, long-term investments, and inspired innovation opportunities. Technology 3M’s four business groups bring together common or related 3M technologies, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing The 3M Audit Committee of the Board of Directors discusses policies and procedures with respect for efficient sharing of business resources. We have operations in over to risk assessment and risk management, the company’s major risk exposures, and the steps 70 countries, bringing together a combination of our 51 unique Technology management has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures. Platforms to produce over 55,000 products in nearly every country. Any risks from technology would be identified and mitigated through our New Technology Frequency on As of November 2019, 3M’s Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the Board of Introduction (NTI) process, New Product Introduction (NPI) process, and Board’s agenda Directors will meet with the frequency, and at intervals, it determines necessary to carry out its continuous improvement program. duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not less than three times a year. This product diversity enables 3M to identify unique solutions to help solve The Audit Committee will meet with the frequency, and at intervals, it determines necessary to our customers’ challenges. In 2019, 3M invested $1.91 billion in research carry out its duties and responsibilities, but in any case, not less than four times a year. and development to build upon our existing technologies to find innovative solutions to our customers’ challenges. This unique combination of diversity Corporate In addition to the members of 3M’s Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the and investment enables 3M to remain on the cutting edge of science while officer’s oversight Board of Directors, the 3M CEO has the highest level of direct responsibility for assessing and supporting our customers’ future needs as the climate changes. In 2019, we managing climate-related issues. The CEO will carry on the company’s history of proactive introduced the requirement for each product entering our NPI process to leadership in addressing both the challenges and the opportunities presented by climate change have a Sustainability Value Commitment demonstrating how it drives impact and energy conservation. for the greater good. 162 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 163 Climate risk process Climate risk process Risk factors (cont.) Legal The company’s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory Financial risks At 3M, we continually evaluate our approach to opportunity and risk. We believe the whole concept proceedings and legal compliance risks, including those involving product of risk appetite and tolerance is an essential component of strategic planning. This includes broad liability, antitrust, intellectual property, environmental, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt risk oversight by the Board and its committees, with committee-level risk analyses reported to Practices Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and other matters. the full Board and executive-level internal General Auditor and Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer The outcome of these legal proceedings is often difficult to reliably predict. For appointed by and reporting directly to the Audit Committee. a more detailed review of this topic, see the discussion in Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 3M has operations in over 70 countries, with regionalized supply chains that enable more localized company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. and diversified production of our products. This helps reduce our risk from local climate impacts on our operations. 3M’s four business groups bring together common or related 3M technologies, Market Results are impacted by the effects of, and changes in, worldwide economic, enhancing the development of innovative products and services and providing for efficient sharing political, and capital markets conditions. 3M operates in more than 70 countries of business resources. Our operations bring together a combination of our 51 unique Technology and derives approximately 60% of its revenues from outside the United States. Platforms to produce over 55,000 products, which are sold in nearly every country. The company’s business is subject to global competition and geopolitical risks We believe this governance of risks by Board committees, who share information with the full Board, and may be adversely affected by factors that are beyond our control, such as is appropriate for a diversified technology and manufacturing company like 3M. 3M’s Annual Report slower economic growth, disruptions in financial markets, economic downturns, on Form 10-K, Item 1A outlines risk factors applicable to the company. inflation, elevated unemployment levels, sluggish or uneven recovery, government deficit reduction, natural disasters, and other factors in specific Financial Financial opportunities include products and services, and resource efficiency. Access to countries or regions, or in the various industries in which 3M operates. opportunities dependable energy supplies and energy efficiency directly affects all businesses and communities. Energy usage and climate concerns require systemic change. 3M is a diversified technology Reputation Around the world, customers rely on 3M to provide innovative solutions to company providing innovative solutions to address these and other physical climate opportunities. advance companies, enhance homes, and improve lives. We are defined by more than just what we make — we are defined by how we do business: the 3M Way, Metrics We have established key Sustainability metrics to measure and manage climate risk that go beyond always striving to make the right choices for our company and our customers and compliance to thinking holistically about our operations and products. We report on historical protecting our reputation in all we do. periods to allow for trend analysis with a clear description of the methodologies we use to calculate or estimate limitations and assumptions. Physical (acute Every year, local crisis management teams at every 3M site and international and chronic) subsidiary must review and update their Business Resilience Plan to reflect Principles Science for Climate goals current conditions. They also perform a tabletop or actual crisis response exercise. 3M Corporate Auditing and Corporate Security monitor site compliance with the Corporate Crisis Management Program. For more Relevance Clearly define boundaries information, see the Enterprise risk section. Completeness Strive to calculate and report data coverage to 99% of inventory for Scope 1 and Upstream 3M depends on various components, compounds, raw materials, and energy Scope 2 GHG emissions. We will continue to develop and support advances in (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) supplied by others for the Scope 3 calculation methodology manufacturing of its products. It is possible that any of its supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural and other disasters and other events or Consistency Base our data on approved methodology be terminated in the future. Risks from upstream suppliers are identified at the product level through the New Product Introduction (NPI) and continuous Accuracy Develop corporate systems and auditing procedures improvement processes at 3M. An on-site assessment may be conducted by 3M or a third party, and any deficiencies are ultimately corrected through an Transparency Report on emissions and activities in a way that is relevant to stakeholders SRC Corrective Action Preventive Action (CAPA) process. 3M mitigates supply chain risks through a variety of management practices, including multisourcing raw materials, prequalifying potential outsource manufacturers, and maintaining appropriate stocks of raw materials and contingency plans with key suppliers to assure allocation to 3M in the event of supply disruption. Downstream Risks from downstream product use are identified at the product level through the life cycle management (LCM) process at 3M, which evaluates the planned use and disposal of 3M products and identifies hazards and risks associated with the use and disposal of 3M products. Mitigation of these risks is highly diverse and product-specific. 164 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 165 or or or Joining RE100 with Clean Air Asia According to the World Health f f f ce Organization (WHO), air pollution n ce n n ce a commitment to In 2019, during Climate Week and causes seven million premature deaths ie ate ie e ie ate 100% renewable Sc imat each year. The health impact of poor c S im c S im energy by 2050 the United Nations Climate Action Summit, we announced a new air quality is particularly notable in the Cl Cl Cl In 2019, we joined RE100. RE100 is a partnership with Clean Air Asia. 3M will collaborate with the international South-East Asia Region, where people in 99% of cities are exposed to pollution global renewable electricity leadership non-governmental organization on levels that exceed WHO guidelines.1 initiative, led by The Climate Group science-based air quality solutions for This partnership aims to create healthier, in partnership with CDP (formerly New Delhi, India, and Metro Manila, more livable cities in Asia. Goal: Improve energy Goal: Increase renewable Goal: Ensure GHG emissions the Carbon Disclosure Project), Philippines. To achieve this goal, we at least 50% below our 2002 will spend the next five years assisting efficiency, indexed to net energy to 50% of total that brings together influential World Health Organization. https://www.who. 1 businesses committed to sourcing Clean Air Asia in its efforts to assess sales, by 30% by 2025. electricity use by 2025. baseline, while growing our baseline air quality conditions, design int/health-topics/air-pollution#tab=tab_1 100% renewable electricity for their business, by 2025. worldwide operations by 2050. capacity-building programs for air Energy-efficiency improvements help In 2019, we raised the bar as part of quality management, implement For more information on this effort, reduce energy use, energy-associated our strategic focus on empowering 3M is in a leadership position due to see our feature story “Flipping the awareness and education campaigns, costs, and GHG emissions. 3M energy Science for Climate. We increased our early actions to reduce our GHG switch on renewable energy.” develop clean air action plans with management goes beyond energyour interim target from 25% to 50% emissions, which started in 2000. selected city and district governments, efficiency efforts in factories and renewable electricity by 2025, toward We are committed to continuing and measure the resulting impact on buildings. It is a team effort guided by our ultimate goal of 100% renewable that leadership even as we grow the air pollution levels. the global 3M Corporate Energy Policy electricity by 2050. company in order to help our customers and coordinated by the Corporate address the issue of climate change. or Energy Management Team, with f By improving energy efficiency and ce oversight by 3M’s Corporate Energy processes, reformulating products, Leader and Engineering Director, and n ie e switching to renewable electricity, and Sc imat active support from the CEO. prioritizing opportunities, 3M has been Cl 3M has taken a broad approach to able to achieve industry-leading GHG managing our energy footprint, which emission reductions. Other companies includes evaluating the impact of our are setting goals to move closer to the products, manufacturing processes, achievements we have already realized. equipment, and sites as well as by reducing the energy footprint Goal: Help our customers of our existing manufacturing and administrative sites. In addition, we reduce their GHGs by actively share information about 250 million tons of CO2 our energy management program equivalent emissions with external stakeholders, such through the use of 3M as suppliers, customers, and other interested organizations. products by 2025. While 3M has made significant GHG emission reductions across our global operations, we realize we can make far greater contributions by helping our customers reduce their GHG emissions through the use of our products. 166 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 167 Our actions A focus on energy from naturally Our renewable efforts don’t stop at our headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota. Our sites actively seek alternative ISO 50001 and SEP™ certification Energy management, replenishable sources energy sources, including active The internationally recognized ISO combined heat and power, solar, wind, inside and out In early 2019, 3M transitioned to and other projects, such as utilized 50001 standard and the DOE’s 100% Superior Energy Performance (SEP™) 3M reviews its Strategic Energy excess steam. For example, in 2019, certification program help 3M sites Management Plan annually to prioritize the 3M IMPD site in California installed become attuned to recognizing and programs and meet global goals. The a new solar farm that provides 20% seizing opportunities to increase plan uses input from stakeholders, of the site’s total electricity, and 3M energy efficiency in site operations Canada’s headquarters in London, including manufacturing directors, site renewable electricity Ontario, installed a 10-kilowatt solar and move from delivering energy managers, operations employees, and at our headquarters projects in a loosely organized fashion executive management. Goals of the panel system on their rooftop. Read in St. Paul, Minnesota, to a structured system of management. plan include continuously improving more about 3M’s commitment to By integrating the systemic ISO-based results, leveraging engineering which helped raise our total global RE100 in our feature story, “Flipping framework of “plan-do-check-act” for expertise and advances, driving renewable electricity usage to over 30% the switch on renewable energy.” the management of energy in on-site site-level efficiency improvements, for the year. 3M became the largest operations, our sites have seen savings While 3M takes actions to help convert maintaining top management support, company in Xcel Energy, Inc.’s service in energy costs and consumption, its operations to renewable electricity and protecting 3M’s reputation. area across eight Western and Midwestern expansion of employee engagement, sources, the company continues to states to make a comparable achievement. and increased visibility to the tracking Public speaking engagements and support the global renewable energy 3M’s headquarters is a 409-acre campus of site energy performance. 3M has partnerships are integral elements of sector by producing solutions for with about 12,000 employees across been busy increasing its ISO 50001 the plan. In 2019, 3M experts spoke at customers that help improve the 30 buildings and research labs. and SEP-certified profile, with 31 several energy industry conferences, reliability and efficiency of renewable electricity, including solar and wind. sites certified globally and 10 working including the Association of Energy In 2018, 3M’s 2025 goal of 25% toward certification under these Engineers (AEE), the U.S. Department renewable electricity was surpassed, two programs. of Energy (DOE), Industrial Energy and starting in 2019, a new interim Technology Conference (IETC), goal of 50% was set. National Association for EHS & Sustainability Management (NAEM), World Energy Engineering Congress (WEEC), Western Electricity Global energy use Indexed global energy use Coordinating Council (WECC), and the MMBtu MMBtu per MM $USD net sales Better Buildings Summit. We are also 30,000,000 1,400 one of 30 businesses and organizations that have formed the Minnesota 1,200 Sustainable Growth Coalition — which has formulated a clean energy vision 1,000 for Minnesota. 20,000,000 800 In 2019, 3M introduced the safe and sustainable centrally coordinated investment fund to mitigate risk 600 and facilitate energy efficiency via 10,000,000 engineering to align with our Strategic 400 Sustainability Framework. For more information, visit the Health 200 and safety section. 0 0 Photo credit: Avangrid Renewables 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 168 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 169 Identifying ways 2019 Site Energy Award • The 3M Singapore Tuas site won Although it is not possible to put Every year, 3M calculates our GHG GHG emission reductions are achieved the Best Practices (Honorable 3M’s GHG inventory methodology inventory according to approved through a variety of methods: improving to save energy At the conclusion of each year, the Mention) in the prestigious Energy on the lab’s scope of accreditation, internal procedures that are updated process and equipment efficiency, Corporate Energy Management Efficiency National Partnership (EENP) our calculation methodology has as needed to agree with current upgrading equipment, reducing our Throughout the year, employees Team recognizes the top sites in our Award 2019 for their outstanding been improved by incorporating calculation methodologies. However, demand for energy use, increasing conducted energy walk-throughs, held program for their results in achieving commitment and achievements in several quality system elements from whenever a methodology change our use of renewable electricity, and energy Treasure Hunts, collaborated energy metrics. To qualify, these sites energy savings the ANSI/ISO/IEC 17025 Standard, is implemented, 3M will, wherever implementing and maintaining pollution with the Corporate team or external must demonstrate an active culture including: possible, recalculate prior year’s control technologies. These methods, partners, and integrated employee ideas at sites to find conservation of energy management practices on Direct (Scope 1) and • Defined responsibilities and GHG inventories to assure that past and more, are integral to the company’s and current-year GHG inventories overall success and assist us with the opportunities. Globally, 3M sites site, as evidenced by their delivered project savings, their energy team indirect (Scope 2) interrelationships of all key staff are comparable. Where this is not challenge of helping to address global identified approximately $7.6 million in opportunities over the next year and assessment score, and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions • Documentation of key personnel possible, 3M will either call this climate change concerns. improved efficiency in energy intensity qualifications out or assure that the difference is delivered $11.8 million in energy savings Since 2002, 3M has on-site. Nine platinum awards, four not material. These quality system in 2019. Building, maintaining, and • Control over quality system executing our energy project hoppers gold awards, and seven silver awards reduced Scope 1 documents and procedures elements and procedures, coupled with a robust internal and third-party continues to be a priority at 3M. were presented to sites with the most GHG emissions by • Control of records review of our emissions, help assure 75.9% impressive results. that 3M’s GHG inventory is aligned Energy Excellence • Corrective and preventive 2019 Energy Recognition action system with the core principles of relevance, Awards • Internal audit program completeness, consistency, accuracy, • 3M received the Award of Excellence and transparency. The Energy Excellence Awards in Energy Management, and • Documented and approved providing a direct and immediate honor individuals and teams that 3M Canada received the Energy calculation procedures reduction of our carbon emissions. incorporate the goals of the Corporate Management Insight Award from the During this same timeframe, we have Energy Program in engineering Clean Energy Ministerial achieved a 68.1% reduction in absolute projects. The nominated projects and individuals actively demonstrate • 3M received the 2019 Corporate Scope 1 and 2 location-based GHG Greenhouse gas emissions, Indexed greenhouse gas emissions, their commitment to include energy Energy Management Award from the emissions. Scope 1 and Scope 2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 Association of Energy Engineers® Million metric tons CO2 equivalents, absolute Million metric tons CO2 equivalents per MM $USD net sales efficiency in the design of projects, Since 2002, the 3M EHS Laboratory in equipment selection, or in the use of • 3M Energy Engineer Prasath has calculated 3M’s GHG inventory in 20 1200 alternative energy supplies. The award Vinayagamoorthy was selected to accordance with the World Resources receive the Association of Energy 18 is one of global recognition within Institute (WRI) / World Business Engineers® Canada Region Energy 1000 the 3M engineering community. In Council for Sustainable Development 16 2019, out of a total of 29 projects, four Engineer of the Year Award for (WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate 2019 in recognition of outstanding 14 awards were given to individuals from Accounting and Reporting Standard. 800 3M Tuas, Singapore; 3M Alexandria, work in energy The 3M EHS Laboratory maintains an 12 United States; 3M Woodlands, • 3M Corporate Energy Manager accreditation to ANSI/ISO/IEC 17025 10 600 Singapore; and 3M Naju, Korea. Andrew Hejnar was honored to through A2LA — a signatory to the become a fellow member of the International Laboratory Accreditation 8 Association of Energy Engineers® Cooperation Mutual Recognition 6 400 in recognition for making significant Arrangement (ILAC MRA). contributions to the energy 4 200 management and alternative 2 energy industry 0 0 2002 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2002 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based Indexed Scope 1 Indexed Scope 2 GHG emissions GHG emissions location-based GHG emissions For methodology, please refer to the About report section: base year For methodology, please refer to the About report section: base year and other adjustments, and greenhouse gas metric table. and other adjustments, and greenhouse gas metric table. 170 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 171 GHG emissions Evaluating customer In some cases, there is no equivalent Since 2015, this has resulted in an to the 3M product. In these cases, the avoidance of over attributable to GHG emissions 58 baseline scenario is the absence of our suppliers and reductions the 3M product entirely. The result is a comparison that conservatively customers (Scope 3) To track progress toward our 2025 GHG customer goal, 3M has a process estimates the potential impact of the 3M product. million 3M has been developing our Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory in place to develop reasonable Due to the estimated nature of the metric tons of CO2 estimates for avoided emissions since publication of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain associated with use of select 3M data used, the uncertainty for these equivalent emissions products. This estimation procedure studies is plus or minus 50%, which (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting through use of select 3M product is based on the ISO 14064-2 standard approximates data of fair to good Standard in September 2011. We platforms. This avoidance represents for determining GHG emissions quality as defined in the WRI/WBCSD place a high value on decision-making only a portion of our product portfolio. reductions. It provides a framework Product Life Cycle Accounting and based on sound science. When the Various films and food safety products for the estimation of emissions from Reporting Standard Quantitative complexity of the supply chain does are examples of the select products the 3M product scenario (referred Inventory Uncertainty Guide. not allow for direct calculation, included in this evaluation. In the an input/output model calculation to as the “project scenario”) in relation According to our calculations, future, the list will likely expand as a method is used. to a baseline scenario. in 2019 alone, result of the new Sustainability Value Commitment. Due to our diverse manufacturing We start by defining the boundary of our customers avoided operation, 3M was not required to the 3M product scenario as extraction emitting nearly 17 calculate Scope 3 categories 9–12. from nature through the end of the Air quality management The methodology did not exist. However, product use phase (product end-of-life or disposal is included where reliable An important component of 3M’s we were determined to understand our complete Scope 3 profile. In 2019, information is available). The GHG emissions for this scenario are then million Sustainability strategy is our commitment to improving air we developed methodologies around Scope 3, categories 9 (downstream estimated using high-level estimates metric tons quality globally. transportation and distribution), 10 and average data. For example, manufacturing emissions may be CO2 equivalents As a company that uses many (processing of sold products), 11 (use solvent-based materials, 3M of sold products), and 12 (end-of-life determined based on the average through use of select 3M product inherently releases volatile organic treatment of sold products). Due energy use per pound of all products platforms as calculated in accordance compounds (VOCs) from many of our to the new extensive calculations, produced at a manufacturing site, with ISO 14064-2 and 3M developed manufacturing processes. Because quality assurance processes are being rather than by determining the procedures. of this, many of our sites require developed in 2020. From these efforts, emissions through detailed calculations using product-specific information. permits with rigorous VOC tracking we can better understand opportunities requirements. Even where tracking to reduce our downstream GHG is not required from a regulatory The same boundary is then used for emissions and to consider the perspective, 3M voluntarily tracks We place a high the estimation of GHG emissions for establishment of new goals. Calculating VOC usage and emissions from the baseline scenario. Because the Scope 3 categories 9-12 is a challenging task and will complete our map of Scope data sources may be different than the 3M product scenario, we apply value on decisionmajor sources of emissions in order to identify further opportunities 3 relevant categories. Our 55,000-plus products are heavily diversified across conservative assumptions as needed, where conservative is defined as a making based on for reduction. 3M has developed internal programs to minimize its a large variety of use cases. We look forward to reporting these values in the choice that results in the minimum sound science. VOC emissions. We track and report GHG emissions for the baseline emissions based on raw material 2021 Sustainability Report. usage, engineering estimates, and scenario. For example, if emissions data is not available for the production stack test data. For more information, see our feature story, “Taking inventory of greenhouse of a material included in the baseline gas emissions.” scenario, we assume the emissions for this material to be zero. 172 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 173 n i rd g o wak For many 3M manufacturing Implementing Ozone depleting 3M has set forth requirements in L or o f processes, nitrogen oxides (NOx), order to provide a framework for sulfur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide and maintaining substances how 3M operations are to manage (CO), hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), pollution control The Montreal Protocol is the first their refrigeration appliances persistent organic pollutants (POPs), containing ODS in the context of 3M has made significant progress in worldwide agreement designed and particulate matter (PM) are applicable international protocols, reducing air emissions — at the source to protect human health and the We believe that climate change is one emitted as products of combustion. local regulations, and current and and by improving process efficiencies. environment against the adverse of the greatest challenges we face as These pollutants, which are listed future economic impacts. These Where emissions cannot be reduced effects of the depletion of the a society and now is the time to lead on many environmental permits for requirements include conformance to within the process, 3M installs stratospheric ozone layer. The and take action — for our climate specific site operations, are tracked the Montreal Protocol when applicable. and maintains air emission control agreement identifies the list of and our communities. Our Strategic and reported externally, where equipment as required by federal, state, ozone depleting substances (ODS) Sustainability Framework directs our required by federal, state, or local and local regulations. We evaluate that are targeted for control efforts to areas where we can make regulations for individual sites. 3M all equipment options, select those practices, reductions, or total the biggest impact. internally tracks all fuel usage and calculates the combustion emission that are the most environmentally phaseouts and provides a phaseout schedule. In addition, some countries Global volatile organic compound Within the Science for Climate pillar of rates using accepted emission factors. effective and cost-efficient, and strive have established regulations (VOC) emissions this framework, we will continue to focus to properly operate emission control regarding the management of Metric tons per MM $USD net sales on innovating to decarbonize industry, Main VOC by source type equipment. Technologies include thermal oxidization, solvent recovery, refrigeration appliances. 0.35 accelerating global climate solutions, • 3M’s VOC emissions are primarily and improving our environmental carbon adsorption, biofiltration, attributed to coating lines footprint. We’ll continue to drive climate electrostatic precipitators, baghouses, 0.30 • Reactors and mixing are also scrubbers, and cyclones. solutions in our operations, in our significant sources of VOC emissions 0.25 products, and in communities around the world. VOC by sites 0.20 In our operations, we will continue • 90% of our sites emit less than 100 to advance toward 100% renewable tons per year VOC 0.15 electricity at all global sites. Specifically, • 34% of our sites emit less than 1 ton we will continue to evaluate what will per year VOC 0.10 improve additional aspects of energy efficiency, what organizations can help 0.05 us move to a total renewable electricity portfolio, and what partnerships with 0.00 utility companies can help us reach our An important 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ultimate destination. component of For our customers, we will develop and launch products to help them reach 3M’s Sustainability their Sustainability goals by improving strategy is our energy efficiency, increasing renewable electricity, reducing emissions, and more. commitment to For our communities, we will continue improving air to partner with others to help drive climate solutions globally. quality globally. Get updates and learn more about our ongoing work aligning to the 3M Strategic Sustainability Framework. 174 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 175 Suppliers Our supply chain is an extension of The SRC establishes 3M’s expectations This committee reviews company This assures appropriate resolution and our commitment to Sustainability. for new and existing suppliers anywhere Sustainability and EHS policies and conformance with 3M’s requirements. in the world and for any supplied programs for compliance with all If a supplier is unwilling to work with material or service. Our supplier vetting applicable laws and regulations. 3M on the identified gaps or is unable process includes a review of the SRC to close the issues within a reasonable expectations and reinforcement that Supplier risk assessment timeframe, alternative actions are Our Strong policies aligned supplier programs and practices, as determined with a cross-functional • Environment, health, and safety (EHS): We expect our suppliers to well as those of their subcontractors and supply chain business team to elevate and resolve with our values transparency commitment care as much about the health and supplying products and/or services, the situation. safety of their workers and their conform to standards consistent with The SRC outlines 3M’s foundational the SRC. Our global supplier contract As stated in our supplier contracts, The SRC outlines supplier expectations communities as 3M does and to social and environmental expectations agreements have incorporated SRC in addition to full compliance with relating to grievance mechanisms. Each step in the supply chain includes implement proper procedures and in the following areas: expectations. all applicable environmental laws, Anyone who has a concern involving benefits (like employment and controls to protect them as well as we expect our suppliers to integrate 3M can use the 3MEthics.com site as community-building) as well as the • Labor: Requirements align with the the environment in which we live The SRC is currently environmental responsibility into their an alternative way to report a concern. potential for negative impacts (such 3M Human Rights Policy and include • Ethics: Expectations align to the available in operations. Suppliers should work 15 as pollution or unsafe or unfair labor important concepts like freely chosen practices). Our commitment, from top employment (no forced, bonded, 3M Code of Conduct and hold our suppliers to the same high standards to minimize adverse effects on the Additional expectations community, environment, and natural leadership down, is to maximize the or trafficked labor), restrictions on of honesty and integrity. Suppliers resources while safeguarding the for higher-risk positives and mitigate the potential negatives by aligning our supplier working age (no child labor), and appropriate working hours and must prohibit any form of bribery health and safety of workers and the value chains and corruption and prevent conflicts expectations with our own corporate wages. Setting these expectations of interest languages. public. Additional information can be found at 3M Supplier Direct. In addition to the global SRC values. We expect our suppliers to be helps assure our suppliers’ actions expectations for all suppliers, certain transparent about their environmental will reflect 3M’s values on human • Management systems: We expect We expect our suppliers to establish and Our general supplier performance areas warrant additional and specific and social practices, provide rights as well as the values underlying our suppliers to establish processes implement their own relevant policies verification process begins with a formal expectations to drive more improvement ideas, and work with us the International Labour Organization to systematically conform to the 3M and programs in alignment with this SRC self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). sustainable, responsible practices. to transform our shared value chain. (ILO) and laws, such as the California SRC as well as all legal requirements and to enforce these expectations with The SAQ helps 3M understand This includes our use of certain Transparency in Supply Chains Act, and to commit to continuous their own suppliers, thereby promoting supplier programs and determine minerals with the potential to be At 3M, we set a high bar for our the United Kingdom Modern Slavery improvement our high Sustainability standards up our whether they conform to 3M sourced from conflict-affected and company regarding environmental and Act 2015, and the U.S. Federal supply chains. expectations. An on-site assessment high-risk areas, our use of timbersocial governance, and we expect the Acquisition Regulation (FAR) on 3M’s Vice President of Strategic may be conducted by 3M or a third based products and other plant same from our suppliers. 3M follows forced labor and human trafficking. Sourcing and Packaging Solutions party to assess the supplier’s level of materials (pulp and paper), and all the Organization for Economic CoTo learn more about these topics, see (SS&PS) is accountable for 3M’s conformance with 3M’s expectations. new suppliers in higher-risk countries, operation and Development (OECD) the Human rights section Responsible Sourcing program. If deficiencies are identified, they in areas such as Asia Pacific, Latin Due Diligence framework for all of our The leader of our global responsible will be addressed through an SRC America, or parts of the Europe, responsible sourcing activities. The sourcing activities reports to the Vice Corrective Action Preventive Action Middle East, and Africa regions. 3M Supplier Responsibility Code (SRC) President of SS&PS. Executive leaders (CAPA) process. Follow-up on the See more on our risk identification in is based on 3M’s corporate values for including EHS, Ethics & Compliance, CAPA may include announced or Responding to risks and transforming sustainable and responsible operations and aligns with the 10 Principles of the 3M supply chain Due Diligence Management System Corporate Auditing, Strategic Sourcing, unannounced assessments. our supply chains. United Nations Global Compact, of Values Transparency Transformation Verification Report Legal, Sustainability, and Human If the assessment identifies gaps or which 3M is a participant. The SRC Resources are provided program findings, and if a supplier is not able is also consistent with the Code of updates at least twice a year, and or willing to resolve them, the CAPA Conduct of the Responsible Business Strategic Sourcing leadership is would escalate to a corporate Supplier Alliance (RBA). updated quarterly on the program’s Corrective Action Request (SCAR) status. Both groups have the Establish Identify and Design and Audit supply Report that would involve sourcing, area Our Due Diligence Management opportunity to provide input on the strong assess risks implement a chain due on supply manufacturing, and supply chain System consists of the following various program activities. In 2019, policies and in the supply strategy to diligence chain dueor business personnel engagement. elements, which inform our continuous 3M formed the Science, Technology management chain respond to diligence improvement efforts. & Sustainability (STS) Committee of systems identified risks activities the Board of Directors. 176 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 177 “As a key business Focus: responsible Supplier diversity 3M establishes goals and regularly Our progress is routinely tracks the dollar value of goods communicated to leadership partner to 3M, we are minerals sourcing proud to say that we 3M is committed to diversity and inclusion, and we strongly encourage and services purchased from small businesses and diverse suppliers in across the organization. 3M is committed A prioritized area in our raw material have modeled our own supply network is the responsible using diverse suppliers across our sourcing organization. This includes concert with goals set annually with the U.S. federal government as part We remain committed to supporting small businesses and diverse suppliers to diversity and Social Responsibility, sourcing of minerals. 3M deplores the violence and inhumane treatment working with small businesses. We of our subcontracting plan for federal by continuing to reassess elements of our approach, working across inclusion, and we Code of Conduct, government contracting. strongly encourage that has occurred in the Democratic back up our commitment through initiatives that directly seek out diverse the industry to assure best practices. and Paper Sourcing Republic of Congo, adjoining countries, To achieve our goals, 3M has Policies to ensure and other conflict-affected and companies to support 3M’s business needs. Equally important, we recognize implemented a four-part strategy More on our supplier diversity using diverse high-risk regions as defined by suppliers across that aims to: program can be found on the that the key concepts global regulatory bodies and is that diversity is a core value that helps Supplier Diversity website. strengthen our competitiveness and regarding human committed to supporting responsible provides opportunities for new ideas • Increase our spending with current our sourcing or sourcing of minerals that contain, diverse suppliers by reviewing rights, labor, ethics, but are not limited to, tin, tantalum, and fresh perspectives. our existing diverse suppliers by f organization. and environmental tungsten, gold, and cobalt, from all 3M has a long-standing commitment diversity category n ce risks outlined in 3M’s such regions. Additional information to sustainable business practices and • Identify additional diverse suppliers c ie lar can be found in our Responsible to supporting the economic success in our existing supply base by S rcu Ci Supplier Responsibility Mineral Sourcing Policy and in Supplier of our communities, including working reviewing our top non-diverse Code and Pulp & Paper Direct, Supplier Requirements. with both diverse and small‑business suppliers by spending category Policy are part of our suppliers. 3M considers a diverse Focus: pulp and paper supplier to be any supplier who • Find “new-to-3M” diverse suppliers own core standard qualifies for one or more of the • Further disrupt the status quo by beliefs and behaviors. 3M has prioritized pulp and paper working to move some of our Tier 2 products as an area that warrants following classifications: MinorityGoal: Drive supply chain owned business, Women-owned spending to Tier 1 and focusing on additional formal expectations diverse suppliers in our request for Sustainability through targeted 3M was instrumental in because of potential environmental business, and Small Business raw material traceability (including Small Disadvantaged, proposal (RFP) activity positively challenging risks, such as deforestation and habitat HUBZone, Woman, Veteran, or and supplier performance Loparex to make sure loss; potential human rights issues, In 2019, 3M Service-Disabled Veteran). assurance by 2025. such as infringement of indigenous our policies had all the peoples’ rights; and potential unsafe spending with 3M proactively reaches out to various We understand that our Sustainability requisite elements. labor practices. As a global paper small businesses organizations, including the National impacts extend beyond our own purchaser and Sustainability leader, represented 26.7% Today, we have policies Minority Supplier Development operations. By purchasing raw 3M is well-positioned to positively Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business materials and services from small and in place that we are influence practices throughout the Enterprise National Council (WBENC), large companies all over the world, we proud to hold ourselves forest products supply chain. We Metropolitan Economic Development participate in a global, complex supply adopted our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Association (MEDA), Small Business chain. And it doesn’t stop there. Our and our suppliers Policy in 2015 to set standards of Administration (SBA), and others. We of which suppliers have their own suppliers, 6.71% accountable to, and this excellence for our suppliers through also have a supplier portal that allows extending back to the original source all tiers of supply from the forest. would not have been businesses to provide a portfolio of of each material we use. Our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy their capabilities, which is distributed possible without and guidance document is available to 3M’s sourcing organization. the help of 3M.” in seven languages. Additional information can be found on the 3M Sustainable Forestry website. went to diverse Loparex suppliers. 178 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 179 Our actions Supplier locations In 2019, 3M completed over Supplier spend by region 2019 percentage 550 3M works with a broad, complex 55 supply chain, consisting of over 63,900 50 suppliers in over 270 subcategories in 109 45 assessments 40 35 which included the comprehensive RBA framework and expanded from 30 countries around 18 to 31 countries, covering every region of the world. 25 the world. 20 Forced labor and 15 In 2019, the SRC Steering Team provided refresher training for more human trafficking 10 than 300 assessors and sourcing 5 3M’s efforts to eradicate forced professionals globally to assure 0 labor and human trafficking from its 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 a detailed understanding of 3M’s direct supply chains are discussed SRC expectations, processes, and Asia Pacific Canada Europe, in more detail in our transparency in supporting tools. Responding to risks Beyond risk, we aim to utilize our supply supply chains and modern slavery Latin America United States Middle East, Africa chains in our overarching goals for Employees received access to online and transforming our Sustainability. 3M recognizes that many disclosures. These disclosures communicate our commitment training materials that covered each supply chains of the world’s greatest challenges can to legal and ethical practices as of the elements of the SRC, including be solved through collaboration. We labor and human rights, EHS, ethics, We are constantly managing changes are currently exploring supply chain exhibited by our membership in the Cumulative supplier assessments, United Nations Global Compact, and management systems requirements. in supply markets, both where there integration opportunities with some of the implementation of 3M’s Code since 2008 3M’s business partners website is an opportunity to extract value, our key suppliers in effort to advance of Conduct, and cooperative efforts Total number also provided training materials for and defensively, where necessary to circularity. And, in 2019, we asked suppliers to expand their knowledge mitigate risk and secure supply. As working with others to abolish human 7,000 suppliers to partner with us to help on topics such as global bribery and described earlier, we focus efforts on rights atrocities, especially in regard advance our aspirational Sustainability corruption awareness, eliminating the salient issues in categories where to human trafficking, forced labor, 6,000 goals in 3M’s Circular Economy forced labor, slavery, and human human rights and environmental risks modern slavery, and other related Supplier Letter. trafficking from the global supply are the greatest. More broadly, we crimes. 3M is committed to doing our 5,000 part to eradicate human trafficking in chain, and preventing corruption and mitigating compliance risk for conduct robust risk prioritization to Verifying our supplier any form from the global supply chain. determine other suppliers we will performance 4,000 distributors and business partners. engage via an assessment against We have robust policies and systems in our SRC, which includes policy and place to control these practices in our 3,000 Although applicable to all suppliers, our own operations and with our suppliers. contract conformance. supply chain risk assessment process 3M sets a high bar for our company focuses on prioritized suppliers, each 2,000 3M uses industry indices to identify regarding labor and employment, and higher-risk supply chains in conjunction of which must complete an SAQ and/ we expect the same from our suppliers with Lean Six Sigma (LSS) tools or be subject to an on-site assessment as articulated in the SRC. 1,000 to optimize and strengthen its risk as specified in our SRC. In the past nine management processes. The criteria years, we have conducted over 6,900 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 matrix helps rank global suppliers self-assessments or on-site audits using multiple factors such as of suppliers in prioritized countries. In 2018, we updated our assessment progress and increased the scope geographic, category, and businessAlong the way, our assessment of each assessment critical elements to determine where process has become more evolved assessments should be performed. and more comprehensive. 180 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 181 Responsible In October 2019, 3M attended the RMI Annual Conference to discuss Conflict mineral supply Conflictmineral supply Pulp and paper actions We aim to work Pulpand Pulp papersupply andpaper supply minerals actions chain traceability chain traceability chain traceability strategies and best practices regarding the expansion of a market-driven chain traceability 2019 percentage 2019 percentage Pulp and paper policy implementation on the ground with suppliers and 2019 percentage 2019 percentage Forging ahead with continuous improvement responsible sourcing supply chain. peer companies Throughout our policy implementation, 3M’s Responsible Minerals Sourcing 3M’s membership in RMI provides we have seen several examples of to document as program, now in its seventh year, has gone through continuous insights into emerging risk and assessments in raw materials supply marked improvements in responsible pulp and paper sourcing practices as a much of our global improvements, based on insights chains utilizing the Risk Readiness Assessment (RRA) tool. RRA is the result of our engagement with suppliers. These include: paper supply chain from past campaigns as well as external benchmarking that provided basis for corporate assessments of material risks in 3TG (tantalum, tin, • Meeting with suppliers’ senior as possible, ways to optimize and increase the effectiveness of program activities. tungsten, and gold) supply chains, corporate executives about the importance of assuring responsible amplify our efforts In 2019, as part of our responsible specifically related to social and environmental risks. and sustainable supply chains, and to mitigate risks, sourcing expectations, 3M expanded With the evolution of conflict agreeing to collaborate on that goal • Suppliers establishing new positions improve efficiencies, its responsible minerals sourcing to include how cobalt is sourced in order minerals programs, 3M partnered with a third party to manage our RMAP conformant 78.4% within their companies and drive sustainable Traceable to forest source 56% to support industry expectations and 3M’s Values and Human Rights policies. 2019 program outreach and data RMAP active 1.7% • Significant increases in supply chain traceability and transparency practices throughout or 100% recycled collection. The third-party platform 3M expects our suppliers to adopt a similar policy and due-diligence automates the collection, validation, RMAP not enrolled 17.5% • Increased engagement by our the supply chain. Traceable to pulp mill 22% and centralization of data to support Based on Responsible Minerals suppliers with their upstream Traceable to paper mill 8% management system, and we require Assurance Process (RMAP) 3M’s Responsible Minerals Sourcing supply chain the same of their suppliers in order program. Suppliers entering the portal Not yet engaged or 14% to proliferate responsible sourcing • Suppliers adopting pulp and paper are linked to training resources with traceable practices throughout the supply chain. policies for the first time access to topics and webinars such In addition, 3M is an active member as “Smelter Validation in 2019: Hot • Suppliers enhancing existing policies to of the Responsible Minerals Initiative Topics,” “The Evolving Regulatory meet the requirements of 3M’s policies (RMI), which develops tools and Landscape: Top 10 Trends for • Supplier invitation to sourcing area provides guidance for companies 2020,” and “Responsible Minerals for our pulp and paper products regarding conflict minerals. Our Compliance: Leveraging the OECD to understand challenges around membership in RMI and various Due Diligence Guidance.” responsible sourcing and to create sub‑teams, such as the Smelter a path forward (see November 2019 Additional information can be found Engagement Team (SET), Due Diligence 3M Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy in the 3M Conflict Minerals Securities Practice Team, and Plenary Team, Progress Report for more information and Exchange Commission filings enable 3M to be involved in activities on this topic) found on 3M Supplier Direct, Supplier supporting RMI’s Code of Conduct Requirements, Responsible Minerals. Through an online survey, 3M and due-diligence practices. The suppliers can provide complete supply teams provide useful venues for 3M to chain information all the way to the offer their ideas and learn from other forest sources, or they can easily member companies as we all work forward parts of the online survey to together on this important journey of their suppliers (paper or pulp mills, for transforming our supply chains. example) for completion. 182 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 183 Pulp and paper field assessments Each assessment results in a Working on overall comprehensive report detailing the supplier’s performance compared policy conformance to our policy requirements and for suppliers provides action items to address any performance gaps. We expect each In 2016, 3M and EF created a Policy supplier to develop corrective action Conformance Self-Assessment Tool plans with reasonable timelines and with the purpose of having the 3M concurrently continue to collaborate Tier 1 suppliers assess themselves with 3M on the resolution of identified against all aspects of the 3M Pulp Completed and Paper Sourcing Policy. Since the opportunities. More information on these assessments and other creation of this tool, we have been We partner with a third-party provider, With the help of EF, we have so collaborative efforts can be found in partnering with our Tier 1 suppliers Earthworm Foundation (EF), to help us far conducted our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy to have them complete this self14 review the information we obtain from Progress Reports, including: assessment. In addition to the selfour supplier surveys and combine that assessment, we have created and with geography and industry-specific • Training in Brazil: In April 2019, EF, implemented a Pulp and Paper knowledge to conduct “desktop” risk 3M, and other EF members brought Sourcing Policy Scorecard, which assessments of our supply chains. We together six major Brazilian forestry will allow 3M to evaluate a supplier use these assessments to prioritize further engagement and to learn field assessments companies for an intensive training course, “Free, Prior, and Informed against all aspects of the 3M policy. We began rolling out this scorecard more about our suppliers’ responsible across all regions Consent (FPIC): From Theory to with prioritized suppliers in 2019, sourcing and sustainable forestry Practice.” FPIC is a specific right completing evaluations of suppliers covering more than that pertains to indigenous practices. This deeper engagement in each region. The results of the 16 million hectares. peoples — it allows them to give or evaluation provide 3M further insight could take the form of a series of web conferences, in-person meetings, or withhold consent to a project that into each suppliers’ conformance status Some of those assessments reviewed field assessments at the mill and/ may affect them or their territories. while also highlighting opportunities Tier 2 pulp mills and were also attended or forest level. We do not limit this With a better understanding of the and areas to focus improvement. The by a Tier 1 supplier. 3M’s participation engagement to our direct suppliers. theory behind FPIC, as well as the goal is that the evaluation results create in supplier field assessments with EF In fact, as appropriate, we will work formal FPIC protocols, companies a path to work together to further helps us to understand firsthand the directly with indirect (Tier 2 and can greatly improve how they advance the Sustainability of the challenges faced by pulp and paper Tier 3) suppliers on policy conformance engage with communities to prevent global pulp and paper supply chain. companies and forest managers around verification work, with a goal of and/or resolve social conflicts the world. This, in turn, enables us involving our direct (Tier 1) supplier(s) in • Great Northern Boreal Forest: Through this partnership and to participate actively in developing these activities whenever possible. 3M and EF are committed to engagement with our suppliers, we solutions and advancing conversations working with suppliers to promote have seen many suppliers make about responsible sourcing and the protection of high conservation significant progress in their own sustainable forestry. values in the Great Northern programs, ranging from enhancing Forest (the northernmost forests their own policy(s) and due diligence of the globe) and the ability of the management systems to creating forests to provide wildlife habitat, policies that did not previously exist. We have seen many suppliers make ecosystem services, and natural beauty for generations to come significant progress in their own programs. 184 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 185 i n g o wa k r d L or o f Conservation in Collaboration for change We recognize the supply chains of many materials involve both risks and opportunities. the Carolinas 3M Brazil is a signatory to the National By collaborating with strategic partners, we Pact to Eradicate Slave Labor and are continuing to improve our supply chain In May 2017, 3M helped launch joined InPACTO — the Institute for the management systems: the Carolinas Working Forest Conservation Collaborative (CWFCC) National Pact — a trade association • 3M is conducting a LSS project to expand the along with the American Forest focused exclusively on collaborative use of our third-party resources to conduct Foundation (AFF), International Paper, efforts among members, including more assessments. The project is global in scope and Procter & Gamble. The biggest 3M, and committed to the goals of the and will positively impact the methodology, accomplishment to date has been the National Pact. resources, and results of our efforts ability to assemble and mobilize the right local partners who have a keen Supplier recognition • We will increase efforts with providers of pulp and paper to improve and evaluate their sense of the challenges family forest Our supplier recognition program understanding and conformance with 3M’s owners are facing and the expertise to seeks to recognize those outstanding environmental and social expectations, which reach and motivate them to take forest suppliers that help us succeed in may include field visits. We are investing in stewardship actions to enhance habitat. accomplishing our Vision of 3M transformation projects that will enhance the Find more details on AFF’s website. Technology Advancing Every Company, global pulp and paper supply chain 3M Products Enhancing Every Home, Family Forest and 3M Innovation Improving • 3M is committed to expanding our due-diligence efforts for higher-risk materials to further Carbon Program Every Life. mitigate risk to our business and advance responsible supply chains In 2019, 3M became a proud partner Each year, 3M sourcing professionals of the Family Forest Carbon Program nominate exemplary suppliers • 3M will continue to streamline and improve (FFCP), a new approach to climate to be recognized for world-class its supplier diversity program change mitigation developed by the performance based on strategic • We look forward to continuing 3M’s American Forest Foundation and The support, contract compliance, actions new partnership with the Family Forest Nature Conservancy. The FFCP aims to taken to improve 3M’s competitiveness, Carbon Program increase the carbon storage of familyand overall supplier performance. owned forestland while creating a • In October 2020, 3M will host a sustainable new market and source of income for In 2019, 3M formally supplier expo, featuring dozens of supplier Sustainability solutions that will help accelerate the families that dedicate time and recognized 26 effort to their forest management. Our our Sustainability Value Commitment support will expedite family forest In 2021, the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation will owner outreach and enable family take effect and will expect companies to take forest owners to take action on their a wider view of their sourcing practices. 3M’s land, providing measurable carbon Conflict Minerals program will expand to focus benefits as well as important cosuppliers among explicitly on regions beyond the Democratic benefits that improve wildlife habitat, water quality, wildfire risk reduction, thousands Republic of the Congo. 3M’s SRC covers foundational expectations for our suppliers by and more. in its global supply base for worldtaking a holistic approach to supply chain due class performance in providing diligence in areas of labor, environmental health products and/or services. and safety, ethics, and management. Members of our European Government Affairs Team have been Learn more about the Supplier of the closely aligned with industry and government to Year Award. understand the scope, impacts, and timing of the new European regulation. The team has proactively assessed potential applicability, so 3M will be best prepared to implement the new rule. 186 How we work Suppliers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 187 Introduction 190 What Our customers 192 Innovation management 198 Our products 208 we create 188 What we create Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 189 Our customers’ challenges are Using our 51 Technology Platforms We have established aggressive goals, ranging from requiring 100% our challenges. and collaborative culture, our people apply their talent of new products to combine our to obtain a technologies across Sustainability Value businesses, creating Commitment unique solutions for to energy efficiency, to communitywide approaches to water management our customers and and to helping our customers reduce society, all in support their greenhouse gas emissions. We have also set Sustainability goals of the greater good. around building a diverse workforce and educating individuals on worker and patient safety in health care and industrial settings. We are committed to connecting our fundamental strengths to our customers. 190 What we create Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 191 Our customers Partnering with customers Creating competitive or This new structure supports and f to innovate and grow. advantages for customers and for 3M ie un ce nity advances our four strategic priorities. We are strengthening our ability to meet Sc mm the fast-moving needs of our customers. Our new alignment will leverage our At 3M, many of our products are either Co business transformation progress, Our specified (designed for the customer) or regulated (meeting specific accelerate growth, and deliver greater operational efficiencies. commitment performance and other requirements). Working in both categories carries us Portfolio management continues to be a key to the way we are prioritizing through multiple commerce channels, Goal: Provide training to Whether it’s technology, businesses to emphasize the greatest distribution models, direct models, manufacturing, global capabilities, retail models, and, increasingly, five million people globally value creators in our portfolio and how or our brand, we are committed to e-commerce. In every channel, we on worker and patient we’re looking at potential acquisitions, connecting our fundamental strengths safety by 2025. divestitures, and partnerships. maintain a customer-first focus, to our customers. We engage them making sure we’re in a position to and delve into their processes, their problems, and their promises to their deliver value when, where, and how We will continue to support Transformation: continuing empowerment and enrichment for customers. We bring our technology they want it. global health and safety issues through a critical journey to them, along with a deep domain of expertise, and we deepen it further Building Sustainability our commitment to improve the health In 2019, we made great progress on and safety of people worldwide. To by working side by side with them into all new products measure progress against this goal, our transformation journey, which as partners. leverages our strengths in technology, we will track the number of training In 2019, we strengthened our manufacturing, global capabilities, and experiences delivered by our Health Throughout the process, we not only 2025 goal (invest to develop more brand to provide a more positive overall Care and Personal Safety Academies. meet their expressed needs — we sustainable materials and products experience for our customers. Specific accomplishments include: Our actions are often able to identify and address to help our customers reach their unarticulated needs. In both cases, environmental goals) by requiring • Successfully deployed ERP we create solutions for them and, that 100% of our products entering (enterprise resource planning) systems at the same time, innovative growth the new product commercialization Four strategic priorities deliver in Europe and the United States platforms for 3M. process include a Sustainability value for our customers: portfolio Value Commitment (SVC) that management, transformation, • Simplified, standardized, and Additional details can be found in the demonstrates how it drives impact innovation, and people and culture. redesigned business processes Innovation management section. for the greater good. • Advanced streamlined, end-to-end In all, we work to understand our engagement with customers By embedding Sustainability into customers’ business models, what our R&D process, our brands, and they have promised their customers, • Created value through new the mindset of our customers and what our role is in the value chain, and service models suppliers, we’re able to move 3M’s how we can help them deliver on their Moving forward, we will work to enhance growth to new levels and advance promises. It is our Vision, as we aspire customer service, increase value creation, our commitment to improving our to advance every company, enhance leverage ERP capabilities, streamline business, our planet, and every life. every home, and improve every life. deployments, and expand the utilization For that reason, we are combining the of data and analytics. reporting of our 2025 goal with our Portfolio management new Science for Circular Sustainability Value Commitment goal. To enable our company to better serve global markets and customers, 3M Additional details can be found in the realigned from five to four business Innovation management section. groups in April 2019. 192 What we create Our customers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report Global Capabilities #improvinglives 193 Customer-inspired Collaborating and Some of the problems addressed in our technical centers and labs are We find that collaborating with customers in their own spaces can “We focus so much innovation creating locally connected to regional and local issues. be extremely beneficial. For example, on the doctor, nurse, and patient Globally, for example, rapid population in 2019, 3M partnered with a major Technology itself is not sufficient to When collaboration results in growth in urban areas is creating academic health system based in the create differentiated products and meaningful innovation — solving real solutions. Our innovation truly comes problems — it can be awe-inspiring. challenges related to energy efficiency, clean water, and environmental Midwest on a project designed to drive insights for service and solutions. — but everyone from the dock from the confluence of customer To get there, we believe it’s essential protection. Our local scientists leverage Together, we tracked a high-volume and market insights, technology, to be close to our customers. 3M technologies to develop relevant medical product through every stage and a culture of collaboration and entrepreneurship. We strive to invent That’s why 3M has 56 customer solutions that are unique to their region, of the supply chain to understand their worker to the products that are not only new but useful. That is why 3M scientists work technical centers across the globe, where our customers can experience often collaborating with local customers. See how 3M India addressed a local needs related to Sustainability. The immersive three-day research waste handler directly with customers to solve their firsthand the breadth of 3M technologies and how they can benefit public safety issue in our feature story, “Cooler trains.” activity involved a multidisciplinary team representing Sustainability, interacts in some unique challenges. We take the time to get to know them, learn how they live from them. We also have laboratories 3M Design Centers are located in Packaging, Engineering, Tech Service, Front End Innovation, Industrial Design, way with our and work, and understand what we can do to improve their lives. Collaborating and application engineering capabilities in 50 countries where the United States (at 3M’s headquarters Supply Chain Management, health products.” in St. Paul, Minnesota), Italy, Japan, care providers, and facility operations. with customers assures us we are in tune our scientists work closely with our India, and, new in 2019, China. The team followed the journey of a — Heather Webb with their needs. Our most successful customers to develop solutions for The centers provide 3M employees 3M medical product from the Innovation Strategy Manager products are infused with strategic their specific problems. with new ways to incorporate design inventory center to the supply rooms 3M Medical Solutions Division customer insights throughout the thinking into graphic and industrial within the hospitals to the recycling entire product development process. design, user experience, and design and disposal centers. At each step, research. Bolstered by a global design the team observed the flow of organization with materials, had conversations with the 140 stakeholders in each department, and conducted in-depth interviews. Customer insights Customer-inspired innovation Customer One notable finding was that while Needs designers around those in Purchasing at the hospital are aware of a product’s Sustainability the globe, benefits, the health care providers 3M’s Design Centers help spark new who use the products are not. A key ways to enhance the brand experience, recommendation was to incorporate advance innovation, and create relevant Sustainability information into customer-driven solutions that positively product training — a helpful insight for impact the world. both the customer and 3M. Insights Understanding the full life cycle of medical products within a health care system, the touchpoints along the journey, and the different waste streams they enter has brought valuable Domain Technology learnings back to 3M, helping us Expertise make continuous improvements to the solutions we deliver to our customers. 194 What we create Our customers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 195 n i rd g o wak Education that raises Continuing education is available Our health and safety training takes Our Roadshow can’t reach everyone, L or o f in areas including medical, dental, place on the road, on the manufacturing so in China, we launched a series of everyone’s bar orthodontics, health information floor, and online. cartoon game-based trainings to help systems, food safety, health care workers increase their understanding Proper use of health and safety In several parts of the world, we use Sustainability, drug delivery systems, of health and safety concepts related products is critical for infection mobile vehicles to bring training and and consumer health and wellness. to personal protective equipment. prevention, personal safety, and education directly to companies and As a large and diverse global science Many professionals utilize our training Workers scan a QR code to access the overall health. Building on our existing workers at their job sites. This enables company with customers spanning courses to accrue continuing education training where they can view content customer education programs, 3M us to reach more people and provide many industries and global markets, credits toward their professional and complete a training quiz from their has created training libraries that more training instances. The 3M we have the opportunity to make an certification. This online training is a mobile phones. are accessible to customers anytime Safety Roadshow is a fully-equipped even greater impact in Sustainability. convenient option for busy health and anywhere, including on-demand mobile training center that showcases As part of our strategic focus on education, live webinars, in-person care professionals. In 2019, the total 3M’s industrial safety expertise and empowering Science for Circular, events, and education resources. Our purpose is the same for our Personal personal protective equipment. It number of training Science for Climate, and Science for Safety Division. In a rapidly evolving travels to multiple locations each instances was Community, we will work to design We deliver educational content to 589,000. business and occupational health and year and provides in-person safety a world where 10 billion people can health care professionals at hospitals safety environment, our education and training, education, and demonstrations. thrive by applying boundaryless, and clinics, professional conferences, training programs can instruct workers Supported by 3M’s highly credentialed collaborative science to reinvent the and via online webinars — all around on workplace safety hazards and health technical service staff, the Safety products, processes, and systems the world, through 3MSM Health risks, personal protection equipment (as Roadshow partners with industrial This includes our e-learning platforms that improve every life. Care Academy. This not only helps regulated by the Occupational Safety facilities across the United States and in-classroom events. customers get the most out of our We will continue to leverage our and Health Administration, or OSHA), and India to promote safety and build products; it is part of our commitment diversified technology portfolio to and the proper use and maintenance of confidence. to help professionals improve outcomes create innovative solutions for our 3M products. for their patients and customers. customers and markets. Our Technology Platforms continue to evolve — addressing the changing and anticipated needs of high-growth markets. 196 What we create Our customers 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 197 Innovation management 3M has earned more than 120,000 patents over the years, a testament to the strength of our innovation engine. Every item we sell must meet rigorous quality standards and must be safe for its intended use. As detailed in our Product Safety, Each 3M business must maintain processes for the effective global review of product safety, compliance, and stewardship requirements. This Applying science to create Over the past Quality, and Stewardship Principle, includes consideration of EHS aspects relevant throughout the life 5 years, 3M has located under 3M’s Code of Conduct – cycle of a product, including raw earned an average of Be Fair, product safety, quality, and Sustainability solutions. 3,780 material selection, product design, stewardship must always be primary formulation, manufacturing, marketing, considerations during the design, sale, intended and anticipated use or manufacturing, marketing, and sale misuse, recycling, reuse, repurpose, of 3M products. 3M employees and disposal. The process must meet Our must know and follow all applicable They are managed by the company and can be leveraged by any of the Our 15% Culture — instituted six decades ago — inspires creativity, patents per year. laws, regulations, and 3M policies, and maintain continuous compliance with applicable national, regional, standards, and procedures for product commitment businesses to serve their respective risk-taking, and collaboration. It gives and local regulations, as well as customers or markets. The policies and standards that guide safety, quality, and stewardship and 3M expectations. These business employees the freedom to take risks the design, manufacturing, marketing, must diligently report and respond processes must be incorporated and learn from mistakes. That freedom All of our businesses are connected and sale of 3M products share a to concerns. 3M management is into New Product Introduction (NPI) At 3M, we apply science by our fundamental strengths — is essential to scientific discovery. common foundation: the 3M Code of responsible for addressing reported and product Change Management Employees can spend 15% of their time to improve lives. technology, manufacturing, global on projects that interest them. These Conduct. The Code of Conduct is an concerns and assuring that 3M Process (CMP) procedures. Product capabilities, and brand — which allows overarching guide to the appropriate employees are properly trained safety, compliance, and stewardship projects and ideas might eventually But just as society’s challenges us to invent, build, and sell products decisions and actions of 3M individuals in applicable laws and regulations requirements must be integrated into become successful new 3M products. continue to evolve, so does our across our vast global network. and teams as they go about their as well as 3M policies, standards, the development, commercialization, science. We are relentlessly evolving work. It defines our values and the and procedures. and sale of 3M products. and adapting our technologies in order to help solve the problems of today and R&D is our responsibilities that 3M employees and 3M suppliers must meet. Further, we take it as our responsibility In addition, we have established tomorrow. We created our 3M Periodic Table of Technology Platforms 13 years heartbeat. All of our Under this broad umbrella of values to produce products with superior environmental performance across an internal standard to assure uniform compliance globally for the businesses are ago, and in 2019, we updated it to are principles, policies, standards, their entire life cycle, including product manufacturing, sale, testing, and We continue to invest in scientific assure it accurately reflected our focus and guidelines that more specifically reuse and repurpose, and to work with promotion of medical devices, food or research and product development and investment in technologies for the future. The new 3M Periodic Table in close partnership with our connected by outline what 3M believes is the ethical approach to various work our suppliers and business partners so that their operations support these drink, food or drink supplements, food or drink additives, drugs, and cosmetics customers and the marketplace. R&D has a total of 51 Technology Platforms. fosters a constant stream of unique our fundamental situations, including situations that same objectives. for use in or with humans or animals. Most of our Technology Platforms involve innovation management of are unchanged. We added nine new and cutting-edge products that drive organic growth. strengths — 3M products. Product Safety, Technology Platforms, changed eight, and two were divested. The result is In fact, in 2019, technology, Product Safety, Quality, Compliance, and 51 Technology Platforms aligned with manufacturing, Stewardship Policy we invested and Stewardship $1.91B our future growth opportunities. Our 51 Technology Platforms are global capabilities, Principle 3M’s Product Safety, Compliance, and Stewardship Policy underscores shared and combined across and brand. Our customers depend on 3M’s our commitment to commercializing and selling products that are safe for businesses and regions to invent products to advance, enhance, and unique products for a variety of improve their companies, homes, and their intended uses; compliant with industries. No single business owns or nearly 5.9% of our lives — and we have a responsibility all applicable environmental, health, any of these platforms. sales back into R&D. to live up to those expectations. For this reason, we must strive to produce and safety (EHS) regulations and 3M expectations; and developed with only the highest-quality products. a goal to continuously improve the EHS performance of products and corresponding manufacturing processes. 198 What we create Innovation management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 199 Chemicals Alternatives to or As with our other policies, each business must maintain processes f Management Policy that assure the appropriate review animal testing n ce of any advertising or claims about c ie lar S rcu 3M is a science-based company 3M is a major advocate for the use, its products. This includes Ci committed to applying our scientific wherever practicable, of alternative substantiation of claims through expertise to improving lives. Helping test methods (non-animal) to help testing based on sound statistical people live safe and productive lives is develop safe products. 3M is a strong and scientific principles. important to 3M — for our employees, contributor in this area and is currently our customers, and everyone living utilizing many of these alternative on the planet. Chemicals are essential Hazard communication methods, such as computational for producing 3M’s broad range of Communicating the potential hazards toxicology and in vitro testing using Goal: Every 3M product products, and part of 3M’s role in of 3M materials supports 3M’s isolated tissues or cells. We are also entering the new product helping people live safely is effective investing in the internal and external core values and is an integral part commercialization process and responsible chemical management. development of new methodologies of keeping stakeholders informed that replace animal testing, and we will include a Sustainability about 3M materials. The vehicles 3M’s Chemicals Management Policy actively engage with governments, Value Commitment (SVC) that reflects the evolving values of 3M for communicating these hazards and product chemical components lobbying groups, and industry demonstrates how it drives and our stakeholders. Under this partners to help further the science policy, to continuously improve the include safety data sheets (SDS), impact for the greater good. for the appropriate use of non-animal environmental, health, and safety product labels, product literature, methods. Where animal testing attributes of our products, 3M has instructions for use, transportation In 2019, we strengthened our 2025 is required, we follow our Animal identified specific chemicals whose classification documentation, and goal (invest to develop more Welfare in Testing and Research Policy. use in products and manufacturing other communications tools, including sustainable materials and products a newly launched Ingredient to help our customers reach their processes is subject to restrictions Communication website on 3M.com. Human Subject environmental goals) by requiring that or specific management actions. Each business must use corporate Research Policy 100% of our products entering the processes that evaluate the potential new product commercialization process Advertising and Product hazards of 3M materials and Our Human Subject Research Policy include an SVC. Many companies Representation Principle transmit, in local country language(s), protects the rights, safety, and welfare view the topic of Sustainability in information about the hazards of human subjects who participate product development as a challenge, but 3M’s reputation as a responsible to employees, contractors, and in 3M-supported research. All at 3M, we welcome it and have taken company extends to the products customers; it must meet all regulatory supported research involving human an aggressive approach — working and services we offer and how requirements and 3M standards subjects must be conducted in to identify and understand future we represent them. 3M must and guidelines; and it must promote accordance with all applicable national, Sustainability needs, and expanding our communicate honestly and accurately informed decisions about the regional, and local ethical and legal portfolio of products, filling them with about 3M’s products and services. materials’ proper and safe handling, rules and regulations and must be Sustainability advantages. Learn more by visiting our Advertising use, and disposal. conducted in accordance with three and Product Representation Principle. principles, as described in the Belmont By embedding Sustainability into Report: respect for person, justice, our R&D process, our brands, and It’s our policy to represent our the mindset of our customers and and beneficence. products truthfully, fairly, and suppliers, we’re able to move 3M’s accurately in all sales, advertising, packaging, and promotional efforts. Helping people growth to new levels and advance our commitment to improving our All product claims must be substantiated and technically accurate, live safe and business, our planet, and every life. as specified by the Advertising and Product Representation Policy. productive lives is important to 3M. 200 What we create Innovation management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 201 Our actions Sustainability Framework. Examples of considerations include reusability; recyclability; energy, waste, and water Throughout 2019, we deployed our NPI process through a new system called 3M|Grow. This robust It’s about our technology but not just stand-alone science: it is technology supported by deep intellectual Fundamental Global Product Stewardship, Green Chemistry, and Climate are a few of the chapters within Tech Forum. The challenges we must tackle for a savings; and responsible sourcing or use framework for developing products property, combined with multiple other Strengths sustainable future can seem nebulous, of renewable materials appropriate to the from idea to launch incorporates our technologies to enable us to do unique Unique and differentiated value In 2019, Tech Forum but we see them clearly. They are specific product throughout its life cycle. SVC in each phase of our process. things with and for our customers. showcased over 500 broad. They are interrelated. They are solvable — with the help of science. An SVC can also stem from a core Unique and 3M power is also about our • Technology We at 3M have the unique opportunity purpose in which the product helps manufacturing strength. We’re to solve an environmental or social differentiated value differentiated and advantaged in the • Manufacturing to apply our passion for science and collaborate enterprise-wide to challenge — such as improving air marketplace through in-house 3M • Global capabilities events The power of 3M is in the way we find solutions. quality, reducing greenhouse gas manufacturing site ownership that also • Brand including topics such as Sustainable connect our fundamental strengths emissions, or improving worker and leverages 3M intellectual property. Polymers, Green Adhesives, Green to customers. Those strengths are our 3M’s SVC patient safety in health care and technology, manufacturing, global One-third of our intellectual property Innovators, Sustainability Driven industrial settings. sits in manufacturing, much of it in Innovation, Bioinspired Materials, capabilities, and brand. They define In 2019, 100% of new products entering The impact of 3M’s new product us as an enterprise and combine to trade secrets, enabling us to deliver Leveraging team and Advanced Materials for Energy the new product commercialization higher-quality, better-performing, more process described their Sustainability requirement is global in scale. Beyond build a business greater than the sum competitive products in the marketplace. collaboration and Conversion and Storage. of its parts. The power of 3M arises impact and how they drove impact for 3M’s own operations, a primary reason from our deep understanding of what strategic partnerships To celebrate 3M’s culture of the greater good. for the goal is to help customers True global capabilities require more collaboration between 3M employees achieve their Sustainability goals. differentiates us in our performance than just presence in international 3M is able to transform diverse in every field, Tech Forum hosts the An SVC is a clear demonstration of how This new product goal creates even across every business in our enterprise. markets. They require the skills of our ideas and creativity into superior annual Made by You event to connect the product incorporates environmental more opportunities to collaborate It truly reflects how we’re linked international organization to execute technologies, business assets, and employees and resources. Whether the or social factors to contribute to our with customers on solutions that help together in our portfolio, even though our business models and enable us to innovative product platforms. item is made for 3M, with 3M products, aspirations laid out in our Strategic improve lives around the world. we might operate in multiple markets. enter those markets successfully — or just for fun, it’s the opportunity to to take our fundamental strengths One of the many things that makes 3M highlight how the employee brings and applications almost anywhere a singular company is our commitment ideas to life at 3M. in the world. We have sales in nearly to collaboration. There are no silos all countries, with two-thirds of our here. We collaborate with each other 3M Tech Forum isn’t just spreading Key Global capabilities Lithuania Sales & Marketing Operations workforce and sales professionals across businesses, across technologies, ideas internally. The group brings in Switzerland Latvia Manufacturing & Converting working outside the United States. and across oceans and continents. ideas from strategic partners. In 2019, Germany Estonia Poland Technical Capabilities United States Sweden Finland By employing integration and they featured BASF Sustainability Day Netherlands Austria Czech Slovakia *3M Gulf consists of UAE, collaboration across our businesses, Case in point: 3M Tech Forum, a selfCanada Belgium Norway Republic Ukraine Qatar, Lebanon, Egypt, at 3M, a presentation on Technology Denmark Hungary geographies, and scientific disciplines, directed and self-organized catalyst UK Oman, Kuwait, and Bahrain Challenges and Opportunities in Romania Kazakhstan we effectively and efficiently bring for the 10,000-plus people in 3M’s Mexico Russia Recycling Solar Panels with MN Ireland new ideas and products from the lab to technical community. Begun more France China Pollution Control Agency, and a Guatemala the factory to customers’ homes and than 60 years ago, Tech Forum gives Italy Japan presentation on the World of Materials Honduras Jamaica South Korea businesses everywhere. 3M researchers the opportunity to Dominican Portugal Research in The School of Materials Republic Taiwan Hong Kong compare notes with global colleagues, El Salvador Spain Science and Engineering at the Georgia Puerto Rico Greece Vietnam Finally, it’s our brand — 3M Science. collaborate around the company’s Costa Rica Institute of Technology. Panama Philippines Applied to Life.™— that adds value to 51 Technology Platforms, and develop Morocco 3M Trinidad Gulf* Malaysia every one of our businesses across new ideas that fuel the 3M innovation Additional information on collaboration Turkey & Tobago Egypt Pakistan Indonesia all our markets. pipeline. The collaboration takes at 3M can be found in the Our Brazil Nigeria Colombia Venezuela India place at an annual global event, spring customers section. Israel Australia Peru Paraguay New Zealand Leveraging these fundamental symposium, recognition programs, and Ecuador Uruguay Saudi Bolivia South Africa Arabia Thailand strengths — technology, manufacturing, many chapter events held throughout Singapore Kenya global capabilities, and brand — is the year. Chile Argentina what truly creates the power of 3M. Sales in 200 Manufacturing & converting Laboratory & application engineering Sales & marketing operations countries/regions in 36 countries/regions in 50 countries/regions in 70 countries/regions 202 What we create Innovation management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 203 A process built for Life cycle management (LCM) is 3M’s A product stewardship Our framework for product stewardship Our audit program is agile, and we In 2019, the Sustainability and Product approach to assuring that EHS and provides structure and consistency for Stewardship Department offered innovation associated regulatory considerations framework that overseeing daily activities in a proactive, have conducted deep dives into specialty topics as requested by our 27 live programs and added 24 onNew-to-the-world processes are are integrated into the development continues to advance not reactive, mode. For example, businesses who are seeking to improve demand sessions to the educational and commercialization of 3M we have a self-auditing program to their operations or meet evolving catalog for the product stewardship primarily developed in 3M’s Corporate Responsibility for product stewardship products through 3M’s NPI process. identify leading indicators instead of external standards, including audits network. The corporation sponsors R&D Process Laboratory, and the at 3M is shared across a broad During NPI, our business teams waiting until non-compliance. 3M has for life cycle assessment and human a 750-page website containing over development of these new processes spectrum of functions positioned within provide LCM deliverables. These been on the leading edge of product subject research. 1,200 reference documents dedicated is captured in our New Technology businesses, regions, and corporate include, at a minimum, raw material stewardship audits, beginning with selfto product stewardship and global Introduction (NTI) framework: staff groups. Together, individuals composition; assessments in human assessments in international regions in 3M values the continued professional regulatory requirements. We also health and environmental toxicology, across this spectrum work to support 2007, and incorporating global on-site development of its product stewardship publish a monthly global newsletter • Explore: Identify the market opportunity electrical and mechanical safety, and 3M’s core value of respect for our audits in 2014. These audits evaluate, professionals. In addition to supporting to keep the network informed of • Qualify: Identify superior product social and physical environment. attendance at a wide variety of external other disciplines, as appropriate; among other elements, product hazard recent and upcoming regulatory and concepts to meet customer needs classes and conferences, we offer an conformance to regulatory and and risk assessment, chemical control, program changes. We have over 400 product stewards, • Deploy: Develop the technical solution customer EHS requirements; and life cycle management, and consumer internal education program covering embedded within 3M businesses and hazard communication documents. product safety. The goal of these audits regulatory updates, policies and Meanwhile, our NPI process provides countries of operation, who act as is to assure that regions and businesses standards, toxicology, systems and the robust framework for developing champions of product EHS, regulatory Likewise, we evaluate LCM impacts are meeting corporate standards and to business processes, and orientation to products from idea to launch. compliance, and Sustainability. They from product modifications through share best practices globally. product responsibility. our corporate product CMP. We help assure our products meet or Together, 3M’s NTI and NPI processes leverage these LCM processes exceed requirements stemming from provide a common framework for to continuously improve the EHS 3M policies, governmental regulations, technology and product performance of our products. and from our customers. commercialization for all global business. Information is required at every step, or gate, in the process, along with deliverable tasks. Having consistent practices throughout the company for technology and product Life Cycle Management creation assists in risk analysis by providing a common language from which to share tools and best practices Research & and manage project portfolios. Development Product innovation that takes the long view Raw Materials Manufacturing Acquisition & Production 3M works to produce products with superior environmental performance across their entire life cycle. We also work with our suppliers and business partners so that their operations support Distribution & Disposal/ these same objectives. These efforts Transportation Recycling together help define, protect, and assure the long-term success of our company. Product Use & Reuse 204 What we create Innovation management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 205 n i rd g o wak Life cycle assessments We realize that we can make far Composition disclosure L oro f greater contributions to addressing (LCA) where relevant and feasible climate change concerns by helping our customers reduce their In 2019, 3M launched an Ingredient Communication website to We realize that we In addition to the LCM program, which greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through use of our products. To provide customers with complete ingredient information for over 550 can make far greater applies to all 3M products, we also conduct LCAs for select 3M products. calculate these customer emission reductions toward our Science for consumer-formulated products. The contributions to In 2020, our product stewardship professionals from across the globe will attend a week-long website provides transparency into At 3M, our ISO 14040-compliant LCAs Climate goal, we have established a 3M formulations by identifying addressing climate Global Product Stewardship Conference with workshops, customer presentations, external are typically cradle-to-gate, since our products often have use and disposal process based on life cycle thinking and the ISO 14064-2 standard for intentionally added ingredients and select contaminants. The function change concerns speakers, executive panels, and training. The life cycle stages that are dependent on how our customers use these comparing emissions from the project scenario against a baseline scenario. of each ingredient in the product is defined, thereby allowing customers by helping our main objectives of the conference are to: customers reduce • Advance our customer-driven focus within products. This often provides a unique Additional details of these efforts can to know exactly why a chemical is the global product stewardship organization opportunity for collaboration to help be found in the Climate and energy present in a specified product. The our customers understand and reduce section of this report. website also provides direct links to their greenhouse • Leverage systems and processes to assure compliance, improve customer gas (GHG) emissions their environmental impact. each product’s SDS. The website pages are designed to be easily printable, response, standardize processes, and We also complete ISO 14040compliant cradle-to-gate LCAs for allowing channel partners to quickly access the information and meet their through use of gain productivity • Share solutions from country to country several internally produced materials. The evaluation of these intermediates workplace requirements. our products. for addressing product stewardship challenge areas allows us to better understand the potential environmental impacts of key • Raise global competency levels through components and processes used in the training and workshops, with a focus on production of our products. Our LCA building high-performing and diverse teams also conduct LCA screenings to global talent help answer internal questions early • Integrate 3M’s Strategic Sustainability in product development. Framework into the product stewardship role In 2019, 3M LCA teams in the In 2020, 3M will release its global product United States and Europe renewed Change Management Process and application, their process certifications from consolidating more than 100 systems used The International EPD® System today to capture product change history. to demonstrate that appropriate Our priority is to assure changes are properly procedures are in place to produce evaluated, communicated, and approved prior scientifically sound, technically to implementation. defensible LCAs and EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations). In 2021, 3M will launch its redesigned LCM system, called LCM Redesign. LCM Redesign The teams will continue to undergo will integrate multiple product stewardship an annual recertification process systems and processes onto a single platform that evaluates conformance of the to achieve greater visibility, consistency, underlying management system with and productivity in managing the extensive the program rules and ISO standards. product stewardship and Sustainability data This global certification of the LCA for our more than 55,000 products. process for multiple parts of our organization is thought to be the first of its kind. 206 What we create Innovation management 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 207 Our products Embedding a Sustainability Value Commitment in all business groups. Safety & Industrial Our $32.1B * Sustainability $11.6B Also included are products whose core purpose is helping to solve examples commitment an environmental and/or social concern. Examples include improving air quality, reducing greenhouse gas • Roofing granules that harness 2019 net sales At 3M, we share emissions, improving patient outcomes, 2019 net sales the power of the sun to help improve air quality and enhancing worker safety in technology, manufacturing, industrial settings. • Roofing granules that keep roofs marketing, and other cool and save on HVAC energy Our markets 3M’s new product requirement will resources across our Our markets have a global impact on our operations • Light-redirecting films, tapes, and four business groups in 70 countries where we operate and materials that enable high-efficiency solar panels on the products we sell in nearly every in order to increase our country. It will also help our customers • Wind protection tapes that help speed and efficiency and reach their own Sustainability goals. Driving industrial performance improve turbine uptime bring product solutions It’s another important step forward — better, safer, connected to different markets. in our ambition to apply science to Starting in 2019, 100% of our improve every life — through our Strategic Sustainability Framework Our business focus products entering the new product and through each of our four Our Safety & Industrial Business Group commercialization process must business groups. provides thousands of innovative describe their Sustainability Value solutions and products. By utilizing Commitment (SVC), demonstrating Most important, the new product Abrasives $1.414B data from digitally connecting Abrasives $1.41B how they drive impact for the greater requirement impacts 3M employees. sources to connect workers, materials, Automotive $1.243B Aftermarket good. This formal requirement is When you work for 3M, you are Automotive $1.24B and machinery, we help improve Closure and Masking $1.111B significant because it embeds changing the world. aftermarket Safety Safety& & Industrial $11.6B $11.607B productivity and quality outcomes for Electrical Markets $1.200B Sustainability into the pipeline that Industrial our customers. Our products apply 3M produces 3M’s diverse global products. For more information on our SVC, see Health Care $7.431B Closure and masking Industrial Adhesives $2.737B $1.11B science to help protect the health and and Tapes the Innovation management section. Personal Safety $3.508B Transportation & Transportation $9.60B $9.602B safety of workers worldwide. Electrical markets $1.20B Examples of considerations in Our actions & Energy Electronics Roofing Granules $0.366B developing SVCs for new 3M products include recyclability, energy and Consumer $5.089B Industrial adhesives $2.74B water savings, responsible sourcing, Health Care $7.43B and tapes renewable materials, and the In 2019, we delivered sales of appropriate reuse of a product. $32.1 billion. Personal safety $3.51B Consumer $5.09B Roofing granules $0.37B *In addition to our four business groups, $32.1B includes elimination of dual credit, and corporate and unallocated business segments. 208 What we create Our products 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 209 Transportation & Electronics Health Care Sustainability examples $9.60B Sustainability examples $7.43B • Light-weighting vehicles for fuel 2019 net sales • Surgical, vascular, and wound 2019 net sales efficiency care solutions improve health care outcomes, enhance the patient • Energy-saving window films experience, and lower total cost • Water and chemical waste-reducing of care through evidence-based cleaning solutions Our markets solutions, education, and partnership Our markets • 3M™ Envision™ Wrap Films made in • 3M M*Modal CDI Engage One ™ ™ part with bio-based materials solution reduces the administrative burden on physicians and empowers the entire care team to drive better Advanced transportation Using the power of 3M clinical outcomes by enabling the and a connected world science to help make creation of a more complete, compliant, better health possible for and accurate physician note Our business focus people around the world • Food safety solutions help protect the health of consumers by detecting Our Transportation & Electronics Business Group helps our clients Our business focus food contamination and help assure the safety of our food globally while make the impossible possible. Our Our Health Care Business Group providing a significant reduction in people lead innovation by developing Advanced Materials $1.246B Medical Solutions $3.406B connects people, insights, science, waste, energy, and water compared new applications and technologies Advanced Automotive $1.25B $1.943B Medical Oral Care solutions $1.321B $3.41B and technology to solve problems to conventional methods that help customers solve their most materials and Aerospace and make better health possible. Separation and $0.790B challenging problems. We are on the Commercial Solutions $1.760B • 3M™ Lava™ Zirconia all-ceramic Oral care Purification Sciences $1.32B leading edge of building new platforms We deliver practical, proven solutions dental restorations are milled from Automotive Electronics $1.94B $3.710B Health Information $1.177B in emerging, high-growth electronics that enable our customers to protect a single zirconia disc, eliminating Separation $0.79B and aerospace Transportation Safety $0.949B Systems market segments, like data centers, and improve the health of people the need for the surrounding plastic and purification Drug Delivery $0.406B grid modernization, and automotive Commercial $1.76B around the world. frame and reducing steps required sciences Food Safety $0.341B electrification. We create solutions solutions by the dentist Health information $1.18B that power and connect cities, homes, systems cars, and people, providing real-time Electronics $3.71B access to data — wherever it’s needed. Drug delivery $0.41B Transportation $0.95B safety Food safety $0.34B 210 What we create Our products Our products 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 211 n i rd g k o wa L oro Consumer f Sustainability examples $4.08B Beyond financial results, in 2019, we continued to position 3M for long-term growth and value creation. 2019 net sales This includes executing on our four • 3M™ Thinsulate™ 100% Recycled priorities: portfolio management; Featherless Insulation is made from transformation; innovation; and plastic bottles people and culture, as discussed in the 3M Value Model and • Scrubbing fibers in Scotch-Brite® Heavy Duty and Non-Scratch Scrub Our markets Our customers sections. Sponges are 100% recycled • Post-it® Super Sticky Notes are made with plant-based adhesive (60% by weight) Bringing 3M to the hearts • Post-it® Flex Write Surface can be written on with both dry-erase and minds of consumers and permanent markers and can be wiped clean with water versus Our business focus a chemical cleaning spray. With an adhesive backing that is 60% Our Consumer Business Group is plant-based home to some of our most iconic brands, including Post-it®, Scotch®, • See more examples here Consumer $0.38B Scotch-Brite™, Filtrete™, Nexcare™, Consumer Health Care $0.38B Command™, ACE™, FUTURO™, and health care Home Care $0.99B Meguiar’s®. These products simplify managing a home or a business and Home Improvement $2.31B Home care $0.99B make lives a little easier and more Stationery and $1.37B efficient. Our wide array of innovative Office Supplies products helps make our customers healthier and stronger and helps keep Home $2.31B homes cleaner, offices organized, Improvement and buildings well-maintained. Stationery and $1.37B office supplies 212 What we create Our products 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 213 About report, scope, and boundaries 216 About Sustainable development goals 220 GRI index 226 SASB index 236 report Assurance statement 238 Metric tables 244 214 About report Introduction 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 215 About report, scope, and Organizational boundaries • Financial data: Financial information referenced in this report is collected and reported in accordance with Base year and other adjustments boundaries the United States Securities and This report covers 3M’s owned 3M’s Annual Report 2019 and Investor Exchange Commission through the manufacturing facilities and leased Relations website document any Annual Report 2019 facilities worldwide, including joint changes to financial data. Several ventures (if greater than 50% 3M • Environmental, health, and safety of 3M’s environmental goals are ownership) and partially-owned (EHS) data: The EHS data in this normalized per net sales. 3M does not subsidiaries (if greater than 50% report is related to the environment, adjust sales data for inflation. 3M ownership) where 3M has full safety performance, management operational control. Acquisitions are systems, implementation, and 3M generally does not adjust its Report schedule included in data sets once legally regulatory compliance. Data base-year environmental metrics owned and fully integrated onto 3M collection systems are in place data to reflect changes in 3M’s organizational structure. As a result, and period. systems. All data included in the at applicable sites to track and report is global data unless otherwise collect environmental, health, 3M sets environmental targets that are specified. Any significant organization and safety data through the normalized or indexed to production Current issue: May 12, 2020 changes are identified in the Annual corporate-wide EHS reporting (tons emitted or net sales) to assure Report 2019 and 2020 Notice of systems (e.g., Environmental the environmental progress we report Next issue: Scheduled for May 2021 Targets Database, EHS 360, etc.) to the public is not unduly influenced Annual Meeting & Proxy statement. by changes to our organizational Previous issue: May 14, 2019 • Social data: The data related to Data collection, employee metrics, social practices, structure. However, in the case of our greenhouse gas emissions data, 3M Before 2010, the Sustainability Report was a fully integrated website. Therefore, adjustments, and and community programs has been follows the World Resource Institute derived from various databases copies before 2010 are not available. verification from within the Human Resources (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and 3M Foundation organizations. This report provides a summary of the The data provided in this report GHG Protocol. Consequently, we This data has been reviewed activities in fiscal year 2019 (January 1, through facts and figures is based on readjust our greenhouse gas emissions and verified by the departments 2019, to December 31, 2019). activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2019. base-year data in the case of business responsible for maintaining the For some performance indicators, the acquisitions and divestitures. internal reporting systems previous year’s data are provided to allow for annual comparisons. • Responsible sourcing systems and Whenever feasible, 3M adjusts basedata: The policies and management year and other years’ data if data Report data collection systems implementation in this collection methods change or data area have been reviewed and errors are identified. Any significant Due to the size and geographical extent verified by the departments changes in the measurement methods of our operations, it is, at times, difficult responsible for maintaining the and/or data values applied to key to obtain all data points. Therefore, to internal reporting systems environmental metrics from previous the extent possible, limitations and years are disclosed in the report. Sites acquired by 3M are integrated assumptions are stated as information Significant changes are defined by this into 3M programs and reporting in the report. This report’s data has Sustainability Report as changes greater systems via a prioritized functional been reviewed for accuracy and than 5% of the original data point. integration schedule. Timeframe completeness, including the reliability for integration varies depending on of the systems used to obtain the data. subject-matter reporting requirements and site systems before being acquired; Unless noted below, corporate staff however, on average, integration have also verified the implementation ranges between 1 to 3 years. of policies and management systems through audits and self-reporting systems. 216 About report About report, scope, and boundaries 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 217 Following the GRI Sustainability framework advances Our material aspects are identified in the GRI index and reflected in Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) In this year’s report, we detail our efforts on our 2018 materiality assessment. two important objectives: transparency and the ability our Sustainability goals, with focus on Science for Circular, Science for For our Sustainability reporting Before conducting this assessment, we reviewed and integrated SASB’s to compare results from one organization to another. Climate, and Science for Community. strategy, we utilize multiple tools and frameworks to assure we are objective, approach to materiality and materiality 3M self-declares this report has been map to help prioritize the most important prepared in accordance with the GRI transparent, and globally relevant focus areas. Standards: comprehensive option. in our public reporting process. This includes GRI, SASB, and the SDGs. UNGC Principles and 2030 SDGs Between 2005 and 2010, 3M adopted have been recalculated for Scope Third-party verification: APEX United Nations Global Compact a holistic definition of waste to drive 3 category 5 and Total Scope 3 Companies, LLC [“Assurance Provider” (UNGC) Communication on With corporate operations in over Refer to the GRI index table for crossthe company’s waste reduction efforts emissions (upstream). The recalculated or “APEX”] provided independent Progress (COP) 70 countries and sales in nearly all references of content in this report toward more sustainable solutions, Scope 3 category 5 values are directly third-party assurance for this countries, our strategy is designed to with the 10 Principles of the UNGC such as pollution prevention. 3M’s comparable. In addition, the 2019 report covering activities January 1, The UNGC is a strategic policy be holistic. GRI was selected as the and alignment with the 2030 SDGs. waste reduction goal and progress value of GHG Scope 3, category 2 2019, to December 31, 2019. APEX initiative for businesses that are primary source referenced due to the committed to aligning their operations global reach of the standard. Refer to the Sustainable development during this period included recycling. (capital goods) substantially increased provided moderate-level assurance and strategies with 10 universally goals tables for alignment between In 2011, 3M returned to a more due to updated emission factors and in accordance with AA1000AS-2008, accepted principles in the areas of For SASB, our diversity of operations 3M’s Sustainability goals and the conventional definition of waste an increase in gross property, plant, Type 2. APEX’s assurance letter human rights, labor, environment, and would not be represented by their 2030 SDGs. that considered recycling as neutral and equipment put into service. This can be found in the report under anti-corruption. 3M committed to the current industry standard classifications. (contributing neither toward total increase does not impact previously Assurance statement. waste nor toward good output). reported Scope 3 category 2 values, UNGC principles in early 2014. This 3M is grouped as a primary SICS Contact 3M report includes an index of our COP Sector: Resource Transformation, and the 2019 Scope 3 category 2 value Global principles implementing the 10 principles as well primary SICS Industry: Containers & It is through collaboration and 3M’s 2025 Sustainability Goals utilize is comparable with previous years. 2015 as the base year. Starting in and guidelines as alignment with the United Nations Packaging. Using our 51 Technology partnerships that 3M can accelerate 2016, waste disposed and waste by In the 2019 Sustainability Report the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals Platforms, our integrated team of Sustainability in our company to Global Reporting Initiative (SDGs) within the content of this scientists and researchers works with improve every life. disposal type do not include wasteGRI table, section 401-1, stated total to-energy. Total hazardous and total turnover rate as less than 6%. The 2020 Sustainability Report. customers to create breakthroughs The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) via our Consumer, Transportation & You can contact 3M Sustainability at non-hazardous waste include wasteturnover rate of less than 6% was for is a network-based organization Electronics, Safety & Industrial, and Sustainability@mmm.com. to-energy. voluntary turnover, not total turnover. that includes representatives from Health Care business groups. business, government, labor, thirdIn 2018, we identified an opportunity Data verification party advocacy groups, and academia. for classification of our manufacturing The GRI organization has developed a sites for a portion of our greenhouse Internal verification: 3M has conducted framework for Sustainability reporting. gas (GHG) emissions aligning to our an internal verification of the information Following the GRI Sustainability 2002 inventory. This change impacted provided in this report. The objectives framework advances two important calculation methodologies for energy for our assurance process included: objectives: transparency and the and waste GHG estimations. Therefore, • Accuracy and completeness of data ability to compare results from one limiting direct comparability of Scope organization to another. 3M has 1, 2, and Scope 3 category 5 between • Reliability of systems used to developed this report using GRI reporting year 2017 and 2018. For measure and record data Standards. The GRI index outlines this reason, reporting years 2017 and • Reliability of ratios compiled where specific GRI reporting elements 2018 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from underlying data and indicators are addressed in the year-on-year comparison should be report or other reporting sources, viewed as an estimate. The 2018 GHG • Adherence to the GRI Standards including the Annual Report 2019, inventory is fully comparable with • Implementation of internal 2020 Notice of Annual Meeting & baseline year 2002. policies and related management Proxy, and/or other noted sources on In 2019, updated emissions factors systems as reported 3M’s Investor Relations website. were identified and utilized for Scope • Presentation of a complete and fair 3, category 5. All historical values picture in the report as a whole 218 About report About report, scope, and boundaries 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 219 Sustainable Science for Circular goal UN SDG SDG Targets development Reduce manufacturing waste 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through by an additional 10%, indexed prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse. to sales. goals Achieve zero landfill 12:5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through status at more than 30% prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse. of manufacturing sites. 8.4: Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on Invest to develop more sustainable consumption and production, with developed sustainable materials countries taking the lead. and products to help our customers reach their 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make environmental goals. them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and AND industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities. Sustainability Value Commitment. 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources and/or 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse. 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources and/or 12.7: promote public procurement Drive supply chain practices that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies Sustainability through and priorities. targeted raw material traceability and supplier 15.2: By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable performance assurance. management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests, and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally. 6.4: By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all Reduce global water use by sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater an additional 10%, indexed to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of to sales. people suffering from water scarcity. Engage 100% of water6.5: By 2030, implement integrated water resources management stressed/scarce communities at all levels, including through transboundary cooperation as where 3M manufactures on appropriate and/or 6.B: Support and strengthen the participation of community-wide approaches local communities in improving water and sanitation management. to water management. 220 About report Sustainable Development Goals 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 221 Science for Science for Climate goal UN SDG SDG Targets UN SDG SDG Targets Community goal 1.4: By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well Improve energy efficiency 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy as access to basic services, ownership and control over land and other indexed to net sales by 30%. efficiency. forms of property, inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology, and financial services, including microfinance. 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix and/or 7.A: By 2030, enhance international 2.1: By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in Increase renewable energy cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including to 50% of total electricity use technology, including renewable energy, energy efficiency infants, to safe, nutritious, and sufficient food all year round. (increased from 25%). and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology. 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults Ensure GHG emissions at who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for least 50% below our 2002 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship. baseline, while growing hazards and natural disasters in all countries. our business. 4.5: By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure Help our customers reduce equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the their GHGs by 250 million 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples tons of CO2 equivalent hazards and natural disasters in all countries. and children in vulnerable situations. emissions through use of 3M products. 4.C: By 2030, substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, Invest cash and products for including through international cooperation for teacher training in education, community, and developing countries, especially least developed countries and small environmental programs. island developing states. 8.6: By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education, or training. 10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic, and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, or economic or other status. 11.6: By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management. 12.A: Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move toward more sustainable patterns of consumption and production. 222 About report Sustainable Development Goals 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 223 Science for UN SDG SDG Targets Community goal 100% participation in employee development 8.5: By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent programs to advance work for all women and men, including for young people and persons individual and organizational with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. capabilities. 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life. Double the pipeline of diverse talent in management to build a diverse workforce. 10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic, and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, or economic or other status. 3.C: Substantially increase health financing and the recruitment, development, training, and retention of the health workforce in developing countries, especially in least developed countries and Provide training to 5 million small island developing states. people globally on worker and patient safety. 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. 12.A: Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of Provide 300,000 work hours consumption and production. of skills-based volunteerism by 3M employees to improve lives and help solve society’s 17.16: Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, toughest challenges. complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and financial resources to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries. 224 About report Sustainable Development Goals 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 225 GRI index Disclosure Page Connections to United Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* General Standard Disclosure GRI 102: General disclosures, organization profile Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 102-1 102-2 Name of the organization Activities, brands, 3M Company Our products 208 content index and UN Global 102-3 products, and services Location of headquarters Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 4–6 3M Company 3M Center Compact Communication St. Paul, Minnesota, 55144-1000, United States 102-4 Location of operations Operations in 70-plus countries Innovation management 198 on Progress Names of countries, 3M.com Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 130 102-5 Ownership and legal Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 4 form 102-6 Markets served Our customers 192 Our products 208 3M.com Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 4-6 102-7 Scale of the Employee programs 120 organization Metric tables: historical metrics; social performance, 244 employee and financial performance Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 4–6 102-8 Information on Employee programs 120 UNGC Principle 6 employees and other Health and safety 132 SDG 8 workers Metric tables: social performance, employees 244 Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 4 102-9 Supply chain Suppliers 176 102-10 Significant changes to Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 71–74 the organization and its Suppliers 176 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle Advancing impact 56 or approach Environmental management 140 Innovation management 198 102-12 External initiatives 3M Value Model 48 Advancing impact 56 Human rights 106 102-13 Membership 3M Value Model 48 associations GRI 102: General disclosures, strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Message from our Chief Executive Officer 4 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, Message from our Chief Executive Officer 4 and opportunities 3M Value Model 48 GRI 102: General disclosures, ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 10 standards, and norms Compliance and Business Conduct at 3M SDG 16 of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 10 and concerns about Report a concern or ask a question SDG 16 ethics 226 About report GRI index and UNGC 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 227 Disclosure Page Connections to United Disclosure Page Connections to United Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* GRI 102: General disclosures, governance 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation Committee Charter Compensation 116 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 86 Proxy Statement, pages 11–12, 27, 42–45, and 50-71 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate governance 86 102-36 Process for determining Compensation Committee Charter remuneration Compensation 116 102-20 Executive-level Corporate governance 86 Proxy Statement, pages 11–12, 27, 42–45, and 50-71 responsibility for economic, 102-37 Stakeholders’ Compensation Committee Charter SDG 16 environmental, and involvement in Compensation 116 social topics remuneration Proxy Statement, pages 11–12, 27, 42–45, and 50-71 102-21 Consulting stakeholders 3M Value Model 48 SDG 16 102-38 Annual total Proxy Statement, page 89 on economic, compensation ratio environmental, and 102-39 Percentage increase Not applicable, disclosure does not cover the specific social topics in annual total impacts that make the topic material. 3M has an 102-22 Composition of the Corporate governance 86 SDG 5, 16 compensation ratio established process to assure our commitment to fair and highest governance 3M Board of Directors equitable pay. The breakdown to calculate the median body and its 3M Committee Composition percentage increase does not accurately reflect our committees 2020 Proxy Statement, page 14–19, 36–42 workforce levels and process at 3M to assure equitable remuneration. Additional details on our process can 102-23 Chair of the highest Michael F. Roman SDG 16 be found in Compensation and Employee programs. governance body Chief Executive Officer 4 Compensation Committee Charter Corporate governance 86 GRI 102: General disclosures, stakeholder engagement 102-24 Nominating and Corporate governance 86 SDG 5, 16 selecting the highest Nominating and Governance Committee Charter 102-40 List of stakeholder 3M Value Model 48 governance body groups 102-25 Conﬂicts of interest Corporate governance 86 SDG 16 102-41 Collective bargaining Human rights 106 UNGC Principle 3 Corporate Code of Conduct 98 agreements SDG 8 3M Company Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for 102-42 Identifying and 3M Value Model 48 Members of the Board of Directors selecting stakeholders 102-26 Role of highest Corporate governance 86 102-43 Approach to 3M Value Model 48 governance body in 3M Corporate Governance Guidelines stakeholder setting purpose, values, engagement and strategy 102-44 Key topics and concerns 3M Value Model 48 102-27 Collective knowledge Corporate governance 86 SDG 4 raised of highest governance body GRI 102: General disclosures, reporting practices 102-28 Evaluating the highest Corporate governance 86 102-45 Entities included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 4–10 and 71–74 governance body’s Nominating and Governance Committee Charter consolidated ﬁnancial About report 214 performance statements 102-29 Identifying and Corporate governance 86 SDG 16 102-46 Deﬁning report content 3M Value Model 48 managing economic, 3M Value Model 48 and topic boundaries About report 214 environmental, and 102-47 List of material topics 3M Value Model 48 social impacts 102-48 Restatements of About report 214 102-30 Eﬀectiveness of risk Corporate governance 86 information management processes Enterprise risk 94 102-49 Changes in reporting About report 214 102-31 Review of economic, Corporate governance 86 environmental, and 102-50 Reporting period About report 214 social topics 102-51 Date of most recent About report 214 102-32 Highest governance Corporate governance 86 report body’s role in 3M Value Model 48 102-52 Reporting cycle About report 214 sustainability reporting 102-53 Contact point for About report 214 102-33 Communicating critical Corporate governance 86 questions regarding the Sustainability@mmm.com concerns report 102-34 Nature and total number Confidentiality constraints, this information is considered 102-54 Claims of reporting in About report 214 of critical concerns business confidential; critical concerns would be taken accordance with the into consideration during our enterprise risk management GRI Standard initiative: see Enterprise risk for additional information on 102-55 GRI content index Indices to GRI and UNGC 226 our mechanism used to address and resolve critical issues. Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 10–13 102-56 External assurance Assurance statement 238 228 About report GRI index and UNGC 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 229 Disclosure Page Connections to United Disclosure Page Connections to United Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* Topic specific standards, 200 economic Topic specific standards, 300 environmental GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 302: Energy 103-1 to Management approach Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 10–12 and 15–51 103-1 to Management approach Climate and energy 160 103-3 disclosures 103-3 disclosures 201-1 Direct economic Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 52–127 SDG 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 302-1 Energy consumption Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 value generated and Metric tables: historical metrics, financial performance 244 within the organization Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 distributed environmental performance, energy SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 201-2 Financial implications Climate and energy 160 SDG 13 302-2 Energy consumption Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 and other risks and Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 10–12 outside of the Metric tables: environmental performance, greenhouse gas 244 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 opportunities due to organization climate change 302-3 Energy intensity Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 15–50 and 90 Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 obligations and other environmental performance, energy retirement plans 302-4 Reduction of energy Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 201-4 Financial assistance 3M did not receive any significant financial assistance consumption Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 9 received from from any government in 2019. environmental performance, energy SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 government 302-5 Reductions in energy Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts requirements of Metric tables: environmental performance, greenhouse gas 244 and 9 products and services SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 103-1 to Management approach Communities 60 103-3 disclosures GRI 303: Water 203-1 Infrastructure Communities 60 SDG 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 303-1 Interactions with water Circular materials 146 UNGC Principle 8 investments and as a shared resource Metric tables: environmental performance, water 244 SDG 6 services supported 303-2 Management of water Environmental management 140 UNGC Principle 8 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect Communities 60 SDG 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 discharge-related Circular materials 146 SDG 6 economic impacts impacts GRI 205: Anti-corruption 303-3 Water withdrawal Circular materials 146 UNGC Principle 8 Metric tables: environmental performance, water 244 SDG 6, 8, 12 103-1 to Management approach Corporate Code of Conduct 98 303-4 Water discharge Circular materials 146 UNGC Principle 8 103-3 disclosures 303-5 Water consumption Metric tables: environmental performance, water 244 UNGC Principle 8 205-1 Operations assessed Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 10 for risks related to SDG 16 GRI 305: Emissions corruption 103-1 to Management approach Climate and energy 160 205-2 Communication and Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 10 103-3 disclosures training about antiSDG 16 corruption policies and 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 procedures emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 environmental performance, greenhouse gas SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 10 corruption and actions SDG 16 305-2 Energy indirect Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 taken (Scope 2) GHG Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 emissions environmental performance, greenhouse gas SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 103-1 to Management approach Corporate Code of Conduct 98 GHG emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 103-3 disclosures Antitrust and Competition Principle environmental performance, greenhouse gas SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 206-1 Legal actions for Antitrust and Competition Principle SDG 16 305-4 GHG emissions Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 anti-competitive Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 109–121 intensity Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 SDG 13, 14, 15 behavior, anti-trust, and environmental performance, greenhouse gas monopoly practices 305-5 Reduction of GHG Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 8 emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 9 environmental performance, greenhouse gas SDG 13, 14, 15 305-6 Emissions of ozone Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 depleting substances Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 (ODS) environmental performance, air emissions SDG 3, 12, 13 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), Climate and energy 160 UNGC Principle 7 sulfur oxides (SOx), and Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 and 8 other significant air environmental performance, air emissions SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 emissions 230 About report GRI index and UNGC 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 231 Disclosure Page Connections to United Disclosure Page Connections to United Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* GRI 306: Effluents and waste GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 103-1 to Management approach Environmental management 140 403-1 Occupational health Health and safety 132 SDG 8 103-3 disclosures Circular materials 146 and safety management system 306-2 Waste by type and Environmental management 140 UNGC Principle 8 disposal method Circular materials 146 SDG 3, 6, 12 403-2 Hazard identification, Health and safety 132 SDG 3, 8 Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 244 risk assessment, and Corporate Code of Conduct 98 environmental performance, waste incident investigation 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills Environmental management 140 UNGC Principle 8 403-3 Occupational health Health and safety 132 SDG 3, 8 Metric tables: environmental footprint, environmental 244 SDG 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 services management system 403-4 Worker participation, Health and safety 132 SDG 8 Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 109-124 consultation, and GRI 307: Environmental compliance communication on occupational health 103-1 to Management approach Environmental management 140 and safety 103-3 disclosures 403-5 Worker training on Health and safety 132 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental management 140 UNGC Principle 8 occupational health environmental laws Metric tables: environmental footprint, environmental 244 SDG 16 and safety and regulations management Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 109-124 403-6 Promotion of worker Health and safety 132 health GRI 308: Supplier environmental 403-7 Prevention and Health and safety 132 103-1 to Management approach Suppliers 176 mitigation of Innovation management 198 103-3 disclosures Supplier Responsibility Code occupational health and safety impacts directly 308-1 New suppliers that Suppliers 176 UNGC Principle 8 linked by business were screened using Supplier Responsibility Code relationships environmental criteria 403-8 Workers covered by Health and safety 132 308-2 Negative environmental Suppliers 176 UNGC Principle 8 an occupational health Employee programs 120 impacts in the supply Supplier Responsibility Code and safety management chain and actions taken system 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and safety 132 Topic specific standards, 400 social Metric table: health and safety 244 GRI 401: Employment 403-10 Work-related ill health Health and safety 132 Metric table: health and safety 244 103-1 to Management approach Employee programs 120 103-3 disclosures GRI 404: Training and education 401-1 New employee hires Employee programs 120 UNGC Principle 6 103-1 to Management approach Employee programs 120 and employee turnover Confidentiality constraints, we can provide total turnover SDG 5, 8 103-3 disclosures rate of 13.1% but not able to provide breakdown by age 404-1 Average hours of Employee programs 120 UNGC Principle 6 group, gender, and region. training per year per SDG 4, 5, 8 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to Employee programs 120 SDG 8 employee full-time employees 404-2 Programs for upgrading Employee programs 120 SDG 8 that are not provided to employee skills and temporary or part-time transition assistance employees program 401-3 Parental leave Employee programs 120 UNGC Principle 6 404-3 Percentage of Employee programs 120 UNGC Principle 6 SDG 5, 8 employees receiving SDG 5, 8 GRI 402: Labor/management relations regular performance and career development 103-1 to Management approach Employee programs 120 reviews 103-3 disclosures GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 402-1 Minimum notice periods Employee programs 120 regarding operational 103-1 to Management approach Corporate governance 86 changes 103-3 disclosures Employee diversity and inclusion 70 Employee programs 120 405-1 Diversity of governance Corporate governance 86 UNGC Principle 6 bodies and employees Corporate Officers SDG 5, 8 Board of Directors Employee diversity and inclusion 70 Employee programs 120 232 About report GRI index and UNGC 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 233 Disclosure Page Connections to United Disclosure Page Connections to United Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* number (.pdf) Nations Initiatives* GRI 406: Non-discrimination GRI 413: Local communities 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 106 103-1 to Management approach Communities 60 103-3 disclosures Respectful Workplace Principle 103-3 disclosures Human rights 106 Environmental management 140 GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Circular materials 146 Climate and energy 160 103-1 to Management approach 3M Supplier Responsibility Code Suppliers 176 103-3 disclosures Human rights 106 Suppliers 176 413-1 Operations with 3M Value Model 48 UNGC Principle 1 local community Communities 60 407-1 Operations and 3M Supplier Responsibility Code UNGC Principle 3 engagement, impact Corporate Code of Conduct 98 suppliers in which Human rights 106 SDG 8 assessments, and Human rights 106 the right to freedom Suppliers 176 development programs Environmental management 140 of association and Supplier Responsibly Expectations Circular materials 146 collective bargaining Climate and energy 160 may be at risk Suppliers 176 GRI 408: Child labor Our customers 192 103-1 to Management approach 3M Supplier Responsibility Code 413-2 Operations with Corporate Code of Conduct 98 UNGC Principle 1 103-3 disclosures Human rights 106 significant actual and Enterprise risk 94 SDG 1, 2 Suppliers 176 potential negative Human rights 106 Supplier Responsibility Expectations impacts on local Environmental management 140 communities Circular materials 146 408-1 Operations and Suppliers 176 UNGC Principle 5 Climate and energy 160 suppliers at significant Human rights 106 SDG 8, 16 Suppliers 176 risk for incident of 3M Supplier Responsibility Code child labor GRI 414: Supplier social assessment GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 103-1 to Management approach Suppliers 176 103-3 disclosures 103-1 to Management approach 3M Supplier Responsibility Code 103-3 disclosures Human rights 106 414-1 New suppliers that were Suppliers 176 UNGC Principle 2 Suppliers 176 screened using social SDG 5, 8, 16 criteria 409-1 Operations and 3M Supplier Responsibility Code UNGC Principle 4 suppliers at significant Human rights 106 SDG 8 414-2 Negative social impacts Suppliers 176 UNGC Principle 2 risk for incidents of Suppliers 176 in the supply chain and SDG 5, 8, 16 forced or compulsory Supplier Responsibility Expectations actions taken labor GRI 415: Public policy GRI 410: Security practices 103-1 to Management approach Corporate governance 86 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 106 103-3 disclosures Lobbying and Political Activities 103-3 disclosures 415-1 Political contributions Corporate governance 86 UNGC Principle 10 Lobbying and Political Activities SDG 16 410-1 Security personnel Human rights 106 UNGC Principle 1 Political Activities and Issue Advocacy trained in human rights SDG 16 policies or procedures GRI 416: Customer health and safety GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 103-1 to Management approach Innovation management 198 103-3 disclosures Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle 103-1 to Management approach 3M Supplier Responsibility Code 103-3 disclosures Human rights 106 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling Suppliers 176 103-1 to Management approach Innovation management 198 411-1 Incidents of violations To the best of our knowledge, there were no incidents UNGC Principle 1 103-3 disclosures Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle involving rights of reported to Ethics & Compliance Department related SDG 2 indigenous peoples to the rights of indigenous people in 2019. GRI 418: Customer privacy GRI 412: Human rights assessment 103-1 to Management approach Data Privacy Principle 103-3 disclosures 3M Global Privacy Policy 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 106 103-3 disclosures GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 412-1 Operations that have Human rights 106 UNGC Principle 1 103-1 to Management approach Corporate Code of Conduct 98 been subject to human 103-3 disclosures rights reviews or impact 419-1 Non-compliance with Significant legal actions for non-compliance with laws SDG 16 assessments laws and regulations and regulations in the social and economic area would be 412-2 Employee training on Human rights 106 UNGC Principle 1 in the social and discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, pages 109–124 human rights policies economic area or procedures *United Nations Global Compact Principles and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 234 About report GRI index and UNGC 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 235 SASB index Page Dimension General issue category Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer (.pdf) Human Labor Practices Corporate Code of Conduct 98 capital Human rights 106 Suppliers 176 Ethics & compliance Sustainability Accounting Supplier Responsibility Code Employee health Health and safety 132 and safety Metric tables: historical metrics; health and safety 244 Standards Board Employee engagement, Communities 60 diversity and inclusion Employee diversity and inclusion 70 Business Product design and life Innovation management 198 model and cycle management innovation Business model Enterprise risk 94 resilience Our customers 192 SASB index Innovation management 198 Our products 208 Page Supply chain Suppliers 176 Dimension General issue category Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer (.pdf) management Supplier Responsibility Code Environment GHG emissions Climate and energy 160 Materials sourcing Circular materials 146 Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance, greenhouse gas and energy 244 and efficiency Suppliers 176 Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 24 Air quality Climate and energy 160 Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance, air emissions 244 Physical impacts of Climate and energy 160 climate change Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 10 Energy management Climate and energy 160 Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance, greenhouse gas and energy 244 Leadership Business ethics Corporate Code of Conduct 98 and Ethics & compliance Water and wastewater Environmental management 140 governance management Circular materials 146 Competitive behavior Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance, water and environmental 244 Antitrust and Competition Principle management system Management of Environmental management 140 Waste and hazardous Environmental management 140 legal and regulatory Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 7, 13, 109–124 materials management Circular materials 146 environmental Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance, waste 244 Critical incident risk 3M Value Model 48 Ecological impacts Environmental management 140 management Corporate governance 86 Circular materials 146 Enterprise risk 94 Climate and energy 160 Environmental management 140 Suppliers 176 Health and safety 132 Metric tables: historical metrics; environmental performance 244 Suppliers 176 Social Human rights and Corporate Code of Conduct 98 System risk Enterprise risk 94 capital community relations Suppliers 176 management Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 10–13, 109–124 Human rights 106 For additional details on SASB integration for this report, see the About report section. Ethics & compliance Customer privacy Corporate Code of Conduct 98 Enterprise risk 94 3M Global Privacy Policy Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 12 Data security Enterprise risk 94 Annual Report on Form 10-K, page 12 Access and affordability Our customers 192 Product quality Our customers 192 and safety Innovation management 198 Our products 208 Customer welfare Our customers 192 Innovation management 198 Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle Selling products and Our customers 192 product labeling Innovation management 198 Product Safety, Quality, and Stewardship Principle Advertising and Product Representation Policy 236 About report SASB index 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 237 Assurance INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT statement Introduction and objectives of work Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged by 3M Corporation (3M) to conduct an independent assurance of its 2020 3M Sustainability Report (the Report). This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below and within the boundaries specified in the Report. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of 3M. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to 3M’s stakeholders on the accuracy, reliability and objectivity of the information included in the Report as described in the scope of work. The assurance process also evaluated 3M’s management of sustainability in accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The information that was assured and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of 3M. Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. Scope of work 3M requested Apex to include in its independent assurance the following: § Data included in the Report for the calendar year 2019 reporting period as shown in the attached Summary of Assured Information; § Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze and review the data subject to the assurance process; and § Evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008)1 Type 2 assurance. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: § Text or other written statements associated with the Report; § Activities outside the defined assurance period; and § Financial data and data reported that are not included in the Summary of Assured Information. Reporting Criteria § World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions) § WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions) § GRI Standards, Core Option for the assured metrics § 3M reporting protocol. Methodology Apex undertook the following activities during the assurance process: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of 3M (including managers and staff members at the corporate and site level); 2. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by 3M; 1 Published by AccountAbility: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability 238 About report Assurance statement 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 239 3. Audit of performance data presented in the Report including a detailed review of a Key Observations for 2019 sample of data; § Data systems at 3M allow for consolidation and review of environmental, safety, energy, 4. Visits to manufacturing sites located in Columbia, Missouri, Corona, California, training, and supply chain data at the corporate level for reporting. Automatic data Nevada, Missouri, Springfield, Missouri; compilation from the site levels and other data sources assist accurate data collection and 5. Remote data reviews for manufacturing sites located in Blacktown, NSW, Australia, compilation. Clitheroe, United Kingdom, Kuan-Yin, greater China Region; § Manufacturing plants in water stressed areas have developed water plans and 3M is working 6. Remote review at 3M headquarters office located in Maplewood, Minnesota (remote to continue to improve the plans through standardization and working with regional groups. review conducted due to restrictions from COVID-19); and § 3M has made commitments to decrease the overall carbon footprint as evidenced by 7. Review of 3M data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and purchasing power from renewable sources for the corporate facilities as well as renewable internal verification and review. energy credits. The work was planned and carried out to provide a moderate level of assurance and we believe § 3M continued to work within their supply chain, specifically with paper providers and it provides a sound basis for our conclusions. minerals suppliers, to engage higher Tier suppliers to ensure sustainable practices are being followed. Our findings § Starting in 2019, each new product will have a Sustainability Value Commitment that will On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above: embed sustainability into every product. § Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the § Community outreach and support is aligned with the 3M sustainability pillars to demonstrate scope of our assurance is not materially correct in accordance with the Reporting overall commitment and direction to social and sustainability goals. Corporately, the 3M Criteria. Foundation provides funding to targeted non-profit organizations in the U.S. and within their global footprint. 3M engagement extends to the facility level and local communities. § It is our opinion that 3M has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data, including energy use, direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water consumption, waste quantities and disposition, injury and illness rate, lost day rate, severity rate and number of Statement of independence, integrity and competence environmental violations. Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including assurance with over 30 years history A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2019 is attached. in providing these services. Adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 3M, its Directors or Based on the work undertaken during this assurance process, we are of the opinion that 3M Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification adheres to the Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. discussed below. Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical Inclusivity standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. Based on discussions with 3M, their processes appear to be inclusive of stakeholders. In 2018, The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, 3M commissioned a third party provider to update their materiality assessment and used that social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years assessment to identify and engage stakeholders. Some of the stakeholder groups that 3M combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Apex standard identified to include in their sustainability processes were 3M employees, customers, nonmethodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. governmental organizations, investors and the public. Materiality During the 2018 materiality assessment stakeholders indicated that 3M should take a Attestation: leadership role. The Chief Technology Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer report annually to the Board’s Science, Technology and Sustainability Committee regarding sustainability efforts. In addition, corporate leadership appear to support embedding sustainability principles throughout the company. Background information can be found in the 3M proxy statement. 3M is planning to update the materiality statement in 2020. John A. Rohde Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer Lead Assuror Technical Reviewer Responsiveness Sustainability and Climate Change Services Climate Change Services 3M receives questions regarding sustainability from customers, investors, non-governmental organizations and others through various channels. The company has guidance for responding to customer inquiries on sustainability issues and uses this guidance for responding to other Apex Companies, LLC groups as well. Responses to surveys are coordinated by the corporate sustainability group. Denver, Colorado Each business group also has sustainability leads who assist with responding to stakeholders. In addition, through the materiality assessment, 3M is building out a strategy for future April 10, 2020 sustainability efforts. External community partnership relationships have been tied to the sustainability pillars. 240 About report Assurance statement 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 241 Summary of Assured Information Summary of Assured Information Assured Information Reporting Year 2019 SummarySummary of Summary Assured of Assured of Assured Information Information Information Reporting Year 2019 ting Year 2019 3M Company Reporting Reporting Reporting Year 2019YearYear20192019 3M Company M Company 3M Company 3M Company 3M Company Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Demographic Metrics Units Units Value Value Metrics Air EmissionsWaste Metrics Units Units Value Value Energy Metrics Units Value EnergyDemographic Demographic Metrics Demographic Metrics Metrics Metrics% of Total Value Value Value ValueWasteAir Units Units Units Units Emissions Waste Metrics Metrics Waste Metrics Total Metrics Global Full-time Equivalent Units Units Units Units Value Value Value Value Energy MetricsEnergyEnergy MetricsMetrics of Total Units Units %Units Value Air Emissions Value ValueAir EmissionsAirMetrics Emissions Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Value Value Value Zero Landfill 35.4% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs Total Number 29,100,000 96,200 Absolute ScopeZero Emissions (Direct) 1 Landfill Metric Tons CO2e 4,050,000 35.4% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,100,000 Total Global Total Full-time Total Global Global Full-time Manufacturing Equivalent Sites (Headcount) % of Total Manufacturing Sites Total Energy Full-time Equivalent UseEquivalent (Absolute) MMBTUs Total Number Total Number Total Number 96,20029,100,000 96,20096,200 Absolute Zero Landfill ZeroScope Zero1 Landfill Landfill Emissions (Direct) % of Total of Total Metric%Tons CO2e 35.4%35.4% 35.4% 4,050,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) Energy Total EnergyTotal Use (Absolute)MMBTUs MMBTUs Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,100,000 29,100,000 29,100,000 Absolute Scope ScopeScope 1 Absolute Emissions Absolute 1(Direct)1 Emissions Emissions (Direct) Metric (Direct) CO2e Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 4,050,000 4,050,000 4,050,000 (Headcount)(Headcount) (Headcount) Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sites Sites Sites Waste Disposed: Landfill, Treatment and Total Global Employees at Year-End Absolute ScopeWaste Disposed: Landfill, 2 Location-based Treatment and Emissions Metric Tons 147,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh Total Number 8,540,000 96,800 Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e 1,780,000 147,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,540,000 Incineration (Absolute) Total Global Total Employees Total Global Global atEmployeesEmployees Year-End at Year-End at Year-End WasteAbsolute Disposed: Waste (Headcount) Waste Scope Landfill, Disposed: 2 Location-based Disposed: Landfill, Treatment Landfill, and Treatment Emissions Treatment and andTons Metric (Indirect) Incineration (Absolute) Absolute Scope Absolute ScopeScope Absolute 2 Location-based 2 Location-based 2 Location-based Emissions Emissions Emissions 0 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh Total Number Total Number Total Number 96,800 8,540,000 96,80096,800 Tons Tons Tons MetricCO2e MetricMetric 1,780,000147,000 147,000 147,000 Total EnergyTotal Total Energy Use (Absolute) Energy Use (Absolute)MWh Use (Absolute) MWh MWh 8,540,000 8,540,000 8,540,000 CO2e Metric Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 1,780,000 1,780,000 1,780,000 (Headcount)(Headcount) (Headcount) (Indirect) Incineration Incineration (Absolute) Incineration (Absolute) (Absolute) (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Absolute Scope 2 Market-based Emissions Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric Tons 41,600 Total Fuel OilTotal #1, #2, Number #6 Part-Time Employees MMBTUs Total Number 1,020,000 1,950 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 1,320,000 41,600 Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,020,000 Absolute Scope 2 Market-based Emissions (Indirect) Absolute Scope Absolute ScopeScope Absolute 2 Market-based 2 Market-based 2 Market-based Emissions Emissions Emissions 0 Total Fuel Total Number TotalOilTotal Part-Time Number #6 Part-Time Number #1, #2, Part-Time Employees Employees Employees MMBTUs Total Number Total Number WasteWaste 1,950 1,950Waste(Indirect) Total Number1,950 1,020,000 by Disposal Type, by Disposal by Disposal Incineration Type, IncinerationMetricMetric Type, IncinerationTons Metric Tons Tons Tons Metric CO2e 1,320,00041,60041,600 Total Fuel OilTotal 41,600 Total Fuel #1, #2, #6Oil #1,Oil Fuel #2,#1, #6#2, #6 MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,020,000 1,020,000 1,020,000 Metric Tons Metric CO2e Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 MarketWaste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric Tons 106,000 Total Jet FuelTotal Number Full-Time Employees MMBTUs Total Number 99,000 94,900 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 5,370,000 106,000 Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 99,000 Absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Marketbased Emissions (Indirect) Absolute Scope Absolute 1 and ScopeScope Absolute Scope 12 and and Scope 1Scope Market2 Market2 Market0 Total Jet Total Number Fuel Total Total Number Full-Time Number Employees Full-TimeFull-Time Employees Employees MMBTUs Total Number Total Number Total Number 94,900 99,000 94,90094,900 Waste by Disposal Wastebased Waste Type, by Disposal by Disposal Landfilled MetricMetric Type, Landfilled Type, Landfilled Tons Metric CO2e Tons Tons 106,000 Tons Metric 5,370,000106,000106,000 Total Jet FuelTotal Jet Total Jet Fuel Fuel MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 99,000 99,00099,000 CO2e Metric Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 5,370,000 5,370,000 5,370,000 Emissions (Indirect) based Emissionsbased based Emissions Emissions (Indirect) (Indirect) (Indirect) Percentage of Female Employees to Total Total Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 50,800 Total Propane MMBTUs % 143,000 36.2 Total Scope 3Total GHGHazardous (Upstream) Emissions Waste (Absolute)Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 8,920,000 50,800 Total Propane MMBTUs 143,000 Percentage of FemalePercentage Percentage of Female Employees of Female TotalEmployees toEmployees to Total to Total Employees 0 Total Propane % MMBTUs % % 36.2 36.2 36.2Total Hazardous Total Scope 143,000 Total Hazardous TotalWaste Emissions WasteWaste 3 GHG(Absolute) Hazardous (Absolute) (Upstream) (Absolute) MetricMetric Tons Metric CO2e Tons Tons Tons Metric 8,920,00050,80050,800 Total Propane 50,800 Total Propane Total Propane MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 143,000 143,000 143,000 Total Scope 3Total Total Scope Emissions GHGScope 3 GHG 3Emissions GHG Emissions (Upstream) (Upstream) Metric (Upstream) CO2e Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 8,920,000 8,920,000 8,920,000 Employees Employees Employees Percentage of Female Employees in Total Nonhazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 185,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs % 150,000 31.1 Category 1 Purchased Total Nonhazardous Services Goods andWaste (Absolute) Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e 6,140,000 185,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 150,000 Percentage of FemalePercentage Percentage of Female Female Employees ofDiesel Employees inEmployees in in MMBTUs Management Positions 0 Total Gasoline and % % % 31.1 150,000 31.1 Category 31.1Total Nonhazardous1 -Nonhazardous Total Purchased Total Waste Goods Nonhazardous Waste (Absolute) and Services Waste (Absolute) Metric Metric (Absolute) Tons Tons Metric Metric CO2e Tons Tons 6,140,000 185,000 185,000185,000 Total Gasoline Total andTotal DieselGasoline Gasoline and and Diesel MMBTUs MMBTUs Diesel MMBTUs 150,000 150,000 150,000 Category 1 Category Purchased Category 1 Goods Purchased Purchased 1 and Services Goods Goods and andTons Metric Services Services CO2e MetricMetric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 6,140,000 6,140,000 6,140,000 ManagementManagement Management Positions Positions Positions Total Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 317,000 Total Coal Environmental Management System MMBTUs 0 Category 2 Capital Total Waste GoodsDiverted (Absolute) Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 556,000 317,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 0 Total Coal Environmental Environmental Management Environmental Management Management System System System MMBTUs 0 Category Total Waste 2Metrics Total Diverted Capital Total -Waste Goods Waste Diverted (Absolute) Diverted (Absolute) MetricMetric (Absolute) Tons Metric Units 317,000 Tons Tons Tons Metric CO2e 556,000 Value317,000 Total Coal Total Coal 317,000 Total Coal MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 0 CapitalCategory 0 2 Category 0Category Goods 2 Capital GoodsGoods Metric Tons Metric 2 Capital CO2e Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 556,000 556,000556,000 Metrics Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Value Value Value Total Number of Significant Spills Category 3 Fuel and Energy Related Waste-to-Energy Metric Tons 88,100 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs Total Number 15,700,000 0 Waste-to-Energy Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 578,000 88,100 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,700,000 Total Number Total Number Total of Significant Number Spills SpillsMMBTUs Total Number of Significant Category 3(Spills Fuel reported and Energy in 10K reporting) Related Activities Category Fuel and Category 3 Category 3 Fuel Energy FuelEnergy -and 3 Related and Energy Related Related 0 Total Natural Gas ofSpills Significant Total Number Total Number 0 15,700,0000 0 Waste-to-Energy Waste-to-Energy Waste-to-Energy MetricMetric Tons Metric Tons Tons CO2e Tons Metric 578,00088,10088,100 Total NaturalTotal 88,100 Total Natural Gas Natural Gas Gas MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 15,700,000 15,700,000 15,700,000 CO2e Metric Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 578,000 578,000578,000 (Spills reported (Spills in 10K (Spills reported in 10Kinreporting) reporting) reported 10K reporting) Activities Activities Activities Activities Number of Significant Fines (Fine or penalty Category 4 Upstream Transportation and Onsite Recycle & Reuse Metric Tons 56,900 Total Electricity Consumption MMBTUs Total Number 10,400,000 0 Onsite Recycle & Reuse Metric Tons CO2e Metric Tons 1,070,000 56,900 Total Electricity Consumption MMBTUs 10,400,000 Number Number Number of Significant of(Fine ofConsumption Significant Fines Significant penalty orFines (Fine (Fine Fines or or penalty penalty Category 4>$10,000) Upstream Transportation and Distribution Category Upstream Category 4 Category 4 Upstream Upstream 4Transportation andTransportation Transportation and and Metric Tons CO2e 0 Total Electricity Total MMBTUs Number Total Total Number 0 10,400,000 Number 0 0 Onsite Recycle & Onsite Onsite Reuse Recycle Recycle & Reuse & Reuse MetricMetric Tons CO2e Tons Metric Metric Tons Tons 1,070,00056,90056,900 Total Electricity 56,900 Total Total Electricity Electricity Consumption Consumption Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs MMBTUs 10,400,000 10,400,000 10,400,000 Metric Tons Metric CO2e Tons CO2e 1,070,000 1,070,000 1,070,000 >$10,000) >$10,000) >$10,000) Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 28,900 Total Steam Consumption Total Monetary Value of Significant Fines MMBTUs Million $USD 1,240,000 0 Offsite Generated Category 5 Waste Reuse in Operations Metric Tons CO2eMetric Tons 192,000 28,900 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,240,000 0 Total Steam Total Monetary Total ofMonetary Consumption Total Value Monetary Value Value Significant of Significant Significant Million ofFines MMBTUs Fines Fines $USD $USD $USD 0 MillionMillion 1,240,000 0 0 OffsiteCategory ReuseOffsite Waste 5 Offsite ReuseReuse Generated in Operations MetricMetric Tons Metric Tons Tons CO2e Tons Metric 192,00028,90028,900 28,900 Total Steam Total Total Steam Consumption Steam Consumption MMBTUs Consumption MMBTUs MMBTUs 1,240,000 1,240,000 1,240,000 WasteCategory Category 5 Category Generated 5 Waste 5 in Waste Generated Generated Operations in Operations Operations in Metric Tons Metric CO2e Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 192,000 192,000192,000 Offsite Recycle Metric Tons 143,000 Renewable Energy % Total Electricity Use 32.6 Category 6 Business Travel Offsite Recycle Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e 52,800 143,000 Renewable Energy % Total Electricity Use 32.6 0 Renewable Energy % Total Electricity Use 32.6 OffsiteCategory Recycle 6 Offsite Business Offsite Recycle Recycle Travel MetricMetric Tons Metric Tons Metric CO2e Tons Tons 143,00052,800 143,000143,000 Renewable Renewable Renewable Energy EnergyEnergy % Total Electricity % Total% Electricity Use Use Use Total Electricity 32.6 32.6 6 Category 32.6Category Category Business Travel 6 Business 6 Business CO2e Metric TravelTravelMetric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 52,800 52,800 52,800 Category 7 Employee Commuting Metric Tons CO2e 336,000 Water Metrics Units Value Category 7Health and Safety Employee Commuting Metrics Metric Tons CO2e Units 336,000Value Water Metrics Units Value Category 7 Category Category Employee 7 Employee Employee 7Commuting Commuting Commuting CO2e Metric Metric Tons Metric Tons CO2e Tons CO2e 336,000 336,000 336,000 HealthHealth Health and Safety Metrics and Safety and Safety Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Value Value ValueWater Metrics WaterWaterMetrics Metrics Units Per 100 3MUnits Units Value employees Value Value Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 41.9 Global Lost Time Incident Rate 0.31 Category 13 -Total Water Use Downstream (Absolute) Leased Assets Million Cubic Meters <1000 41.9 Metric Tons CO2e Per 100 3M Per employees 100 100 Per3M 3M employees employees (200,000 work hours) Global Lost TimeGlobal Global Lost Lost Time Incident Time Incident RateIncident Rate Rate 0.31 0.31 0.31TotalOther WaterMetrics Category Use 13 Total Total Downstream (Absolute) Water Water Use (Absolute) UseLeased (Absolute) Metric AssetsMillion Units Tons Cubic Million Million CO2e Meters Cubic Cubic Meters <1000 41.9 Meters Value 41.9 41.9 Category 13 CategoryOther 13Metrics Category Downstream 13 Downstream Downstream Leased AssetsLeased Leased Metric Assets CO2e Metric AssetsTons Metric UnitsCO2e<1000 Tons Tons CO2e Value <1000<1000 (200,000 work (200,000 work hours) (200,000 hours) Sites located in Water Other Stress/Scarce Areas; Metrics Units work hours) Value Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M Million MetricPer 100 3M employees Tons Other Metrics located SitesOther in Water Other Metrics Stress/Scarce Areas; Metrics Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Units Units Units Value Value Value Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M Million Metric Tons water sources significantly affected by Total Number 18 Global Recordable located SitesStress/Scarce Incident in Water Rate Stress/Scarce 17 1.1 water sources significantly affected by Tons Metric Total Number 3,940 18 17 Customer GHGwaterAvoidance through 3M Per 100 MillionPer Metric 100 Per3M Tons 3M employees located SitesProduct in Water Sites located Use Total Volatile Organicin Water Compound Stress/Scarce Areas; CO2eAreas; (200,000 work hours) EmissionsAreas; (Absolute) Customer Avoidance GHG water through 3M Million TonsMillion Tons Tons MetricMetric Product Total Use Volatile Organic Compound Emissions CO2e withdrawal of water Recordable GlobalProduct with Global Global Recordable Recordable Incident Rate Incident Incident Rate Rate 3M employees100 employees 1.1 17 1.1 water sources 1.1 water water sources significantly sources affected significantly significantly by affected affected by byNumber Metric TonsTotal Number Total Total Number 18 18 18 3,940 Customer withdrawal GHGthrough Avoidance Customer GHG of water Avoidance with 3M throughMillion 3M Metric 17 Total 17 17 VolatileTotal Organic Volatile Compound Organic Emissions Compound Emissions Metric Tons MetricMetric Tons Tons 3,940 3,940 3,940 Use CO2e (200,000 work (200,000 (200,000 hours) work hours) work hours) (Absolute) Product Use Product Use Use Product CO2e CO2e CO2e (Absolute) (Absolute) (Absolute) withdrawal of withdrawal withdrawal water withofwater waterof water with water with water Total TrainingWork Related Instances Fatalities 3M Employees 2019 Total Number 589,000 0 Total Training Instances 2019 589,000 Supplier Work Responsibility Total Training Related Work Metrics Work Related Fatalities -Related Instances 3M Fatalities 2019 Employees Fatalities 3M 3M Employees Units Employees Total Number Total Number Value 0 Total Number 589,000 0 0 Supplier Total Training Responsibility Total Training Instances Total 2019 Instances Training Metrics 20192019 Instances Units Value 589,000 589,000 589,000 SupplierSupplier Supplier Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Metrics Metrics Metrics Units Units Units Value Value Value Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 63,900 Percent NewWork Projects Passing Related a Gate Fatalities with 3M Contractors Total Number 100% 0 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 63,900 Percent New Projects Passing a Gate with 100% Percent Work Related NewRelated Work Fatalities Projects Work -Related 3M Passing Fatalities -a3M Gate Fatalities Contractors 3Mwith Contractors Contractors Total Number Total Number 0 Total Number 100%0 Sustainability 0 Total Number Total of Suppliers Value Number Commitment Total Number of Suppliers of Suppliers Total Number Total Number Total Number 63,900 63,90063,900 Percent Projects Percent NewPercent New New Projects Passing Projects Passing with Passing a Gate a Gate with with a Gate 100% 100% 100% Sustainability Value Commitment Sustainability Value Commitment Cumulative Number ValueSustainability Value Value Commitment SustainabilitySustainability Commitment Cumulative Number Commitment Total Number of Supplier Reviews 6,920 Work Related Fatalities Total Number Total Number 0 Total Number of Supplier Reviews 6,920 since 2008 Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Number Number Number since 2008 Work Related Work Work-Related Related Fatalities Fatalities Number Fatalities Total TotalNumber Total TotalNumber Number Total Number 0 Total Number 0 0 Total Number Total Number of Supplier Total Number Reviews of Supplier of Supplier ReviewsReviews 6,920 6,920 6,920 since 2008 since 2008 since 2008 242 About report Assurance statement 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 243 Metric 2018-2019 2015-2019 Metric Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year units change, % change, % tables Social performance, employees Global full-time Total 89,400 91,600 91,500 93,500 96,200 2.89 7.61 equivalent employees number Global employee Total 90,400 92,500 92,400 94,300 96,800 2.65 7.08 (headcount) number Total number part-time Total 2,520 2,390 2,330 2,100 1,950 -7.14 -22.6 employees number Total number full-time Total 87,900 90,100 90,000 92,200 94,900 2.93 7.96 Five-year metric table In 2018, we identified an opportunity employees number for classification of our manufacturing Percentage of female Social performance, employees sites for a portion of our greenhouse employees to total % 33.9 34.8 34.7 35.4 36.2 2.26 6.78 gas (GHG) emissions aligning to employees Financial performance our 2002 inventory. This change Percentage of impacted calculation methodologies female employees in % 26.9 27.8 29.1 30.3 31.1 2.64 15.6 Community engagement for energy and waste GHG estimations. management positions Therefore, limiting direct comparability Environmental performance of Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3, category Financial performance • Environmental management 5 between reporting year 2017 and Million 2018. For this reason, reporting years Net sales 30,300 30,100 31,700 32,800 32,100 -2.13 5.94 system — metric $USD 2017 and 2018 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Million • Greenhouse gas — metric Operating income1 6,980 7,030 7,690 7,210 6,170 -14.4 -11.6 emissions year-on-year comparison $USD • Air emissions — metric should be viewed as an estimate. Research, development, Million The 2018 GHG inventory is fully 1,760 1,760 1,870 1,820 1,910 4.95 8.52 • Energy — metric and related expenses1 $USD comparable with baseline year 2002. • Waste — metric Total operating Million 23,300 23,100 24,000 25,600 26,000 1.56 11.6 expenses1 $USD • Water — metric Net income attributable Million 4,830 5,050 4,860 5,350 4,570 -14.6 -5.38 to 3M $USD Health and safety Actual Per share-basic 7.72 8.35 8.13 9.09 7.92 -12.9 2.59 Supplier responsibility $USD Actual Per share-diluted 7.58 8.16 7.93 8.89 7.81 -12.1 3.03 3M historical $USD Million metrics table Capital expenditures $USD 1,460 1,420 1,370 1,580 1,700 7.59 16.4 Environmental footprint Payments to providers Million 2,700 2,870 3,000 3,510 3,690 5.13 36.7 of capital $USD Health and safety Provision for Million 1,980 2,000 2,680 1,640 1,130 -31.1 -42.9 income taxes $USD 1. A  mounts for operating income; research, development, and related expenses; and total operating expenses were reclassified back to 2015 to reflect the adoption of an accounting standard (ASU No. 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost) effective January 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis. Community engagement Million Total global giving 72.8 67.3 73.5 66.3 73.3 10.6 0.687 $USD Million Total cash donations 34.1 34.8 35.9 35.6 32.4 -8.99 -4.99 $USD Million Total in-kind donations 38.4 32.5 37.6 30.7 40.9 33.2 6.51 $USD Volunteer 3M Impact 20,600 hours 244 About report Metric tables 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 245 2018-2019 2015-2019 2018-2019 2015-2019 Metric Metric Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year units units change, % change, % change, % change, % Greenhouse gas — metric (cont.) Environmental performance Calculated from 3M Environmental management system — metric primary data on waste by facility size or number Total Scope 3, Category 5 of employees. In 2019, Total number of 0 0 0 0 0 Metric tons number (waste generated in 167,000 180,000 197,000 171,000 192,000 the emissions factors significant spills CO2e Significant spill: Spills included in the organization’s financial statement operations) changed. All historical values recalculated, see Total About report section for Number of 0 0 2 0 0 number details. significant fines Significant fine: Fine or penalty over $10,000 Calculated from 3M Scope 3, Category 6 Metric tons Insufficient Total monetary value of Million 59,300 60,700 61,600 52,800 primary data on business 0 0 0.0900 0.000 0.000 (business travel) CO2e data significant fines $USD travel. Environmental liability Million Methodology updated See our Annual Report, 10-K, pages 121–122 to calculate values accrued at year end $USD based on 3M employee Greenhouse gas — metric Scope 3, Category 7 Metric tons 325,000 332,000 332,000 327,000 336,000 headcount with U.S. EPA (employee commuting) CO2e Absolute Scope 1 Metric tons GHG emission factors. 3,770,000 4,140,000 3,960,000 4,790,000 4,050,000 -15.4 7.4 All historical values emissions (direct) CO2e recalculated. Absolute Scope 2 Metric tons These emissions are location-based emissions 1,860,000 1,840,000 1,880,000 1,860,000 1,780,000 -4.30 -4.30 CO2e Scope 3, Category 8 Metric tons included in Scope 1 and 2, (indirect) Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions reporting. (upstream, leased assets) CO2e because they are all under Absolute Scope 2 3M operational control. Metric tons market-based emissions 1,780,000 1,650,000 1,480,000 1,320,000 -10.8 CO2e Scope 3, Category 9 (indirect) (downstream Metric tons Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG transportation and CO2e Metric tons emissions: market-based 5,920,000 5,610,000 6,270,000 5,370,000 -14.4 distribution) CO2e accounting Scope 3, Category 10 Not evaluated; most of 3M’s products are intermediates with many potential end uses. According Metric tons Metric tons to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation and Guidance, a company that produces intermediate Total GHG emissions (processing of sold per net CO2e products with many potential downstream applications, each with a potentially different GHG (indexed to net sales, 186 199 184 203 182 -10.34 -2.15 products) sales (MM emission profile, cannot reasonable estimate the downstream emissions associated with the location-based) Scope 3, Category 11 Metric tons $USD) various end used of the intermediate products. (use of sold products) CO2e Customer GHG Million Scope 3, Category 12 reduction through use Metric tons metric tons 13.4 13.0 14.9 17.0 14.1 (end of life treatment of of various 3M product CO2e CO2e sold products) platforms Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated. Due to change in boundaries, Scope 3 upstream emissions should not be compared Prior to 2015, 3M Scope 3, Category 13 on a year-on-year basis. Additional changes occurred to calculation methods for Scope 1 and 2 limiting comparison between reporting year Metric tons reported facilities leased (downstream leased <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 2018 and other inventory years; see About report section for additional information. CO2e to third parties under assets) Scope 1 and 2. Total Scope 3 emissions Metric tons See notes in Scope 3, 8,550,000 9,420,000 9,280,000 9,530,000 8,920,000 Scope 3, Category 14 Metric tons No franchises under this (upstream) CO2e Category 5. 0 0 0 0 0 (franchises) CO2e scope of boundary. Total Scope 3 emissions Metric tons All downstream categories were not evaluated or are de minimis. Scope 3, Category 15 Metric tons No investments under this (downstream) CO2e 0 0 0 0 0 (investments) CO2e scope of boundary. Scope 3, Category 1 Metric tons Methodology updated to Biogenic CO2 emissions, Metric tons (purchased goods 6,200,000 7,120,000 6,570,000 6,840,000 6,140,000 3,080 2,530 CO2e calculate values based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e and services) 3M spend using U.S. EPA Scope 3, Category 2 Metric tons The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 452,000 423,000 436,000 369,000 556,000 EEIO factors. (capital goods) CO2e Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Scope 3, Category 3 Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting (fueland energy-related Calculated from 3M Standard, 2011). A baseline reporting year had not been established for Scope 3 emissions. Metric tons activities; not including 621,000 607,000 631,000 596,000 578,000 primary data on energy Scope of boundary for the GHG metric is determined using the control approach to GHG emissions accounting as defined in the GHG CO2e Scope 1 or Scope 2 consumption. Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard. Additional information can be found in the About report section. emissions) Scope 3, Category 4 Metric tons (upstream transportation 780,000 699,000 1,050,000 1,170,000 1,070,000 CO2e and distribution) 246 About report Metric tables 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 247 2018-2019 2015-2019 2018-2019 2015-2019 Metric Metric Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year units units change, % change, % change, % change, % Air emissions — metric Waste — metric Total volatile organic % of total compound emissions Metric tons 4,840 4,690 4,620 4,420 3,940 -10.9 -18.6 Zero landfill manufacturing 28.2 26.6 27.9 30.4 35.4 16.4 25.5 (absolute) sites Metric tons Waste disposed: Total volatile organic landfill, treatment, and Metric tons 158,000 161,000 160,000 151,000 147,000 -2.65 -6.96 per net compound emissions 0.160 0.156 0.146 0.135 0.123 -8.89 -23.1 incineration (absolute) sales (MM (indexed to net sales) $USD) Waste disposed: Metric tons Energy — metric landfill, treatment, and per net 5.23 5.33 5.07 4.62 4.57 -0.866 -12.6 incineration (indexed to sales (MM Total energy use MMBtu 28,400,000 29,000,000 29,600,000 29,900,000 29,100,000 net sales) $USD) (absolute) -2.68 2.46 Waste by disposal type, Total energy use Metric tons 45,200 44,100 45,200 43,600 41,600 -4.59 -7.96 MWh 8,320,000 8,490,000 8,670,000 8,750,000 8,540,000 incineration (absolute) Waste by disposal type, MMBtu per Metric tons 112,000 116,000 115,000 108,000 106,000 -1.85 -5.36 Total energy (indexed to landfilled net sales 937 962 935 911 907 -0.44 -3.20 net sales) % data coverage total (MM $USD) waste (absolute), % of total % 97 98 98 99 99 0.000 2.06 normalized to sales value Renewable energy electricity 0.50 7.60 17.9 26.8 32.6 of production (SVOP) use Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous Total fuel oil #1, #2, #6 MMBtu 1,330,000 1,200,000 1,130,000 1,110,000 1,020,000 -8.11 -23.3 waste below includes waste-to-energy. Total jet fuel MMBtu 153,000 159,000 138,000 104,000 99,000 -4.81 -35.3 Total hazardous waste Metric tons 45,600 43,600 43,900 43,400 50,800 17.1 11.4 Total propane MMBtu 170,000 190,000 177,000 194,000 143,000 -26.3 -15.9 (absolute) Total gasoline and diesel MMBtu 270,000 155,000 155,000 182,000 150,000 -17.6 -44.4 Total nonhazardous Metric tons 172,000 180,000 188,000 187,000 185,000 -1.07 7.56 waste (absolute) Total coal MMBtu 0 0 0 0 0 Total waste diverted Total natural gas MMBtu 14,700,000 15,400,000 15,700,000 16,200,000 15,700,000 -3.09 6.80 Metric tons 297,000 284,000 307,000 312,000 317,000 1.60 6.73 (absolute) Total electricity MMBtu 10,600,000 10,700,000 11,100,000 10,800,000 10,400,000 -3.70 -1.89 Waste-to-energy Metric tons 60,100 63,100 71,600 79,100 88,100 11.4 46.6 consumption Onsite recycle and reuse Metric tons 65,500 56,700 60,400 63,300 56,900 -10.1 -13.1 Total steam consumption MMBtu 1,130,000 1,180,000 1,220,000 1,260,000 1,240,000 -1.59 9.73 Offsite reuse Metric tons 31,300 27,600 31,500 32,900 28,900 -12.2 -7.67 Total heating MMBtu 17,700,000 18,300,000 18,500,000 19,000,000 18,400,000 consumption Offsite recycle Metric tons 139,000 137,000 143,000 137,000 143,000 4.38 2.88 -3.16 3.95 Total heating Deep well injection Per 3M’s Waste Management Program Standard, deep well injection is not acceptable waste management MWh 5,190,000 5,360,000 5,430,000 5,570,000 5,390,000 consumption practice for use by any 3M location. Scope of boundary for the energy metric includes 3M locations larger than 30,000 square feet. Additional scope information can be found Scope of boundary for the waste metric includes 3M manufacturing locations with total output over 4.54 metric tons per year in the About report section. (10,000 pounds). Additional scope information can be found in the About report section. 248 About report Metric tables 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 249 2018-2019 2015-2019 Historical Metric Metric RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 RY-2019 annual five-year Metric Metric units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2019 reporting units change, % change, % change, % Water — metric Million 3M historical metrics Total water use cubic 42.2 44.8 46.0 45.8 41.9 -8.52 -0.711 Net sales Million $USD 16,300 26,700 29,600 30,300 32,100 96.9 (absolute) meters Environmental footprint Million cubic Absolute Scope 1 Total water use (indexed Metric Tons CO2e 16,800,000 10,100,000 4,280,000 3,770,000 4,050,000 -75.9 meters per 0.00139 0.00149 0.00145 0.00140 0.00131 -6.43 -5.76 emissions (direct) to net sales) net sales Absolute Scope 2 (MM $USD) location-based Metric Tons CO2e 1,540,000 1,700,000 1,940,000 1,860,000 1,780,000 15.6 Scope of boundary for the water metric includes 3M manufacturing locations with total output over 4.54 metric tons per year emissions (indirect) (10,000 pounds). Additional information can be found in the About report section. Total Absolute Scope Sites located in 1 and Scope 2 GHG Metric Tons CO2e 18,300,000 11,800,000 6,220,000 5,630,000 5,830,000 -68.1 water stress/scarce emissions: locationareas; water sources based accounting Total significantly affected 25 25 25 25 18 -28.0 -28.0 Total Scope 1 and number by withdrawal of water Scope 2 greenhouse gas Metric Tons per net sales with water conservation 1,120 559 233 186 182 -83.8 emissions (indexed to net (MM $USD) planning efforts sales, location-based) Scope of boundary for water stressed or scarce areas includes 3M locations with annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic 2012-2016 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 meters were in water-stressed areas defined by the extremely high baseline water stress value according to the World Business Council based GHG accounting. 2002 inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase in absolute for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool™ for years prior to 2019. Staring in 2019, we utilized the World Resources (WRI) emissions over original reported value). Aqueduct tool with the same scope of boundary. Total volatile organic Health and safety compound emissions (absolute) Metric tons 6,800 6,070 4,800 3,940 -42.1 Per 100 3M Total volatile organic Metric tons per net sales Global lost time employees compound emissions 0.321 0.228 0.158 0.123 -61.7 0.321 0.304 0.341 0.292 0.311 6.51 -3.12 (MM $USD) incident rate (200,000 (indexed to net sales) work hours) Total energy use MMBtu 27,900,000 26,800,000 28,400,000 29,100,000 Per 100 3M (absolute) Global recordable employees 4.30 1.22 1.20 1.16 1.10 1.11 0.909 -9.02 Total energy use incident rate (200,000 MWh 8,170,000 7,860,000 8,320,000 8,540,000 (absolute) work hours) Total energy MMBtu per net sales (MM Work related fatalities — Total 1,320 1,010 937 907 -31.3 0 1 0 0 0 (indexed to net sales) $USD) 3M employees number Waste disposed: Work related fatalities — Total landfill, treatment, and Metric tons 145,000 136,000 158,000 147,000 1.38 0 0 1 1 0 3M contractors number incineration (absolute) Work related fatalities — Total Waste disposed: 0 1 1 1 0 total number number landfill, treatment, and Metric tons per net sales 6.83 5.09 5.21 4.58 -32.9 Customer incineration (indexed (MM $USD) Health and Safety training 121,000 528,000 589,000 to net sales) Training Academies instances Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste below includes waste-to-energy. Supplier responsibility Total hazardous waste Metric tons 47,700 42,300 45,600 50,800 6.50 (absolute) Total number Total 98,500 88,200 85,100 78,700 63,900 -18.8 -35.1 of suppliers number Total nonhazardous Metric tons 132,000 134,000 172,000 185,000 40.2 waste (absolute) Cumulative Total number of number Total water use 4,570 5,120 5,790 6,350 6,920 8.98 51.4 Million cubic meters 49.0 43.0 42.2 41.9 -14.5 supplier reviews (since (absolute) 2008) Total water use (indexed Million cubic meters per 0.00231 0.00161 0.00139 0.00131 -43.3 to net sales) net sales (MM $USD) Health and safety Global lost time Per 100 3M employees 0.594 0.364 0.321 0.311 -47.6 incident rate (200,000 work hours) Global recordable Per 100 3M employees 1.85 1.56 1.22 1.10 -40.4 incident rate (200,000 work hours) 250 About report Metric tables 3M 2020 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 251 Corporate Headquarters Please recycle 3M Center © 3M 2020. All rights reserved. St. Paul, MN 55144-1000 USA (651) 733-1110 www.3M.com/Sustainability
