ANNUAL REPORT 2019 person second Everything counts drop thought Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 1 Content To our stakeholders 3 Chairman’s statement 3 CEO’s review 7 Marel in brief 12 Who we are 12 Vision and values 13 Business model 16 Strategy 22 Delivering growth 26 Poultry 26 Meat 34 Fish 43 Innova software 54 Innovation 61 Global markets and service 69 Global supply chain 79 Investors 84 Shares 84 Financials 91 Investor relations 100 Responsible growth 103 Corporate responsibility 103 Social 108 Environmental 116 Economic 122 Corporate governance 125 Board of Directors 132 Executive Team 137 Risk management 142 Consolidated financial statements 146 2 Chairman’s Feeding the world’s growing population is one of the biggest challenges facing society today. We must find new ways to produce quality food sustainably and affordably, and do more with less. statement Otherwise, in the context of climate change, Earth’s limited resources and the unfathomable waste in the food value chain, the estimated seventy percent increase in demand for food over the next thirty years simply does not add up. Marel’s vision is founded on a strong belief that we can have a positive impact on society and create economic value at the same time. In 2019, we continued to pursue our vision of transforming the way food is processed in partnership with our customers, making high-quality food sustainable and affordable. We are driven by innovation and a passion for promoting sustainability and respect for nature’s resources. Whether it’s a millimeter from a fish fillet, a simple idea, or a drop of water. We realize that everything counts. That’s how we transform food processing. To that end, Marel invested 82 million euros in innovation in 2019, which corresponds to more than 6% of our revenues. Innovation is at the very heart of our strategy. It fuels organic growth and secures our competitive advantage as the leading global provider of high-tech food processing solutions, software and services for the poultry, meat and fish industries. In partnership with our customers, our dedicated experts brought more than 30 impactful innovations to market in 2019. These solutions enable our customers to increase the quality and safety of their products, run more efficient processes, reduce their environmental footprint, and increase profitability. Our breakthrough innovations, modernization of existing solutions, and software enabling smarter processing, are all designed to achieve the common purpose of transforming the way food is processed. Every improvement counts. Efficient operations and healthy returns are the foundation of our significant investments in innovation and strengthening our platform. Geopolitical tensions and trade constraints continued to make their Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 3 mark on the global economy in 2019. Under these challenging circumstances, Marel’s revenues increased by a healthy 7%, although there was a slight setback in profitability. Net results were also affected by one-off finance costs and changes in tax rates in the Netherlands. In addition, earnings per share were impacted by the higher number of outstanding shares issued and sold in connection with the dual listing on Euronext Amsterdam, resulting in a 15% decrease in basic earnings per share from last year. Cash flow was solid and our financial position is strong, with leverage at 0.4x net debt / EBITDA at the end of the year. This is well below the targeted capital structure of 2-3x, illustrating our ability to finance future moves that support our growth strategy. Towards the end of 2019, Marel also received commitments from its banking partners for a new favorable and sustainability linked credit facility with a tenor of five-years and two one-year uncommitted extension options. The new facility was signed in February, replacing the previous one. In addition to investing in innovation and our infrastructure to fuel internal growth, last year, Marel acquired highly complementary companies and invested in strategic partnerships, strengthening our full-line solution and service approach. In line with our capital allocation and dividend policy, the Board of Directors has proposed to the 2020 Annual General Meeting that dividends of 5.79 euro cents per outstanding share will be paid to shareholders, corresponding to approximately 40% of profits for 2019. The age of digital Opportunities for automation and digital transformation in the food industry are immense and the speed of change is accelerating. In transformation recent years, regulatory requirements for food processing around the world have become more complex. Food producers must keep pace with the increasingly strict industry and regulatory demands for safety, quality, traceability and animal wellbeing. Marel capitalizes on its unique position to deliver transformative solutions that meet these demands. A data-driven approach has always been an integral part of our offering and since our foundation in 1983, we have bundled software and hardware together to increase precision. Digitalization has developed from the software originally embedded in our equipment, to fully connected solutions and processing lines, ensuring full traceability throughout the processing stages from entry to a labeled final product. Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 4 Last April, I had the opportunity to participate in the Marel Software KnowHow user conference at one of our demo centers, in Progress Point, Copenhagen. It was insightful to hear firsthand from our customers how our software serves as an important differentiator in their business and as a platform for operational improvements. For many of them, Marel software is key in standardizing the ways of working across multiple locations and crucial for efficient scalability. Digital technology plays a central role in the development of our customer offerings, as well as in achieving excellence in our own operations by doing things better, faster, and more efficiently. For example, there are tremendous opportunities in digitizing our aftermarket business to improve customer service and operational efficiency, be it with preventative maintenance, real-time monitoring or remote service. A global stage for a The successful listing of Marel shares on Euronext Amsterdam in June was a significant milestone for the company. It underpins our global global leader aspirations as well as shareholders’ returns. The new listing complements Marel’s existing listing on Nasdaq Iceland, where our shares have traded since 1992, and was a natural next step in our growth strategy. After thorough analysis of listing options, we announced at the Annual General Meeting in March 2019 our intention to dual list Marel shares on Euronext Amsterdam, in addition to Nasdaq Iceland. Simultaneously, the Board of Directors obtained authorization to increase the company’s share capital by approximately 15%, to support a successful listing. Great emphasis was placed on ensuring a smooth shareholder journey throughout the process. We met all of our key objectives for the listing. The offering was many times oversubscribed, with strong demand from both international institutional and retail investors. More than 4,700 investors participated in the offering, compared to the approximately 2,500 shareholders Marel had previously. The international investor base has expanded from approximately 3% at the time we announced our intention to explore listing alternatives in 2018, to approximately 30% at the end of 2019. Analyst coverage has significantly improved and Marel shares have received increased attention from the international investor community, with the shares trading well in the aftermarket. Responsible business We are committed to corporate responsibility because we are convinced it is key to long-term value creation. Marel’s growth prospects is good business rely on our ability to operate sustainably and serve the broad interests of all of our stakeholders. We are inspired by the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Global challenges, ranging from climate change, water and food crises to poverty, conflict and inequality, are in great need of innovative solutions that require increased collaboration across sectors, both public and private. Everyone can make a difference and we are proud of our contributions. By growing and sustaining an economically strong and responsible business over the long term, guided by a clear vision, we make a significant positive impact on our customers and our people, as well as the economy and society. Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 5 Corporate responsibility “Everyone can make a Every contribution counts difference and we are proud of our contributions.” Asthildur Otharsdottir, Chairman of the Board Marel is a United Nations Global Compact Participant and we take pride in reporting on our progress for the third year, according to the Nasdaq ESG guidelines initiative. We are particularly pleased with positive developments in reducing both our carbon emission and energy intensity in 2019. In 2019, we took several actions to improve Marel’s environmental, social and governance performance. This includes reviewing and improving our health, safety and environment processes, implementing a sustainability pillar in our procurement process, and strengthening our focus on sustainability in innovation. We also continue to foster and promote a culture of diversity and inclusion. At Marel, every person counts. New opportunities Marel is in a unique position to realize its purpose and deliver fitfor-purpose solutions that meet the current and future demands of on the horizon food processors and consumers. We remain committed to the ambitious 10-year growth targets we announced in 2017, of an average annual increase in revenue of 12% and earnings per share growing faster than revenues. Our growth will be balanced between organic and acquired, and achieved by capitalizing on investments in innovation and market reach, complemented by strategic acquisitions and partnerships. There are ample consolidation opportunities in our market and Marel has a strong financial position to facilitate future strategic moves. While Marel entered 2020 on a strong note, the impact of the worldwide coronavirus pandemic on the global economy and the implications for businesses are uncertain and pose new challenges. However, we are convinced that in this challenge and others to come, new opportunities will arise from an increased focus on food safety, quality, hygiene and traceability. We knew we would encounter stormy seas along the way but we are on the right course. Every mile counts. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I want to thank the entire Marel team, all around the world, for their passion and hard work in 2019, and thank our shareholders for their continued support. Asthildur Otharsdottir, Chairman of the Board Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 6 CEO’s 2019 was an eventful year for Marel. We established partnerships, completed strategic acquisitions and made investments that strengthened our foundations for continued growth. As we enter review 2020, our competitive position is strong and our financials are robust, following the issue of new shares and the recently announced senior long-term financing. We delivered EUR 1.3 billion in revenues, representing 7% year-onyear growth, of which 5% was organic. Our EBIT remained more or less flat, as our operational performance as a percentage of revenues was slightly down against 2019, with an EBIT margin of 13.5%. Marel operates in a fast-growing and dynamic market. The quality of our earnings has improved step-by-step, in tandem with our expanded global reach serving the poultry, meat and fish industries across all processing steps, from live animal handling to the dispatch of consumer products to retail and online stores, and casual and high-end dining. Weighing in We are a true partner to our customers in the field of high-tech food processing. That is reflected in our balanced mix of income from rough seas the sale of standard equipment, full-line solutions and recurring aftercare revenues. In 2019, 37% of our total revenues were generated from spare part sales, services and software licenses, reflecting the importance of our role as a reliable maintenance partner to customers worldwide, who operate 24/7 and for whom dependability is paramount. Our position today as a global leader in our field represents a great evolution from a startup offering a single standard machine—electronic marine scales that systematically collected and distributed data for fish processors. Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 7 Transformation is a As the world population and consumer purchasing power grow hand in hand, we need to make every meal count. Feeding a grownecessity, not an ing world is an inevitable challenge and in meeting it, we must work together to preserve Earth’s resources for future generations. The option challenge is compounded by the fact that consumers want more than just food and are increasingly demanding about food safety, quality, affordability and traceability. To match global food production systems to market demands, the only way forward is innovation and the vertical integration of the value chain. Amidst the rapidly evolving secular and market trends that are shaping the food industry, we also face intermittent turbulence from issues such as geopolitical tensions, trade constraints and African Swine Fever (ASF). These issues clearly highlight the need to develop new methods for the food processing industry in both the near and long term, by accelerating innovation and technological advancements. In 2019, ASF resulted in the need to cull 25% of the global pig herd, with the most significant portion being in China, which accounts for 50% of global pork production and consumption. This significantly affected pork processors’ decisions to invest in new equipment and systems. However, the ASF outbreak also resulted in increased demand for alternative sources of protein such as poultry, with demand for new greenfield projects from poultry customers in China on the rise. Towards the end of the year, trade constraints were gradually lifted, leading to renewed investment appetite in the North and South American markets to serve exports to China. Ever-evolving demands from consumers for greater product variety, traceability and case-ready products in supermarkets have also boosted demand for our solutions. Marel helps food processors to meet these demands with its full-line offering for the poultry, meat and fish industries. Our solutions can automate processing steps across primary, secondary and further processing, boosting yields and efficiency, as well as food safety and hygiene. Our unique software gives food processors full control and traceability, from live animal intake to finished product dispatch. Innovation is the Marel is a purpose-driven organization with a clear vision that unites all of its employees. In partnership with our customers, we are answer transforming the way food is processed. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced affordably and sustainably. Innovation is a cornerstone of our mission and an essential component in realizing our vision. Every year, we invest around 6% of our revenues in innovation, to bring new products to market. In 2019, that translated to an investment of EUR 82 million and a record 30 new solutions being launched for poultry, meat and fish processors. Over 20 of these were new solutions for the meat industry, which we launched at the IFFA 2019 international trade fair in Frankfurt, Germany. We know that to transform food processing, every step counts. In fact, it is hard to accurately pinpoint the number of innovations Marel introduces to market each year. Our revolutionary primary poultry Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 8 processing lines are great examples of this, with a series of innovations across the line resulting in line speeds increasing from the previous 13,500 birds per hour to 15,000 birds per hour. Realizing such speeds without compromising on quality requires the kind of process know-how that we have built up over decades. Across the company, we leverage our cross-industry advantage, transferring process know-how and technological understanding from one industry to another. For example, our SensorX system to detect bones and other contaminants was originally invented for the fish industry but is a blockbuster in the poultry industry today. We have now established strategic partnerships to move this technology into the meat industry, to assist in perfect blending for ever-popular products such as premium burgers and meatballs. Digital points Data and digital technology, including the Internet of Things, virtual reality, big data and artificial intelligence, are disruptors in the food the way industry and already making an impact. Marel is well positioned to adopt and apply digitalization, both to its products and solutions and to its services and internal systems as well. Our innovative, connected product offering builds on our data-driven approach, which has been the core of Marel from day one. Today, we are not just exploring innovations in service built on the Internet of Things, to offer predictive maintenance and remote service. We are also exploring more expansive digital opportunities that will transform into self-standing digital product offerings and create tangible value for our customers. Dual listing fuels Since our listing on Nasdaq Iceland in 1992, Marel has grown from 45 employees and EUR 6 million in revenues to 6,300 employees and our growth approximately EUR 1.3 billion in revenues in 2019, which represents 22% average annual revenue growth. Dual listing fuels our growth Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 9 We have clear 2026 growth and value-creation targets, as well as mid-term targets. We are financially strong and are targeting 12% annual revenue growth, through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions, as well as EBIT margin expansion. The timing of such growth is important and we aim to find a balance between deploying capital and showing discipline and patience in doing so. To support us in realizing our mission of transforming food processing and achieving our 2026 targets, Marel shares were dual listed on Euronext Amsterdam in June, in addition to our existing listing on Nasdaq Iceland. This was a critical milestone in our development and a great success. To further increase our operational and strategic flexibility, and to support the company’s long-term strategy, we secured a senior long-term syndicated credit facility at the beginning of 2020. The new financing has a sustainability-linked incentive structure, linking performance on sustainability key performance indicators to a margin reduction or margin increase. It replaces the previous facility and secures our long-term funding at more favorable terms. We now have an international stage, as well as a diverse set of investors and long-term financial partners, to support our continued growth through senior long-term financing. The global listing will also provide us with a global currency, to help us undertake strategic acquisitions and establish strategic partnerships that fuel growth. An evolving Behind every great innovation, milestone and breakthrough, is a team. The Marel team is made up of passionate and courageous company in an people, united by a common purpose and shared vision. evolving industry As the food industry evolves and matures, Marel evolves in parallel and our growth story unfolds. To keep ahead of industry trends, we need to continuously evaluate our organizational set-up and team composition, and ask ourselves what is fit for purpose at each time. In recent years, we have made sizeable investments in our infrastructure, common IT platforms and processes. Equipped with the right tools and working methods, we can make further improvements to our set-up by bolstering synergies amongst our global sales and service backbone, while ramping up customer-facing resources in fast-growing markets such as Asia Pacific, including China. Leading by example, in March 2020 we consolidated the Executive Team from twelve members to nine. The aim is to clarify accountability and shorten communication lines, in order to sharpen our global market approach, reduce time to market and reduce the company’s running costs. We welcome Gudbjorg Heida Gudmundsdottir onboard as EVP of Marel Fish and Anna Kristin Palsdottir as EVP of Innovation. All in all, the Executive Team and the global Marel team are diverse by geography, age and gender, mirroring our customers and consumers around the globe. Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 10 Transforming food processing “Together, we can make every step in the Every step counts value chain count towards more efficient and sustainable food processing.” Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO Every partnership Partnership with customers is a cornerstone of our philosophy. We have established long-lasting customer relationships worldwide and counts every one of them counts. We listen to our customers and strive to develop solutions and software for them that are fit for purpose and allow them to meet increasingly diverse and complex market and consumer demands for safe, quality, affordable food with full traceability. Our customer base covers food processors of all types, ranging from small family-owned companies to the largest global players in the food industry. Our customer base is also diverse, with the single largest customer accounting for less than 5% of our annual revenues. The sale of new systems, whether a greenfield plant or a standard solution, is just one point in the customer journey, which extends both ways from that point into the aftercare business. We are here to serve our customers and their needs across the world, ensuring uptime and smooth operations. In 2019, we took steps to strengthen and simplify the customer journey. We are working to enhance our local presence and ensure the first point of contact for customers is local, while simultaneously building on the advantages of being a global leader, with matching technical expertise and innovation capabilities. Region by region, we are setting up regional sales and services clusters, with customer-facing teams led by strong leadership. We successfully implemented such a regional set-up in Latin America and are now doing the same in Asia Pacific and other regions. United, The global Covid-19 outbreak has demonstrated the importance of having readily available local teams in every region around the world, we navigate backed by a global organization that supports them and sets a clear direction. In line with our vision and approach to corporate responsithrough bility, we are working hard to secure the safety and wellbeing of our people throughout this outbreak, in cooperation with the authorities. The local teams are working in harmony with global specialists, to support our customers worldwide. Our vision is our guiding star, as we navigate together as a team and with our customers through challenging times. Together, we can make every step in the value chain count towards more efficient and sustainable food processing. That is how, as a team and in close partnership with our customers, we make everything count towards ensuring that safe, high-quality and affordable food is produced in a sustainable way. Together, we are transforming food processing. Arni Oddur Thordarson, Chief Executive Officer Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 11 Who we are number gram Every one counts person percentage We are a team of almost 6,300 people with different backgrounds, skills and roles. What we do have in ommon is the vision of feeding the world, and preserving the planet’s resources. We celebrate the breakthroughs and persevere when we have to start again. Innovation is not a straight line but a creative, collaborative journey. And we’ve only just begun. United under In partnership with our customers we are transforming the way food is processed. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. a clear vision We are in the business of transforming the future of food processing. We know it would not be possible without our customers, investors, suppliers, employees and partners around the globe. There have been significant disruptions in the food processing industry since our humble beginnings. Throughout the many changes—and challenges—over the years, our vision remains a constant. We will continue on our journey by leveraging data, invest in innovation and emerging technologies, while always considering the sustainable use of precious resources. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 12 Global team Unity Every person counts defined by We are united in our success and recognize that retaining our position as a world leader in food processing requires a constant focus on three core collaboration, cooperation and communication. Every person counts in the united force that makes up Marel. values Excellence Every day counts Excellence is what sets us apart. We deliver pioneering solutions that drive value, increase efficiency, and enable our customers to succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace. In our relentless effort to do better tomorrow then we did today, every day counts. Innovation Every idea counts Innovation is in our DNA. Whether it’s hardware, software, or services, we’re dedicated to surpassing industry standards to provide solutions that deliver the highest quality, sustainable, and affordable food. Every idea counts and sometimes it takes a hundred ideas to get to the winning one. Who we are Global company Marel is a leading global provider of advanced processing equipment, systems, software and services to the poultry, meat and fish industries with around 6,300 employees and a presence in over 30 countries. In 2019, Marel delivered EUR 1.3 billion and operated at a 13.5% EBIT margin. Annually, Marel invests around 6% of revenues in innovation which translated to EUR 82 million in 2019. By continuously transforming food processing, we enable our customers to increase yield and throughput, ensure food safety and traceability, and improve sustainability in food production. Listed on Nasdaq Iceland since 1992 Listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 To our stakeholders 13 2019 in brief Order book Revenues Financials EUR 414 EUR 1,284 million million highlights Adjusted EBIT Net results EUR 173 EUR 110 million million One Our teams build on the knowledge, expertise and decades of experience accumulated across the company to serve our three core industries, poultry, meat and fish. company Poultry serving three Marel Poultry offers the most complete product range and has the industries largest installed base worldwide. We provide in-line solutions for poultry covering all process steps and all processing capacities for broilers, turkeys and ducks. Meat Marel Meat supplies advanced equipment and systems to the red meat industry. We focus on slaughtering, deboning and trimming, case ready and food service solutions. Our aim is to be a full-line supplier from farm gate to finished pack. Fish Marel Fish is the leading global supplier of advanced equipment and systems to the fish industry. We provide innovative solutions for processing whitefish and salmon, both farmed and wild, onboard and ashore. Innovation Over 30 products launched in 2019 Investment in innovation in 2019 EUR 82.1 Million, 6.4% of revenues Over 900 dedicated innovation experts Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 14 Sustainability 57% of electricity from renewables highlights Sustainability fixed criteria in all product development Focused contributions to UN Sustainable Development Goals 2 Zero hunger 9 Industry, innovations and infrastructure 12 Responsible consumption and production Global sales and service network Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 15 Business Marel’s innovative, technology-based approach has placed us at the forefront of the food processing industry. Our business model is model well balanced among industry segments, business mix and geographical operations. Leading pure-play Marel is a pure play supplier of advanced and high-end processing equipment, full-line solutions and software and services to the poulsupplier try, meat and fish industries. We work in close partnership with producers that are looking to increase the overall level of automation. Innova software Our proprietary software platform, Innova, enables both comprehensive device control and efficient factory and process management. platform Innova has been installed in 2,300 locations worldwide. Originally designed to optimize production on our high-tech lines, Innova can also integrate with and optimize third-party equipment. Farming Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods To dispatch Customer Feed production Live animal handling Cutting / Filleting Forming Logistics Retail Breeding Stunning Deboning Pumping Food service Scalding / De-hairing Weighing / Grading Marinating Restaurants Farming Evisceration Portioning Preparing Chilling Skinning / Derinding Coating .... Inspection Heating / Frying .... / Smoking .... Innova Food Processing Software Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 16 Technology leader Marel is committed to innovation. Annually, we invest approximately 6% of revenue in research and development, creating value by diversifying and improving our products and services in partnership with our customers. With each stride we take, we create a more seamless operating flow, through integrations that boost production capacity and efficiency. Global reach We have a dedicated global team of about 6,300 employees in over 30 countries. Through the years, we have built a unique sales and service network of more than 650 sales employees and 1,350 service employees who support customers in over 140 countries. In countries where we have less presence, a network of agents supports our organization. Blue-chip customer Marel’s strong brand and unique products have underpinned customer loyalty to our solutions—that includes the world‘s leading base worldwide poultry, meat, and fish processors. Our long-standing partnerships are solid, built on teamwork and common goals across industries and borders. Standard and Marel’s integrated line approach is made up of standard and modular building blocks that increase operational efficiency modular building and minimize the risk of errors. blocks Mergers and acquistions In June 2019, Marel acquired a minority stake in the Canadian software company Worximity Technology, a highly relevant partner Strategic investment for food processors looking to optimize their production through digital technologies. in Worximity Technology Inc. “Worximity complements Marel’s comprehensive software solution. The partnership is an excellent opportunity to drive growth as food producers continue to harness the power of data and analytics to improve their operations.” Arni Sigurdsson, Executive Vice President of Strategy and Development at Marel. Worximity offers real-time cloud data collection and analytics solutions that are compatible with Marel´s proprietary software platform Innova. The company mainly operates in meat, dairy and baked goods processing industries that use Worximity’s software solutions to reduce downtime, increase throughput, improve quality and achieve better raw material yield. A wide range of food processors can use the company´s scalable solutions. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 17 Strong Marel began as an idea at the University of Iceland in 1977, and innovation has always been at its heart. The company has over 930 experts dedicated to transforming food processing by improving our culture of solutions, both in terms of connectivity and in terms of sustainability. innovation In 2019, our investment of around 6% of yearly revenues in innovation translated to EUR 82 million. Our investment in innovation is essential to the development of transformative solutions for the food processing industry, which in turn deliver organic growth of the company. Since day one, we have bundled software and equipment together to increase precision. Although much of our focus is on mechanical engineering to optimize application and equipment performance, our mission also encompasses integrated technologies and connectivity. Data analytics and software control are top-of-mind for global producers and consumers, particularly in a changing market that’s increasingly shaped by consumer demand for transparency. Today, Marel is the leader in data-driven approach to food processing, one of the most significant value chains in the world. In 2019, our commitment to innovation across industries and product categories allowed us to strengthen our position as a technological leader in the food processing industry. Our investments secured our competitive advantage and supported organic growth. In 2019 alone, we brought 30 new solutions to the market. Innovation is in our DNA. Research and 80 8% development EUR million 60 6% expenses 40 4% 20 2% 0 0% 2017 2018 2019 R&D expenses R&D expenses as % of revenues Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 18 Three key At Marel, we focus our efforts on three main industries: poultry, meat and fish. Our teams analyze trends and anticipate processing challenges, enabling us to stay on top of market developments. industry Marel is constantly working on new ways to streamline existing segments processes and increase automation across industries. Marel Poultry Marel offers the most comprehensive product range of poultry processing solutions in the industry and has the largest installed base worldwide. The company provides in-line poultry processing solutions for all process steps and processing capacities for broilers, turkeys and ducks. Marel Meat Marel supplies advanced equipment and systems to the red meat industry, with a focus on slaughtering, deboning and trimming caseready and food-service solutions. Following the acquisitions of MPS, Sulmaq and MAJA, Marel is now a full-line supplier from farm gate to finished pack. Marel Fish Marel is the leading global supplier of advanced stand-alone equipment and integrated systems to the fish industry. We provide innovative equipment, systems and software for processing whitefish and salmon, both farmed and wild, onboard and ashore. With the acquisition of Curio in 2019, Marel is one step closer to becoming a full-line supplier to the fish industry. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 19 Customer Our strong and long-standing relationships with our customers form the bedrock of our business model. We’re a team. Together, we innovate and create products that set new industry benchmarks focus in the industry. On top of that, through our partnerships with our customers, we´re able to make continuous improvements to meet their needs. We expect automation in food processing to increase steadily, especially in emerging markets. This uptick means that we can expect higher growth in advanced and high-end segments of the food processing equipment industry. Our expertise in this segment is centered around helping customers produce affordable, safe, quality food in an efficient and sustainable way using the latest technologies. This approach leads to higher margins and better value for our customers—and us. Customer As a high-tech solutions provider, Marel is transforming the way food is processed by innovating in close partnership with its customers. collaboration New projects, as well as improvements to existing processes, support our ability to transform the industry through increased customer value in advanced and high-end segments. Marel strives to maintain long-term relationships with its customers, with the goal of becoming a trusted maintenance partner. The below illustration of a typical ten-year relationship with a customer is a prime example of how we do business. It’s also a good reflection of our revenue mix: greenfield projects, modernization and standard equipment and service and spare parts each account for around one-third of our revenue. – Customer begins operation in primary processing. – Additional investments, which usually include capacity extensions or added processing capabilities, take place throughout the relationship. – After-sales revenue from spare parts and service begins around year three. An illustration of a long-term customer relationship Balanced business mix Initial greenfield investment 10 year revenue profile from a customer in primary processing Capacity expansion Service and Cross-selling of Initial secondary processing spare parts equipment investment Extra scope on initial investment and minor spare parts Additional 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Year investments Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 20 Balanced Marel’s presence across geographies and in multiple protein segments is a dampens cyclicality and mitigates economic fluctuations. It optimally positions us to transfer technical know-how, solutions revenue and expertise across industries—and geographies. We build upon technological advances we’ve made in one sector by implementing stream across them in another. business Our sources of revenue include turnkey projects, such as brownfield and greenfield projects, modernization and standard equipment as mix and well as service and spare parts. Our standard equipment and modular portfolios are the building blocks of our turnkey projects, and often act as an entry point for new customers. Our service and spare parts geographies segment grows along with our installed base. Other 1% Revenues by Fish 12% business segment Poultry 54% Meat 33% Revenues by Asia and Oceania 13% geographical location EMEA 50% Americas 37% Revenues by stream Modernization and standard Greenfields and equipment large projects Service and spare parts Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 21 Strategy part role Every step counts idea number Every great journey starts with a single step. Forty years ago, we set off with an idea, inspired by our vision to preserve nature’s food resources. Today, with ambition, innovation, and strategic thinking, we are a global leader in our field. Every day we break new ground and continue to transform food processing – one significant step at a time. Marel’s strategy is to be a leading global provider of full-line solutions for the poultry, meat and fish industries. Through continuous research and development, as well as strategic acquisitions, Marel aims to offer its customers modular building blocks for high-tech food processing, with our overarching Innova food processing software tying the entire value chain together. Poultry Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Meat Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Fish Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Marel presence Application gaps to reach full-line offering Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 22 Leading global As a pure play provider of full-line solutions, software and services to the poultry, meat and fish processing industries, Marel focuses on provider of systems, putting its advanced, automated systems and solutions to work. That applies to every step of production at processing plants across the software and globe. Our strong organic growth and strategic acquisitions fortify services our position as a leader in our field. Our product line includes standalone equipment, individual systems and full production lines, all controlled and integrated with Innova, our overarching software solution. Innova provides our customers with process control, real-time traceability and unmatched throughput and yield monitoring. Our software offers processors seamless flow and integration between different applications, leading to improved overall efficiency and higher yields. Our comprehensive equipment, systems, software and service solutions have made Marel a one-stop shop for our customers. Over the past few years, strong cash flow has made it possible to support organic growth through increased investments in innovation. We have also dedicated resources to strengthening our global sales and service network, advancing our manufacturing facilities and updating our IT platform across geographies. It has also allowed Marel to undertake strategic acquisitions without issuing new shares or borrowing additional funds. Marel remains committed to gradually expanding its product offering through innovation, strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions In 2019, Marel acquired a 50% stake in Curio, an innovative primary processing equipment provider for whitefish processing, with an Marel acquires a option to acquire the remaining 50% of shares in four years. 50% stake in Curio “In recent years, Marel and Curio have achieved great results collaborating on many full-line projects with some of the most forward-thinking fish processors in the industry,” says Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO of Marel. The transaction is in line with Marel’s strategic objective to be a full-line supplier of advanced food processing solutions across the fish, meat and poultry industries. Curio’s complementary product portfolio of heading, filleting and skinning solutions takes Marel closer to becoming a full-line provider to the global fish industry. “The acquisition is excellent news for our customers across the world as the synergies resulting from joining forces will fuel innovation and grow our solution offering,” says Ellidi Hreinsson, CEO of Curio. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 23 Investing For the 2017-2026 period, Marel has set a target of 12% average annual increase in revenue, which we will reach through a balanced mix of organic and acquired growth. To that end, our sizeable in growth innovation investments propel expansion and market penetration. Our focus on strategic partnerships and acquisitions that fill gaps in the value chain and augment our full-line product offering is an essential complement to investments to expand our offerings through innovation. Organic growth The market for food processing solutions is expected to grow by an average of 4%-6% annually until 2026. Propelled by significant investment in innovation, greater market penetration, and an extensive product portfolio, we aim at organic growth outperforming that of the market. Ongoing investment in improving IT infrastructure and the scalability of our platform, as well as our global reach, supports continued organic growth. Acquired growth Through acquisitions, we supplement our full-line offering and accelerate market penetration. We believe our solid operational performance and strong cash flow can support average annual revenue growth of 5-7% through acquisitions. This growth is not expected to be linear, but rather based on opportunities and economic fluctuations. To capture the full value of acquired companies, we have continued to professionalize our integration capabilities and expertise to tap into the strength of the combined entity. Mergers and acquisitions In the fourth quarter of 2019, Marel acquired Cedar Creek Company, an Australian provider of specialized software and hardware Marel acquires Cedar solutions to meat, poultry and seafood processors. Creek Company “Cedar Creek’s software solution is leading in its home market, and together, we have opportunities to continue to develop high-tech, data-driven solutions for food processors that merge connectivity, software and hardware to drive smarter processing,” says Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO of Marel. Cedar Creek’s software solutions integrate on-floor processing data capture, production control, head office reporting, and traceability throughout production. The company has built long-standing relationships with some of the largest meat and poultry processors in Australia and New Zealand. By acquiring Cedar Creek, Marel will expand its customer reach in the region. “Our technical capabilities and complementary regional presence are a good fit, enabling us to increase scale and better serve customer needs,” says Lynne Lambert, Co-founder, and Director of Cedar Creek Company. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 24 A prime example: Our acquisition of MPS paved the way for entry into primary meat processing. As a result, Marel became a full-line provider to the How Marel fills meat industry, expanded its geographical presence and product portfolio and integrated MPS’s meat solutions under the umbrella value gaps of Marel Meat. Poultry Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Meat Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Fish Primary processing Secondary processing Prepared foods Marel presence Application gaps to reach full-line offering Another prime The acquisition of Sulmaq strengthened Marel’s market presence in Latin America through; improved foothold in the rapidly growing example: How meat market in South and Central America, strong customer relationships that increase sales of complementary equipment and commitMarel expands ted workforce with strong engineering know-how. its geographical Sulmaq has become an integral part of Marel’s global supply chain by scaling up our operations in the region. presence Contact us Our priority is to use our strong financial position and to execute our strategy by reinvesting in our company. Additionally, we want to Every acquisition expand our business through strategic acquisitions. In acquisitions, our focus is on investing in new businesses that align with our counts values and complement our work. We are open to partnerships with companies that offer solutions, software or services within the value chain from post farm gate to dispatch in poultry, meat and fish processing. Future partners need to share our vision of transforming food processing, be a good cultural fit with Marel and generate healthy returns. Our team is experienced and flexible. We respect the heritage of the companies that we acquire and strive to build a shared future on a flexible and fair ground. Please reach out to us through acquisitions@marel.com if you are interested in discussing an investment opportunity with us. Marel Annual Report 2019 Marel in brief 25 Poultry part gram Every second counts number thought Meeting the ever-growing global demand for poultry on an ongoing basis requires some seriously fast thinking. Our solution? Revolutionary processing lines that operate at an ever-higher speed and level of efficiency, currently processing four birds per second without compromising on quality. Poultry 54% Poultry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. We are the worldwide market leader for poultry processing systems, with broiler, of total revenues turkey and duck processors around the world using our systems and services. Marel Poultry contributed EUR 690 million in revenue in 2019, or 54% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT margin of 17.5%. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish market is currently estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, with the poultry market accounting for EUR 400 billion. More specifically for Marel, the market for the sale and maintenance of food processing equipment for poultry, meat and fish is estimated to be around EUR 12 billion. Of this, poultry processing equipment sales are estimated at around EUR 3.6 billion, a figure which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 26 Overview Marel’s innovative poultry processing solutions appeal to global food processors’ appetite for high-tech, high-performance applications that improve their operations. In 2019, global political and economic challenges changed the landscape of the poultry sector. The trade crisis between the US and China, export restrictions in Brazil and political unrest in the Middle East resulted in a slowdown across the industry. Amid uncertain market conditions, several processors delayed investing in new facilities. However, significant developments in international trade relations countered market weakness, with China opening its borders to protein imports from the US and Brazil. Orders in standard equipment and projects started to grow in the second half of the year. Towards the end of 2019, we converted our project pipeline into orders. One notable project is with Bell & Evans in the US. They are a genuinely inspiring partner with whom we will be closely working with on a transformational state-of-the-art greenfield poultry processing plant. Ultimately, Marel reinforced its leading global market position in 2019 by securing new customers. Appetite for a Processors have maintained their appetite for data-driven approaches to production. The extent of high technology adoption data-driven to satisfy that hunger, however, varies greatly by geographic region. While some companies have shifted from basic data gathering, such approach as flock weight information and manual paperwork, to Innova’s paperless environment, others have adopted technologies that enable the smart adjustment of machine settings, based on real-time automated reporting. Through attentive partnerships, Marel enables poultry processors to raise efficiency and yield through its hardware and software solutions. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 27 Automated Limited access to skilled workers remains a global challenge for food processors, but automation has helped fill this gap. Marel can supply replacement an automated replacement for nearly every manual operation in a processing plant, leading to improved return on investment (RoI), as for nearly well as increased consistency and yield. every process Marel‘s innovative technologies—such as the ATLAS live bird handling system, which processes up to 15,000 birds per hour, and the Thigh Fillet System—have seen significant adoption. They are well on their way to worldwide implementation. Products Our full-line approach to poultry processing solutions, as well as our extensive product portfolio in the sector, underpins our partnerships with customers. In 2019, we continued to develop new solutions that enable our customers to meet evolving market demands. Overall equipment efficiency (OEE) systems are used in the manuTurning data into facturing sector to measure efficiency by identifying the percentage insights with IMPAQT of productive versus unproductive manufacturing time, performance and first-time-right quality. Our IMPAQT system, a module of our Innova software, applies the OEE concept to improving the primary processing of poultry. IMPAQT collects data from switches, circuits, sensors, and cameras and interprets it according to three categories—availability, performance and quality—that reflect the conditions of each poultry processing operation. Unlike standard OEE systems, IMPAQT shows actual downtime when the line was unable to run and identifies the cause of the line stop, leading to quick resolution. IMPAQT performs a consulting role in production. The software solution allows processors to improve their day-to-day operations by tapping into the real-time data IMPAQT collects and analyzes. Through such fact-based advice, processors can conduct remote monitoring and predictive maintenance, to run an efficient operation. The IMPAQT module gives our customers actionable insights into their operations, enabling plants to run at full potential through data-driven decisionmaking. IMPAQT takes a twofold approach to increasing an operation’s precision: maximizing the effectiveness of all installed equipment and optimizing the efficiency of each customer’s end-toend process. In 2019, Marel introduced a new coating line, which has proved parCoating Line and ticularly popular. RevoBreader is a flexible machine that offers flatRevoBreader bed and drum modes in one enclosure. Its dual-mode configurability makes it highly customizable, providing high-quality coating to both homestyle and flatbed coated products. Switching between settings takes less than two minutes. The drum breading procedure guarantees a high level of crumb coverage all over the product, as well as high crumb-to-product retention during the frying process. RevoBreader’s outfeed system in drum mode ensures optimum product distribution across the width of the belt, improving the products’ infeed to downstream in-line processes. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 28 In flatbed position, RevoBreader simultaneously coats the product with both top and bottom crumb for maximum coverage, resulting in high-quality, uniformly coated products. Once products have been coated, excess crumb is removed in two steps; firstly by a vibrating mechanism and secondly by air knives. Excess crumb is carefully transported back into the machine for reuse. RevoBreader is equipped with a water wheel that gently handles the crumb, guaranteeing minimum crumb breakdown. Innovation Marel has long anticipated market trends, and 2019 was no exception in the poultry segment. Processors who want to portion fixed-weight boneless poultry meat Making the most can now easily seperate offcuts to an inline process, using the Trimof every cut Sort addition to our popular I-Cut 122. The TrimSort helps processors eliminate manual sorting after portion cutting and is a great example of how we continously develop our existing equipment, to bring new benefits to customers. The TrimSort also reduces labor and saves space inside the plant. Poultry processors face constantly fluctuating demand from Early grading supermarkets, restaurants, and caterers, which makes planning more difficult and stressful. By assessing quality early in the process, Marel offers processors the perfect tool for adapting supply to demand at the very highest processing speeds. IRIS, our computer-controlled vision system for assessing product quality, is typically utilized in the distribution line immediately after chilling. However, IRIS and SmartWeigher can also be installed a step earlier in the evisceration line, providing vital data about weight and quality before the in-line chilling process. This gives poultry processors considerably more time to match tens of thousands of graded products to customers’ purchase orders. By optimizing production planning this way, processors generate the highest yield possible while fully meeting customer requirements. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 29 Projects The global food industry is going through turbulent times; Marel knows how to discern real trends from temporary hype. A new appreciation 2019 saw a breakthrough in automated breast filleting in China. Several important conglomerates installed multiple AMF-i breast cap for breast fillets in filleting systems, marking a considerable change in Chinese consumers’ appreciation of breast meat. Until now, breast fillets were largely China considered to be substandard products, relative to leg meat. Chinese poultry processors have installed up to eight AMF-i systems at their plants, moving from manual to automated processing to reduce reliance on human labor, maximize capacity and throughput, and optimize filleting as well as chicken leg and wing production. Poultry ShowHow The future of digitally controlled poultry processing is data-driven, and this central idea was at the core of the 2019 Poultry ShowHow. Through lectures, demonstrations, keynote speeches and break-out sessions, guests explored the role of software in optimizing each processing step—be it primary processing, quality control, wing part processing, grading or filleting. 15,000 birds per hour In 2018, we inaugurated a new age of processing speed, by introducing technologies that enabled processing of 15,000 birds per hour processing (bph) while maximizing efficiency and quality. This technology has a strong foothold in the industry. After the first two 15,000 bph installations in Germany, other companies followed suit, including Esbro in the Netherlands, Cranswick in the UK, AIA in Italy and Master Good in Hungary. Customer story In 2019, premium Dutch processor Esbro increased its line speed from 13,500 bph to 15,000 bph, with noticeable effects on cost efficiency. ESBRO moves to “With Marel IMPAQT software, we no longer depend on gut feelings 15,000 bph in primary processing. The control and the insight we have into our primary process is simply amazing,” says Jan Legters, Esbro Plant Manager. “We only used to debone breasts but now we see the demand for product from leg and thigh meat skyrocketing. We are looking at all areas. We want to keep up with and even stay ahead of today’s developments. Maybe we will change the way we process wings in the near future.” Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 30 Sustainability Marel is committed to sustainability. Food safety, carbon footprint, water waste and animal well-being are central to our philosophy of conscientious protein processing. To that end, we continually strive to cultivate smarter processes. Food safety The mission of our microbiological research in Boxmeer, Netherlands, is to reduce contamination by microorganisms in primary and secondary processes. Ultimately, our objective is to provide solutions that increase shelf life and improve food safety. Our researchers examine the microbiological risks of machine materials. Every time a food product touches a surface, the risk of cell attachment and biofilm formation increases. Choosing the right materials for our technologies is paramount in reducing microbiological risk. Our engineers and researchers therefore collaborate to design sanitary and efficient solutions. In the food industry, water use is under close scrutiny. In response to Low environmental water conservation regulations, Marel supplies solutions that treat impact wastewater from the production process, making it suitable for reuse. Our customers have made substantial progress in combatting water waste. In greenfield poultry plant installations, wastewater treatment solutions are integrated with the processing solutions. For example, poultry-producer Mazzraty’s processing plant in Qatar is equipped with one of today’s most-modern water treatment installations. Located in a naturally water-scarce environment, Mazzraty is highly aware of the importance of clean water; the facility has been designed to not waste water or leave residual material. The reuse of cleaned wastewater from the factory as irrigation water is a crucial part of Mazzraty’s larger environmental plan, which also involves a reduction in CO2 emissions. Animal well-being All of our systems, beginning with the live bird handling phase, pay the highest attention to animal well-being. We conceived the ATLAS system, combined with CAS SmoothFlow anesthetization, with sustainability and animal well-being in mind. A stressfree journey from farm to the plant starts after loading the birds. The large openings of ATLAS’s SmartStack transport module allow birds to be loaded onto their feet. The module design also minimizes the risk of heads, wings, and legs becoming trapped during loading. During transport on the truck, SmartStack allows for efficient ventilation. Height is particularly important: The birds have the most headroom in the industry and are able to sit comfortably with their heads up. Floor design is also crucial. It allows birds to grip, so they are not sitting in their own manure, and the birds beneath them are protected from waste. Distressed birds can be removed without additional stress through removable side panels – a unique feature in the industry. The clever design of SmartStack allows more birds to be transported in one trip, lowering vehicle emissions. The modules are easy to clean and disinfect, reducing the risk of cross-contamination. Throughout the entire process, including unloading, the birds have a stress-free journey, untouched by humans. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 31 Growth Poultry consumption per capita is growing, even in saturated markets, such as the EU. In the US, Israel, and Australia, per capita consumption is above 40 kg (approx. 90 lbs) per year. Average consumption in the drivers EU is, however, only 23 kg (approx. 50 lbs). Market growth is expected to average 1.3% year-over-year until 2022. Data-driven Turning poultry processing into a data-driven operation is an absolute necessity in today’s market, but it is still a challenge. Marel provides processing a doorway into data-driven culture for customers across the globe, by providing them with a complete set of data-gathering tools and services. Sensors, product detectors, vision graders, weighers, X-rays, and laser scans collect an invaluable set of reliable data. This system of data collection is the ideal starting point for organizations seeking a data-driven environment. Increased processing capacities and greater automation go handin-hand with a digital transformation. Processors are under constant pressure to make increasingly complex decisions very quickly, matching an enormous amount of incoming goods to order requirements. Moreover, product quality has to be optimal to avoid risk claims and product recalls. Quality control, food safety and traceability through highly accurate digital tools, such as Innova Food Processing Software, take the pressure off processors. By implementing data-driven processes, long-term and short-term planning become more structured. All input and output data for production are visible. Innova converts precise data into precise operations. Automation The available workforce for the poultry industry is decreasing around the world. This growing labor shortage has led plants to seek to reduce their dependency on skilled manual labor. In contrast, the market has seen near-endless demand for a diversity of poultry end products, including a wide range of convenience foods containing deboned thigh products, diced meat, chicken popcorn, marinated tenderloins, chicken strips, wing sticks, and seasonal products. This demand, as well as general economic growth, puts even greater pressure on production. Plants faced with growing demand and a decreasing workforce have only one option: investing in automation. Traceability Consumers have a growing desire for information about their food. They want to know all the details of what they‘re eating: the origin, the nutritional value, and the safety. Providing detailed product information may seem impossible for individual products. However, with thorough data collection and software to analyze that data, processors have a strong backbone of food safety information to tackle this challenge. Traceability, continuous improvement, yield and OEE optimization can best be handled as part of an operation-wide solution. Innova’s capabilities have advanced significantly, and capturing the big data of a processing plant is now a reality. For example, Innova Manufacturing Execution System (MES) links together processes for internal logistics (packing and warehousing), planning and optimization, performance management and quality management. MES provides tracking and monitoring of every aspect of the process—from ingredient measurement to production reports. By tying it all together in detailed analysis, MES ensures product flow tracking and full traceability during the production process. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 32 Internet of Things The Internet of Things (IoT) opens new avenues for poultry processors to add even more value. IoT enables automated monitoring and diagnostic processes, giving panoramic visibility of machine efficiency and how to improve it. Remote diagnosis using IoT makes maintenance work more efficient and sustainable, while saving labor so that processors can implement smarter processing and undertake predictive maintenance. IMPAQT is an example of a solution we developed using IoT technology to collect and analyze data, with the goal of giving fact-based advice to our customers so they can increase efficiency. Global In 2020, global production of chicken meat is forecast to rise by 4.0% and surpass 100 million tons for the first time. Global trade in chicken meat is expected to grow by 3.9% to 12.2 million tons. production The US continues to lead the market, with an expected 20% of and trade global production in 2020, followed by China with 14%. In 2019, China overtook the European Union to become the third-largest producer trends and in 2020 it is expected to overtake Brazil and become the second-largest producer. Brazil, however, continues to be the world’s leading exporter of chicken meat, accounting for 31% of global trade, while Japan continues to be the largest importer. Global chicken CAGR of 2.7% in production and 3.9% in trade in the last 5 years production 120 18 and trade Production in million metric tons Trade in million metric tons 80 12 40 6 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Production Trade Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Chicken Meat Production and Trade. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). Largest chicken 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) producers United States 20% Others 35% 20% 35% 13% China 14% India 5% 5% 15% 13% Brazil 14% European Union 12% Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Chicken Meat Production. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 33 Meat part gram Every piece counts person number Peace of mind with every piece of meat? Absolutely. Combined, our systems and software give our customers in the food processing industry unprecedented control over their products. That enables them to meet their customers’ requirements, bringing assurance of quality and safety to the table. Meat 33% The meat industry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. We are a leading global supplier of integrated systems and advanced of total revenues standalone processing equipment for the red meat industry. As a full-line supplier, our state-of-the-art meat processing equipment, systems and software span the entire production value chain, from the reception of live animals to the dispatch of finished products. Marel Meat contributed EUR 423 million in revenue in 2019, or 33% of total revenue, at an EBIT margin of 10.5%. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish market is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion. Meat is the largest market segment, with an estimated value of EUR 600 billion. More specifically for Marel, the market for the sale and maintenance of food processing equipment for poultry, meat and fish is estimated to be around EUR 12 billion. Of this, meat processing equipment is estimated to be around EUR 6.6 billion, a figure which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 34 Overview Marel is a key equipment and software supplier across the entire value chain, including primary, secondary and further processing. All Marel systems are fully controlled by our integrated food processing software, Innova. With Innova, food processors can manage a broad cross-section of their production processes, while obtaining valuable real-time information and comprehensive reports. IFFA exhibition The triennial IFFA exhibition in Frankfurt, Germany, is the largest international red meat processing exhibition, making it an important platform platform for introducing new equipment and systems. During IFFA 2019, Marel launched 20 new solutions, with a focus on a smarter approach to modern food production. IFFA 2019 was also an excellent opportunity for us to promote the addition of MAJA and Sulmaq to Marel. MAJA offers meat processing equipment and Sulmaq focuses on pork and beef solutions in Central and South America. They expand Marel’s product portfolio in a highly complementary way, extending our global sales and service network to new markets. A number of meat processors at IFFA expressed their interest in partnering with Marel to modernize, digitize, and upgrade their production. Uncertainty in Global issues such as animal diseases, political transitions, and trade uncertainties put pressure on red meat markets around the world in the market 2019. While trade barriers were lifted in some regions, new ones were instituted in others. In particular, tariffs created unstable trade situations in many markets, including Brazil, Argentina, Canada, China and the US. Marel continues to thrive despite these global struggles. We have responded confidently to market changes and prepared for future uncertainties of similar complexity. Ongoing product development and fit-for-purpose solutions enable us to adapt to changing market conditions and consumer demands. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 35 The outlook for Marel is generally positive because of the depth and breadth of our global sales and service network, and our extensive product portfolio. In 2019 alone, we completed several greenfield projects, while installing standard solutions for processors worldwide. African Swine Fever In 2019, China and other Asian markets felt the brunt of the rapid spread of African Swine Fever. Marel has been carefully monitoring drives need for food the spread of the virus, working closely with processors in affected areas to combat the intake and processing of potentially contamsafety solutions inated products. We have also continued to work with companies exporting pork to China, to increase their processing capacities and efficiency so they can meet growing demand resulting from the shortage created by the virus. Products Marel’s product offerings for the red meat segment link up the entire value chain, and the launch of numerous new products during IFFA 2019 underscored our position as a full-line supplier. These products represent our transition to Industry 4.0 technologies and will be key in helping red meat processors transform their production. In 2019, we made a number of enhancements to our groundbreaking New extension DeboFlex solution for pork deboning. The new extended cutting and for the DeboFlex deboning system significantly improves pig carcass deboning operations, for both foreand hind legs. system DeboFlex’s new logistical and control features also optimize process flow through its product takeaway system, which automatically and efficiently transports crates to specified destinations. New Case-Ready Our new Case-Ready Vision line optimizes the use of each piece of meat, contributing to more efficient and sustainable meat producVision line enhances tion. It features inline portioning, vision sorting, robot batching, and packing, and is designed to meet variable processing specifications, product use as well as attributes like packing styles and size variation or re-work. The updated I-Cut 130 PortionCutter, which we introduced at IFFA 2019, includes a new highly accurate portioning and separation feature (singulation). The subsequent scanning unit inspects every portion for weight and quality. Based on those attributes, our Innova food processing software instantaneously assigns each portion to a specific and optimum process downstream, such as robotic batching and packing. Now that’s precision. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 36 New trim handling Food safety, product quality, and uniformity are essential in today’s factories. At IFFA 2019, we presented two new trim handling systems systems that ensure these attributes meet the highest standards. The new SensorX Accuro is extremely accurate in measuring the fatto-lean, or CL, ratio in trim meat and detecting bone fragments and other contaminants in the product. It batches portions of trim meat according to a specific weight and target CL ratio. The new SensorX Magna is a compact solution that is excellent in combination with lines producing mince and convenience products. It determines the CL ratio of incoming meat against specifications with exceptionally high accuracy, while also detecting any bones or other hard materials. This gives processors an edge in the market. Production control Marel’s Innova food processing software is a powerful tool for full production control, whether of a single machine or a complete prothroughout the cessing line. The software provides full traceability throughout the production process, ensures reliable data collection, and includes entire lifecycle real-time monitoring of key performance indicators such as yield, throughput, quality, capacity, and labor efficiency. These measurements allow processors to identify improvement opportunities, while ensuring that production conforms to superior quality and food safety standards. The logistics To ensure timely delivery of fresh products, processors must manage their distribution efficiently. In particular, as meat processing is of food increasingly automated and diversified, there is a growing need for cost-effective intralogistics systems. Our intralogistics systems are modular, which allows processors to fit them into existing plants, giving them room to grow. The systems interface seamlessly with our Innova food processing software, giving users full control over processing, storage, and distribution processes. From live animal receipt to finished product dispatch Receiving Slaughtering Cutting and Trimming Further Retail packing Box packing Dispatch deboning Processing and labelling Innova Food Processing Software Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 37 Innovation Throughout our history, investing in innovation has been Marel’s top priority. We find opportunities in areas where others are limited by obstacles, as we thrive on challenges and turn ideas into comprehensive solutions. Intelligent software applications are an essential facet of the meat production solutions we offer our clients. We’ve synergized our software and hardware, to create viable solutions that solve real-world problems across the protein industry. Prioritizing M-Line In 2019, we installed our M-Lines—automated, robotic slaughtering solutions—in many of our customers’ facilities around the world. At robotization IFFA 2019, we introduced our latest robots in the M-Line series, the Leaf Lard Remover and Bung Remover. These two solutions extend our existing series of efficient, labor-saving, and hygienic slaughter-stage robots. By implementing the latest techniques in 3D scanning and articulating robot arms, our solutions allow processors to achieve the highest possible processing accuracy. Automatic leaf lard removal The removal of leaf lard, which is the soft fat around the pig’s kidneys and loin, is one of the toughest steps in the primary processing of pigs. If done manually, the work is complicated and physically demanding. Marel has now introduced a hanging type of robot in the M-Line series, the M-Line Leaf Lard Remover. This robot removes leaf lard automatically and precisely, without any damage to the carcass surface, utilizing 3D scans of the inner belly of each half carcass. The hanging installation ensures compliance with hygiene standards and increases floor space for logistics conveyors. Vision scanning Our vision scanning unit forms the central hub of the Case-Ready Vision line. We have developed a quality control scanner, which helps processors to meet consumers’ quality demands for an increasing variety of products. It scans individual product slices and grades them visually for quality, based on parameters such as fat content, the location of the fat, and color variations in the meat. Information generated by the scanning, combined with the product weight, is collected on the fly by our Innova software. That information is assigned to individual products for processes downstream, such as loading and tray packing. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 38 Projects Through strategic acquisitions and continuous innovation, we have built an extensive global network of sales and service experts and bolstered our product portfolio. In 2019, our efforts resulted in a number of successful projects, including large and small standard equipment installations, and greenfield projects. Software and service played an instrumental role in partnerships with existing customers, and supported new partnerships with customers in China, Japan, Latin America, Canada, the US, and Europe, including the Netherlands, Germany and Austria, among other countries. Building on strong We continued working with Masan Meat Life in Vietnam in 2019. In the previous year, the processor inaugurated its new greenfield pork profoundations in Asia cessing complex, which was fully supplied with Marel equipment and software for slaughtering, cutting, deboning, and logistics. In 2019, Masan completed a second project with Marel equipment at its plant in Long An, Vietnam, including some of our upgraded offerings. In Shibushi, Japan, we delivered a complete pig slaughter line for Sankyo Meat Co., Ltd. The processor already operates a red meat processing line at the same site. Customer case In October 2019, Aurora Alimentos celebrated its 50-year anniversary by opening Brazil’s largest pork processing plant, in Capeco. Brazil’s largest pork Through a partnership with Marel and Sulmaq, Aurora designed its new plant to meet ambitious growth goals of supplying products to processing plant both foreign and domestic markets, and operating state-of-the-art facilities. The plant is equipped with high-tech slaughtering, cutting, and deboning lines, and wastewater treatment systems. The connections between these systems ensure optimal yield and efficiency, which in turn guarantees product quality, food safety, and full traceability. Using Marel technology, Aurora has doubled its capacity from 5,000 to 10,000 pigs processed per day. “Few companies supply this type of technology, which guarantees the slaughter of 540 pigs per hour. That’s why we consider Marel and Sulmaq as strategic partners for our business,” says Christian Klauck, Engineering Manager at Aurora Alimentos. Sustainability Animal wellbeing is of utmost importance in the protein sector. Consumer demand for products that are produced sustainably and ethically is on the rise. Marel worked closely with its customers in 2019 to address these issues head-on. We delivered systems and equipment that enhance sustainability in terms of raw material, energy and water usage. When working with processors, we emphasize the importance of processing flexibility and diverse end-product offerings, as well as adherence to animal wellbeing standards. Sustainability is an ongoing practice that our equipment aim to strengthen—for all processors, everywhere in the world. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 39 Marel water Wastewater treatment is one area where we directly contribute to our customers’ sustainability efforts. Our longstanding, internationally treatment recognized water treatment division offers primary, secondary, and tertiary treatments for all types of food processing wastewater. The division’s expertise is based on more than five decades of partnerships, innovation, and experience. Marel’s water treatment systems are efficient, easy-to-use, and require minimal maintenance. We offer standard and customized systems to treat wastewater so thoroughly that it can be reused in food processing operations. Growth As an established full-line provider, we collaborate with our customers to identify their specific needs, within the larger context of the global marketplace. We are always mindful of market trends drivers and currently see opportunities for expansion in emerging markets— and even in saturated ones—as protein demand continues to grow. Regardless of location, processors are hungry to boost yield, quality, and output, to distinguish themselves in a highly competitive sector. Processors in emerging markets are seeking to upgrade their equipment, and many of them are pursuing automation for the first time. In markets where automation and production already have a secure foothold, our customers invest in equipment to sustain their margins. We work collaboratively with these customers to identify their needs and introduce innovative technologies and solutions that will help them to meet their targets. The market trend is clear: Processors are demanding more automation in all areas of their processing operations, largely because it minimizes costs and leads to higher quality and safer products. Consumer demand for prepared products is also fundamentally changing how meat processors approach their business. Adaptability is top of mind and Marel is a facilitator in this arena. Onboarding new, more flexible solutions that have a wide range of applications helps processors to remain flexible, enabling them to thrive in today’s highly competitive marketplace. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 40 Global Globally, the demand for beef and veal continues to grow with a downturn in pork production. The US continues to lead in the production of beef and veal, while Brazil is the major exporter, and productions China, the largest importer. In contrast, China is the chief producer of pork, while the EU leads global exports of pork. and trade trends In 2020, the global production of beef and veal is forecast to stay 61.9 million tons. Global trade in beef and veal however is expected to grow by 2.5% and reach 11.6 million tons. Beef and veal Revised production figures for 2019 are lower than previously forecast. Global production of beef and veal in 2019 is now estimated to have shrunk by 1% from the year before. The US continues to lead production, accounting for an expected 20% of total production in 2020, followed by Brazil with 17%. Brazil continues to be the leading exporter. Its exports are expected to grow by 9.5% to reach 2.6 million tons in 2020. At the same time, China remains the leading importer. Its import of beef and veal has tripled in three years and is expected to reach 2.9 million tons in 2020. CAGR of 0.7% in production and 5.3% in trade in the last 5 years Global beef and 60 12 Production in million metric tons veal production 50 10 Trade in million metric tons and trade 40 8 30 6 20 4 10 2 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Production Trade Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Beef and Veal Production and Trade. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) Largest beef and veal producers United States 20% Others 32% 19% 32% 13% China 17% India 7% 7% 15% 10% European Union 11% Brazil 13% Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Beef and Veal Production. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 41 Pork In 2020, global production of pork is forecast to shrink by 9.1% to 96.4 million tons. Global trade of pork, however, is expected to grow by 9.3% and reach 10.4 million tons. Pork production in China, Vietnam, the Philippines and South-Korea is expected to shrink in 2020, and will only be partially offset by increased production in other countries. Chinese pork production will have decreased by a third by the end of the year, compared to two years ago. The European Union continues to be the world’s largest exporter of pork. Its exports are expected to grow by 6.8% in 2020 and reach 3.9 million tons. At the same time, China is expected to increase its imports by 42% in 2020, bringing them up to 3.7 million tons. Global pork CAGR of -3.8% in production and 5.6% in trade in the last 5 years production 120 12 Production in million metric tons and trade 100 10 Trade in million metric tons 80 8 60 6 40 4 20 2 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Production Trade Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Pork Production and Trade. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). Largest pork 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) producers Others 16% India 3% 14% United States 37% 3% 3% European Union 4% 10% 49% 21% Brazil 13% China 25% Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2020, January 10). Pork Production. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 42 Fish one piece Every gram counts person thought It might not seem like much, but a gram can make a world of difference in an industry where thousands of tons of fish are processed every second. A few extra grams per portion quickly adds up to significant gains in yield. Our innovative FleXicut solution analyzes, debones, and portions fish fillets with groundbreaking accuracy. This helps the food processing industry meet the growing global demand for quality food, without wasting a single gram. Fish 12% Marel is a leading global supplier in the fish sector, which is one of our three key protein industries. We provide both advanced standalone of total revenues equipment and integrated systems for all stages of the fish processing value chain, ranging from single scales at sea to complete, integrated production lines onshore. With our investment in innovation, we continue to transform the way fish is processed all around the world. In 2019, Marel Fish contributed 12% of total revenues, amounting to EUR 149 million, and an EBIT margin of 4.3%. The consumer value of the global fish, poultry and meat market is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, with the fish market accounting for an estimated EUR 200 billion. More specifically for Marel, the market for the sale and maintenance of food processing equipment for fish, poultry and meat is estimated to be around EUR 12 billion. Of this, fish processing equipment sales are estimated at around EUR 1.8 billion, a figure which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 43 Overview Generating higher value is at the core of Marel’s mission. To that end, Marel creates its innovative equipment and systems with optimization in mind, whether it’s saving a drop of water or a gram of fish fillet. Technological developments increasingly influence the way Marel serves and supports fish processors and we believe that digital technology is only going to become more vital for the industry’s future. So, in the past year, we’ve focused on bringing innovation to processors, helping them to achieve gains through digital advances. For example, wild whitefish processors play a central role in Marel’s fish portfolio because of the industry’s long-standing use of the latest technology. Wild fish is a relatively fixed resource, with limited potential for volume growth because of fish stocks and quota limitations. However, thanks to their investment in high-tech solutions aboard their fishing fleets, whitefish processors can meet the rising demand for wild fish products by utilizing more of their catch—down to the gram—without sacrificing quality. Growth in the Aquaculture, or aquafarming, has boomed in the past decade and Marel is a leading provider of processing solutions for farmed fish. Our farmed fish sector emphasis on precision and quality has strengthened our position in this sector, especially in the salmon industry. We also work with many of the world’s largest processors of tilapia, sea bream and sea bass. Creating smarter Marel has deepened its role as a fish industry consultant through Industry 4.0 technologies. By equipping processors with the systems factories and the best practices for data control, traceability, sustainability and responsiveness to consumer trends, we enable them to future -proof their businesses. To complement our data-driven technologies, we offer resources designed to guide fish processors who are building or optimizing smart factories, such as playbooks, e-guides and checklists. These resources help processors to assess their existing smart factory competences and identify areas to improve. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 44 A step closer to In 2019, Marel acquired a stake in Curio, an innovative primary processing equipment provider for whitefish processing. Curio’s product full-line provider portfolio of heading, filleting and skinning solutions is highly complementary to Marel’s existing product offering, and brings Marel a step closer to becoming a full-line provider of fish processing solutions. The companies have a history of working together to deliver full-line projects around the world. Curio can now utilize Marel’s sales and service network to extend its global reach with the objective of serving customers better. Products By improving processes, we improve end products. At Marel, we recognize that by optimizing processing at every step in the plant, processors improve yield, quality and safety. In 2019, we introduced a range of new solutions for fish processing, from robot packing and smart weighing to a simple, but extremely effective, rotating table. Robot technology De-palletizing robot Marel’s new-and-improved de-palletizing robot does the heavy lifting: It unloads boxes—one or two at a time—from pallets, to empty fish into the de-icing area. The robot, which we expect to release for sale in 2020, can feed two lines simultaneously. It increases the efficiency of box and pallet handling, enhances capacity, reduces manual work and ensures a steady flow of product. Batch control is programmable and delivers an exact amount of fish by weight or by box, giving users full control of raw materials. FleXitrim This trimming line improves the removal of natural and filleting defects, by providing operators with the advanced feedback they need to optimize quality. New Compact Grader The new-and-improved Compact Grader is a flexible solution. It offers up to eight gates, which can be combined with freestanding batching bins and a packing table. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 45 M2400 scales These new grading and packing scales offer advanced, high-precision weighing and monitoring with full digital control. New manual deheading system The rotating table we released for sale in 2019 has quickly become very popular throughout the industry. This simple solution streamlines the process of manual deheading. Combined with our PaceInfeeder, customers can automatically transfer salmon into the MS2730 Filleting Machine at a steady pace. The rotating table features ergonomically designed, height adjustable platforms and cutting boards for safe, easy and effective operation. After manual deheading, operators slide the salmon onto the rotating conveyor directly below the table, which steadily feeds the fish to the PaceInfeeder. The infeed operates autonomously and maintains optimal pace and correct positioning of every single fish for the Filleting Machine. Automated 2019 marked the fifth anniversary of FleXicut automatic bone removal and portioning. In the past five years, FleXicut has gone from strength whitefish and to strength through updates, additional features, greater connectivity and a wider range of applications. The onboard version has an salmon processing even smaller footprint, and Marel released FleXicut Salmon for sale early in 2019. FleXicut systems now operate in more than 15 countries around the world. Significant sales during 2019 include to: Icewater Seafoods, as part of its US$10 million cod plant investment; Brim, whose investment in three FleXicut lines is part of a historic agreement with Marel to create the world’s most-advanced whitefish processing facility; and Ísfélag, where Marel has designed a highly automated system that will optimize efficiency and product quality. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 46 Innovation Our position as a software supplier and innovator has energized us to transform the way processors work, by incorporating robotics, analytics software and other Industry 4.0 technologies. Real-time visualizations transform omnichannel data into actionable insights that improve traceability from source to shelf. We believe this level of data transparency goes beyond removing bottlenecks, increasing yields and improving equipment performance. Actionable data is crucial for consumer confidence and b2b trust, and is the foundation of futureproof factories. Data Data is crucial in the food processing industry. To optimize production and meet unprecedented global demand for seafood, processors need to make proactive decisions based on accurate and extensive data. As a company that’s been data-driven from day one, Marel knows that data collection happens both inside and outside the factory. Connectivity for real-time response Within a fish processing operation, a high level of connectivity is paramount: integrating complex data from physical, operational and human assets supercharges production flow, maintenance and inventory tracking across the entire network. Marel’s software solutions extend beyond the factory and into the wider world, enabling processors to respond in real time to events in other locations and other stages of the value chain. Our goal is to enable a holistic view of supply chain processes, driving greater overall efficiency from catch to table. We integrate data from operations and business systems, as well as from suppliers and customers. Forecasting to keep pace Satellite forecasting, fishing catches and farm harvest volumes, combined with sales and consumption trends, enable the smart factory to meet immediate targets as well as to forecast factors like catch volumes and market movements, taking strides toward addressing tomorrow’s challenges. For example, fluctuations in catch or unforeseeable dips in the supply of farmed fish will cause the least disruption for the smartest factories, which can act swiftly to source alternative supplies, keep production lines fully running, fill customer orders and meet consumer demand. Automated data collection to improve food safety The fish industry is increasingly realizing that traceability is essential to ensuring food safety. Demonstrating reliable data collection and a valid traceability system from source to shelf is essential to gaining and maintaining a competitive edge and accessing new markets. As the leading provider of automated data collection solutions for the food processing industry, Marel continues to take the lead in data-driven food safety. Our Innova Food Processing Software helps ensure that products meet the highest food safety standards, providing crucial data to both sides of the supply chain. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 47 Robotics: A new Robotics became a defining feature of modern fish processing in 2019. The industry welcomed significant advances in robot technolindustry fixture ogy and lauded its applications in food processing, combined with smaller footprints and proven return on investment (ROI). Robobatcher Thermoformer The fully automatic RoboBatcher Thermoformer, which packs whitefish or salmon portions into thermoformers at high speed, was released for sale during Seafood Processing Global 2019. RoboBatcher was originally developed for the poultry processing industry, and the fish industry has now welcomed this packing technology. In particular, two big sales in Iceland in 2019, at Vísir and Brim, mean there will be 20 robots in operation in the Icelandic fish industry alone in the next couple of years. Vísir installed FleXicut, our automatic pinboning and portioning system, in 2014, and now uses FleXisort, which automates product distribution, and FleXitrim for pre-trimming. With the addition of RoboBatcher, Vísir’s FleXicut system further optimizes the batching of whitefish loins into boxes. Soon after installing its first RoboBatcher, Vísir decided to invest in additional robots. FleXicut: highly intelligent portioning The FleXicut pinboning and portioning system is a perfect example of how Marel uses its core technologies to augment processes across industries and segments. FleXicut is a direct result of the same X-ray technology research that led Marel to develop the SensorX, which has become the standard for quality assurance in the poultry industry. It’s also the offspring of image processing and computer applications that Marel began using in its intelligent portioning machines in the 1990s. This technological transfer continued with FleXicut in 2017. Initially developed for whitefish, the equipment underwent extensive testing in 2017 for salmon applications, and the successful results were demonstrated at the 2018 Salmon ShowHow. In 2019, Marel released FleXicut Salmon for sale. Increasing pre-rigor salmon processing capacity benefits companies across the entire processing chain, with major advantages including better product quality and reduced storage and transport costs. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 48 Projects For Marel, 2019 was a productive year in the fish sector. We undertook both greenfield projects and standard equipment and system installations, and achieved steady sales of standard systems across all regions, to both current and new customers. The following examples denote the diversity of projects we undertook in 2019. Culmárex Spain-based Culmárex Group is a leading seabass and seabream farmer and processor that produces bulk fillets for the European market. When Culmárex installed a 12-station StreamLine intelligent trimming solution at its seabass and seabream processing facility, it immediately noticed improvements in productivity, yield and quality, with StreamLine contributing to better ergonomics, individual operator control and cost savings. Bremnes Bremnes Seashore was the first salmon producer in the world to trial automatic pinbone removal with FleXicut Salmon, having installed the solution at its processing facility in Norway in 2017. Since then, Bremnes has been involved in a development project with Marel to optimize FleXicut Salmon, delivering excellent results. Sustainability The sustainable use of resources is a top priority for the fish processing industry, both in terms of the raw materials, and as regards water and energy usage. In 2019, Marel continued to contribute both directly and indirectly to increased sustainability in these respects. Customer story In October 2019, Iceland-based whitefish processor Brim signed a historic agreement with Marel for an installation that will include a Robotization hi-tech packing system with 10 robots, which will streamline the entire packing process. The deal also includes three FleXicut lines. This at hi-tech installation will make the Brim factory the world’s most-advanced whitefish processing facility. processor Brim “Brim received the Environmental Business Award 2019 in Iceland because of the emphasis we place on the environment, sustainability and innovation in everything we do,” says Aegir Pall Fridbertsson, Managing Director of Brim hf. “Our cooperation with Marel is a continuation of this vision. In order to sustain our goal to be competitive in the global seafood market, Brim needs good people both at sea and on land, powerful vessels and first-class processing technology and facilities. We are very optimistic about the future.” Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 49 Smart factories We design our equipment to minimize waste and to use resources more efficiently through optimal energy and water usage, including make smarter use during cleaning. This way, we help our customers improve raw material utilization to preserve natural resources, as well as strengthen their of resources financials. Sustainability is one of the pillars of a smart factory. In 2019, Marel continued implementing smart factory technology in the fish industry, enabling fish processors to use Industry 4.0 innovations to adopt more sustainable, efficient business models. We continued developing our solutions including FleXicut, that cut more precisely to improve yield and therefore reduce waste. We also automated processes, such as the new manual deheading system, to reduce energy usage, make more efficient use of human resources, and speed up production. And with our Innova Food Processing Software, we have improved the integration of our customers’ whole physical and data infrastructures, so that they can make informed decisions about running their business more sustainably, with information that gives them control of their raw materials, equipment and human operators. Growth For Marel, the key factors for future market growth include the expansion of the farmed whitefish segment, and the overall rise in drivers fish processing automation around the world. Highly automated factories are gradually becoming the norm in fish processing, and the industry is quickly realizing the enormous benefits of robotics and production control software. Technology suppleThe reduction in work force is a key challenge that we aim to help solve. Companies are increasingly prepared to invest in technologies ments reduced labor that reduce costs and/or compensate for a diminishing supply of labor. force Seafood in a Changes in diets have increased demand for both seafood and differentiated and value-added seafood products. This trend will balanced diet continue to be a major source of growth for the industry. Innovative solutions in both salmon and whitefish will set new industry standards over the next few years, with major Norwegian and Icelandic processors leading the way. Watershed installations are already under way and will likely pave the way for others to follow. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 50 Global Both farm-raised and wild-caught fish are surging in growth. Salmon, tilapia, catfish and cod are the key species on the market while the leading producers by country maintain their dominant positions. production and trade trends Salmon In 2020, global salmon production is forecast to rise by 2.9% to 2.9 million tons. Atlantic salmon accounts for an estimated 93% of this production, with Norway dominating with an expected 47% of global production in 2020. All major producing countries are forecast to increase their production in 2020, with an increase in Atlantic salmon outweighing an expected decrease in Coho salmon production in Chile. 5.6% CAGR of Atlantic, 9.6% of Coho, in the last 5 years Global production of farmed salmon 2.5 Production in million metric tons 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Coho salmon Atlantic salmon Source: Groundfish Forum (2019, October). Berlin, Germany. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). Largest salmon 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) producers Faroe Island 3% Others 6% Canada 5% 3% 5% 6% 7% United Kingdom 6% 51% Norway 47% 28% Chile 32% Source: Groundfish Forum (2019, October). Berlin, Germany. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 51 Tilapia In 2020, production of tilapia and pangasius in major producing countries is expected to rise by 7.2% to surpass 10 million tons, of and catfish which pangasius production in major producing countries accounts for 3.9 million tons (reliable global production figures are not available). China continues to lead the tilapia market with a 27% share, while Indonesia is believed to have surpassed Egypt as the second-largest producer, with an expected 17% share in 2020. Global production of 5.1% CAGR of Tilapia, 11.7% of Pangasius, in the last 5 years tilapia and pangasius 10 Production in million metric tons 7.5 5 2.5 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Tilapia Pangasius (major producers) Source: Tveterås, R., Nystoyl, R., and Dr. Jory, D. (2019, October). Finfish production outlook. Presented at GOAL 2019 in Chennai, India. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). Largest tilapia 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) producers Others 29% China 27% 28% 31% Bangladesh 6% 6% 5% 14% 16% Brazil 7% Indonesia 17% Egypt 15% Source: Tveterås, R., Nystoyl, R., and Dr. Jory, D. (2019, October). Finfish production outlook. Presented at GOAL 2019 in Chennai, India. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 52 Cod The three largest cod-producing countries are expected to increase their production in 2020. However, global production is expected to shrink by 1.4%, leaving it at 1.5 million tons. Atlantic cod production is expected to hold its ground in 2020, accounting for 76% of forecast global cod production, while Pacific cod production is expected to continue to decline. Russia accounts for 31% of global cod production, followed by Norway with 22% and Iceland with 19%. Global production -3.9% CAGR of Atlantic, -4.9% of Pacific, in the last 5 years of cod 2 Production in million metric tons 1.5 1 0.5 0 2016 2017 2018 2019e 2020f Atlantic cod Pacific Cod Source: Groundfish Forum (2019, October). Berlin, Germany. Note: Figures for 2019 are estimated (e) while figures for 2020 are forecast (f). Largest cod 2020 forecast (outer) compared to 5 years ago (inner) producers Others 10% Russia 31% EU (incl. Greenland 6% 8% 8% 27% US and Canada 12% 18% 23% 15% Iceland 19% Norway 22% Source: Groundfish Forum (2019, October). Berlin, Germany. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 53 Innova software part role Every thought counts contribution number Food for thought, or thought for food? A little bit of both. Innova, our unique software, provides a complete overview of a product’s processing journey, from reception to dispatch. When it comes to guaranteeing quality, efficiency, and maximizing of resources, it really is the thought that counts. Innova food Innova is our food processing software that provides full production control and traceability for advanced business intelligence. The intuitive user interface provides a complete visual overview of a product’s processing journey through processing—all the way from reception to dispatch. software 2,300 installations worldwide The age of We are in the midst of an era of digital transformation. With information becoming increasingly available and nearly instantaneous in its digital transdelivery, there is a growing expectation from consumers that data about their food be the same. formation Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 54 On top of those demands, in recent years, regulatory requirements for food processing have become more complex. Food producers need to be able to keep pace with the ever-increasing industry and regulatory demands for animal wellbeing, traceability, and quality. With Marel’s Innova system providing full production control, processors are well-positioned to meet increased consumer and regulatory focus on sustainability, food safety, and traceability. The future Utilizing the latest IoT technology and cloud analytics, Innova has established itself as the future of intelligent production control. It of intelligent enables plant managers and operators to control, monitor, and improve their entire production process by spotting inefficiencies on the production control factory floor and highlighting the specific data needed to maximize throughput, quality, and yield. Innova provides an efficient, high-performing software solution that enables compliance with regulatory standards and underpins consumer confidence through data collection. Innova consistently finds new ways to put the data to good use. Meaningful insights In the day-to-day operations of a plant, key performance indicators such as yield, throughput, quality, capacity, and labor efficiency through data are vital to processors. Most organizations across the food industry gather huge amounts of data on these key performance indicators. visualization However, the challenge lies in understanding what particular data can help optimize performance. Innova provides processors with user-friendly tools to turn data into meaningful insights through visualization, all the while ensuring that production conforms to the highest quality and food safety standards. Innova’s comprehensive, real-time reporting presents data on analytics dashboards, giving users a clear visual representation of relevant information. As a result, processors can make smarter decisions in real-time to optimize production results, tailor processes to achieve specific goals and respond immediately to irregularities. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 55 Direct Traceability is the ability to find out where a product comes from and to follow its route throughout the entire supply chain. Innova controls and monitors animal reception and registration and the traceability production flow, as well as the deboning, packing, and dispatching processes. Innova creates a direct line of traceability that leads straight to the end customer. Traceability is a core requirement in today’s food processing market, and it is essential for compliying with food safety standards and quality. Consumers want to know what they are consuming and it’s source. Full traceability strengthens the trust between food processors and their customers. For example, an effective traceability system enables food processors to respond promptly to recalls because it narrows down the affected products and root causes. In essence, food processors’ reputations and licenses to operate are in safe hands. Streamlined order Innova not only provides full production control and traceability, but also streamlines order fulfillment. It includes purchase, production, management and inventory and safety instructions while optimizing workflows, enabling inventory control cost-effective inventory control and efficient order management. With Innova order management, processors can produce the right products, at the right time, for the right customer according to the correct specifications. Innova connects Investing in new equipment is a big decision. That is why Innova is designed to be as accessible as possible. The software is ready to to third-party work with third-party equipment, systems, and solutions out-of-theequipment box. Our customers can install a single software system to oversee production and integrate with their existing equipment. Service and As a data-driven organization, Marel’s software team is continually rolling out improvements to augment current processes. Tools that support address the entire production lifecycle are essential to customer success. To that end, we’ve developed Innova LifeCycle Support, a tool that supports the Innova platform. We are also working on enhanced maintenance capabilities with the latest IoT technologies that are already being tested with a few pilot customers. Customer feedback has been essential for the development of these products, and, in 2020, we’ll keep rolling out new enhancements to support processors’ real needs. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 56 Global Solid cooperation between teams and partners is the foundation of our Innova software, and more broadly, our organization. With presence around 2,300 installations of Innova worldwide, our cutting-edge software is leading the industry. A dedicated Innova team of about 260 individuals with technological expertise and practical knowwith local how assist processors in the implementation process. The Innova team has grown extensively in the past year; with several experiexpertise enced software developers joining our Seattle, Washington team. Innova is versatile. It can control each machine throughout the entire processing line. That level of precision distinguishes it from other software on the market. Marel’s team is made up of experts in the realm of data collection. Innova’s ability to sync with the machinery and collect comprehensive data on the products, processes, and machines throughout the production process is one of its greatest strengths. It transforms operational decisions. Our software expertise, and strong partnerships with our customers, allow us to transform food processing with a focus on food safety and quality, traceability, efficiency, affordability, and sustainability. We make a point of meeting our customers in the field at dedicated software events to share the expansive possibilities of this software. Meeting our customers helps us to strengthen our service and support offerings to make sure that their investment in technology delivers the intended results. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 57 Software Our Software KnowHow user conference, which has entered its second year, attracts hundreds of users. The goal of these user conferences is to encourage open dialogue. KnowHow On the one hand, we strengthen our partnerships with customers through active engagement. On the other, KnowHows provide a forum for our customers to learn from us—and from each other—so they can better use Marel’s software. Through live demonstrations, presentations, and breakout sessions, customers connect with Innova experts and industry peers. Event In 2019, Marel hosted two Software KnowHow user conferences. One in Copenhagen, Denmark for the European market, and a second Software KnowHow in Kansas City, Missouri, for customers in North and Latin America. Many in attendance felt that the Software KnowHow enriched their in Copenhagen and user experience. For them, it was a valuable chance to engage in Kansas City conversation about our software and to ask our experts questions. Insightful breakout sessions provided attendees an opportunity to learn more about how companies are—and could begin—using our software. “You’re able to come here and meet all the guys that are behind the Innova software and meet all the other customers that are using it. I learned a lot from talking to them, the problem I might have they might have a solution to and be able to point you in the right direction and talk about the use of it. That has been very helpful.” TJ Crowe, Crowe Meats “I think one of the key things that came out of the Software KnowHow was the facts about where our industry is going, where things are lacking, and how we can make it better to create a stronger future for our industry.” Amit Morey, Professor of Poultry Sciences Auburn University Innova Lifecycle The Innova LifeCycle Support (ILCS) program provides customers with support and protection. Software is a significant investment, and Support customers want assurances that their investment will work optimally. With ILCS, customers are automatically notified of Innova updates with support from Marel specialists. We strive to bring additional value to our customers. By offering ILCS with Innova on a subscription-based model, we’re facilitating a more direct partnership with customers, a better understanding of their demands, and giving them a chance to provide valuable input. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 58 Innova lifecycle support customers receive free admission 4 35+ 2,100+ 27 Eye-opening Sessions Minutes of Unique days content presenters Product We strive to ensure that processors can forge a seamless connection between solutions on the production floor and the software that collects valuable data for optimization throughout production. In updates 2019, we released a number of product updates that guarantee connectivity between Innova and the latest innovations in food processing equipment and technology. Customers now have access to IMPAQT primary processing. Data The in-house collected from sensors during poultry processing help determine both real-time issues to address immediately and overall loss trends for consultant for poultry the entire process. These insights help our customers to decide what measures need to be taken to boost their production performance. Complete control Marel has developed a comprehensive quality control (QC) package for our customers. The package consists of a selection of our current over quality QC products; it introduces a suite of quality control measures into the factory for new QC customers. We offer a wide range of QC products and have bundled them into an indispensable package. The purpose is two-fold. It takes the pressure off customers who are deciding what products to first invest in and gives them a cohesive overview of what QC can help them accomplish. Built-in management and back-office support Paper program into digital procedure format Utilized across all Quality assurance team Tailored to your process and industry needs Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 59 Bolt-on At Marel, we approach all challenges strategically. There is a strategy for everything we do, from bolt-on acquisitions, investments and partnerships as much as for our software, equipment and hardware. acquisitions and strategic investment Cedar Creek On 23 October 2019, Marel announced that an agreement was signed to acquire Cedar Creek Company, an Australian provider of Company joins specialized software and hardware solutions for meat, poultry, and seafood processors. forces with Marel Cedar Creek has built long-standing relationships with some of the largest meat and poultry processors in Australia and New Zealand. By acquiring Cedar Creek, Marel is expanding its customer reach in Oceania. Cedar Creek offers specialized software solutions that integrate on-floor data capture, production control, head office reporting, and traceability throughout production. Cedar Creek’s technical expertise and solutions complement Marel’s commitment to innovation and our Innova software. Together, the companies will continue to develop groundbreaking software solutions that enable processors to collect and utilize data to improve yield, throughput, quality, food safety and efficiency. Partnership with In June 2019, Marel formed a partnership with Worximity Technology through its acquisition of a 14.3% interest in the Canadian software Worximity company. Marel will continue to invest in new share capital in the company, bringing Marel’s total ownership to 25%. Worximity offers real-time cloud data collection and analytics solutions and is compatible with Marel’s proprietary software platform Innova. The company primarily operates in the meat, dairy, and baked goods processing sectors, which use Worximity software solutions to reduce downtime, increase throughput, improve quality, and improve raw material yield. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 60 Innovation part piece Every idea counts person number A flash of inspiration can come at any time. Even in the shower. Our brave engineers constantly seek new ways to meet a growing demand for quality food. By investing greatly in R&D, we help them nurture their ideas, which sometimes turn into groundbreaking solutions. In 2019, we introduced 30 innovations, and we’ve only just begun. Innovation Innovation is at the very heart of Marel. It’s inscribed in our company culture as one of our three core values. It is a critical element in maintaining and growing our market position and enables us to deliver fit-for-purpose solutions for our customers. We invest about 6% of our revenues in research and development annually, which translated into EUR 82 million in 2019. With over 30 new solutions brought to market in 2019, it is safe to say that innovation is in our DNA. Our experts are devoted to empowering the industry through powerful technologies and data. In our quest to transform the way food is processed, every idea counts. We have over 900 dedicated technology professionals in nine countries who work in partnership with our customers. Our people are passionate, creative, and courageous in pursuing their work to design effective solutions, and they are our greatest advantage in driving innovation. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 61 Through diligent work, our people transform food processing for the benefit of our customers and, in turn, strengthen consumers, communities, the environment and our shareholders. Over 900 employees in 9 countries 6% of revenues invested in innovation Over 30 product launched in 2019 Every meal Food concerns us all, no matter where we live. The challenge of feeding current and future generations is inevitable, and we’ve made it our mission to find sustainable and efficient ways to meet counts this challenge. For us, it’s not a choice but a necessity. We must transform food processing to ensure that healthy and affordable food is available to all. Global trends At Marel, we deliver solutions for processors across the world, enabling them to supply consumers with high-quality food that’s demand innovation produced sustainably and affordably for a healthy, balanced diet. in food processing The world’s population is increasing rapidly, with no signs of slowing. By 2050, the United Nations projects that it will grow to 9.7 billion, up by 2 billion from the current 7.7 billion in 2019. Average incomes are also increasing around the world, giving consumers higher purchasing power to shop in supermarkets and eat at restaurants. At the same time, consumers are changing the shape of demand through an increased focus on food safety, quality, nutrition and sustainability. The growing world population, fast-changing consumer behavior, and an intensifying focus on sustainability and legislative compliance, means demands in our industry are continually evolving. Our challenge is to make even better use of the raw materials coming into the plant through cutting-edge solutions that allow processors to deliver high-quality, safe food at affordable prices. In line with market trends, we’re also undergoing a digital revolution at Marel to develop software that provides customers accurate insights into their operations and output. In engineering solutions that meet the growing demand for food, an Sustainability inescapable part of the equation is the environment. Since day one, Marel has focused on making the most of valuable resources. Our marine scales—one of our first innovations—were designed to maximize yield from every fish. That ground-breaking solution is a perfect example of the way commercial incentives go handin-hand with sustainability incentives. In 2018, we formally integrated sustainability into our requirements for all new product development, meaning that all of our solutions are designed to maximize yield and minimize the use of resources, such as energy and water. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 62 Digitalization Digitalization is driving an ongoing industrial revolution across industries. Interconnected technology ties together machines and software for optimal, efficient functioning and allows people to carry out truly value-adding tasks. Demand-driven value chains, where data steers the order process, have turned previously supply-driven value chains upside down. By uncovering insights about demand using data, enterprises can deliver innovative and meaningful services and products to consumers while also reducing waste. The same digital technologies are also opening up possibilities for customer-friendly and efficient remote servicing. These developments are transforming the service models businesses are working according to. Every year, an estimated 1.6 billion tons of food are lost or wasted along the value chain, from harvest to consumer. New methods powered by digitalization stand to benefit us all. By applying relevant digital technologies across the multiple steps it takes to produce food—from the harvest of raw materials all the way to consumer-ready products—even the slightest improvements in efficiency, yield and sustainability can have tremendous benefits. Food processors Fortunately, it’s not only mega-trends that are creating momentum for new ways of food processing. Food processors have also shown embrace change an appetite for new approaches. Automation, in particular, is a driving force because access to skilled labor becoming more limited along with other factors, including consumer concerns about food safety and sustainability. These trends culminate in a need for more flexibility to meet trends we’ve seen in consumer behavior at supermarkets, restaurants, hotels and other food retailers. Consumers are not only seeking greater product variety, including prepared foods, marinated meats and fish, but also more selection in quantity. Single and two-person households with flexible routines have less need for larger quantities. Food processors have to remain adaptable to changing consumer behavior to keep up with market demands. They must adopt new technologies, new approaches and new processes to roll with the times. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 63 Marel, at the Marel is ahead of new trends. With our full-line offerings from farm to fork, from sea to shore, we are uniquely positioned to gather information on the global food processing industry and to translate that forefront of information into actionable intelligence. With each passing year, data analytics and process control, along with integrated technolotransformagies and enhanced connectivity, become increasingly important. As a market leader with extensive data on how our products are used, tion Marel anticipates customer needs and answers them with new products, capabilities and software. Marel has a long history of combining software and mechanics to tackle food processing challenges. But we don’t just innovate; we share our knowledge with our customers. We’re well-equipped to support our customers in the use of new technologies. We ensure they understand how to use data to help optimize their processes and output. Powered by The pace of technological advance shows no sign of slowing down. Industry 4.0 is a reality that’s powered by digital technology such as technology big data, Internet of Things (IoT), and virtual reality. For Marel, these technologies represent immense opportunities for product development. New scalable technologies and production channels, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud services, advanced robotics and 3D printing, are essential to our products—now and into the future. Our business is rooted in a data-driven approach to improving yield and reducing waste. We have established distinct market leadership in the field of innovative food processing solutions powered by digital technology. Over the decades, we have remained true to this cornerstone of our philosophy, and more recently, we have significantly stepped up the proportion of innovation investment spent on digital technology for food processing solutions and services. For example, in 2019, we began the development of an IoT solution that is moving beyond its trial phase and stands to revolutionize our service offerings. Virtual reality is spreading across our operations to benefit engineering in prototyping and development. Our sales department has started testing the use of virtual reality during presentations of our technologies to deepen our customers’ understanding of our solutions. Now, with virtual reality, they can literally ‘see’ our solutions from the inside out. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 64 Innovation through Our broad knowledge of the industry propels new solutions. We are dedicated to delivering unique products and services that will shape partnerships our customers’ future business landscape and help them create a scalable infrastructure. Some of our revolutionary technologies were conceived in partnership with our customers. By seeking feedback and by understanding their challenges and needs, we work together to solve problems. This level of insight is invaluable in creating solutions that are truly fit-for-purpose. From idea to prototype, we are proud to work with pioneering food processors who are willing to test out new equipment and new ideas inside their plants. The real-life feedback from these trials is a cornerstone of our collaborative approach. TOMRA partnership for sensor-based technology Vision-based sensing technology enables automation and minimizes food loss. To accelerate the pace of transformation, Marel has partnered with TOMRA Food, a leading provider of advanced sensor-based grading, sorting, peeling and analytics machines. We believe our combined knowledge base will provide valuable material for new technologies in the years to come. Marel is known for applying its technology and innovations across Cross-industry industries. Our scale, scope and ambition create rare opportunities to advantage deliver tested products to our customers. In particular, major opportunities lie in the secondary and further processing parts of the value chain, such as portioning, batching, weighing and marinating. These processing steps are becoming more alike across industries. Compact Grader: From fish to poultry and meat The Compact Grader is a flexible solution for accurate grading and batching. Although it was initially developed for the fish industry, our engineers saw opportunities to apply it to meat and poultry processing. In 2019, we introduced a renewed version of this solution that increases yield—in turn, making better use of raw materials—by applying best-fit batching logic. This simple solution supports more sustainable food processing. The Compact Grader is often used in addition to existing product lines. Orders of our Compact Grader have a short delivery time, which is particularly beneficial because many processors use the product to respond to seasonal shifts or changes in market demand. StreamLine: From poultry and meat to fish Our StreamLine solution builds on our flowline technology. Through continuous development, we’ve refined flowline into StreamLine. The success of this solution for meat and poultry processing encouraged us to introduce an optimized version for the fish industry. Through a united effort and collaboration with our customers, we made StreamLine into a truly cross-industry solution. Now, as poultry processors expand into farmed fish processing, they will be able to implement a familiar technology across their plants. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 65 Product In 2019, we introduced over 30 innovative products to the market—a record number for our company. Our product development teams remain dedicated to transforming the way poultry, meat and fish are launches 2019 processed. We showcased our latest innovations at several tradeshows, but IFFA Showcasing in Frankfurt was the highlight. There, we introduced 20 new solutions. innovation The international trade fair gave food processors an opportunity to explore new solutions across the meat processing value chain. at tradeshows Highlights included new robots for the M-line automated slaughter, a new extension to the DeboFlex cutting and deboning system, an automated case-ready solution for quality grading and packing, the new PremiumFormer, and full production control with Innova Food Processing Software. At IFFA and other tradeshows, we were able to demonstrate our commitment to smarter processing by communicating clearly that our new solutions are designed to help customers to improve their processes and processing lines, all while minimizing waste. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 66 Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 67 Projects In 2019, we worked diligently on core projects to build new digital infrastructure, advance automation and digitization in food processing and bolster our partnership with our customers. in 2019 Marel Core Marel Core is an essential tool for a successful, connected business. Marel Core is our standardized control platform. The platform creates a solid foundation for adding new solutions and services that build on digital technology to our offerings, and in turn, offers opportunities for customer-driven, innovative approaches for service, spare parts, remote service and the company´s growth. Once implemented, Marel Core provides simple solutions and improved service by facilitating quick fault-finding and reducing the need for spare parts. It gives us a higher level of flexibility for extensions and upgrades and seamlessly integrates between equipment and software. In this way, Marel Core enables us to implement the standards for leading industry 4.0 across the company. Additionally, our software division, Innova has been scaled up to bring the benefits of digital technology to customers for smarter processing. Digitization In collaboration with our customers, we continue to follow the course laid out in our digitalization roadmap, moving from pilot schemes to proven solutions. By combining equipment, process knowledge, service and data analytics, we have created a system of smarter processing and proactive service. At the end of the day, this means fewer disturbances to our customers’ production process and better support for the technicians on the factory floor. At Marel, our innovation teams use virtual reality to design and Life-like insights test new solutions, which increases the speed of development. through virtual reality We achieve rapid prototyping by running a new idea in a simulated virtual environment that paves the way for immediate feedback. Virtual reality makes simulations more valuable: Product developers generate realistic interactions with their inventions without having to wait weeks—or even months—to try out the real thing. This approach saves both time and materials, and most importantly, allows our teams to make quicker strides towards the unique solutions for food processing challenges. In 2019, we signed a historic agreement with Brim, an Icelandic whitefish processor, for the installation of high-tech equipment and software that will make its Reykjavik facility the most advanced whitefish processing facility in the world. Given the complexity of the high-volume installation, Marel presented the solution to Brim executives in virtual reality. They could walk through a simulation of the complete facility to see how the integrated solutions will work and make use of the resulting insights for planning. Moreover, training will also take place in virtual reality ahead of installation. By the time the machines and software are up and running, Brim employees will already have a working knowledge of the factory set-up. Marel is also testing the use of VR in its manufacturing and sales processes to accelerate the innovation cycle and reduce the cost of installations for customers. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 68 Global markets and service part person Every role counts one thought One of the keys to maximizing our customers’ production efficiency and competitive edge is excellent service provided by a synchronized and skilled team of experts. Whether a spare part or an entire product range, our global sales and service team is ready and able to assist our customers and keep them on the right track, swiftly and surely. Global Marel has built its values and operations upon strong partnerships with our customers. We will only realize our vision of a world where food is produced sustainably and affordably through close collaboration with markets our customers. Through our strong global network, which stretches across 30 countries, our sales and service specialists work hand-inand service hand with our customers every day. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 69 Max performance Maximize equipment performance Max yield Max output Secure maximum yield Achieve maximum output Marel service solutions Max lifetime Max return Extend the lifetime of On investment your equipment Get maximum return on your investment Max uptime Ensure maximum operating time Our customer’s journey with us starts before the purchase of any equipment and extends well beyond installation. At every single step, we strive to work as a united Marel, for the benefit of our customers. We apply our process know-how when designing fit-for-purpose solutions for and with our customers. We build on our global network of sales experts and marketing efforts to meet and consult with customers in their search for the most optimal solutions for them. Ultimately, we bring our highly skilled service engineers to install equipment, full-lines and software that ensures optimal efficiency throughout the lifetime of our solutions. In partnership with our customers, we are transforming the way food is processed. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 70 Global Marel’s global network of dedicated sales representatives is one of the company’s strongest and most visible assets. Our sales operations consist of local representatives in over 30 countries, with markets a network of more than 100 agents and distributors worldwide. Our extensive global network allows us to serve large food processors and food retailers, as well as small and midsize enterprises, anywhere in the world. We train each of our sales specialists to work in one particular segment—fish, meat or poultry. With this expertise, our sales representatives are exceptionally well equipped in identifying the best possible solution(s) for each customer, based on their local needs. Our local sales representatives are always backed by our top-of-the-line global experts and support network. Through each step of this process, we’re there to support our customers on-site, working in close collaboration. Strengthening our We listen to our customers. Based on their needs, we launched a program in 2019 designed to ensure a close relationship with global network customers and capture growth opportunities. We will strengthen our local presence while building on the advantages of being a global expert and innovative partner for our customers. The program ensures that the first point of contact for a customer is local, but that we can respond with highly skilled global technical expertise when needed. With this program, we are securing accountability and shortening communication lines internally both locally and globally—to benefit our customers. We have rolled this program out across Latin America and North America, with progress underway in Asia, Oceania, and China. To that end, we appointed new regional general managers with a balanced mix of local knowledge and global business acumen. These general managers are leading the rollout of the program across both mature and growing markets to capture growth opportunities while building closer partnerships with customers. Previously, Marel operated through agents in the Argentinian market. New legal entity As part of our effort to strengthen our local presence in Latin America, in Argentina Marel has registered as a legal entity in Argentina as of October 2019. The move ensures that Marel will continue to operate in compliance with Argentinian legislation, while moving us closer to our customers. In the region, we also engaged with a local logistics supplier to meet our customers’ needs with greater speed and agility. As of January 2020, we were fully operational in Argentina, and we now hold a local inventory of maintenance parts for our fish, meat and poultry solutions. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 71 Showcasing the Marel takes a combined approach for sharing our innovations with the global food industry through exhibitions and events, as well as latest innovations frictionless digital marketing. In 2019, we attended 43 events across the globe. These events presented us the opportunity to showcase across the world convention centers full of eager representatives on how our software, hardware and service solutions will streamline their operations. Attendees observed up-close Marel’s solutions for delivering consistently safe, high-quality and affordable food to consumers. Our bespoke ShowHow events only strengthened Marel’s reputation as a transparent hub of innovation. ShowHows offer our customers an even more exclusive hands-on experience with our latest innovations. In addition to introducing customers to innovations in Marel’s topof-the-line solutions at events, we also welcome a wide range of visitors to our locations worldwide. Marel frequently hosts investors, analysts, students, heads of governments, ambassadors, professional organizations and journalists who are eager to learn more about our transformational work. In 2019, we also inaugurated a new structure for our marketing and communication arm, with the goal to unlock growth and refine our customer-centric approach. Demo center Every year, we meet with customers around the world at exhibitions. On these occasions, we showcase the latest innovations and techand exhibitions nology for poultry, meat and fish processing. We demonstrate the power of our Innova software, which fully integrates with the entire production line, in tandem with presentations on our equipment. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 72 43 exhibitions Of the 43 exhibitions we attended across 30 countries, the International Production & Processing Exhibition (IPPE) in Atlanta, Georgia, held in 30 countries US, IFFA in Frankfurt, Germany and Seafood Processing Europe in Brussels, Belgium were the year’s highlights. At these well-attended trade shows, we proudly introduced our innovation teams’ most high-tech solutions to date, including many significant product launches across the poultry, meat and fish processing sectors. We emphasized our M-line robots, which automate primary processing steps, at IFFA, along with 20 other new solutions. The RoboBatcher Thermoformer, a fully automated solution for packing fish into thermoforms at high speed, was a big hit at Seafood Processing Europe in Brussels. IMPAQT—our software solution for poultry processors, provides real-time data-based insights into user operations—made an impact at poultry exhibitions. Last but not least, we introduced our new Compact Grader, an eight-gate cross-industry grading solution that was a popular at all events. Bespoke events at At our dedicated demonstration facilities, we invited customers for bespoke experiences and unique events where we bring Marel’s our demo halls full-line solutions to life in a hands-on environment. Located in Copenhagen, Denmark, Boxmeer, the Netherlands, and Kansas City and Des Moines in the US, our demo facilities enable us to reach food processors directly. By creating an environment in which the public can experience our hardware and software solutions firsthand, we are able to deepen our relationships with the community while educating them about our products. At the same time, our poultry, meat, whitefish and salmon ShowHows—as well as our Software KnowHow events—are popular with customers and food processors interested in investing in technologies that improve yield, efficiency, safety and quality. Many customers return every year to speak with our experts, gain insights into the latest trends in food processing and, of course, to see Marel’s newest technologies with their own eyes. Making every sale Communication with customers is crucial. To that end, we are continuously working on improving and simplifying the customer simpler, smarter experience including by using digital technology. In 2019, we started implementing a new tool that standardizes the format of sales quotes that establishes consistency in our interactions with customers. The tool makes it easier for our extensive global sales network to generate uniform quotes. This level of consistency, in turn, improves the customers’ experience with the new quotes being easier to read and review. We’ve received positive feedback from our first users, which has encouraged us as we prepare for the global rollout to Marel’s wider sales network. The new tool links many internal processes for responding to and fulfilling customer orders. It helps streamline our operations. We are working with our customers to improve efficiency at every step of production. We do this by continually implementing new internal tools and better processes to streamline our operations. After all, our aim is to deliver the right product, of the highest quality, right on time to customers around the world. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 73 Unifying the In 2019, Marel maximized brand awareness by emphasizing unity in our branding: We are one Marel. By focusing on messaging that Marel brand presented our company as ‘a single Marel,’ we are bidding farewell to sub branding by industry. Marel Poultry, Marel Meat and Marel Fish are now, simply, Marel. In moving away from a siloed approach, we create clarity for our customers and lay a solid foundation for a dynamic and robust brand. Awareness is vital to the success of that message. Regardless of the protein industry, our branding needs to educate our customers. Our branding will communicate that Marel offers all of its customers solutions that are high-tech, data-driven and designed with sustainability, food safety and traceability as cornerstones. Internally, we know that Marel strives to offer the same level of excellence and innovation across our product and service offerings. Now we will make a push to communicate this message better to the public. As food processors branch out into additional protein sectors, they’ll be encouraged to take action to expand their partnerships with Marel, too. A unified, strong Marel brand bears the hallmark of our vision of working in close partnership with our customers to transform the way that all food is processed. Together, we will build a more sustainable industry. Global Throughout our customers’ journey with us, we strive to represent a united front a one Marel. As a service-oriented operation, we emphasize assisting our customers in maintaining optimal proservice duction flow, uptime and output. In 2019, we performed over 2,000 installations worldwide. The installation of equipment represents a critical stage for us and for our customers on their journey with us. The true value of opting for Marel comes to life during installations. In essence, our customers see how our innovative equipment and our competent service delivery combines to add value to their operations. We work together across service and sales to ensure that Time spent with customers our customers have a seamless experience. From the first meeting, on through installation and Marel solutions up and running at their 13% increase plants—we are there for them. Our maintenance operations are one of our primary sources of revenue, 37% in 2019, and growing due to our reputation of dependability, competence, and availability. Our customers operate all over the world, 24 hours a day—and so do we. Our attentiveness to our service and spare parts aspect of the business is tremendously valuable as a clear source of growth. More importantly, it creates value for customers and shareholders alike. 2,112 installations in 2019 in over 80 countries In 2019, we took measures to ensure that we have a diverse team of service engineers with the right skills close to our customers. We focus on optimizing our utilization, with the ultimate objective of securing customer uptime. Also, we took steps to improve our spare parts business, acknowledging that this is extremely important for a superior customer experience. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 74 Our proactive approach to service, therefore, includes preventive maintenance, spare parts packages and long-term service contracts. Our experience shows that a growing number of customers prefer this way of working and welcome a close partnership with Marel. Ultimately, proactivity prevents downtime in their production facilities and supports consistent peak productivity. Customer journey From our data, we know that once we have installed the base, we enter into a relationship with a customer that lasts on average, ten years. Through these long-lasting partnerships, we offer our customers the best possible experience. We take a proactive approach to maintenance, but we also respond quickly to specific service requests. Through our well-established and insightful local presence, and the backing of our global competence center, we offer a personal experience that taps into an extensive knowledge base. Every touchpoint is significant. We make sure that it’s easy for our customers to work with us. Customer service journey Field service engineer arrives Spare parts delivery New equipment installed Visit Work executed Follow-up visit Phone call Inspection visit Quote Phone call Inspection visit Phone call Visit Reminder of service Reminder of service Phone call Feedback Case study Vega Salmon, a salmon processor in Europe, has transformed in recent years because of booming consumer appetite for salmon. Marel delivers Marel’s long supplied Vega with equipment they need to run an efficient factory; that commitment has always meant offering top-service with top-notch on-site service. SLA at Vega In 2016, Marel and Vega Salmon agreed upon the terms of an SLA, Salmon drying the ink on this new phase of our relationship. The SLA is a fluid agreement that’s regularly updated to include new machinery and other needs. Rasmus Graversen, Head of Operations at Vega Salmon, praised Marel for its unique role in their operations, saying “Marel has a great deal of knowledge and special competences with the machines. The more in-house knowledge we gain, the better we handle the machines.” “It’s not just one fixed piece of paper,” he concluded, it’s alive.” Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 75 Data-driven approach to our customers success Just as we take a data-driven approach to the solutions we design, manufacture, sell and service, we similarly apply a data-driven approach to improving customer relationships and our service business. As an important step towards improving our customers’ journey with us, we collect insights regularly on how our customers perceive us and the services we deliver to them. To that end, we are using the Net Promoter Score (NPS) customer survey methodology. We have incorporated this as a critical element of our service strategy. Since implementing NPS in 2018, we’ve analyzed a massive amount of feedback and taken actions based on these insights. For example, we have made strides in uniting teams across our service, sales and supply chain operations to explore how to improve our spare parts business with a seamless customer journey in mind. We contact customers who report disappointment with our service delivery to learn more about their dissatisfaction to improve and act accordingly towards solving claims continuously. In this way, customer feedback triggers continuous actions by our service teams and offer valuable opportunities to learn and become better. Apart from identifying areas for improvement, the survey results also highlight our strengths. Our customers rated the quality of our work and our service engineers’ knowledge as the main reasons for high ratings. The know-how that we’ve built up over decades, along with continuous training and development for our experts, underpin our reliable field operations and increase customer satisfaction. Main reason for high NPS score Knowledgeable field service engineers Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 76 The right part at the Whether a customer operates a full-line machine or a single one, our goal is to ensure that each product always works at full capacity. right time and place To remain a trusted partner for our customers, we must proactively work to facilitate constant uptime. Our spare parts operations are essential to this mission. Both customer survey responses and our own experience tell us that we best serve our customers through a fast and straightforward order and quote process with a dedicated supply chain for spare parts, and proactive communication for maintenance. We are therefore organizing our own spare parts operation by building a central spare parts management unit, with local inventory and dispatch. Customer sites serviced in 2019 by country Competent, By merging the product data we collect through our software solutions together with our service engineers’ expertise, we have the no matter what strongest insights into developing new solutions. We are making strides towards reimagining the setup of our service organization that includes an expert-driven competence center for service. By bridging the divide between technical data and expert observations, we’re able to more effectively coordinate customer support and ensure that expertise is offered to all customers globally. In practice, that involves making service experts with the right skills, experience, and language capabilities available to customers. These experts will proactively visit processing. Moreover, we’re making improvements to our internal structure by further tapping into a wealth of product insights and expert skills and knowledge collected through our many touchpoints internally and with customers. This approach will allow us to put our assets to work in the best way possible and when and where it is relevant. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 77 Innovation in service We are true to our values across the company, and service is no exception. Technology is as much a focal point for our service offerings as it is in our hardware and software catalog. As a company, we’re naturally curious, and it’s evident in our tireless pursuit of developing the latest technologies. In 2019, we achieved major milestones in the development of new digital service products. With the Internet of Things (IoT) and cloud technology with guaranteed SLAs, we’re able to offer real-time monitoring and predictive maintenance solutions for maximum uptime. These solutions provide our customers with valuable insights into proper maintenance and optimal equipment operation. The integration of new technology into our operations means that we can now detect and resolve problems faster and provide early warnings of changes in performance. We monitor critical components with predictive maintenance solutions. Often, our customers are open to innovating in partnership with us to try new ideas in real food processing environments. It is here that the strength of our predictive models in determining the optimal time to carry out specific maintenance operations is readily apparent to our partners. This approach to maintenance means that we can replace spare parts before issues arise, benefitting our customers and our shareholders. It even contributes to our value of sustainability by lengthening the lifetime of individual components. Drawing on pattern analysis and big-data processing, we can detect possible breakdowns before they happen with high accuracy. In today’s high-speed processing environments, compromise— whether it’s a minute of downtime or a sudden drop in performance— is costly. Our service offerings, combined with our holistic solutions for the meat, fish and poultry processing sectors, industry-leading technologies and strong partnerships, gives food processors an advantage and propels Marel as a visionary in the future of food. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 78 Global supply chain one gram Every part counts person percentage When it comes to groundbreaking innovations, is the whole greater than the sum of its parts? Absolutely. Our global supply chain is built on quality, responsiveness, and efficiency. Our solutions can work at full capacity at all times, minimizing downtime, maximizing yield and preserving nature’s precious resources. Global supply Marel’s global supply chain team consists of over 2,450 people who support innovation and manufacturing of equipment and spare parts. Our experts make sure that production runs on schedule. Whether it chain is the modernization of an existing plant, a large greenfield project or stand-alone equipment and spare parts, we deliver and service according to our customers’ requirements. To achieve this synergy, we work closely with our partners, distribution network and key suppliers of raw materials and spare parts around the world. Together with our four main distribution centers, we now run 14 manufacturing sites for equipment and spare parts that support our extensive service platform. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 79 Streamlined manufacturing, coupled with the co-location strategy that we implemented in 2017, allows us to distribute the production load across locations. Distributed production enables greater flexibility for cost management, mitigates global trade risks and ensures optimal lead-times. Quality, responsiveness and efficiency are the cornerstones of our supply chain. We base our approach on a simple objective: ensure that all our solutions and spare parts are produced at the right cost, the highest quality with on-time delivery to the right place. Our global supply chain supports Marel’s strategy and growth plans that we created with our customers in mind. That’s how we plan the activities that make up our supply chain, including manufacturing, logistics, spare parts and distribution. Manufacturing Manufacturing at Marel is undergoing a transformational shift both how we produce equipment and where. Automation and robotization are becoming increasingly valuable. Our new facility in Dongen, the Netherlands, implements class-leading manufacturing technology while meeting the highest safety and environmental standards. We want to help our employees thrive. In 2019, we took steps to Committed to safety support them by investing in leadership training related to health, safety and the environment. Over 110 directors and their teams have successfully received the internationally recognized Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) Managing Safely Qualification. Our managers, in turn, are tasked with leading safely by educating and training their teams. We want to ensure that qualifications are maintained and that every member has the right knowledge and skills to contribute to a workplace that not only supports the health and safety of all but also champions the environment. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 80 Co-location to Co-location is an integral element of our supply chain strategy. Co-location involves conducting the production of mature products optimize costs in optimal cost locations, rather than innovation centers, or so-called ‘mother-locations.’ Co-location has three main benefits: production is moved nearer to our customer base, reduced production costs and increased distribution capacity and flexibility. In recent years, this strategy has led to a significant growth in volume in Nitra, Slovakia. In 2019, we focused on co-locating a range of products and moving those production centers to Nitra from our mother-locations in Denmark, Iceland and the Netherlands. Global manufacturing platform Gardabaer, IS Colchester, UK Aarhus/Støvring, DK Baud, FR Nitra, SK Gainesville, USA Kehl, DE Beijing, CH Boxmeer/Dongen, NL Lichtenvoorde, NL Piracicaba, BR Guaporé, BR Best-cost countries Mother-sites Latest acquisitions undergoing integration In 2019, we focused on supply chain investment and automation in both robotic welding and our warehouse operations. Warehouse investments improve labor efficiency and allow us to better manage volume increases in service parts and new equipment components. In November 2019, we officially opened our new greenfield facility in Dongen, Netherlands, which spans 2,000 square meters and is equipped with the latest manufacturing technology for the production of small precision parts. The new facility—and the processes within it—are designed to meet the highest health, safety and environmental standards. Spare parts Customer demand for spare parts predictability and availability has increased worldwide. We expect this trend to continue in 2020. As a result, we are investing in strengthening our end-to-end spare part processes, our infrastructure, capabilities, and competencies. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 81 Case study In 2019, Marel decided to modernize its production facility in Dongen, the Netherlands to make it safer, healthier, and more efficient. Marel’s state-ofNow, the center is state-of-the-art. All equipment, services and the-art facilities logistics at the new production center have been revamped to meet open doors the highest standards of quality, safety, and even ergonomics. Since the center opened its doors, we’ve received positive reports from local staff. “We want to offer our employees the best conditions to work in. During these last weeks of transition, we have already seen our people working here with even more motivation and enjoyment,” Folkert Bölger, Executive Vice President of Global Supply Chain at Marel, said. Taking joy in your work is sometimes a challenge, and Marel is on a mission to create safe work environments where our employees thrive. Whether it’s the social atmosphere in the workplace, lifelong learning opportunities, or higher productivity because of better processes and equipment, we aim for excellence in the workplace. Our growth depends on our employees. “When this new environment contributes to a higher job satisfaction, it will almost naturally lead to the best possible production,” Bölger smiled. Excellence Our end-to-end processes must be seamless to meet the needs of our customers. In 2019, we refined our methods by implementing our global operating platform, which includes IT systems and processes throughout at our locations in Aarhus, Denmark and Gardabaer, Iceland. the entire Our suppliers are critical links in our supply chain. Their performance supply chain is essential for on-time delivery of high-quality products affordably. In 2019, we committed to strengthening our focus on preferred suppliers that are eager to contribute to growth at Marel. We based Building partnerships our selection of preferred suppliers on a clear sourcing strategy for each category, including motors, bearings, belts, and sensors. This strategy is applied by a dedicated team that consists of leaders in global procurement and innovation. In 2019, we held supplier events at our sites in Gainesville, Georgia in the US, and in Boxmeer, the Netherlands, to notify our preferred suppliers about the future of Marel, including our strategy for our supply base. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 82 Event In December 2019, 120 representatives of our supplier companies joined us for our inaugural Supplier Event in Boxmeer, the Building fellowship Netherlands. Innovation—in the way we work, in the technologies we invent—was the chief the order of business. at Marel’s inaugural global supplier In bringing together a distinct cohort of Marel suppliers, we strengthened the ties of our community, cultivating a culture of gathering excellence through collaboration and transparency. The event was a hit with our attendees, and speakers’ charisma and enthusiasm created a pathway to forging stronger bonds with our suppliers. Key leaders at Marel shared their knowledge of industry trends, imparting essential information about Marel’s strategy to tap into them. With an eye to the future of food technology, our leaders delivered forward-thinking presentations that underscored the ways in which we can work together to build a unified Marel (and participants enjoyed a lovely dinner, too). Standardizing Marel began to create catalogs of components in 2019. We aim to drive standardization by focusing on a set number of components components that are used in a wide array of products. In other words, we have chosen components that can be used to build as many of our products as possible. By doing so, we are reducing the complexity of our supply chain. In 2020, we will create catalogs for all relevant categories. In 2019, our partnerships with our contract manufacturers thrived. Our partners source and produce parts and assemble modules, or whole products, on our behalf. Many of them increased the volume, number of modules, or the number of products they manufacture for us over the year. The majority of these partners have a strong presence in best-cost countries. New quality Over the year, we designed a new quality and concern management system, called TRACK, which serves as a global collaboration platand concern form to enable and strengthen problem-solving across our organization. management Our initial focus was on manufacturing and we progressively rolled system launched out the system across our production plants. TRACK challenged the status quo and the established problem-solving capabilities, while increasing the collaboration between individuals across sites and supporting functions. The second phase of developing TRACK, and subsequent update to the tool, significantly improved the quality of our data and the transparency of our problem-resolution processes. As a result, accountability and performance have surged. For example, we noted a 50% decrease in the average time needed to resolve both internal and external issues relative to 2018. Marel Annual Report 2019 Delivering growth 83 Shares part gram Every journey counts second thought Marel is a robust international community of shareholders, each of them on their journey with us. Some have been with us from the start, whereas others have only recently joined us. Their number of shares varies, but they are all on the same journey towards success. Every one of them counts. Shareholder Marel has been listed on Nasdaq Iceland and its predecessor since 1992. As of 7 June 2019, the company’s shares are listed both on Nasinformation daq Iceland and Euronext Amsterdam, under the ticker MAREL and ISIN IS0000000388. The authorized share capital is 771,007,916 each with a par value of ISK 1.00. Marel’s home Member State is Iceland. Listed on Nasdaq Iceland since 1992 Listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 84 Shareholder Eyrir Invest hf. is Marel’s largest shareholder, holding 24.69% or 190,366,838 shares. Eyrir Invest has been a principal shareholder in Marel since 2005. In addition, the Icelandic Pension Fund of structure Commerce (Live), the Icelandic Pension Fund for State Employees (LSR) and Capital Group had announced holdings above 5% in Marel at year-end 2019. As of 31 December 2019, Marel held 10,773,814 shares or 1.40% as treasury shares. All Marel shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, including shares transferred from Nasdaq Iceland to Euronext Amsterdam, are held in custody on behalf of Euroclear. No single shareholder holding shares only in EUR currently exceeds the threshold of 5% of total share capital. As of year-end 2019, 193.9 million shares or 25% of Marel’s total issued shares were listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Shareholders who hold shares in Marel on Nasdaq Iceland and Euronext Amsterdam have identical voting rights and the same rights to dividends. The free float as of year-end 2019 was 75.31%. Following the listing on Euronext Amsterdam, the proportion of international shareholders has grown from around 11% at year-end 2018 to more than 30% at year-end 2019. More than 4,700 investors participated in the Euronext Amsterdam share offering. Including cornerstone investors, long-only institutional investors were allocated around 79% of shares, with hedge funds around 16% and 5% allocated to retail investors from Iceland and the Netherlands. Prior to the dual-listing, Marel had approximately 2,500 shareholders. Marel shares listed As of year-end 2019 Amsterdam Euronext 25% Nasdaq Iceland 75% Shareholder International 30% composition As of year-end 2019 Icelandic 70% Investor Retail investors 5% composition Euronext Amsterdam Hedge funds 16% listing June 2019 Long-only institutional investors 79% Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 85 Nasdaq Marel is the largest company listed on Nasdaq Iceland by market capitalization. The market value of the company at year-end 2019 was ISK 473.4 billion (EUR 3.5 billion) compared to ISK 252.6 billion Iceland (EUR 1.9 billion) at year-end 2018, an increase of ISK 220.8 billion. Marel’s share price rose by 66% during 2019. At year-end 2019, Marel’s share price was ISK 614.00, compared to ISK 370.00 at the end of 2018. Marel’s average end-of-day spread for 2019 was 0.83%. Marel’s shares were the most actively traded on Nasdaq Iceland in 2019. Shares in Marel were traded 4,682 times in 2019 (2018: 3,680 times) for a total market value of ISK 117.5 billion (2018: ISK 96.8 billion), which corresponds to a velocity rate of 31%. As of year-end 2019, 577.1 million or 75% of Marel’s shares were listed on Nasdaq Iceland. Since 2 December 2019, Marel has been included in the VINX benchmark index by Nasdaq OMX Nordic. Based on free float, market capitalization and turnover among other factors, Marel is the only Icelandic company represented in this index. FTSE Russell has reclassified Iceland to a Frontier market and Marel was added to the FTSE Frontier Index Series, effective 20 September 2019. Marel has agreements with Kvika banki hf. and Íslandsbanki hf. for market making in its shares. The purpose of these agreements is to improve liquidity and enhance transparent price formation in the company’s shares on Nasdaq Iceland. All of Marel’s regulatory announcements relating to Nasdaq Iceland can be found at www.nasdaqomxnordic.com. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 86 Euronext Marel is a top-six company listed on Euronext Amsterdam, by free float market capitalization. The market value of the company at year-end 2019 was EUR 3.5 billion, compared to EUR 2.8 billion at the Amsterdam point of listing on 7 June 2019, an increase of EUR 0.7 billion. Marel’s share price rose by 17% since its dual-listing on 7 June 2019 on Euronext Amsterdam. At year-end 2019, Marel’s share price was EUR 4.55, compared to EUR 3.90 at the end of its first trading day. Marel’s average end-of-day spread for 2019 was 0.93%. Shares in Marel were traded 30,000 times in 2019, for a total market value of EUR 75.1 million, which corresponds to a velocity rate of 2.54%. As of year-end 2019 193.9 million or 25% of Marel shares were listed on Euronext Amsterdam. All of Marel’s regulatory announcements relating to Euronext Amsterdam can be found at www.euronext.com/en/markets/amsterdam. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 87 Story On 7 June 2019, Marel began trading on Euronext Amsterdam, marking the dual listing of Marel on both Nasdaq Iceland and Euronext Dual listing of shares Amsterdam. The dual listing on Euronext Amsterdam complements our existing listing on Nasdaq Iceland and is a natural next step in Marel’s growth strategy. By listing on an international stock exchange in addition to Nasdaq Iceland, Marel increases the visibility of its brand and access to a broader international investor base. In addition, the dual listing strengthens Marel’s capital structure and provides us with a global currency for acquisitions, to support our ambitious growth strategy. Share capital As of 31 December 2019, the authorized share capital of the company was ISK 771,007,916 represented by 771,007,916 shares issued, each with a par value of ISK 1.00, and 760,234,102 shares outstanding with 10,773,814 shares held by the company. Stock options are granted to management and selected key employees. Granted and unexercised stock options totaled 19.2 million shares at the end of the year (2018: 11.9 million shares), of which 2.9 million (2018: 1.7 million) were exercisable at the end of 2019. The remainder will become vested in the years 2020 to 2022. At the company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM), shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to increase the company’s share capital by 35 million shares to fulfill stock option agreements. This authorization was valid for five years following its adoption. This authorization was renewed at the company’s 2019 Annual General Meeting and the renewed authorization applies for five years from its adoption. No new shares were issued in 2019 under this resolution. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 88 Share During the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on 22 November 2018, it was resolved to authorize the Board of Directors of Marel to initiate a share buy-back program, valid for 18 months. buy-back The main purpose of the program was to reduce the company’s program share capital, where the shares purchased may also be used to meet the company’s obligations under share incentive programs with employees. As part of the share buy-back program, as approved in the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on 22 November 2018, Marel purchased 16.2 million shares (EUR 48.8 million) in the period 5 December 2018 to 5 March 2019, of which 12.1 million shares (EUR 37.6 million) were purchased in 2019. During 2019, Marel sold 0.5 million treasury shares for EUR 0.9 million. At the company’s Annual General Meeting on 6 March 2019, it was resolved to reduce the company’s share capital by 11.6 million shares, from 682.6 million shares to 671.0 million shares. The reduction was executed by way of cancelling 11.6 million of the company‘s own shares of ISK 1 each. The company’s share capital was reduced in connection with the preparation for the dual listing of the company, for the benefit of shareholders. At the same Annual General Meeting, it was resolved to authorize the Board of Directors to increase the company’s share capital by as much as ISK 100 million nominal value, by issuing new shares. Shareholders waived their pre-emptive rights to subscribe for these new shares, which were used in an offering of shares in connection with the dual listing of the company’s shares. At 31 December 2019 Marel’s issued shares totaled 771.0 million (31 December 2018: 682.6 million). At the same time Marel holds 10.8 million treasury shares (31 December 2018: 10.8 million). Earnings Earnings per share (EPS), measuring the amount of net income earned per share of stock outstanding, was 15.33 euro cents in 2019, decreasing by 14.6% over the previous year. Earnings per share per share partly affected by one-off finance cost related to refinancing and loss because of revised corporate tax rate in the Netherlands. In addition, earnings per share were impacted by the higher number of outstanding shares issued and sold in connection with the dual listing on Euronext Amsterdam. Earnings per share expected to grow faster than revenues. Earnings per share Trailing twelve months, by quarter 20 17.95 15.33 15 Euro cents 10 5 0 2018 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 89 Dividends The Board of Directors has proposed that a dividend of EUR 5.79 cents per share be paid for the operational year 2019, corresponding to approximately 40% of profits for the year. The proposed dividend is in line with Marel’s targeted capital allocation and dividend policy, i.e. a dividend policy of 20-40% of net earnings and a targeted leverage ratio of 2-3x net debt/EBITDA. Dividends for 2019 40% of net profit Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 90 Financials part role Every number counts person thought Four decades ago, we introduced our first product: an electronic scale. Ever since, we have enjoyed steady growth and an increasing market share in the global food processing industry. A secure financial standing allows us to invest significantly in innovation, carrying out our mission to provide safe and sustainable food for all. Key figures For the full year, revenues were EUR 1.3 billion, with a 13.5% adjusted EBIT margin. – Strong position in a dynamic growth market – Continued growth momentum in aftermarket revenues – Solid cash flow and strong financial position – Successful dual listing on Euronext Amsterdam Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 91 2019 in brief Revenues Adjusted EBIT Financials EUR 1,284 EUR 173 million million highlights Orders received Order book EUR 1,222 EUR 414 million million Arni Oddur “In 2019 we delivered revenue growth of 7%, reaching close to EUR 1.3 billion while EBIT was slightly down between years. The recent 18 Thordarson months have been challenging and geopolitical tensions and trade constraints have made their mark. Continued innovation and a global reach has enabled Marel in partnership with its customers to CEO navigate well through this period. We’re entering 2020 on a strong note, especially in the poultry segment where investment appetite is clearly stepping up. We had a great last week at IPPE, the annual Poultry and Meat trade show in Atlanta, US. There we demonstrated several new solutions that break new boundaries in automation and operational efficiency to deliver safe and affordable food produced in a sustainable way. It was one of our strongest shows with a pipeline of projects converted into orders. One of them with Bell & Evans, a truly inspiring partner with whom we will be working closely on a new transformational state-of-the-art greenfield poultry processing plant in the US. Due to change in geographical and product mix last year, we took on higher costs which affected gross margins and operational costs leading to lower operational results in 4Q 2019. As we ramp up production, we expect that revenues and operational results will gradually improve over the course of the year. After investing in Marel´s global IT platform and infrastructure, we are well positioned to streamline the supply chain and support functions while continuing to invest in digitalization and customer facing sales and service platform. All in all, 2019 was an eventful year where we strengthened the foundation with strategic moves and investments. The successful listing of shares on Euronext Amsterdam in June, and the new EUR 700m long-term financing will play a pivotal role in our ambitious 2026 growth and value creation strategy.” Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 92 Good quality of earnings Other 1% Revenues by Fish 12% business segment Poultry 54% Meat 33% Revenues by Asia and Oceania 13% geographical location Europe, Middle East and Africa 50% Americas 37% Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 93 2019 in review For the period 2017-2026, Marel has set a target of a 12% average annual increase in revenue, through both organic growth and acquisitions. Marel remains Marel´s growth plan involves capitalizing on strong innovation investment, to drive expansion and market penetration. The focus is on committed to its strategic partnerships and acquisitions to fill gaps in the value chain, and to augment our full-line product offering. long-term strategy Successful listing on We met all of our key objectives with the dual listing in June, in particular to expand the international investor base, increase brand awareness Euronext Amsterdam and analyst coverage, realize a more liquid aftermarket and provide an acquisition currency to support our long-term growth ambition. More than 4,700 investors participated in the offering, compared to approximately 2,500 shareholders Marel had prior to the dual listing. Strategic In June 2019, Marel acquired a 14.3% interest in the Canadian software company Worximity Technology. In the next six months, Marel will bring partnerships its total ownership to 25%. Worximity offers real-time cloud data collection and analytics solutions and is compatible with Marel´s proprietary software platform, Innova. In September 2019, Marel and TOMRA Food formed a long-term strategic partnership, with the ambition of bringing new sensor-based sorting and processing technologies to optimize value, reduce waste and increase food safety in the global poultry, meat and fish industry. Together, we will collaborate on sales and R&D, leverage each other’s distribution and sales networks, and supply chain commercial prospects. Acquisitions In October 2019, Marel acquired a 50% stake in Curio, an Icelandic equipment provider for the seafood industry. Curio’s product portfolio of deheading, filleting and skinning solutions is highly complementary to Marel’s existing portfolio of fish processing solutions and brings Marel closer to becoming a full-line provider to the global fish industry. In October 2019, Marel also announced its acquisition of Cedar Creek Company, an Australian provider of specialized software and hardware solutions to meat, poultry and seafood processors. Cedar Creek’s technical expertise and solutions complement Marel’s commitment to innovation and its Innova software. New favorable In December 2019, Marel received commitments from current and new banking partners for a new EUR 700 million revolving credit facility, with syndicated credit a tenor of five years and two one-year uncommitted extension options. The new facility was signed in February 2020 and will replace the current facility senior syndicated facility. This gives us strategic and operational flexibility to support our 2026 strategic vision for further growth and value creation. The new credit facility‘s interest terms are EURIBOR/LIBOR +80bps, which will vary in line with Marel’s leverage ratio (Net debt/EBITDA) and facility utilization level. It also includes a sustainability linked incentive structure, whereby we undertake to meet a set of sustainability key performance indicators (KPIs). This supports our strong commitment to fulfilling our vision of a world where quality food is produced in a sustainable and affordable way. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 94 Revenues and EBIT Orders received As percentage of revenues And development of order book 1250 20% 1250 1000 16% 1000 EUR million EUR million 750 12% 750 500 8% 500 250 4% 250 0 0% 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Revenues EBIT as % of revenues Orders received Order book Note: Operating income adjusted for PPA related costs, including depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBIT Leverage Net interest bearing debt / LTM EBITDA 200 3.0 Net interest bearing debt / 2.0 EUR million 150 100 Last twelve months EBITDA 50 0 0.0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Note: Operating income adjusted for PPA related Note: Targeted capital structure of 2-3x net debt / EBITDA. costs, including depreciation and amortization. Cash flow Earning per share 250 20 200 EUR million 15 EUR cents 150 10 100 5 50 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Operating cash flow Free cash flow Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 95 Financial With the installed base continuing to grow worldwide, a significant proportion of Marel’s revenues derive from recurring service and spare parts revenues. This generated around 37% of revenues in 2019. performance Revenues totaled EUR 1,284 million, up 7.2% compared to 2018. AdjustSolid revenues and ed EBIT was EUR 173 million, compared to EUR 175 million in 2018. The orders received adjusted EBIT margin was 13.5%, against 14.6% in 2018. Orders received were EUR 1,222 million in 2019, up 3.2% from EUR 1,184 million in 2018. The order book stood at EUR 414 million at year end, or 32% of trailing twelve-month revenues. The book-to-bill ratio was 0.95 at the year end, compared to 0.99 in 2018. Greenfields and large projects with longer lead times constitute the vast majority of the order book, while services, spares and standard equipment have shorter lead times and run faster through the system. Trade constraints and geopolitical uncertainties delayed our customers‘ investment decisions in the latter part of 2019. However, Marel’s competitive position remains strong and we signed large orders at the beginning of 2020, reflecting the robust demand for innovative high tech equipment and software for smarter food processing. Solid cash flow and Both operational cash flow and free cash flow were strong in 2019. Free cash flow amounted to EUR 115 million in 2019, compared to EUR strong financial 121 million in 2018. Marel continues to invest in its platform to improve efficiencies and create more agility in its supply chain and sales force. position Net debt/EBITDA including lease liabilities was x0.4 at year-end 2019, compared to x2.0 at the end of 2018. Our current leverage is well under our targeted capital structure of x2-3 net debt/EBITDA, giving us the financial capacity to support further growth and value creation. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 96 Industry Marel is a leading global provider of advanced food processing equipment, systems, software and services with balanced exposure to all three animal protein industries and processing stages. Global performance reach and focus on full-line offering across the poultry, meat and fish industries counterbalance fluctuations in customer demand. 2019 Marel Poultry Marel Poultry’s competitive position remains strong on the back of its established full-line product range, including standard equipment and modules, and service and spare parts revenue from its large installed base worldwide. In 2019, revenues for Marel Poultry were EUR 690 million, up 8.2% from 2018. EBIT was up 2.8% to EUR 121 million and the EBIT margin was 17.5%. In the second half of the year, trade constraints and escalating geopolitical uncertainties delayed investment decisions by customers. However, we saw an acceleration of orders from outside our traditional markets of Europe and North America, with the pipeline building up again in Europe and the US at the back end of Q4 2019. Marel Meat Marel Meat is a full-line supplier to the meat processing industry, following the acquisition of MPS, with further bolt-on capabilities added with the acquisitions of Sulmaq and MAJA. In 2019, revenues for Marel Meat were EUR 423 million, up 9.4% over the year. The adjusted EBIT margin for the same period was 10.5%. African Swine Fever impacted pork customer investment decisions throughout the year. Marel, in partnership with its customers, is well positioned to play a key role in the pork value chain, with a focus on more automation, safety and traceability. Management is targeting medium and long-term EBIT margin expansion for Marel Meat, through increased efficiency with further standardization and modularization, as well as improved cross-selling and upselling. Marel Fish Marel Fish predominantly consists of sales of solutions into salmon, wild whitefish and farmed whitefish. With the acquisition of Curio in Q4, Marel is a step closer to becoming a full-line provider to the global fish industry. In 2019, revenues for Marel Fish were EUR 149 million, down 6.7% yearon-year. For the full year EBIT was EUR 6.4 million, compared to EUR 12.6 million in 2018. The EBIT margin of 4.3% was impacted by volume. Order intake was at record level towards the end of year, leading to a moderate increase in 2019 compared to 2018 and resulting in Marel Fish starting 2020 with a stronger order book. Large projects include Brim in Iceland for whitefish processing and Australis, a salmon processor in Chile. Management is targeting medium and long-term EBIT margin expansion for Marel Fish. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 97 Key figures 2019 consolidated financial accounts Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 98 Glossary of Terms Book-to-bill ratio Free cash flow revenues in Marel’s financial The ratio of orders received to Cash generated from operating statements as of the relevant revenues booked off, an indication activities less tax and net investorder book date. of how quickly a business fulfills the ments demand for its product Orders received Leverage Represent the total nominal CAPEX Net interest bearing debt / EBITDA amount, during the relevant period, Capital expenditure; money spent of customer orders for equipment, to buy, maintain, or improve fixed Net debt software, service and spare parts assets Interest bearing borrowings registered by Marel. (current & non-current) Cash & Current ratio cash equivalents PPA Current assets / Current liabilities Purchase price allocation Net cash EBIT Cash and cash equivalents Quick ratio Earnings before interest and tax [Current assets Inventories] Order book / Current liabilities EBITDA Reflects Marel’s estimates, as of Earnings before interest, tax, the relevant order book date, of Return on total equity depreciation and amortization potential future revenues to be Result for the period / Average of derived from contracts for equiptotal equity ( [beginning balance + EPS ment, software, service and spare ending balance for the period] / 2) Earnings per share parts which have been financially secured through down payments Return on total assets Equity ratio and/or letters of credit in line with Result for the period / Average of Total equity / [Total equity + Total the relevant contract terms. These total assets ( [beginning balance + Liabilities] estimates reflect the estimated ending balance for the period] / 2) total nominal values of amounts due under the relevant contracts Working capital less any amounts recognised as Current assets current liabilities Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 99 Investor Marel is committed to providing stakeholders with comprehensive information on the company and its operations. Equal access to timely and accurate information, within limits set by commercial sensitivity, relations is key to building a relationship of mutual trust with current shareholders and potential investors. Sources of Marel aims to meet the highest standards in its investor relations by continuously improving the quality, transparency and consistency of its information disclosure. Investors and other stakeholders are investor invited to Marel’s annual and quarterly results presentations, where the investor presentations are also live-streamed online. Archived information financial reporting, webcasts and other relevant investor material are accessible at marel.com/ir. IR website The investor relations site at marel.com/ir provides extensive news and background information on Marel for both analysts and investors. Archived financial information is available in Icelandic and English and includes regulatory announcements, analyst coverage, share price data, major shareholders, dividend policy, the financial calendar and corporate events. Financial reports Detailed quarterly and annual financial reporting and analysis, including comments on the progress of Marel’s operations, are available on the IR website. Upon the close of each fiscal quarter, senior management presents Marel’s results in English for analysts and investors. Following the live webcast, a recording is archived and available online. Annual report The annual report provides a comprehensive overview of Marel’s operations, plus a detailed description of the company’s performance each year. The report is available in English and easily accessible online through a computer, tablet or mobile phone at marel. com/annualreport. Roadshows In addition to traditional IR activities, Marel regularly engages with current shareholders and potential investors during IR roadshows. Regular face-to-face meetings are essential for maintaining and strengthening investor support. It also encourages current shareholders and prospective investors with a better understanding of the company’s operations, strategy and intentions. Marel’s Capital Markets Day, held every 18-24 months, is also an excellent opportunity for market participants to engage with us and deepen their knowledge of Marel. Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 100 Event On 2 May 2019, Marel welcomed over 100 investors, analysts and market participants to its 2019 Capital Markets Day held at its inno2019 Capitals vation and manufacturing facility in Boxmeer, the Netherlands. The following day, Marel invited investors to visit one of its longstanding Markets Day customers in the poultry industry to experience a state-of-the-art food processing manufacturing facility in operation. The ambitious Capital Markets Day agenda consisted of two sets of presentations and breakout sessions that included a factory tour, a live demonstration of further processing equipment, and a virtual reality experience of how Marel designs and tests new solutions before launch. Analyst Marel is covered by nine analysts, three Icelandic and six internationally, who actively track and publish opinions on Marel and its coverage stock. Institution Analyst Country ABN AMRO Eric Wilmer Netherlands Berenberg Fraser Donlon United Kingdom Capacent Snorri Jakobsson Iceland Citigroup Klas Bergelind United Kingdom IFS Research Ari Freyr Hermannsson Iceland ING Bank Tijs Hollestelle Netherlands J.P. Morgan Akash Gupta United Kingdom Kepler Cheuvreux Andre Mulder Netherlands Landsbankinn Sveinn Þórarinsson Iceland Note: This list is provided for informational purposes only and is subject to change. Any opinions, estimates, or forecasts regarding Marel’s performance and/or outlook made by these analysts and their respective brokerage firms are not opinions, forecasts or predictions of Marel, or its management. By providing the list above, Marel does not imply its endorsement of or concurrence with such information, conclusions or recommendations. Marel will not distribute analyst reports. Copies of reports should be obtained directly from the analysts or their brokerage firms. Analyst coverage of 9 institutions, 3 domestic and 6 international Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 101 Financial Marel will host its Annual General Meeting and publish its interim condensed and annual consolidated financial statements according to the below financial calendar. calendar for 2020 Event Date Annual General Meeting 18 March, 2020 Q1 2020 20 April, 2020 Q2 2020 22 July, 2020 Q3 2020 20 October, 2020 Q4 2020 3 February, 2021 From left: Vicki Preibisch, Marino Thor Jakobsson, Tinna Molphy Investor relations Contact us Tinna Molphy Director of Investor Relations Vicki Preibisch Investor Relations Specialist Marino Thor Jakobsson Investor Relations Analyst +354 563 8001 ir@marel.com Marel Annual Report 2019 Investors 102 Corporate responsibility part thought Every contribution counts idea drop As a leading global company, our responsibility is not just to our shareholders and customers but to the world’s population and the planet we share. We want our every undertaking to contribute to society in both small ways and large. Leading by example, we are able to successfully transform much more than food processing. Corporate The food industry faces many global challenges including climate change, diet related diseases, water scarcity, lack of food traceabilsocial ity, and food safety risks, to name a few. Food processors need innovative solutions that meet the needs of present generations without compromising the future of coming generations and their needs. responsibility Marel is inspired by the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Global Compact’s call to the private sector for corporate responsibility and transparency. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 103 Marel’s vision is built on the philosophy that we can create value for our customers and promote economic growth by developing processes and technologies that also protect the environment, nurture societies, and ensure food safety, security and sustainability. Marel’s Board of Directors and Executive Team approved a corporate social responsibility guidance policy for the company in 2016, to serve as the company’s compass for sustainable development. This year, we are reporting on the company’s activities as measured against its corporate social responsibility guidelines for the fourth time. Marel does not operate as a business in isolation; instead, we see ourselves as part of the larger society and the physical environment, in which we have responsibilities, duties and rights. We aim to go beyond merely complying with laws and regulations in managing our operations. We look at our contribution to society and the environment as a whole and how we can bring value to the regions where we operate. Turning our ambitions into action, we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, and we have been a participant since 2017. In 2019, Marel was certified as a Nasdaq ESG Transparency Partner and awarded the Responsible Business Awards by CreditInfo. Marel has been part of the Nasdaq Sustainable Markets Initiative since 2017, complying with the Nasdaq ESG reporting guidelines. In line with our corporate social responsibility guidelines, we continuously monitor how our operations and the systems and solutions we provide affect society, economies and the environment. Our relationship with the communities where we operate is symbiotic: their benefit is our benefit. We take responsibility for our actions and encourage our suppliers, agents, employees and customers to do the same. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 104 Our Marel focuses its efforts on benefitting people, the planet and our operations in terms of three of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: contribution Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security, improve nutrition and to the promote sustainable agriculture sustainable 2 Zero hunger development Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and goals of the sustainable industrialization and foster innovation United 9 Nations Industry, innovations and infrastructure Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12 Responsible consumption and production We view innovation that boosts productivity as the primary way to make meaningful contributions toward these goals. Innovation has always been a core driver of Marel’s endeavors. Annually, we invest about 6% of our revenues into research and development. We also foster innovation by working in partnership with our customers, universities and other partners to develop breakthrough solutions that support sustainable development in food production (Goal 9). To ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns (Goal 12), we work hard to create solutions that reduce food waste, increase efficient resource use, boost yields, add recycling options and optimize portion sizes. Marel takes part in building and supporting infrastructure by partnering with multiple stakeholders throughout our value chain to promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation through modernizing food processing technology. Traceability, increased quality and food safety are key to how Marel develops and produces solutions and software for food processing. Our Innova Food processing Software provides processors with full traceability of raw ingredients as they flow through production. Such solutions contribute directly to food security, increased efficiency and improved nutrition for consumers around the globe (Goal 2). Marel CSR Marel is guided by three pillars of responsibility: social, environmental and economic. Each is equally important and factors into our guidance decision-making process at all levels. policy Social responsibility is a priority in our corporate culture. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment with equal opportunities for all our employees. When we engage with Social responsibility local communities, our focus is on innovation and education. Our employees have the right to freedom of association and we maintain a zero-tolerance policy toward human rights violations and illegal labor conditions. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 105 Environmental Through ongoing dialogue with our customers and suppliers, we strive to increase yields and minimize waste in food production while responsibility promoting food safety, traceability and quality, as well as animal welfare. Sustainability is the central goal in our innovation process. We focus on creating new methods and finding approaches that have the least impact on the environment, such as CO2 emissions, and maximize the efficient use of resources including raw materials, water and energy. Environmental responsibility is a core principle in all our facilities and projects; we are focused on minimizing waste from production. We work to reduce our direct and indirect carbon footprint. Our mission is to generate value for our partners and shareholders Economic through fair trade practices. We promote long-term profitability responsibility and good business practices along our entire value chain. We make continuous improvements to our practices in order to comply with international laws, anti-corruption rules and local regulations. We believe that all parties must contribute toward the societies in which they operate. Nasdaq ESG Since 2017, Marel has participated in the Nasdaq Sustainable Markets Initiative; we follow the Nasdaq ESG reporting guidelines. In 2019, Marel was certified as a Nasdaq ESG Transparency Partner. reporting We took several actions to improve the organization’s ESG performance in 2019, including enhancing the organization’s health, safety guidelines and environment processes, as well as building a sustainability pillar into our procurement practices. In 2019, we further strengthened Marel’s corporate responsibility practices, work that we will continue in 2020. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 106 Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 107 Social responsibility role piece Every person counts one thought Located in over 30 countries across six continents, Marel is a vibrant community of people who are passionate about transforming food processing. Their talent, skill, and dedication are the driving force of our success, and we make it our mission to ensure their wellbeing and help them thrive. Social At Marel, our objective is to develop food processing solutions that feed a growing world more safely and efficiently, while minimizing any responsibility adverse environmental and social impact. To meet these objectives, we act responsibly toward our people, our partners and our customers. Our dedication to social responsibility in our workplace culture underpins our efforts to provide a safe and healthy working environment that fosters diversity and inclusion. We feel it is essential to support individual and team development and to ensure the right of freedom of association. We actively reach out to local communities where we operate to seek local participation and insights. We invest in these diverse communities for the long-term. Not only is this good for our business, but it also helps spur innovation and cultivate the skills of our current and future workforce. We do not tolerate human rights violations, including any forced labor, underage labor or illegal labor conditions, under any circumstances. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 108 Human Our human resources vision is simple: Our people drive the success of Marel. We enable a learning culture with engaged people and valresources ue-added ways of working. Marel provides a supportive and ambitious work environment that motivates and encourages people to make Marel’s vision their own. To do this, we provide a wide variety of training and opportunities for further education and career development. Employee engagement is key in measuring the overall health and wellbeing of the organization. A worldwide network of engagement champions has provided training to our managers. Between annual appraisals, all managers work actively on action plans with their teams. To address seasonal fluctuations in order processing, and other variations in project load, Marel employs a number of temporary workers. In 2019, full-time temporary workers made up 14% of the total workforce, compared to 16% in 2018. Marel employees Average number by year 6,000 Number of employees 4,000 2,000 0 2017 2018 2019 Year-end 2019 Number of Average full-time equivalents in 2019 employees 3rd party Asia and by geography Oceania 5% workers 8% Americas 23% Europe, Middle East and Africa 65% Note: Percentages do not add up to 100% due to rounding. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 109 Health, Our vision is to be known for the excellence of our health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance in all our business activities. We safety and strive for excellence in HSE, which is synonymous with good business, because it makes us an attractive business partner and an employer of choice. It means we can grow with confidence, knowing that all risks environment are managed. High levels of trust streamline our work, allowing our employees to Reliability focus on the task at hand with less supervision or control. Business interruptions are rare and productivity is high. Ultimately, we aim to be known as a high reliability organization that delivers consistently strong performance across all aspects of health, safety and environmental management regardless of changes in the global market and regulatory landscape, and unforeseen events. Health, safety and environmental considerations are not the responsibility of one department; instead, they are ingrained in our company culture. As a high reliability organization, we are always mindful of the future and prepared for whatever may happen. A global health, safety and environment department provides support Leadership in to and oversight of Marel’s businesses, ensuring that our HSE policy health, safety requirements are met. The department is tasked with overseeing HSE governance, reviewing performance, investigating incidents, monitoring and environment HSE improvement projects and guiding and supporting management in the promotion of a leadership culture in HSE. All executive meetings in 2019 emphasized the status of our HSE actions and action plans. Leadership training for 110 managers on health, safety and environment Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 110 Marel views HSE as a leadership priority. Our ongoing efforts focus on reaching the company’s zero-harm objectives. The HSE department supports Marel with efforts to improve safety culture across the organization by: – Undertaking an external review of the HSE organizational structure – Conducting externally accredited training for executives and senior managers – Strengthening HSE leadership and organization as part of a structured approach to HSE maturity – Transitioning to a regional HSE model, designed to reinforce line accountability, enable agile support and provide improved feedback to business leaders – Conducting detailed reviews of serious injury, high potential incidents and interventions by regulators – Identifying key findings from events, sharing learning and taking action to prevent recurrences – Encouraging proactive non-event reporting Health, safety and environment statistics Number of accidents with fatalities or severe injuries 0 Number of serious accidents resulting in absence from work 33 Number of accidents resulting in restricted work or medical 39 treatment Number of total recordable injuries (TRI) 72 Number of first accidents 156 Number of total accidents 228 Number of near accidents 71 Number of environmental accidents 1 Number of proactive hazard observations 2,217 Total recordable incidents rate (TRI based on headcount) 1.24 Transparency In 2019, we strengthened our HSE reporting practices. The continued promotion of a safety-conscious culture, as well as increased maturiin reporting ty of our HSE reporting, has led to increases in reporting and affected our overall total recordable injuries rate (accidents resulting in medical treatment, restricted work or absence; TRI). As a result, our 2019 HSE figures are not entirely comparable to previous years due to changes in our reporting methodology. The number of accidents resulting in fatalities or severe injuries in 2019 was 0. The 2019 rate of TRI was 72, an increase from the previous year. The number of accidents resulting in first aid treatment was 156, a drop from the previous year. The number of near miss events was 71; last year, these events were incorporated with hazard observations, so we cannot make an accurate comparison. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 111 The number of non-event hazards reported was 2,217, an increase from last year’s combined figure, which speaks to a stronger culture of non-event reporting. Non-event reporting is a key leading indicator for Marel in preventing accidents and injuries because it draws attention to situations that could result in injury. We continue to focus on improving HSE performance. HSE has Committed to remained a key item on the agenda at management meetings, and continuous we will continue to assess varying levels of HSE maturity across Marel. improvements At HSE management meetings, we review key HSE activities, performance metrics and insights and learning, including injury and hazard observations across the group. We demonstrated a clear commitment to strengthening accountability in HSE-related business line management by providing professional HSE support at each of our locations. We also monitor policies, processes and controls. Our global HSE policy aligns with recognized global HSE standards, such as ISO45001. For more information, please read our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy. Case study There are a lot of ups and downs in our business. While having modern equipment, software and reliable labor are factors for Sharing know-how in success, there is another crucial ingredient: know-how. the Vietnamese fish Marel recently collaborated with stakeholders in Iceland industry and Vietnam to help Vietnamese processors strengthen the competitiveness of their pangasius market. While many may be unfamiliar with the pangasius fish, it is a critical species in Southeast Asia both for domestic consumption and export. In recent years, the pangasius market has not been meeting Vietnamese market demands for quality. The combined lack of investment, the surging Vietnamese economy, and associated wage increases have made it difficult for processors to keep skilled labor. With our partners, we participated in training Vietnamese experts to gain insights and strategies in Iceland to improve their processing and develop their fishery sustainably. They were able to return to Vietnam with this know-how and spread the word on improved handling and quality control to meet market demands. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 112 Diversity Marel’s Global Diversity and Inclusion policy underscores our commitment to fostering, cultivating and preserving a culture of diversity and inclusion within the company and increasing job satisfaction and well-being in the workplace. Our global diversity policy applies to all Marel employees and governance bodies, including the Board of Directors, its sub-committees and the Executive Team. This policy helps to attract and keep the most qualified employees. The diversity policy rests on four pillars, each equally important: 1. Ensuring equal opportunity 2. Promoting a company culture of tolerance, diversity and inclusion 3. Acting decisively against bullying, violence and harassment 4. Increasing Marel’s visibility as an employer of choice Marel’s diversity and inclusion committee is appointed biannually, and its members represent the diversity of our employees and the communities in which we work. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 113 Employee To strengthen a sustainable culture of diversity and inclusion, we are creating an employee engagement journey. This journey is the bedrock engagement of a high-performance workforce that transforms our goals into reality, driving change and company success. Employee engagement is quickly becoming one of the most important indicators of work satisfaction. Employees who are truly engaged will be motivated to do their best work every day and stay with the company. By investing in employee engagement, Marel increases productivity and work quality and retains top talent. In 2019, Marel managers initiated 400 action plans to improve employee engagement. Forced At Marel, we have a zero-tolerance policy for human rights violations, including child labor and illegal labor conditions. Our employees must labor and have reached the legal working age in the country of employment. None of our facilities are or will be associated with illegal labor conditions or forced labor. Since 2017, all new suppliers have been under-age required to comply with Marel’s standards for human rights and labor, as described in our Code of Conduct. workers In 2019, Marel implemented an updated Sanctions Policy that requires all employees to comply with applicable sanctions laws. This policy lays out requirements and procedures that promote compliance. Our legal team, in collaboration with human resources and general management, ensures that employees are trained in procedures applicable to them. There were no reports of human rights violations in 2019 or the previous year. Freedom of We are committed to respecting the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining without discrimination, as esassociation tablished in the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention (C. 87), and the Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention (C. 98). We ensure that all our employees and those of our business partners can exercise these rights. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 114 Local We invest in the welfare of the communities in countries where we work. We focus on educational outreach in collaboration with local and global educational institutions, and we offer our employees opportunities for continuing education. Many of our production facilities offer internships and trainee programs to assist talented young professionals in develcommunities oping their skills in a professional and safe environment. Social development We are also committed to social advancement in developing economies. By introducing new food processing technologies to these locals, through improved we have an immediate and radical effect on production capabilities, food processing worker safety and food traceability. We foster shared values through partnerships in new markets. Our market-altering solutions can increase both general well-being and economic progress in all the markets in which we operate. In 2019, we implemented Global Philanthropy and Social Participation Aligning philanthropy Guidelines and a Global Charitable Giving and Social Participation with our vision Policy to further align the organization’s strategy with its vision and purpose. Well-considered charitable activities and social participation programs contribute to a better standard of living and increase social stability. Marel’s charitable activities and social participation guidelines align with our pledge of corporate social responsibility. We designed our guidelines to direct the company’s efforts to become the partner, neighbor, employer, customer and primary supplier of choice around the world. Through partnerships, we aim to empower external organizations, customers and employees to support their communities. In 2019, we signed a number of social participation agreements, inFocus on water, cluding a deal with the Icelandic and the Malawi Red Cross to support sanitation and the global WASH initiative in Malawi. WASH is a multi-year initiative to strengthen Red Cross programs that contribute to reducing cholera hygiene to eliminate mortality and incidence. These programs have resolved to deliver integrated WASH/public health projects in ‘high risk’ countries, particularly cholera in cholera hotspots, until 2030. One notable WASH focus is on water, sanitation and hygiene promotion for cholera elimination. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 115 Environmental responsibility part idea Every drop counts step number As a global leader, we are fully aware of our economic, environmental, and social responsibility. We lead by example, continually finding new ways to positively impact the world. This includes solutions for preserving precious water and energy. Environmental Throughout our value-chain, we promote the most efficient use of resources to minimize environmental impact and prioritize environmental protection in food processing. Innovation is at the core responsibility of this strategy. We focus on creating new methods for improving yields and minimizing waste in food production by reducing the use of scarce resources, such as energy and water, while promoting food safety, traceability and animal wellbeing. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 116 Helping the environManaging climate-related risks is critical for Marel, both internally and for our customers. We have implemented many initiatives to mitigate ment, in partnership and manage climate risk at Marel. Helping our customers to use fewer natural resources and minimize their carbon footprint is pivotal to with our customers managing climate risk in the value chain. To that end, we’ve implemented several projects to support our approach to environmental challenges and to promote greater environmental responsibility. All innovations scored A sustainability scorecard, which facilitates sustainability throughout the product development process, has been a part of our product on sustainability development process since 2017. The scorecard is intended to assist our innovation team, in particular. In 2019, 87% of all new innovation projects approved for further development were rated using the sustainability scorecard, beginning in the first stage (feasibility). Energy Projects that Marel has introduced for minimizing energy consumption include installing car-charging points for employees and visitors who own electric cars, replacing incandescent light bulbs with LED lighting where feasible, and installing energy management systems in our largest manufacturing facilities. We are continuously upgrading our manufacturing equipment to increase its energy efficiency. We assess the feasibility of solar panels and sustainable heating solutions in all new Marel buildings. For example, during 2019, our largest manufacturing facility in Boxmeer installed a 1750 m2 solar panel roof. Marel’s electricity Coal 13% Oil 1% consumption in 2019 by origin Natural gas 29% Renewables 57% Our primary electricity sources are renewable energy and natural gas, with around 57% of all electricity consumed by Marel produced by renewables and 29% made by burning natural gas. 57% from renewables of all electricity consumed by Marel Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 117 Case study Plastic is the ideal material for our modern world, and for many parts in Marel equipment. It is durable, flexible and cost-effective – but as SensorX: Sorting out we all know, there is an environmental catch. the challenges and For our Gardabaer plant, the challenge is disposing of the 12 tons of opportunities in plastic scraps we produce annually. Unfortunately, there is no polyethylene recycling in Iceland, and until now, it was either landfilled or plastics shipped to Sweden for incineration to generate energy. We knew we could do better! It turns out that SensorX is ideal at identifying different plastics. We ran 12 tons of scraps through a SensorX to sort the plastics and remove any non-polyethylene pieces. Now, we could guarantee our German supplier that we were sending back 100% polyethylene for recycling. We look forward to receiving and working with our first recycled sheets of polyethylene in the first half of 2020. Waste At Marel, we are conscientious about the operational and environmental risks of waste management. management In 2019, a full-scale analysis of all our waste-streams was carried out. The analysis provided a comprehensive overview of our waste footprint. For example, it measured the portion of our waste that ends up in landfills, and how much of our waste is either reused or recycled. Significant improvements were made to digitalize and advance the efficiency of Marel’s waste management in 2019, and all major manufacturing locations are now reporting on those metrics. In 2019, we recycled or reused 74% of our total waste volume of 5,573 tons. Carbon Although overall carbon emissions at Marel have risen in the past few years, we have worked to offset the impact of our burgeoning operations. In 2019, emissions were lower than in previous years, emissions partly as a result of a decrease in employee travel and the number of vehicles directly operated by Marel, as well as cleaner energy in our buildings. The two largest contributors to Marel’s carbon footprint are energy consumption in facilities and employee air travel, two variables that we can control. To better understand our carbon footprint, all facilities now report on the source of the energy used to produce electricity and heating in our facilities. In consultation with Sustainalize, a corporate sustainability consultancy firm, we will continue to minimize our footprint. Our emissions include: – Scope 1 emissions are from mobile combustion emissions from the 840 vehicles operated by the company and natural gas burned to heat facilities. – Scope 2 emissions are mostly from the electricity used in offices and manufacturing facilities, as well as waste management from manufacturing. – Scope 3 emissions are mainly the result of employee air travel. Other upstream or downstream activities are currently not included; in 2019, we began to collect data on Marel’s scope 3 emissions for publication in 2020. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 118 To better understand and minimize our indirect carbon footprint, most of Marel’s larger facilities have installed an energy monitoring system from eTactica. Locations undergoing renovations are also installing solar cells on their roofs to generate energy locally. Because Marel’s company network spans the globe, air travel by Marel employees has a substantial negative impact on the environment. Because carbon emissions from the aviation industry are a considerable contributor to climate change, we must minimize employee air travel. In 2016, we established a new travel platform to monitor the environData-driven mental impact of employee travel. By collecting and visualizing this approach to data, we’re able to make informed decisions that are in line with our sustainability goals. travel emissions Our travel policy encourages employees to use alternative means of meeting and communicating with each other and our customers. Emissions from air traveled decreased by 4.4% in 2019, partly as a result of this strategy. Employee air 12,500 10,000 travel in 2019 7,500 tCO2e 5,000 2,500 0 2017 2018 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 119 Total carbon We will continue to work diligently to measure our environmental footprint and identify areas where we can improve. In turn, we better understand our company’s impact and make efforts to respond emissions appropriately. Although Marel doesn’t currently participate in external carbon offsetting programs or procure green energy certifications, we work diligently to measure and minimize our environmental footprint. We will continue to increase the use of renewable energy in our facilities and improve the efficiency of our production processes, fleet management and waste management, while cutting down on employee travel. Sustainable Like all manufacturing companies, all production at Marel is dependent on procuring components, raw materials and spare parts. procurement In 2019, we took meaningful steps to analyze and understand ways to improve sustainability in Marel’s supply chain, especially procurement. We developed a sustainable procurement roadmap, and added a sustainability pillar to our procurement principles. Our sustainable procurement program will focus on improving sustainability in supplier compliance, ESG performance, carbon intensity and waste management. Quality Cost Logistics Sustainability Technology Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 120 Enabling We design our systems and solutions with the environment in mind. In 2018, we took our first steps toward understanding the full carbon sustainable footprint of our machinery during its lifetime by performing a meticulous study of a broad cross-section of our products. The food life-cycle analysis (LCA) was carried out in accordance with internationally recognized methodologies, using authoritative processing databases on components and parts. In 2019, Marel continued to analyze the lifetime impact of our key products. We’ve now assessed three core product groups used in all three of our industry segments, and we will continue to investigate our key products. The LCA points to three key actions that Marel can take to mitigate the environmental impact of our products: (1) minimize energy consumption during the use-phase; (2) ensure durability and longevity of our products; and (3) reduce food processing waste. Proactive assessment is essential to anticipating the environmental impact of food production. We work in partnership with our customers to design and manufacture solutions that contribute to the sustainable production of food for a growing world population. Creating For the past 40 years Marel has been monitoring processing line speed and yield increase in our industry. Because we’ve collected sustainable accurate data over such a long duration, we’re able to understand exactly the impact we’ve had—and continue to have—on increasing efficiency and yield for our customers. This data, combined with value ongoing green initiatives, enables us to make our customers more competitive—and more sustainable. Animal Our commitment to social responsibility extends beyond our employees and customers. Because we’re in the food processing wellbeing business, we’ve made animal wellbeing a focal point in our research and development. In 2017, the introduction of a sustainability scorecard became a part of Marel’s innovation process. Using the scorecard, we assess the feasibility of a project according to a matrix of sustainability indicators. By instituting strong animal wellbeing practices, we can increase the quality of products and production, while ensuring that we meet crucial standards for economic, social and environmental responsibility. Over the years, we have introduced a number of innovative solutions that pay careful attention to animal wellbeing, including: – 5 Controlled Atmosphere Stunner for Poultry CAS SmoothFlow – 5 Live Bird Handling ATLAS system – 5 CO2 Stunning – 5 Live Pig Handling In the food processing industry, it’s paramount that companies follow guidelines for social responsibility and sustainability. We must consider the effects that our operations have on people, the planet and profits. We are determined to lead the way by developing solutions that promote the highest standards of animal wellbeing. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 121 Economic Throughout our company, we promote ethical business practices along our value chain through transparency, innovation and collaboration responsibility with our partners. We strive to conduct our business in a way that ensures long-term profitability and fair trade. We make sure that we—and our partners, customers and suppliers—are compliant with international laws, anti-corruption rules and local regulations. We believe that every contribution counts in the quest for a more equitable society that uses the planet’s resources sustainbly. Economic We operate a global sales and service network and produce a range of products that are manufactured in the Netherlands, the United value States of America, Brazil, China, Iceland, Denmark, Germany, England and Slovakia. generation The economic value generated by our operations in 2019 amounted to EUR 1,284 million, consisting mostly of sales. Furthermore, we directly employed an average of 6,303 full-time employees in 2019. Salaries paid during the year, excluding related expenses, amounted to EUR 372 million (2018: EUR 344), or 29% of total economic value generated. By economic value, we mean growth at a local level, including job creation, and support of local suppliers through the purchase of goods and services. Economic value composition Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 122 Case study In August 2019, Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO of Marel, participated in a forum held in Iceland by the Nordic CEOs for a Sustainable Future. Nordic CEOs stand Marel is a member of the coalition, which was created in 2018 to inspire cooperative action towards the UN Sustainable Development for a sustainable Goals and the Paris Agreement in the Nordics. future “The Nordic region has a history of collaboration, equality and longterm thinking. By building bridges and forming strong bonds between businesses and the societies they operate in, the Nordics have shown that they can deliver a sustainable and positive impact.” Arni Oddur Thordarson, CEO of Marel. The Nordic Council of Ministers invited the CEOs to a roundtable sponsoring greater public-private sector collaboration and the transition to purpose-driven business practices. The meeting concluded with the Nordic Prime Ministers and CEOs signing a joint commitment on promoting workplace diversity and inclusion, and strategies to battle climate change. Marel organized a visit for the CEO to its headquarters in Iceland, where Arni Oddur inspired guests by sharing insights into Marel’s contributions toward sustainability in the food industry. Tax footprint Taxes paid by Marel in 2019 amounted to EUR 81.2 million (2018: EUR 72.9m) or 6.3% of economic value generated. Employment taxes represent 45.5% of total taxes during the period, of which Marel paid 43.3%. In addition to direct taxes, Marel collects various taxes and duties on behalf of governments. Total taxes and duties collected in 2019 amounted to EUR 100.2 million (2018: EUR 91.7 mil.). In 2019, the total tax footprint amounted to EUR 181.4 million (2018: EUR 164.6 mil.). Tax footprint report Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 123 Innovation Innovation, in our philosophy, means creating value in the marketplace. In our experience, innovation most often originates from partnerships between our customers and our employees, through the shared goal of improving food processing solutions. Research and 80 8% development EUR million 60 6% expenses 40 4% 20 2% 0 0% 2017 2018 2019 R&D expenses R&D expenses as % of revenues Digital technology We invested around EUR 82.1 million or 6.4% of revenue (2018: EUR 74 million or 6.2% of revenue) in innovation. For the past few years, Marel and full-line has stepped up its digital and full-line offerings to improve yield and efficiency, enabling processors to meet consumer demands for a approach for balanced diet, traceability and food safety. We launched more than 30 new products in 2019; 20 of those solutions were launched for the great yields meat industry at IFFA 2019, the international trade fair in Frankfurt. These innovative efforts represent a full range of endeavors: from breakthrough improvements in our products, to design upgrades and additions to existing machines and systems. By working closely with our customers and employees, we are building durable equipment that remains competitive and meets a range of needs. Through continuous research and development, Marel enables food processors to make the most of their raw materials. Stricter regulations and consumer demand for sustainability constantly challenge processors to produce more with less. Marel has taken steps to ensure that its solutions meet these challenges by making sustainability a fixed standard in the evaluation our products. Systematic approach Our sustainability scorecard raises awareness and provides rich material for discussion among our innovation experts during product to sustainability development. Since we implemented the scorecard in January 2018, we have systematically considered a range of social and environmental factors during the innovation process. In 2019 alone, we saw a radical trend: 87% of all products developed by Marel have increased sustainability in our customers’ operations. Anti-bribery Our company’s reputation is crucial to our success. Therefore, we take compliance with global anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and and antiregulations very seriously. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy adopted by Marel in January 2017 reinforced our commitment. corruption The policy applies to all employees, officers and directors, as well as any contractors, consultants, agents and partners engaged in business on behalf of Marel. We adhere to the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the countries that we operate in, as well as international regulations. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 124 Corporate Icelandic law and the company’s corporate governance framework determine the duties of the various bodies within the company. They governance define and dictate how the company is governed and controlled – including the interaction between the CEO, who is responsible for day-to-day management, the Board of Directors, shareholders, regstatement ulators, and other stakeholders. Marel hf. is committed to recognized general principles aimed at ensuring good corporate governance. 1. Corporate Marel’s corporate governance consists of a framework of principles and rules, including its Articles of Association and the Guidelines on governance Corporate Governance issued in June 2015 by the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, Nasdaq Iceland and the Confederation of Icelandic framework Employers, which are accessible on the website of the Iceland Chamber of Commerce. and compliance In general, the company fully complies with the Guidelines on Corporate Governance, apart from the following exceptions: Article 1.4 of the Guidelines concerning Share Registry: Marel is listed Article 1.4 in ISK on Nasdaq Iceland and in EUR on Euronext in Amsterdam. In the Netherlands, shares are registered in the account-based electronic securities system operated by Euroclear Nederland, a central securities depository and clearing organization authorized under the Securities Bank Giro Transactions Act. All securities in its depository are registered in the name of Euroclear Nederland. Under Dutch property law governing Euroclear Nederland, the legal title to the shares registered in the name of Euroclear Nederland are owned by all investors collectively, each in proportion to their percentage shareholding. Dutch law further regulates how Euroclear Nederland must afford the investors the rights to the securities in its custody, such as voting rights and rights to dividends. For this reason, Marel is unable to keep a shareholder registry for the EUR shares listed on Euronext in Amsterdam. Marel keeps a shareholder registry for the ISK shares listed on Nasdaq Iceland. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 125 Article 1.5.1 Article 1.5.1 of the Guidelines concerning the appointment of a Nomination Committee: According to the Guidelines, the shareholders’ meeting shall appoint members to the Nomination Committee or decide how they should be appointed. Marel deviates from this provision as the Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board of Directors, and the Board appoints its members. This is in line with the Dutch corporate governance code. Article 1.5.3 of the Guidelines concerning the appointment of Board Article 1.5.3 members in the Nomination Committee: as the Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board of Directors, the members of the Nomination Committee are all also members of the Board of Directors. This is in line with the Dutch corporate governance code. Article 1.5.6 of the Guidelines concerning the announcement of Article 1.5.6 names of those appointed to the Nomination Committee at least six months before the AGM: Marel’s Nomination Committee was established in December 2019; therefore the names of the members could not be published six months before the company’s AGM scheduled to take place in March 2020. 2. Main aspects of The CEO is responsible for ensuring adequate internal controls and risk management in connection with financial reporting. The Board internal controls of Directors maintains an ongoing dialogue with the CEO to identify, describe and manage the business risks that the company may be and the company’s exposed to. Material risks are discussed in the 2019 Consolidated risk management Financial Statements. in connection with Internal audit and control preparation of The company’s risk management and internal controls for financial financial statements processes are designed to minimize the risk of material misstatements in financial reporting effectively. The internal auditor reports to the Board’s Audit Committee and plays a key role in internal control. External audit An independent auditing firm is elected at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) for a term of one year. The external auditors examine the company’s annual accounts in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and, for this purpose, inspect its accounting records and other material relating to the operation and financial position of the company. The external auditors report any significant findings regarding accounting matters and internal control deficiencies via the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors. KPMG ehf. was elected as the company’s auditor at the company’s AGM held on 6 March 2019. Auditors on KPMG’s behalf are Sæmundur Valdimarsson and Hrafnhildur Helgadottir, both Certified Public Accountants (CPAs). They have audited and endorsed without reservation Marel’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 2019. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 126 3. The company’s Values Marel‘s company values are its shared ideals and standards, providvalues, Code of ing direction in its everyday operations. The company’s employees Conduct and social took part in defining these values, which are Unity, Excellence and Innovation. The values are continuously promoted in the company’s responsibility policy daily operations. Corporate social responsibility and diversity Marel’s CSR guidelines were approved by the Board of Directors and Marel’s Executive Team in 2016. Further information on CSR and diversity policies are provided in the section on CSR in Marel’s Annual Report. Code of Conduct Marel’s Board of Directors approved a Code of Conduct with global application in October 2012, which was revised in July 2016. It is closely linked to Marel’s company values and rests on four pillars, i.e. the commitment of employees (including officers’ and directors’) to: (i) each other; (ii) customers and the marketplace; (iii) shareholders; and (iv) partners, communities and the environment. The company has a two-tier management structure consisting of the 4. Composition and Board of Directors and the Executive Team, led by the Chief Execuactivities of the tive Officer. The two bodies are separate, and no person serves as a member of both. Board of Directors, its sub-committees, The Board of Directors has supreme authority in company affairs between shareholders’ meetings. It is elected by shareholders at the the CEO and the Annual General Meeting for a one-year term and operates in accorExecutive Team dance with applicable Icelandic laws and regulations, the company’s Articles of Association and the Board‘s Rules of Procedure. The Board Board of directors currently comprises of seven directors who were elected at the company’s AGM on 6 March 2019. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization, for setting the objectives for long-term performance and business development and ensuring proper conduct of its operations at all times. The Board decides all matters regarded as extraordinary or of major consequence in accordance with the statutory division of responsibilities between the Board, CEO and the Executive Team. The Board defines strategic objectives for the company and sets targets aimed at achieving these goals. Regular board meetings are held with management over the course of the year, including quarterly meetings coinciding with the publication of financial results, two off-site strategy sessions and an operational planning meeting for the coming year. A number of on-site visits to company locations as well as to customers are conducted each year. In addition, the Board of Directors meets at least once a year without management to structure its agenda and conduct a self-assessment. Additional meetings are convened as needed. All matters dealt with at Board meetings are decided by a majority vote, provided that the meeting has been lawfully convened. In the event of a tie vote, the Chairman casts the deciding vote. However, important decisions are not made unless all directors have been given an opportunity to discuss the matter. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 127 The Board of Directors convened 18 times in 2019, with an average attendance of 96%. The Board of Directors has assessed which directors are independent according to the Guidelines on Corporate Governance. All seven directors, Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thor Masson, Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir, Ton van der Laan, Margret Jonsdottir, Astvaldur Johannsson and Olafur S. Gudmundsson, are considered independent of the company. Furthermore, five of the Board members, Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thor Masson, Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir, Ton van der Laan and Astvaldur Johannsson, are considered independent of the company’s major shareholders. Once a year, the Board of Directors evaluates the work, results, size and composition of the Board and the Board’s sub-committees. Furthermore, the Board evaluates the work and results of the CEO according to previously established criteria, including whether the CEO has prepared and carried out a business strategy consistent with the company’s established goals. The Board discusses the results of the evaluation and decides on any actions to be taken. Sub-committees A major share of the Board’s work is carried out in its sub-committees, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the newly established Nomination Committee. Sub-committee members are appointed by the Board of Directors for a term of one year, in accordance with the rules set for each sub-committee by the Board. Remuneration commitee The Remuneration Committee is composed of four Board members unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Remuneration Committee shall be independent of the company and possess the knowledge and expertise needed to perform the Committee’s tasks. The Remuneration Committee is intended to assist the Board in ensuring that compensation arrangements support the strategic aims of the company and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior executives while also complying with legal and regulatory requirements. The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the performance of the Board and CEO is evaluated annually, and that succession planning is conducted. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 128 The current Board decided to appoint four members to the The Remuneration 4 Committe Remuneration Committee as of March 2019: Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir (Chair), Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thor Masson convened 4 times in 2019 and Olafur S. Gudmundsson. The Remuneration Committee convened four times in 2019. All meetings were fully attended. Audit committee The Audit Committee is composed of three or four Board directors unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company, and its external auditors and at least one member shall be independent of shareholders holding 10% or more of the company’s total share capital. Members of the Audit Committee must possess the knowledge and expertise needed to perform their tasks. At least one member needs to have solid knowledge and experience of financial statements or auditing. Its work includes monitoring Marel’s financial status and evaluating the company’s internal monitoring and risk management systems, management reporting on finances, whether laws and regulations are followed, and the work of the company’s internal and statutory auditors. Members of the Audit Committee since March 2019 are Arnar Thor The Audit Committee 7 convened 7 times in 2019 Masson (Chairman), Astvaldur Johannsson, Margret Jonsdottir and Ton van der Laan. All members are independent of the company and its auditors, while Ton van der Laan, Arnar Thor Masson and Astvaldur Johannsson are independent of large shareholders. The Audit Committee convened seven times in 2019, with an average attendance of 93%. Nomination committee The Nomination Committee is composed of three members elected by the Board. The Nomination Committee was established in 2019 as communicated at Marel’s AGM 2019. The main objective of the Committee is to assist the Company’s shareholders in a structured and transparent way with ensuring that the Board and its Committees consist of Directors with the appropriate balance of skills, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge, enabling effective execution of duties and responsibilities. The Nomination Committee identifies and nominates candidates for the Board, and members of the Board’s committees, who can fulfill these requirements. The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee shall be independent of the Company and of shareholders that hold 10% or more of the total share capital of the Company. The Board has taken a balanced view of Corporate Governance Principles in Iceland and the Netherlands when structuring the framework for the Nomination Committee. Members of the Nomination Committee since December 2019 are Arnar Thor Masson (Chairman), Asthildur Margret Otharsdottir and Olafur S. Gudmundsson. The Nomination Committee did not convene in 2019. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 129 Structure of Board´s Board of Remuneration Audit Nomination subcommittiees directors committee committee committee Asthildur Otharsdottir Chairman Arnar Thor Masson Vice-Chairman Ann Elizabeth Savage Director Astvaldur Johannsson Director Margret Jonsdottir Director Olafur S. Gudmundsson Director Ton van der Laan Director Convened in 2019 18 Times 4 Times 7 Times 0 Chair Member Chief Executive Arni Oddur Thordarson assumed the position of CEO of Marel in November 2013. An Icelandic citizen, born in 1969, Mr. Thordarson has Officer extensive international business experience within the industrial sector. He has an MBA degree from IMD Business School in Switzerland and a Cand. oecon. degree in Business Administration from the University of Iceland. Mr. Thordarson served on the Board of Directors of Marel from 2005-2013, for most of that time as Chairman. Together with related parties, his direct holding is 131,869 shares in Marel. He is a major shareholder of Eyrir Invest, which on 5 February 2020, held 190,366,838 shares in Marel hf. (24.69% of total issued shares). 1. The CEO is responsible for daily operations and is obliged to follow the Board’s policy and instructions in that regard. Daily operations do not include measures that are unusual or extraordinary. The CEO may only take such measures if specifically authorized by the Board or unless it was impossible to wait for the Board’s decision without substantial disadvantage to the company’s operations. In such an event, the CEO must inform the Board of his/her actions without delay. 2. The CEO is responsible for the work and results of the Executive Team. 3. The CEO shall act as Chairman of the Board in the company’s significant subsidiaries and core activities of the company unless the Board decides otherwise. 4. The CEO shall ensure that the accounts of the company comply with the law and accepted financial reporting practices and that the treatment of company assets is secure. The CEO shall provide any information requested by the company’s auditors. 5. At least once a year, the CEO shall evaluate the work and results of the Executive Team that he heads according to previously established criteria. The CEO shall discuss the results of his evaluation with each member of the Executive Team and decide on any actions to be taken. At least once a year, the Chairman and the CEO will meet to discuss the results of the Board’s evaluation of the CEO’s work and performance and any proposed actions in response. The CEO reviews with the Chairman the results of his/her evaluation of the Executive Team and what actions may be needed, if any. The Chairman reports to the Board of Directors on discussions with the CEO as he/she deems necessary and appropriate. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 130 Executive Team On 9 March 2020, Marel announced changes in the Executive Team and organizational structure. The Executive Team was consolidated to nine members, from twelve members previously, and two new EVPs were appointed. Global Markets and Global Service were combined into one function, under the leadership of the Executive Vice President of Global Markets and Service. Executive Arni Oddur Thordarson, Chief Executive Officer Linda Jonsdottir, Chief Financial Officer Arni Sigurdsson, Chief Strategy Officer and EVP of Strategic Business Units Operations Einar Einarsson, EVP of Global Markets (until 8 March 2020) Ulrika Lindberg, EVP of Global Markets and Service Folkert Bölger, EVP of Global Supply Chain Vidar Erlingsson, EVP of Innovation (until 8 March 2020) Anna Kristin Palsdottir, EVP of Innovation (as of 9 March 2020) David Freyr Oddsson, EVP of Human Resources (until 8 March 2020) Business units Roger Claessens, EVP of Marel Poultry David Wilson, EVP of Marel Meat Sigurdur Olason, EVP of Marel Fish (until 8 March 2020) Gudbjorg Heida Gudmundsdottir, EVP of Marel Fish (as of 9 March 2020) Jesper Hjortshøj, EVP of Further Processing (until 8 March 2020) Shareholders’ meetings, within limits established by the company’s 5. Communication Articles of Association and statutory law, are the supreme authority in between shareholdMarel’s affairs as well as the primary means of communication between shareholders and the Board of Directors. The AGM is held each year ers and the Board of before the end of August, and other shareholders’ meetings are convened Directors when necessary. The AGM is advertised publicly with at least two weeks’ notice in accordance with Icelandic law. The Chairman is the Board’s authorized spokesperson. The Board of Directors does not engage in communication regarding the details of the company’s operational matters and financial results, which is the responsibility of authorized members of management. The Chairman communicates with the company’s largest shareholders on an annual basis to exchange views on matters related to corporate governance and to maintain trust and understanding. All communication with shareholders is governed by rules and regulations on price-sensitive and non-public information (insider information) and on other sensitive business information, which could compromise the company’s competitive position. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 131 Upper, left to right: Asthildur Otharsdottir, Arnar Thor Masson, Astvaldur Johannsson, Ann Elizabeth Savage Lower, left to right: Olafur S. Gudmundsson, Margret Jonsdottir, Ton van der Laan Board of Chairman of the board directors Asthildur Otharsdottir Asthildur Otharsdottir is an independent advisor and board director. She is the Chairman of the Board of Frumtak Ventures investment fund and a director of Promote Iceland. Otharsdottir is on the Board of Governors of the University of Iceland, the board of the Nordic Arbitration Centre at the Icelandic Chamber of Commerce and the board of Women Corporate Directors. She is a former director and chairman of the audit committee of Icelandair Group and several other organizations. Otharsdottir served as the Global Director of Corporate Development at Össur hf., where she managed several international acquisitions, corporate funding, investor relations and the dual listing of the company’s shares on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Prior to that, she served as a Senior Manager in Corporate Banking at Kaupthing Bank as well as a management consultant at Accenture in Copenhagen. She has no interest links with Marel’s main customers, competitors or major shareholders. Education MBA, Rotterdam School of Management, the Netherlands Cand. Oecon., University of Iceland Elected 2013 Chairman of the Board 2012 Vice Chairman 2011 Chairman of the Audit Committee 2010 Director Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee (chair) Nomination Committee Holdings in Marel 32,000 shares Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 132 Vice-chairman of the board Arnar Thor Masson Arnar Masson is currently Chief Human Resources and Strategy Officer at Isavia, a company that handles the operations and development of all airports in Iceland. Before that, Masson was an alternate director at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in London, an investment and development bank that works primarily with private sector clients in developing economies. Before joining EBRD, he was Director-General in the Prime Minister’s Office in Iceland, overseeing organizational changes and coordinating the implementation of cross-cutting policy and strategic initiatives. Prior to that, he worked in the Ministry of Finance and was responsible for public sector reforms, performance management, and stateowned enterprise governance. From 2000-2008 Masson held an adjunct lecturer position at the Department of Political Science of the University of Iceland. Masson has experience in corporate strategy, human resources, corporate social responsibility and finance and has worked with emerging markets. He has done executive courses for board directors both at Harvard Business School in the US and IMD in Switzerland. He has no interest links with Marel’s main customers’ competitors or major shareholders. Education MSc, Comparative Politics, London School of Economics and Political Science BA, Political Science, University of Iceland Elected 2013 Vice-chairman 2001 Board Director Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee Audit Committee (chair) Nomination Committee (chair) Holdings in Marel 0 shares Board director Dr Olafur S. Gudmundsson Dr Olafur S. Gudmundsson is currently the Head of Discovery Pharmaceutics and Analytical Sciences at Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), a global biopharmaceutical company. For more than two decades, Dr Gudmundsson has held roles of increasing responsibility within research and development, covering multiple therapeutic areas and stages of drug discovery, both for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Genentech Inc. During his tenure at BMS, Dr Gudmundsson has helped bring multiple drug candidates to clinical trials, several of which have become marketed products. In his time within the pharmaceutical industry, Dr Gudmundsson’s responsibilities have included involvement with global portfolio strategy, evaluation of external acquisitions, strategic innovations, and integration of merged companies. Dr Gudmundsson has Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 133 participated in governance teams providing input on global portfolio optimization and prioritization, lead process optimization teams and chairing integration teams. Dr Gudmundsson is also associated with the graduate program of the Pharmaceutical Chemistry department at Purdue University. Currently, Dr Gudmundsson is a board member of Eyrir Invest, Marel’s largest shareholder, as well as Glo and Noruz ehf. He has no interest links with Marel’s main customers. Education Ph.D., Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of Kansas Cand. pharm., Pharmacy, University of Iceland Elected 2014 Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee Holdings in Marel 1,705,427 shares Board director Astvaldur Johannsson Astvaldur Johannsson is Business Development Director at Controlant, a real-time monitoring Internet of Things (IoT) software solution company. His previous international business experience includes senior management positions within different markets at Össur hf., a global medical devices manufacturer and as an Executive Director leading the international division of Valitor hf., an eCommerca payment solutions and services provider Johannsson served as a member of the Executive Team of the IT company Nyherji hf., as Sales and Marketing Director at Penninn, and as a system analyst expert in the IT sector focusing on process design and development. Johannsson is a proactive professional with extensive international experience of leadership within a multi-national culture and cross-functional environments, both on the executive and on a board level. He has a comprehensive background and knowledge in formulating and implementing policy and strategy, leading and integrating new businesses and initiatives to improve business performance. Johannsson has a solid background in managing business-to-business and business-to-consumer sales and marketing, business development, supply chain, outsourcing, negotiating, contracts and product management along with operations knowledge and experience in varying industries with progressive and successful organizations. He has no interest links with Marel’s main customers, competitors or major shareholders. Education MBA, University of Iceland BS, Management Information Systems, Heriot-Watt University Elected 2014 Sub-Committees Audit committee Holdings in Marel 0 shares Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 134 Board director Margret Jonsdottir Since 2013 Jonsdottir has been Managing Director of Operations of Eyrir Invest hf. and before that, she was CFO of Eyrir Invest hf. from 2004. Previously she was CFO of the Icelandic Met Office, EVP Finance at Edda Publishing at that time the largest media and publishing company in Iceland, Director of Finance at Kreditkort/MasterCard and Manager of Finance at FBA Investment Bank and one of FBA‘s predecessors, The Industrial Loan Fund. In all positions she has held, Jonsdottir was member of the Executive Team and as such has participated in strategic planning and strategy execution. She has been responsible for international and domestic funding, accounting, budgeting as well as integration and process building of merged companies. She served as the chair and committee member of credit committees, pricing committees and audit committees. For over a decade, Jonsdottir worked as a Finance Manager and an Account Manager for one of Iceland‘s largest meat processing companies, Slaturfelag Sudurlands (SS) and held a seat on the Board of Directors of SS pension fund for five years. She has no interest links with Marel’s main customers or competitors. Education MS, Accounting and Auditing, University of Iceland Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Elected 2006 Sub-Committees Audit Committee Holdings in Marel 195,113 shares Board director Ton van der Laan Ton van der Laan is a Dutch national residing in the Netherlands. He has extensive experience from several executive roles in the food, feed and commodity industries. He is a non-executive board member of Vion Foods, Royal de Heus, Dümmen Orange and the Rainforest Alliance. Van der Laan is the former CEO of Nidera, a company globally active in financing and distribution of grains and oilseeds, EVP Animal Proteins and Animal Nutrition at Cargill in the USA, CEO of Provimi in the Netherlands, an acknolwedged leader in the animal nutrition industry. Previously, Van der Laan held several executive roles at Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch consumer food company, for over 22 years. There he was located in the Netherlands, UK, Czech Republic and Slovakia. He has also served as the Managing Director of Philips Domestic Appliances and Personal Care. Van der Laan possesses extensive experience in multi-national businesses, strategic planning, portfolio management, acquisitions and company restructuring, large and small scale integrations and top team development. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 135 He has no interest links with Marel’s main customers, competitors or major shareholders. Education MS, Mechanical Engineering, Twente University, New Board Program, Nyenrode Business University Elected 2019 Sub-Committees Audit Committee Holdings in Marel 0 shares Board director Ann Elizabeth Savage Ann Savage previously served as Group Technical Director of Bakkavor. Her primary responsibilities have included food safety, health and safety management, manufacturing excellence and corporate social responsibility management in the UK, US and Asia. Savage has held a variety of roles in technical, and research and development departments within the retail and food industry over her 35-year career. She worked for the Cooperative Wholesale Society (CWS), Northern Foods from 1990 until 1999 and at Geest/Bakkavor for over 19 years. Savage‘s responsibilities have included representing businesses with UK regulators such as Food Standards Agency, Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs, Health Protection England. She has chaired the Food Network for Ethical Trade, the IGD Technical Leadership Forum, and been a member of the advisory group for the Better Regulation Task Force and the British Retail Consortium Advisory Board. Savage has worked closely with UK retailers to deliver on their corporate social responsibility commitments and to develop reporting procedures. She has experience in operational management, product development and incident management. She has worked with Farm Africa in both Tanzania and Kenya to support African endeavors in tilapia fish farming and beekeeping. She is currently a technical advisor to Gousto, a member of her parish council and a Governor of Boston College, one of the top five colleges in the UK. She has no interest links with Marel’s main customers, competitors or major shareholders. Education Mathematics, Technology and Systems Management, Open University Post Graduate Diploma in Management Studies, Nottingham University Elected 2013 Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee Holdings in Marel 0 shares All holdings as of 31 December 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 136 Executive On 9 March 2020, Marel announced changes in the Executive Team and organizational structure. The Executive Team was consolidated Team to nine members, from twelve members previously, and two new EVPs were appointed. Global Markets and Global Service were combined into one function, under the leadership of the Executive Vice President of Global Markets and Service. Chief Executive Officer Arni Oddur Thordarson Arni Oddur Thordarson took up his current position as Marel’s CEO in November 2013 after having served as Chairman of Marel’s Board of Directors from 2005. He co-founded Eyrir Invest in 2000 and was the company’s CEO until 2013. Thordarson has extensive international global business experience and has served as a non-executive director of various companies, including Fokker Technologies and Stork Technical Services. Education MBA, IMD, Switzerland Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 131,869 shares Other holdings: 17.9% of total outstanding shares in Eyrir Invest, Marel’s largest shareholder (Eyrir Invest holds 27.9% of total shares in Marel) Chief Financial Officer Linda Jonsdottir Linda Jonsdottir has been Marel’s CFO since 2014. Before that she was Marel’s Corporate Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Prior to joining Marel, Jonsdottir worked in treasury and financing for Eimskip, Burdaras and Straumur Investment Bank. She was a director of the Icelandic Enterprise Investment Fund from 2010 to 2015. Education MS, Finance, Reykjavik University Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 182,500 shares Chief Strategy Officer and Executive Vice President of Strategic Business Units Arni Sigurdsson Arni Sigurdsson is responsible for strategy, development and mergers and acquisitions as well as the Innova software and Cross-Industry. He serves on the board of Worximity Technology Inc. in Canada and Curio ehf. in Iceland. Before joining Marel in 2014, he worked at AGC Partners, an investment bank. Before that, Sigurdsson worked at Landsbanki Íslands, where he worked closely with Marel for many years and was instrumental in advising Marel on the acquisition of Stork Food Systems. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 137 Education MBA, Harvard Business School BS, Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 100,000 shares Executive Vice President of Marel Further Processing Until 8 March 2020 Jesper Hjortshøj Jesper Hjortshøj joined the Executive Team in February 2017 but has been with Marel since 2006, serving in several different positions within the company. His broad experience in the food industry prior to that include that of manager of marketing, product center and strategy and portfolio for global innovation. Education MBA, Aarhus University MA, Communication and Media Studies, Aarhus University Holdings in Marel 0 shares Executive Vice President of Marel Fish Until 8 March 2020 Sigurdur Olason Sigurdur Olason assumed his current position in 2014. Olason has wide-ranging international experience in the seafood industry, having worked at Marel in product development from 2001 to 2006. Before rejoining Marel in 2014, Olason was Director of Business Development at Samherji, one of Iceland’s leading seafood companies. Education MBA, Brisbane Graduate School of Business BS, Computer Science, University of Iceland BS, Mechanical & Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 0 shares Executive Vice President of Marel Fish As of 9 March 2020 Gudbjorg Heida Gudmundsdottir Gudbjorg Heida Gudmundsdottir took up her current position in March 2020. She joined Marel in 2011 and served most recently as a Local Manager for Marel in Iceland. Prior to that, she was Innovation Cluster Manager for Iceland and the UK. Within Marel, Gudmundsdottir has led strategic projects within Innovation and Marel Fish. Education MSc, Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland BSc, Mechanical Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 0 shares Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 138 Executive Vice President of Marel Poultry Roger Claessens Roger Claessens joined the Executive Team in September 2019. He has been with Marel and its predecessors since 2001, most recently as Director of Innovation Marel Poultry. Roger has a broad knowledge of poultry processing and innovation, having also served as Product Specialist and Manager Process Technology for Marel. Education MSc, Agricultural Engineering, Wageningen University Holdings in Marel 0 shares Executive Vice President of Marel Meat David Wilson Following decades of experience in the food industry, David Wilson began in his current position in 2012. He has been with Marel and its predecessors since 1998. Wilson was Senior Vice-President for the Marel Poultry Industry Center in Gainesville until 2012. Before that, he served as Vice-President of Sales and Marketing and as a Regional Sales Manager. Education MS, Animal Science, Aberdeen University BS (Hons), Agricultural and Business Management, Aberdeen University Holdings in Marel 195,857 shares Executive Vice President of Global Supply Chain Folkert Bölger Folkert Bölger has extensive global managerial experience in supply, procurement and operational positions. Before joining Marel, he was Vice-President of Operations and Procurement at Bang & Olufsen in Denmark. Bölger held various management positions at Philips and Siemens-VDO in Asia, Central Europe and Western Europe. Education MSc, Mechanical Engineering, Delft University of Technology CPIM, American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) Holdings in Marel 17,862 shares Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 139 Executive Vice President of Global Markets Until 8 March 2020 Einar Einarsson Einar Einarsson has over 15 years of experience in managing Marel’s sales and service operations in North America. Prior to his appointment as President of Marel Inc. in the US in 2003, he held several positions in Marel as a Sales Engineer, Area Sales Manager, and Product Manager. Einarsson was Managing Director of Alpan Ltd., Iceland, a manufacturer of high-quality cast aluminum cookware, from 19982002. Education BSc, Mechanical Engineering, University of Iceland Diplom-Ingenieur, Mechanical Engineering, University of Karlsruhe Holdings in Marel 553,212 shares Executive Vice President of Innovation Until 8 March 2020 Vidar Erlingsson Vidar Erlingsson took up his current position in 2014. He has been with the Marel Innovation team since 2000 and held various positions within the company. In 2010, he became the leader of Product Center Inspection. Erlingsson has been instrumental in developing new technologies within Marel and transforming them into commercial successes. Education MSc, Engineering, DTU in Denmark BSc, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 89,000 shares Executive Vice President of Innovation As of 9 March 2020 Anna Kristin Palsdottir Anna Kristin Palsdottir joined the Executive Team in March 2020. Since joining Marel in 2015, Palsdottir has held various managerial roles within Innovation. Most recently, she was Innovation Director for the Cross Industry. Her broad experience in Innovation prior to that include Innovation Manager for X-ray solutions and Infrastructure Manager. Education MSc, Production Engineering, Technical University of Berlin BSc, Engineering Management, Reykjavik University Holdings in Marel 0 shares Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 140 Executive Vice President of Global Markets and Service Ulrika Lindberg Ulrika Lindberg joined Marel in 2018. She has wide-ranging managerial experience in senior sales and service positions at large international organizations. Before joining Marel, she was Vice President of Global Service at Alfa Laval and held various management positions worldwide for Alfa Laval and Tetra Pak. Education BSc, Business and Administration, University of Lund Holdings in Marel 0 Executive Vice President of Human Resources Until 8 March 2020 David Freyr Oddsson David Freyr Oddsson began in his current position in 2013. He joined Marel in 2011 as HR Director of the company’s International Sales and Service Network. Before joining Marel, Oddsson was Global Head of Human Resources and Corporate Services at Straumur Investment Bank from 2006 until 2011. Prior to that, he spent seven years as an HR consultant at Capacent. Education MBA, Reykjavik University Cand. Theologius, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 135,000 shares All holdings as of 31 December 2019 Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 141 Risk Effective risk management is the key to Marel’s sustainability and underpins the company’s long-term relationship with its customers and other stakeholders. The risk management process is supported and management monitored by the Board of Directors. As part of the steady expansion of its enterprise risk management process, Marel has launched a number of initiatives throughout the company. Each initiative will contribute to achieving the company’s objectives with regard to efficacy and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Risk appetite All business operations involve some form of risk. Marel has identified ten Risk Appetite Categories and defined how they relate to its strategic operations. Risk Appetite Category Business Objective Profit and earnings volatility Marel maintains a strong EBIT margin throughout economic cycles. High quality earnings, that are well diversified by geography, industry and business mix, together with investments in operational excellence improve profitability. Capital ratios and credit ratings Marel endeavors to be considered a good corporate borrower and build a relationship of trust with its creditors. Innovation Marel continues to be an innovative company, support new product development and ensure continued competitiveness of existing products, solutions and software. Human resources Marel continues to be an interesting and desirable place ot work, attracting and retaining highly talented employees. Business diversification Marel strives to have well diversified revenue streams across industries, business segments and geographies. Consolidation Marel pursues consolidation in the marketplace without negatively affecting the existing operations. Customer choice Marel aims to be the customer’s first choice and follow up on orders received with expert installation and service. Corporate social responsibility Marel aims to develop food-processing solutions to help feed a growing planet while minimizing environmental impact. This is in line with Marel’s vision of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. Marel also takes great pride setting excellent health and safety standards across its operations. Reputation Marel strives to preserve and enhance brand value, build resilience, and create emotionally connected customers, employees and stakeholders. Compliance Marel strives to comply with all industry, regulatory and other general standards of significance. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 142 The Board of Directors reviews and approves the company’s risk appetite on an annual basis, or more frequently in the event of unexpected changes to the risk environment, to ensure it remains consistent with Marel’s strategy, business and regulatory environment and stakeholder requirements. Reports on the company’s risk profile and risk appetite are presented regularly to the Board of Directors. Taking risks is an integral part of daily business activities. By carefully balancing our objectives against the risks we are prepared to take, we strive to conduct business operations in a socially responsible and sustainable manner. This approach helps Marel attain its strategic objectives. Risk Marel has a vigorous risk management process which consists of 5 steps: management Risk appetite sets out the amount of risk the company is willing process to accept in pursuit of value. Risk assessment involves mechanisms for identification of risks, e.g. a brainstorming session to assess risk and controls. Risks are ranked by the likelihood of their occurrence and magnitude of their impact in a risk register. Risk treatment is the process of selecting and implementing measures to minimize the probability of identified risks materializing and alleviate their potential effects. Monitoring is done through dashboard reporting and updating of the self-assessment document. Communication of priority risks to the Board is made via a designated dashboard. Predetermined parameters are measured against the risk appetite to give a clear visual overview. Risk Communication appetite Risk management process Risk Monitoring assessment Risk treatment Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 143 Risk Marel’s activities expose the company to a variety of risks, which are categorized in four categories: strategic, operational, financial categories reporting and compliance. Strategic Operations Financial reporting Compliance Strategic risk Operational risk Financial reporting risk Compliance risk Business risk Market risk Reputational risk Credit risk Each category has sub-categories that can be defined broadly as follows: Risks that affect Marel’s strategic Risk related to treasury and Strategic risk ambitions, including economic Financial reporting risk accounting, including finance, and political developments market and credit risk Risk related to customers, Risk related to financial markets, Business risk competition, government Market risk including FX and interest rate risks policy etc. Risk of damage to Marel’s brand and reputation, resulting from Risks that relates to credit quality reputaions risk actions that could be perceived Credit risk of our customers and other as inappropriate, unethical or business partners inconsistent with Marel’s values Risk related to inadequate interRisk arising from failure to Operational risk nal processes, people Compliance risk comply with laws and regulations, and systems including internal standards and policies Marel’s risk management has focused especially on financial risks (including market and credit risk), which are managed by the Treasury department. Market risk Market risk is the risk related to financial markets, including foreign exchange risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk. Foreign exchange risk As an international company, Marel is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency movements, primarily with respect to the EUR/USD exchange rate for revenues and EUR/ISK rate on the cost side. The general policy is to take advantage of natural currency hedges by matching revenues and operational costs as economically as possible. The company’s funding is denominated in its main operational currencies to create natural hedging in the balance sheet. Where necessary, financial exposure is hedged in accordance with Marel’s general policy on permitted instruments and exposure limits. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 144 Cash flow and The company’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The interest rates of fair-value interest leases, where the company is lessor, are fixed at their inception. The company reports separately an embedded 0% floor in its long-term rate risk EUR borrowing. The valuation of this embedded derivative depends on market interest rates and is reported in the income statement. The company’s cash-flow interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings at variable rates expose the company to cash-flow interest rate risk, while borrowings at fixed rates expose it to fair-value interest rate risk. Marel manages its cash-flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting floating-rate financing to fixed rates. The company obtains long-term financing at floating rates and swaps a portion of this to fixed rates. The risk involved, measured as the potential increase in interest paid during the coming year based on a defined movement in interest rates, is monitored and evaluated regularly. Marel minimizes credit risk by closely monitoring credit granted to Credit risk customers and by obtaining security to cover potential losses. The company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an acceptable credit history and that products are not delivered until payments are secured. Marel does its banking with a diversified set of financial institutions around the world. Policies are in place to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Liquidity risk Due to the dynamic nature of its underlying businesses, the company has prudent liquidity risk management to ensure sufficient flexibility of funding under the revolving part of facilities agreements and by maintaining sufficient current financial assets. Insurance The company maintains both global and local insurance policies. Coverage includes property damage, business interruption, general policies and product liability, marine cargo/mounting, directors’ and officers’ liability, employers’ practice liability, business travel, and accidents. The company believes its current insurance coverage to be adequate. Marel Annual Report 2019 Responsible growth 145 Consolidated financial statements 2019 Contents Consolidated Financial Statements The Board of Directors' and CEO's Report 1 14 Property, plant and equipment 41 Independent Auditor's report 7 15 Right of use assets 43 Consolidated Statement of Income 11 16 Goodwill 44 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 12 17 Intangible assets 46 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 13 18 Investments in associates 47 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 14 19 Trade receivables, other receivables and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 15 prepayments 48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16 20 Deferred income tax 49 1 General information 16 21 Inventories 51 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 17 22 Equity 52 3 Critical accounting estimates and 23 Borrowings and lease liabilities 56 assumptions 31 24 Provisions 61 4 Business combinations 32 25 Post-employment benefits 62 5 Non-IFRS measurement 34 26 Financial instruments and risks 62 6 Segment information 35 27 Trade and other payables 68 7 Revenues 37 28 Contingencies 69 8 Expenses by nature 38 29 Related party transactions and information on 9 Net finance costs 38 remuneration 70 10 Staff costs 38 30 Subsequent events 71 11 Fees to Auditors 39 31 Subsidiaries 72 12 Income tax 39 32 Quarterly results (unaudited) 73 13 Earnings per share 40 33 Definitions and abbreviations 75 The Board of Directors' and CEO's Report Marel is a leading global provider of advanced utilization levels the interest and finance cost is processing equipment, systems, software and expected to decrease as the new facility includes services to the poultry, meat and fish industries with more favorable terms. around 6,400 full-time equivalent employees (“FTEs”) and a presence in over 30 countries and six Further information is provided in note 9 and note continents and a global network of more than 100 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. agents and distributors. In December 2019, a new corporate tax law was The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year enacted in the Netherlands. Consequently, the 2019 comprise the financial statements of Marel hf. reduction in corporate tax rate as approved by the (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (together “the Dutch Government in 2018 will be delayed by a year Group” or Marel”). The Consolidated Financial and the rate will only be reduced from 25.00% to Statements are prepared in accordance with 21.70% as of 2021. This change resulted in a loss of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) EUR 1.7 million related to the remeasurements of as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Group’s additional Icelandic disclosure requirements. Dutch subsidiaries being recognized during the year ended 31 December 2019 that anticipated already Operations in 2019 for the lower future rate of 20.50%. Consolidated Statement of Income In December 2018, a new corporate tax law was The consolidated revenues for Marel for the full year substantially enacted in the Netherlands. 2019 are EUR 1,283.7 million (2018: EUR 1,197.9 Consequently, as of 1 January 2020, the corporate million). The adjusted result from operations for the tax rate in the Netherlands was planned to be same period is EUR 173.4 million or 13.5% of reduced from 25.00% to 22.55% and was planned to revenues (2018: EUR 175.2 million or 14.6% of be further reduced to 20.50% as of 1 January 2021. revenues). This change resulted in a gain of EUR 7.6 million related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets The bridge between adjusted result from operations and liabilities of the Group’s Dutch subsidiaries and result from operations as shown in the being recognized during the year ended 31 Consolidated Statement of Income is as follows: December 2018. 2019 2018 Further information is provided in note 12 of the Adjusted result from operations 173.4 175.2 Consolidated Financial Statements. PPA related costs (10.8) (14.3) Result from operations 162.6 160.9 Net result for 2019 is negatively impacted by the finance costs of EUR 6.7 million (after tax) and tax In December 2019 Marel received commitments charge as a result of the change in the Dutch from a mixture of current and new banking partners corporate tax rate of EUR 1.7 million. Net result for for a new EUR 700 million revolving credit facility 2018 was positively impacted by the gain in taxes which will replace the current syndicated loan following the change in the Dutch corporate tax rate facility. The new facility was signed at 5 February of EUR 7.6 million. Next to these items, earnings per 2020 and will be closed soon after, subject to share is negatively impacted by the higher number standard condition president provisions. of outstanding shares in issue as a result of the secondary listing on Euronext Amsterdam. With these commitments in place, Marel revaluated the fair value of the current syndicated loan Consolidated Statement of Financial Position commitments, releasing the capitalized finance According to the Consolidated Statement of charges, IFRS 9 revaluation, embedded derivatives Financial Position, the Group's assets amounted to and interest rate swaps linked to the facility resulting EUR 1,861.2 million at the end of 2019 (2018: in additional finance cost of EUR 8.9 million in the EUR 1,565.9 million). Total equity amounted to fourth quarter of 2019. Going forward and subject to EUR 955.8 million at the end of 2019 (at year-end Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 1 2018: EUR 560.9 million) or 51.4% of total assets (at Investment in associate Curio year-end 2018: 35.8%). As a result of the dual listing On 22 October 2019, Marel entered into an shareholders’ equity increased by EUR 370.0 million agreement to acquire a 50% stake in Curio ehf. partly offset by transaction costs net of tax of EUR (“Curio”), a highly innovative primary processing 14.2 million. Net interest bearing debt decreased equipment provider for whitefish processing. Curio’s from EUR 431.6 million at the end of 2018 to EUR 97.6 complimentary product portfolio of deheading, million at the end of 2019. filleting and skinning solutions brings Marel closer to becoming a full-line provider to the global fish The goodwill of the Group was tested for industry. Curio is domiciled in Iceland and has impairment at year-end by calculating its annual revenues of around EUR 10 million. recoverable amount. The results of these impairment tests were that there was no impairment The transaction was finalized on 8 November 2019. as the recoverable amount of the goodwill was well Closing was subject to customary closing conditions. above book value. Short term the acquisition is not expected to have material impact on Marel’s earnings. Further Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows information is provided in note 18 of the Cash generated from operating activities during the Consolidated Financial Statements. year is EUR 142.5 million (2018: EUR 166.8 million). The decrease in cash generated from operating Acquisition Cedar Creek Company activities is mainly due to an increase in inventories On 23 October 2019, Marel agreed to acquire Cedar in fast moving and critical parts in spares and trade Creek Company (“Cedar Creek”), an Australian receivables, partly offset by timing of production provider of specialized software and hardware and receipts of payments from large projects. The solutions for red meat and poultry processors. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities transaction will strengthen Marel´s presence in is mainly due to the cash generated as a result of the Australia and New Zealand. Cedar Creek has annual equity raise, EUR 370.0 million, of which a part is revenues of around EUR 3 million. used to repay borrowings. The transaction was finalized on 15 November 2019. Other Closing was subject to customary closing conditions. At 31 December 2019 the Company’s order book The acquisition is not expected to have material amounted to EUR 414.4 million (at 31 December impact on Marel’s earnings. Further information is 2018: EUR 476.0 million). provided in note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The average number of full time employees was 6,303 in 2019 (2018: 5,794). Total salaries and wages Acquisition of MAJA Maschinenfabrik Hermann were EUR 372.3 million (2018: EUR 343.6 million). The Schill GmbH & Co. KG ratio female / male employees is 16 / 84 for 2019 On 14 August 2018, Marel concluded the acquisition (2018: 15 / 85). of the limited partner interest in the company of MAJA Maschinenfabrik Hermann Schill GmbH & Co. Strategic minority investment in Worximity KG to get transferred all business assets and On 19 June 2019, Marel acquired a 14.3% interest in liabilities. As part of this transaction Marel also the Canadian software company Worximity acquired 100% of the shares of related companies in Technology (“Worximity”). France and the United States (“MAJA”). Further information is provided in note 4 of the Marel’s initial investment of EUR 1.8 million (CAD 2.5 Consolidated Financial Statements. million) in new share capital in Worximity corresponds to 14.3% of the total share capital on a Dual listing fully diluted basis. Marel will invest an additional On 7 June 2019, Marel began trading on Euronext CAD 2.5 million in new share capital in the company Amsterdam, marking the dual listing of Marel on in the next six months, bringing Marel’s total both Nasdaq Iceland and Euronext Amsterdam. ownership to 25.0%. Further information is provided in note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The share price was set at EUR 3.70, implying a market capitalization for Marel of EUR 2.85 billion. In Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 2 total 100.0 million ordinary shares were offered the approval in the extraordinary shareholders’ which is equivalent to approximately 15% of Marel’s meeting 53.0 million shares have been cancelled. total issued share capital before dual listing. Stock options are granted to management and Capital reduction, share buy-back program, selected employees. Total granted and unexercised capital increase and articles of association stock options at the end of the year 2019 were 19.2 During the extraordinary shareholders‘ meeting on million shares (2018: 11.9 million shares), of which 22 November 2018 it was resolved to authorize the 2.9 million are exercisable at the end of 2019 (2018: Board of Directors of Marel to initiate a share buy1.7 million) and the remainder will vest in the years back program. The main purpose of the program 2020 to 2022. Further information is disclosed in was to reduce the Company’s share capital, where note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. the shares purchased may also be used to meet the Company’s obligations under share incentive Based on the decision taken at the Company's 2019 programs with employees. Annual General Meeting, a dividend was declared and paid to shareholders for the operational year As part of the share buy-back program, as approved 2018 amounting to EUR 36.7 million, EUR 5.57 cents in the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on 22 per share. This corresponds to approximately 30% November 2018, Marel purchased 16.2 million of net result for the operational year 2018 (2018: a shares (EUR 48.8 million) in the period 5 December dividend of EUR 28.7 million, EUR 4.19 cents per 2018 to 5 March 2019, of which 12.1 million shares share, corresponding to approximately 30% of net (EUR 37.6 million) were purchased in 2019. During result for the year 2017, was declared and paid out 2019 Marel sold 0.5 million treasury shares for EUR to shareholders for the operational year 2017). 0.9 million in order to fulfill obligations of stock option agreements. The Board of Directors will propose to the 2020 Annual General Meeting that EUR cents 5.79 At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 6 dividend per outstanding share will be paid for the March 2019 it was resolved to reduce the Company’s operational year 2019, corresponding to share capital by 11.6 million shares, from 682.6 approximately 40% of net results attributable to million shares to 671.0 million shares. The reduction Shareholders of the Company of EUR 110.0 million was executed by way of cancelling 11.6 million of the for the year 2019, and refers to the Consolidated Company‘s own shares of ISK 1 each. The Company’s Financial Statements regarding appropriation of the share capital was reduced in connection with the profit for the year and changes in shareholders’ preparation of the dual listing of the Company, for equity. This is a 4% increase in dividend per share the benefit of shareholders. compared with previous year. At the same time the total number of outstanding shares increased from At the same shareholders’ meeting it was resolved to 671.8. million shares as per 31 December 2018 to authorize the Board of Directors to increase share 760.2 million shares as per 31 December 2019. capital by as much as ISK 100 million nominal value by issuing new shares. Shareholders waived their This is proposed in accordance to Marel’s dividend pre-emptive rights to subscribe for these new policy, disclosed at Marel’s Annual General Meeting shares, which were used in an offering of shares in in March 2011. The target is that the net connection with the dual listing of the Company’s debt/EBITDA ratio is 2 3 times EBITDA, excess shares. capital to be used to stimulate growth and value creation as well as paying dividend and that At year-end 2019 Marel’s issued shares totaled 771.0 dividend or share buy-back is targeted at 20-40% of million (31 December 2018: 682.6 million). At the the net result. same time Marel holds 10.8 million treasury shares (31 December 2018: 10.8 million). If approved by Marel’s shareholders, the Company’s shares traded on and after 20 March 2020 (Ex-date) In 2018, Marel purchased 24.1 million treasury shares will be ex-dividend and the right to a dividend will for a total amount of EUR 71.7 million. Marel sold 2.1 be constricted to shareholders identified in the million shares for EUR 2.2 million in order to fulfill Company´s shareholders registry at the end of 23 obligations of stock option agreements. Following March 2020, which is the proposed record date. The Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 3 Board will propose that payment date of the Following is a list of the ten largest shareholders dividend is 8 April 2020. according to the ISK share registry. As information on actual shareholders in EUR shares is not available, Ten largest shareholders in ISK shares at year end Marel is unable to disclose the names and holdings Marel keeps a share registry for the ISK shares listed of the ten largest shareholders in the Company, i.e. on Nasdaq Iceland. Shares listed in EUR on Euronext in combined ISK and EUR shares. Amsterdam are registered in the ISK share registry in a custody account in the name of ABN AMRO on No single shareholder holding shares only in EUR behalf of Euroclear Nederland and are beneficially exceeded the threshold of 5% total share capital at owned by all EUR shareholders proportionally in year-end 2019. accordance with Dutch law. Marel is therefore unable to keep a share registry for the EUR shares listed on Euronext in Amsterdam. 2019 Number of shares (million) % ABN Amro on behalf of Euroclear* Custody account 193.9 25.1% Eyrir Invest hf. Investment company 190.4 24.7% The Pension Fund of Commerce Pension fund 62.4 8.1% LSR A, B & S divisions Pension fund 40.0 5.2% Gildi Pension fund 38.4 5.0% Capital Group** Asset management 34.5 4.5% Birta lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 21.7 2.8% Frjálsi lífeyrissjóðurinn Pension fund 11.9 1.5% Festa lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 10.7 1.4% Stapi lífeyrissjóður Pension fund 10.3 1.3% Top 10 total 614.2 79.6% Others 146.1 19.0% Marel hf. Treasury shares 10.8 1.4% Total issued shares 771.1 100.0% *) Custody account representing all EUR shareholders. **) Capital Group sent a major shareholder notification on 29 March 2019, where the threshold crossed was above 5%. Corporate Responsibility Statement The Company’s Annual General Meeting annually elects five to seven people to the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance The Nomination Committee identifies and The framework for the Company’s Corporate nominates candidates for the Board, as well as Governance practices consists of the provisions of members of the Board’s committees. The the law and regulations, the Company’s Articles of Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of Association and the Icelandic Guidelines on Marel’s Board of Directors, and is composed of three Corporate Governance issued in June 2015 by the Board members. The majority of the members of the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, NASDAQ Iceland Nomination Committee shall be independent of the and SA Confederation of Icelandic Employers. Company and of shareholders that hold 10% or more of the total share capital of the Company. The Board of Directors is currently comprised of 3 Candidates for the Board of Directors of the female Directors and 4 male Directors, which is in Company have to notify the Board of Directors accordance with the statutory gender ratio of Boards thereof in writing at least five full days before the of Directors of Public Limited Companies in Iceland, beginning of the shareholder meeting. The with more than 50 employees (ratio of each gender Company's Articles of Association can only be shall be no less than 40%). amended with the approval of 2/3 of casted votes at a shareholder meeting and approval of shareholders who control at least 2/3 of the shares represented in Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 4 a legal shareholders' meeting, provided that the The Corporate Responsibility Statement is explained notification calling the meeting thoroughly informs and discussed in more detail in a separate document on such amendment. distributed with the Consolidated Financial Statements and is included in Marel’s Annual Report In compliance with the guidelines, the Board of 2019. Directors has prepared a Corporate Governance Statement and is explained and discussed in more Statement by the Board of Directors and the CEO detail in a separate document distributed with the According to the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s best Consolidated Financial Statements and is included knowledge these Consolidated Financial Statements in Marel’s Annual Report 2019. comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and Non-financial information additional Icelandic disclosure requirements for The Corporate Social Responsibility Principles, consolidated financial statements of listed addressing environmental, social and ethical companies. matters, can be summarized as follows: Furthermore according to the Board of Directors’ Social Responsibility and CEO’s best knowledge, the statements give a Marel provides a safe and healthy working true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as environment and equal opportunities. It fosters at 31 December 2019, operating performance and individual and team development and ensures the the cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2019 right to freedom of association for all its employees. as well as describe the principal risk and uncertainty Human rights violations, illegal labor conditions and factors faced by the Group. illegal and unethical business behavior are never tolerated. Marel engages with local communities, The report of the Board of Directors and CEO where innovation and education serve as the main provides a clear overview of developments and areas of social participation. achievements in the Group’s operations and its situation. Environmental Responsibility Marel encourages efficient use of resources in its The management and the Board of Directors of the value chain and promotes positive environmental Group believe that they are taking all the necessary impact and environmental protection. Innovation measures to support the sustainability and growth focuses on continuously creating new methods for of the Group’s business in the current environment. improving yields and minimizing waste in food Accordingly they continue to adopt the going production, reducing the use of scarce resources concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and such as energy and water, and promoting food Consolidated Financial Statements. safety and animal well-being. Management of the Group believes it is well placed Economical Responsibility to manage its business risks successfully based on Marel promotes long term value creation, fair trade the present economic outlook. Further information and good business practices in its value chain is disclosed in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial through transparency, innovation and collaboration Statements. with all its partners. Our guidance policy on corporate responsibility implements the ISO 26000 standards, and we are a United Nations Global Compact participant. Marel has been a participant in the NASDAQ sustainable markets initiative since 2019, and reports in accordance with the NASDAQ ESG reporting guidelines. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 5 The Board of Directors and CEO of Marel hf. hereby ratify the Consolidated Financial Statements of Marel hf. for the year 2019 with their signatures. Garðabær, 5 February 2020 Board of Directors Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir Chairman of the Board Arnar Þór Másson Ann Elizabeth Savage Ástvaldur Jóhannsson Margrét Jónsdóttir Ólafur S. Guðmundsson Ton van der Laan Chief Executive Officer Árni Oddur Þórðarson Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 6 Independent Auditor's report To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Marel Basis for Opinion hf. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Our Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial responsibilities under those standards are further Statements described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Opinion section of our report. We are independent of the We have audited the Consolidated Financial Group in accordance with the International Ethics Statements of Marel hf. (the 'Group'), which Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for comprise the Consolidated Statement of Financial Professional Accountants (“IESBA Code”) together position as at 31 December 2019, the Consolidated with the ethical requirements that are relevant to Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, our audit of consolidated financial statements in Changes in Equity and Cash Flows for the year then Iceland and we have fulfilled our other ethical ended, and Notes, comprising significant responsibilities in accordance with these accounting policies and other explanatory requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that information. the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Key Audit Matters consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our December 2019, and of its consolidated financial professional judgment, were of most significance in performance and its consolidated cash flows for the our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements year then ended in accordance with International of the current period. These matters were addressed Financial Reporting Standards ('IFRSs') as adopted by in the context of our audit of the Consolidated the European Union ('EU') and additional disclosure Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our requirements for listed companies in Iceland. opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key Audit Matters How the matter was addressed in our audit Recoverability of Goodwill Refer to note 2.10 and note 16. We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: Goodwill amounted to EUR 646 million and represents  We evaluated the cash flow projections 35% of total assets as at 31 December 2019. The included in the goodwill impairment test. We goodwill is allocated to three cash generating units considered the level of historical budgeting (CGUs). inaccuracies and how the assumptions compared with the actual performance Management prepared value-in-use model to estimate achieved in prior years. the present value of forecast future cash flows for each  We assessed and tested the assumptions, CGU, which was compared with the carrying value of methodologies, the weighted average cost of the net assets of each CGU. capital and other data used, for example by comparing them to external and historical data Determining if an impairment charge is required for and by analyzing sensitivities in Marel's goodwill involves significant judgements about valuation model. forecast future performance and cash flows of the  We included our valuation specialists in the CGUs, including growth in revenues and operating team to assist us with these procedures. profit margins. It also involves determining an  We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the appropriate discount rate and long-term growth rate. available headroom for the cash generating units, evaluating whether a reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 7 Based on the significance of the goodwill amount and amount to exceed its recoverable amount and judgements in the goodwill calculations, recoverability assessed the historical accuracy of of goodwill is a key audit matter. management's estimates.  We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue recognition Refer to note 2.5, note 3 (part :”Revenue recognition”) We have performed the following procedures to and note 7. address the risk:  We assessed the accuracy of the revenue Recognition of the Group’s revenue is complex due to streams by testing on a sample basis the several types of customer contracts utilized, including revenue amounts recorded in the general sale of standard and customized equipment, service ledger against the underlying contracts and contracts and sale of spare parts. orders, invoices, payments and if relevant proofs of delivery. Revenue recognition for production contracts is based  We tested a sample of credit notes issued after on over time accounting or point in time accounting year-end to agree that revenue were not following the requirements of IFRS15. reversed after year-end.  We performed procedures to test the For over time accounting, the assessment of the stage correctness of the transactions in the of the contract is made by reference to the proportion appropriate period. of contract cost incurred for the work performed to the  We performed test of details on a sample of reporting date relative to the estimated total contract year-end open equipment projects. We selected costs to completion. projects based on size and risk assessment. We agreed the selected items to contracts, The recognition of revenue therefore relies on precalculations and invoices. estimates in relation to the final outcome of expected  We considered the progress of per year-end costs on each contract, which can be judgmental and open equipment projects, agreed the accrued could be susceptible to a material misstatement. cost on the selected projects and agreed that the over time revenues are valid. Revenue recognition is therefore a key audit matter.  We scrutinized specific revenue journal entries in the context of journal entries testing, e.g. regarding manual entries on revenues.  We assessed whether the accounting policies for revenue recognition and other financial statements disclosures related to revenue were in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Other information In connection with our audit of the Consolidated The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the the other information. The other information other information and, in doing so, consider comprises the information included in the Annual whether the other information is materially Report of the Group, but does not include the inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements and our auditor’s Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit report thereon. Our opinion on the Consolidated or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, Financial Statements does not cover the other based on the work we have performed, we conclude information and we do not express any form of that there is a material misstatement of this other assurance conclusion thereon. information, we are required to report that fact. The annual report is not available at our reporting date but is expected to be made available to us after that date. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 8 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, CEO for the Consolidated Financial Statements intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for the override of internal control. the preparation and fair presentation of the  Obtain an understanding of internal control Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance relevant to the audit in order to design audit with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for such procedures that are appropriate in the internal control as they determine is necessary to circumstances, but not for the purpose of enable the preparation of Consolidated Financial expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Statements that are free from material the Group’s internal control. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, accounting estimates and related disclosures the Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for made by management. assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going  Conclude on the appropriateness of concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to management’s use of the going concern basis of going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic related to events or conditions that may cast alternative but to do so. significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that The Board of Directors and CEO are responsible for a material uncertainty exists, we are required to overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Statements or, if such disclosures are Consolidated Financial Statements inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance conclusions are based on the audit evidence about whether the Consolidated Financial obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. Statements as a whole are free from material However, future events or conditions may cause misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to the Group to cease to continue as a going issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. concern. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in content of the Consolidated Financial accordance with ISAs will always detect a material Statements, including the disclosures, and misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can whether the Consolidated Financial Statements arise from fraud or error and are considered material represent the underlying transactions and if, individually or in the aggregate, they could events in a manner that achieves fair reasonably be expected to influence the economic presentation. decisions of users taken on the basis of these  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence Consolidated Financial Statements. regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we to express an opinion on the Consolidated exercise professional judgement and maintain Financial Statements. We are responsible for the professional skepticism throughout the audit. We direction, supervision and performance of the also: group audit. We remain solely responsible for  Identify and assess the risks of material our audit opinion. misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, We communicate with the Board of Directors and design and perform audit procedures the Audit Committee regarding, among other responsive to those risks, and obtain audit matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to and significant audit findings, including any provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not significant deficiencies in internal control that we detecting a material misstatement resulting identify during our audit. from fraud is higher than for one resulting from Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 9 We also provide the Board of Directors and the Audit Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Committee with a statement that we have complied Requirements with relevant ethical requirements regarding Pursuant to the legal requirement under Article 104, independence, and to communicate with them all Paragraph 2 of the Icelandic Financial Statement Act relationships and other matters that may reasonably No. 3/2006, we confirm that, to the best of our be thought to bear on our independence, and where knowledge, the report of the Board of Directors and applicable, related safeguards. CEO accompanying the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the information required by the From the matters communicated with the Board of Financial Statement Act if not disclosed elsewhere in Directors and the Audit Committee, we determine the Consolidated Financial Statements. those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of The engagement partner on the audit resulting in the current period and are therefore the key audit this independent auditor’s report is Hrafnhildur matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s Helgadóttir. report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely Reykjavik, 5 February 2020 rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because KPMG ehf. the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Sæmundur Valdimarsson Hrafnhildur Helgadóttir Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 10 Consolidated Statement of Income In EUR million unless stated otherwise Notes 2019 2018 Revenues 5&6&7 1,283.7 1,197.9 Cost of sales 5&8 (792.6) (735.1) Gross profit 5 491.1 462.8 Selling and marketing expenses 5&8 (159.2) (140.0) Research and development expenses 5&8 (85.9) (76.7) General and administrative expenses 5&8 (83.4) (85.2) Result from operations 5 162.6 160.9 Finance costs 9 (25.2) (17.2) Finance income 9 4.5 2.3 Net finance costs 9 (20.7) (14.9) Share of result of associates 18 (0.1) Result before income tax 141.8 146.0 Income tax 12 (31.7) (23.5) Net result 110.1 122.5 Of which: Net result attributable to Shareholders of the Company 13 110.0 122.4 Net result attributable to non-controlling interests 22 0.1 0.1 Earnings per share for result attributable to Shareholders of the Company during the period (expressed in EUR cent per share): basic 13 15.33 17.95 diluted 13 15.20 17.86 The notes on pages 15-75 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 11 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In EUR million Notes 2019 2018 Net result 110.1 122.5 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss: Currency translation differences 22 1.9 (3.3) Cash flow hedges 22 (3.1) 1.6 Income tax relating to cash flow hedges 20 & 22 0.6 (0.4) Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the period, net of tax (0.6) (2.1) Total comprehensive income for the period 109.5 120.4 Of which: Total comprehensive income attributable to Shareholders of the Company 109.4 120.3 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 22 0.1 0.1 The notes on pages 15-75 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 12 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position In EUR million Notes 2019 2018 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 14 181.4 175.6 Right of use assets 15 36.4 33.3 Goodwill 16 645.8 641.3 Intangible assets 17 252.4 267.0 Investments in associates 18 15.6 Trade and other receivables 19 2.1 3.2 Derivative financial instruments 26 1.3 Deferred income tax assets 20 11.9 10.2 Non-current assets 1,145.6 1,131.9 Inventories 21 166.8 149.9 Contract assets 7 38.3 44.0 Trade receivables 7 & 19 160.0 138.8 Other receivables and prepayments 19 46.8 45.0 Cash and cash equivalents 303.7 56.3 Current assets 715.6 434.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,861.2 1,565.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 22 6.8 6.1 Share premium reserve 22 483.1 161.7 Other reserves 22 (10.9) (10.3) Retained earnings 22 476.5 403.2 Shareholders' equity 955.5 560.7 Non-controlling interests 22 0.3 0.2 Total equity 955.8 560.9 LIABILITIES Borrowings 23 333.5 429.3 Lease liabilities 15 & 23 28.4 27.1 Deferred income tax liabilities 20 55.5 57.3 Provisions 24 10.6 9.2 Other payables 27 5.1 3.0 Derivative financial instruments 26 3.0 1.4 Non-current liabilities 436.1 527.3 Contract liabilities 7 217.5 212.1 Trade and other payables 27 200.5 217.0 Current income tax liabilities 3.7 9.3 Borrowings 23 30.6 24.8 Lease liabilities 15 & 23 8.8 6.7 Provisions 24 8.2 7.8 Current liabilities 469.3 477.7 Total liabilities 905.4 1,005.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,861.2 1,565.9 The notes on pages 15-75 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 13 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Share ShareNonShare premium Other Retained holders' controlling Total In EUR million capital reserve 1) reserves 2) earnings 3) equity interests equity Balance at 1 January 2019 6.1 161.7 (10.3) 403.2 560.7 0.2 560.9 Net result for the period 110.0 110.0 0.1 110.1 Total other comprehensive income (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) Transactions with owners of the Company New shares issued 0.8 369.2 370.0 370.0 Transaction costs (14.2) (14.2) (14.2) Treasury shares purchased (0.1) (37.5) (37.6) (37.6) Treasury shares sold 0.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 Options granted / excercised / cancelled 2.5 2.5 2.5 Other movements 0.5 0.5 0.5 Dividend (36.7) (36.7) (0.0) (36.7) 0.7 321.4 (0.6) 73.3 394.8 0.1 394.9 Balance at 31 December 2019 6.8 483.1 (10.9) 476.5 955.5 0.3 955.8 Share ShareNonShare premium Other Retained holders' controlling Total In EUR million capital reserve 1) reserves 2) earnings 3) equity interests equity Balance at 31 December 2017 6.3 229.6 (8.2) 313.9 541.6 0.3 541.9 Impact IFRS 9 & 15 (4.8) (4.8) (4.8) Balance at 1 January 2018 6.3 229.6 (8.2) 309.1 536.8 0.3 537.1 Net result for the period 122.4 122.4 0.1 122.5 Total other comprehensive income (2.1) (2.1) (2.1) Transactions with owners of the Company Treasury shares purchased (0.2) (71.5) (71.7) (71.7) Treasury shares sold 2.2 2.2 2.2 Options granted / excercised / cancelled 1.1 1.1 1.1 Other movements 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.7 Dividend (28.7) (28.7) (0.2) (28.9) (0.2) (67.9) (2.1) 94.1 23.9 (0.1) 23.8 Balance at 31 December 2018 6.1 161.7 (10.3) 403.2 560.7 0.2 560.9 1) Includes reserve for share based payments as per 31 December 2019 of EUR 5.0 million (31 December 2018: EUR 2.6 million). 2) For details on other reserves refer to note 22. 3) Includes a legal reserve for capitalized intangible assets related to product developments projects as per 31 December 2019 of EUR 71.6 million (31 December 2018: EUR 74.4 million). The notes on pages 15-75 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 14 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In EUR million Notes 2019 2018 Cash Flow from operating activities Result from operations 162.6 160.9 Adjustments to reconcile result from operations to net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and right of use assets 14 & 15 23.9 21.9 Amortization and impairment of intangible assets 17 33.8 32.7 Changes in non-current receivables and payables 1.0 0.3 Working capital provided by / (used in) operating activities 221.3 215.8 Changes in working capital: Inventories and contract assets and liabilities (4.5) (17.8) Trade and other receivables (21.4) (4.0) Trade and other payables (6.8) 15.0 Provisions 1.2 (3.2) Changes in operating assets and liabilities (31.5) (10.0) Cash generated from operating activities 189.8 205.8 Taxes paid (37.0) (31.2) Interest and finance income 3.0 2.2 Interest and finance costs (13.3) (10.0) Net cash from operating activities 142.5 166.8 Cash Flow from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (19.3) (34.0) Investments in intangibles 17 (18.6) (23.0) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 3.0 Investments in associates 18 (12.7) Acquisition of subsdiary, net of cash acquired 4 (4.0) (30.5) Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities (54.2) (84.5) Cash Flow from financing activities New shares issued 22 370.0 Transaction costs 22 (17.8) Purchase of treasury shares 22 (37.6) (71.7) Sale of treasury shares 22 0.9 2.2 Proceeds from borrowings 23 40.0 289.0 Repayments of borrowings 23 (145.3) (241.6) Payments of lease liabilities (16.7) (9.2) Dividends paid 22 (36.7) (28.9) Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities 156.8 (60.2) Net increase (decrease) in net cash 245.1 22.1 Exchange gain / (loss) on net cash 2.3 2.3 Net cash at beginning of the period 56.3 31.9 Net cash at end of the period 303.7 56.3 The notes on pages 15-75 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 15 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information liabilities (including derivative instruments) which 1.1 Reporting entity are valued at fair value through the Consolidated Marel hf. ( the Company ) is a limited liability Statement of Comprehensive Income. company incorporated and domiciled in Iceland. The address of its registered office is Austurhraun 9, Details of the Group’s significant accounting policies Garðabær. are included in note 2. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the 1.3 Functional and presentation currency and Company as at and for the year ended 31 December exchange rates 2019 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group or Marel”). Items included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of each entity in the Group are measured The Group is a leading global provider of advanced using the currency that best reflects the economic processing equipment, systems, software and substance of the underlying events and services to the poultry, meat and fish industries and circumstances relevant to that entity (“the functional is involved in the manufacturing, development, currency”). The Consolidated Financial Statements distribution and sales of solutions for these are presented in Euro (“EUR”), which is the Group's industries. reporting currency and the functional currency of Marel hf. All financial information is presented in EUR These Consolidated Financial Statements have been million, unless otherwise indicated. approved for issue by the Board of Directors and CEO on 5 February 2020. These Consolidated Financial Exchange rates Statements as presented in this report are subject to The currency exchange rates that were used in the adoption by the Annual General Meeting of preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholders, to be held on 18 March 2020. are listed below for the most relevant currencies. The Company is listed on the Nasdaq OMX Nordic 2019 2018 Iceland exchange and on Euronext Amsterdam. 1 euro Year-end Average Year-end Average = rate rate rate rate 1.2 Basis of Accounting USD 1.12 1.12 1.14 1.18 The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group GBP 0.85 0.88 0.90 0.88 have been prepared in accordance with ISK 135.83 137.26 132.93 127.54 International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and 1.4 Use of estimates and judgments additional Icelandic disclosure requirements for The preparation of the Consolidated Financial consolidated financial information of listed Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by companies in accordance with Icelandic Financial the EU requires the use of certain critical accounting Statements Act No. 3/2006 and rules for issuers of estimates. It also requires management to exercise financial instruments at the Nasdaq in Iceland. The judgment in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies applied by Marel comply with accounting policies. The areas involving a higher IFRS as adopted by the EU and the pronouncements degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where of the International Financial Reporting assumptions and estimates are significant to the Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) effective at 31 Consolidated Financial Statements are disclosed in December 2019. note 3. Actual results may differ from these estimates. These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the valuation of financial assets and Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 16 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed framework with respect to the measurement of fair on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting values. estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future period Further information about the assumptions made in affected. measuring fair values is included in notes 2.13 Financial instruments and 26 Financial instruments A number of the Group’s accounting policies and and risks. disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. The Group has an established control 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 General cumulative catch up approach, as a result there is no impact on retained earnings as at 1 January 2018. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial The impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, as Statements are set out below. per 1 January 2018, on the Group’s equity as at 1 January 2018 is summarized in the following table: Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies set out in these Consolidated Financial Statements have been Retained earnings applied consistently for all periods presented. 31 December 2017 1) 313.9 2) IFRS 9 4.1 Marel’s existing accounting policy for uncertain tax IFRS 15 3) (8.9) treatments is consistent with the requirements in 1 January 2018 4) 309.1 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, 1) Retained earnings as presented in the Consolidated Statement which became effective on 1 January 2019. of Financial Position. 2) Adjustments due to adoption of IFRS 9. 3) Adjustments due to adoption of IFRS 15. In 2019, Marel adopted certain modifications to the 4) Adjusted opening balance at 1 January 2018. presentation of its Consolidated Statement of Income to bring it in line with recommendations The total adjustment, net of tax, to the opening from the European Securities and Market Authority. balance of the Group’s equity at 1 January 2018 This new presentation resulted in a reclassification of amounts to EUR 4.8 million (decrease of retained the Purchase Price Allocation (“PPA”) related costs earnings). The principal components of the into expenses by function (selling and marketing estimated adjustments are as follows: expenses, research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses) (see note 5).  IFRS 9: An increase in retained earnings of EUR 3.7 million relating to modifications in the A number of other new standards are effective from Group’s loan facilities and an increase in 1 January 2019 but do not have a material effect on retained earnings of EUR 0.4 million as a result the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. of a reduction in the impairment of trade receivables. Impact of the adoption of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS  IFRS 15: A decrease in retained earnings of EUR 16 3.0 million due to later recognition of revenues The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (and some associated costs) for standard and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers equipment and a decrease in retained earnings from 1 January 2018. of EUR 5.9 million due to alignment of margins for all phases of the complete system or Marel adopted IFRS 16 Leases as well on 1 January solution. 2018. The transition approach for IFRS 16 is the Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 17 Prior-year information improved materials, devices, products, The presentation of prior-year disclosures is in line processes, systems or services before the with the current year disclosures. start of commercial production or use;  General and administrative expenses relate to Specific choices with IFRS the strategic and governance role of the general Sometimes IFRS allows alternative accounting management of the Company as well as the treatment for measurement and / or disclosure. The representation of Marel as a whole in the most important of these alternative treatments are financial, political or business community. mentioned below: General and administrative expenses also relate to business support activities of staff Tangible and intangible fixed assets departments that are not directly related to the Under IFRS an entity shall disclose either the cost other functional areas. model or the revaluation model as its accounting for tangible and intangible fixed assets. In this respect, Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Cash property, plant and equipment are measured at cost Flows less accumulated depreciation and accumulated Under IFRS, an entity shall report cash flows from impairment losses, if applicable. The useful lives and operating activities using either the direct method residual values are evaluated annually. The (whereby major classes of gross cash receipts and Company chose to apply the cost model meaning gross cash payments are disclosed) or the indirect that costs relating to product development, the method (whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the development and purchase of software for internal effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any use and other intangible assets are capitalized and deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash subsequently amortized over their estimated useful receipts or payments, and items of income or life. expense associated with investing or financing cash flows). In this respect, the Company chose to prepare Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Income the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows using the Marel presents expenses in the Consolidated indirect method. Statement of Income in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross profit Relevance and importance of notes to the reader on the face of the Consolidated Statement of In order to enhance the informational value of the Income, which is a widely used performance Consolidated Financial Statements, the notes are measure in the industry. The composition of the prepared based on relevance and importance for the costs allocated to the individual functions is reader. This can result in information that has been explained as follows: evaluated as neither important nor relevant for the  Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing reader, not being presented in the notes. costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) 2.2 Consolidation related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost Business combinations based on “first in, first out” or weighted average The Group accounts for business combinations cost; using the acquisition method when control is  Selling and marketing expenses relate to the transferred to the Group. The consideration selling and marketing of goods and services; transferred in the acquisition is generally measured  Research and development expenses consist of: at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets  research, which is defined as original and acquired. planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or Acquisitions by Marel as part of business technical knowledge and understanding; combinations will result in recognition of goodwill and, and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned  development, which is defined as the to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on application of research findings or other assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In knowledge to a plan or (re-)design for the making these estimates, management consulted production of new or substantially independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 18 change in assumptions and estimates could change date on which control commences until the date on the values allocated to certain assets and their which control ceases. estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the Consolidated Non-controlling interests Statement of Income, such as amortization of Non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are measured intangible assets. initially at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that impairment. Any gain on a purchase is recognized in do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as the Consolidated Statement of Income immediately. equity transactions. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. Loss of control When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it The consideration transferred does not include de-recognizes the assets and liabilities of the amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing subsidiary, and any non-controlling interests and relationships. Such amounts are generally other components of equity. Any resulting gain or recognized in the Consolidated Statement of loss is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Income. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is Any contingent consideration payable is measured lost. at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not reInvestments in associates measured and settlement is accounted for within Associates are all entities over which the Group has equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair significant influence, but not control or joint control, value of the contingent consideration are over the financial and operating policies. recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. They are initially recognized at If share-based payment awards (replacement cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent awards) are required to be exchanged for awards to initial recognition, the Consolidated Financial held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s award), Statements include the Group’s share of the profit or then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s loss and other comprehensive income (“OCI”) of replacement awards is included in measuring the investments in associates, until the date on which consideration transferred in the business significant influence ceases. combinations. This determination is based on the market-based measure of the replacement awards Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group compared with the market-based measure of the and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the Group's interest in the associates. Unrealized losses replacement awards relate to pre-combination are also eliminated unless the transaction provides service. evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been Details of the acquisition of Cedar Creek Company changed where necessary to ensure consistency and of MAJA Maschinenfabrik Hermann Schill GmbH with the policies adopted by the Group. & Co. KG are disclosed in note 4. Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in Subsidiaries associates are recognized in the Consolidated Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Statement of Income as part of other results relating The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, to investments in associates. or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those Details of the investments in Curio ehf. and returns through its power over the entity. The Worximity Technology are disclosed in note 18. financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 19 Transactions eliminated on consolidation hedges and as qualifying net investment hedges as Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized explained in note 2.14. Foreign exchange gains and gains on transactions between Group entities are losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated equivalents as well as all other foreign exchange unless the transaction provides evidence of an gains and losses are recognized immediately in the impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting Consolidated Statement of Income within finance policies of subsidiaries have been changed where income or finance costs. necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Group entities The results and financial position of all the Group Transactions and non-controlling interests entities (none of which has the currency of a Transactions that result in changes in ownership hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional interests while retaining control are accounted for as currency different from the presentation currency transactions with equity holders in their capacity as are translated into the presentation currency as equity holders. follows:  assets and liabilities presented are translated at As a result, no gain or loss on such changes is the closing rate at the date of that Consolidated recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Statement of Financial Position. Income but rather in equity. Furthermore, no change  income and expenses for each transaction in the in the carrying amounts of assets (including Consolidated Statement of Income are goodwill) or liabilities is recognized as a result of translated at average exchange rates, unless this such transactions. This approach is consistent with average is not a reasonable approximation of NCI being a component of equity. the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and 2.3 Segment information expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions. An operating segment is a component of the Group  translation results of the consolidation of that engages in business activities from which it may subsidiaries reporting in foreign currencies, as earn revenues and incur expenses, including well as a currency revaluation related to revenues and expenses that relate to transactions financing of subsidiaries are recognized as a with any of the Group's other components. Business separate component of equity (translation activities reported in the core industries reflect the reserve). recurring operational activities of those segments. All operating segments' operating results are On consolidation, exchange differences arising from reviewed regularly by the Group's CEO and strategic the translation of the net investment in foreign decisions are based on these operating segments. operations, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 2.4 Foreign currency translation investments, are recognized in OCI and accumulated Transactions and balances in translation reserve. When a foreign operation is Foreign currency transactions are translated into the partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences respective functional currencies of Group entities, that were recorded in OCI are recognized in the and from there into the Group's reporting currency Consolidated Statement of Income for the period as using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of part of the gain or loss on sale. the transactions or valuation where items are revaluated. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the settlement of such transactions and from the the closing rate. translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign In case of a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, the currencies are recognized in the Consolidated relevant proportionate share of the translation Statement of Income, except when deferred in difference is allocated to the NCI. When a foreign equity as permanent loan, as qualifying cash flow operation is disposed of such that control, Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 20 significant influence or joint control is lost, the Standard equipment requires no or minor cumulative amount in the translation reserve related modifications as requested by customers. Sales of to that foreign operation is reclassified to complete solutions or systems require significant Consolidated Statement of Income as part of the modifications either requested by the customer or gain or loss on disposal. When the Group disposes of required to fulfill the customer’s needs. only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, the Revenues for standard equipment are recognized at relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is a point in time when control of the goods passes to reattributed to NCI. When the Group disposes of the customer, usually upon delivery of the goods. only part of its investment in an associate or joint Invoices are issued at that point in time and are venture that includes a foreign operation while usually payable within 30 days from the date of retaining significant influence or joint control, the invoice issued according to the contractual terms. relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to OCI. Revenues for complete solutions or systems will be recognized over time as all these complete solutions 2.5 Revenue recognition or systems are deemed to not have an alternative Marel recognizes revenue based on the use and Marel has an enforceable right to payment. considerations specified in contracts with customers Revenue is recognized under the cost-to-cost based on the five-step process as described in IFRS (percentage-of-completion) method, based on the 15. percentage of costs incurred to date compared to total estimated costs as based on Marel’s assessment Revenue is recognized, when or as control over it best depicts the transfer of control to the distinct goods or services is transferred to the customer. An expected loss on the contract is customer; i.e. when the customer is able to direct the recognized as an expense immediately. Payment use of the transferred goods or services and obtains terms are usually 30 days from the date of invoice substantially all of the remaining benefits, provided issued according to the contractual terms. a contract with enforceable rights and obligations exists and amongst others collectability of Under IFRS 15, complete solutions or systems should consideration is probable taking into account our have a similar margin for all components of the customer’s creditworthiness. Revenue is the solution or system. As a result of the adoption of IFRS transaction price Marel expects to be entitled to. 15, Marel aligned the margins for all phases of the solution or systems. If a contract contains more than one distinct good or service, the transaction price is allocated to each For the sale of complete solutions or systems and for performance obligation based on relative standmost of the standard equipment down payments alone selling prices. If stand-alone selling prices are are requested. For these down payments payment not observable, the Company reasonably estimates terms are usually 30 days from the date of invoice those. Revenue is recognized for each performance issued according to the contract terms. obligation either at a point in time or over time. Determining the timing of the transfer of control – at Rendering of services a point in time or over time – requires judgment. The Group is involved in manufacturing of equipment, as well as performing related The following is a description of the nature and the maintenance services to the equipment. timing of the satisfaction of performance obligations in contracts with customers, including significant Under IFRS 15, the total consideration in the service payment terms, and the related revenue recognition contracts will be allocated to all services based on policies. their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices will be determined based on the list Sales of goods prices at which the Group sells the services in In Marel’s business model, sales of goods relate to separate transactions. Revenue relating to sales of standard equipment and sales of complete maintenance services is recognized over time under solutions or systems. the percentage-of-completion method as described above, although the customer pays up-front in full Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 21 for these services. A contract liability is recognized employee and the obligation can be estimated for revenue relating to the maintenance services at reliably. the time of the initial sales transaction and is recognized as revenue over the service period. Share-based compensation Payment terms are usually 30 days from the date of The Group operates a number of equity-settled, invoice issued according to the contractual terms. share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as Commissions consideration for equity instruments (stock options) The Group will apply the practical expedient in of the Group. The fair value of the employee services relation to the incremental costs of obtaining a received in exchange for the grant of the stock contract. The Group will recognize the incremental options is recognized as an expense. The total costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when amount to be expensed is determined by reference incurred if the amortization period of the asset that to the fair value of the stock options granted, the entity otherwise would have recognized is one excluding the impact of any non-market service and year or less. Costs for obtaining a contract for which performance vesting conditions (for example, the contract exceeds one year will be capitalized and profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an amortized over the contract period. employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in Interest income assumptions about the number of stock options that Interest income is recognized on a time proportion are expected to vest. The total amount expensed is basis, taking account of the principal outstanding recognized over the vesting period, which is the and the effective rate over the period to maturity. period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. Impairment of receivables When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces At reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, the number of stock options that are expected to being the estimated future cash flow discounted at vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It original effective interest rate of the instrument, and recognizes the impact of the revision to original continues unwinding the discount as interest estimates, if any, in the Consolidated Statement of income. Income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The proceeds received net of any directly 2.6 Contract assets and contract liabilities attributable transaction costs are credited to share The contract assets (cost exceed billing) primarily capital (nominal value) and share premium when relate to the Group’s rights to consideration for work the stock options are exercised. The fair value of the completed but not billed at the reporting date. The employee stock options granted is measured using contract assets are transferred to receivables when the Black-Scholes formula. the rights become unconditional. This usually occurs when the Group issues an invoice to the customer. Measurement inputs include share price on measurement date, exercise price of the stock The contract liabilities (billing exceed cost) primarily options, expected volatility based on weighted relate to the advance consideration received from average historic volatility adjusted for changes customers for standard equipment for which expected due to publicly available information, revenue is recognized at a point in time and for the weighted average expected life of the instruments sale of complete solutions or systems for which based on historical experience and general stock revenue is recognized over time. option holder behavior, expected dividends, and the risk-free interest rate based on government bonds. 2.7 Employee benefits Service and non-market performance conditions Short-term employee benefits attached to the transactions are not taken into Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the account in determining fair value. related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has Profit sharing and bonus plans a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this Under some circumstances, a liability for key amount as a result of past service provided by the employee benefits in the form of profit sharing and Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 22 bonus plans is recognized in other payables when it is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively is management intention to settle the liability and at enacted at the reporting date. Current tax also least the condition is met that there is a formal plan includes any tax arising from dividends. and the amounts to be paid are determined before the time of issuing the financial statements. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met. Liabilities for profit sharing and bonus plans are expected to be settled within 12 months and are Deferred income tax is provided in full on temporary measured at the amounts expected to be paid when differences arising between the tax bases of assets they are settled. and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension plans Marel has several pension plans in accordance with Deferred tax is not recognized for: local rules and conditions. Based on IAS 19,  temporary differences on the initial recognition Employee Benefits, only one arrangement with of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not regards to early retirement rights can be classified as a business combination and that affects neither defined benefit pension plan until the moment of accounting nor taxable profit or loss; settlement expected in 2020 (VPL in the  temporary differences related to investments in Netherlands). Two other defined benefit obligations subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements refer to jubilee rights in the Netherlands and the to the extent that the Group is able to control postretirement medical benefit plan in the United the timing of the reversal of the temporary States of America. Because of their non-material differences and it is probable that they will not character, these arrangements are not disclosed reverse in the foreseeable future; and separately.  taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. For the majority of its employees, the Group has pension plans classified as defined contribution Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates plans. Obligations relating to defined contribution (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially pension plans are charged to the Consolidated enacted at the reporting date and are expected to Statement of Income as employee remuneration apply when the related deferred income tax asset is expenses when the contributions are payable. realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Contributions paid in advance are presented as assets to the extent that cash repayment or a Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that reduction in future contributions is available. it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 2.8 Current and deferred income tax can be utilized. The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in the Future taxable profits are determined based on Consolidated Statement of Income except to the business plans for individual subsidiaries in the extent that it relates to business combinations, or Group. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each items recognized directly in shareholders' equity or reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it in OCI. In case of recording directly in shareholders’ is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will equity, the tax on this item is included in deferred be realized. Such reductions are reversed when the taxes; the net amount is recognized in shareholders’ probability of future taxable profits improves. equity. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or each reporting date and recognized to the extent receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year that it has become probable that future taxable and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable profits will be available against which they can be in respect of previous years. The amount of current used. tax payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. It Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 23 2.9 Property, plant and equipment Borrowing cost is expensed as incurred except when directly attributable to acquisition or construction of Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of offices. All property, plant and equipment is time to get ready for its intended use. Such measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and borrowing cost is capitalized as part of the cost of any accumulated impairment losses, except for land, the asset when it is probable that it will result in which is shown at cost less impairment. Cost future economic benefits to the entity and the cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to can be measured reliably. the acquisition of the items. 2.10 Intangible assets Subsequent expenditures are included in the asset’s Goodwill carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an as appropriate, only when it is probable that future acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of economic benefits associated with the item will flow the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary to the Group and the cost of the item can be at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is measured at measured reliably. The carrying amount of the cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and losses on the disposal of an entity include the maintenance are charged to the Consolidated carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity Statement of Income in the period in which they are sold. incurred. Goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Units Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on assets is (“CGUs”) for the purpose of impairment testing. The calculated using the straight-line method to allocate allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs the cost of each asset to its residual value over its that are expected to benefit from the business estimated useful life, as follows: combinations in which the goodwill arose. Buildings 30-50 years Technology, research and development Plant and machinery 4-15 years Technology costs have a finite useful life and are Vehicles and equipment 3-7 years capitalized and amortized using the straight line method over the period of 20 years. Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset or to the Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as date of the next major renovation, whichever is incurred. Costs incurred on development projects sooner. Equipment included in rented buildings is relating to the design and testing of new or depreciated over the remaining useful life of the improved products are recognized as intangible related equipment or over the remaining rental assets when it is probable that the project will period, whichever is shorter. generate future economic benefits, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, costs can The assets’ residual values, depreciation methods be measured reliably and the Group intends to and and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if has sufficient resources to complete development appropriate, at each reporting date. and to use or sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized as an expense as An asset’s carrying amount is written down incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s development expenditure is measured at cost less carrying amount exceeds its estimated recoverable accumulated amortization and any accumulated amount (note 2.12). impairment losses. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by Development costs previously recognized as an comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These expense are not recognized as an asset in a are recognized within other operating income subsequent period. Development costs that have a (expenses) in the Consolidated Statement of finite useful life and that have been capitalized are Income. amortized from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straightConsolidated Financial Statements 2019 24 line basis over the period of its expected benefit, not estimated useful lives, which can vary from 3 to 5 exceeding five years. years. Customer relationships, patents & trade names General Customer relationships have been acquired as part Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it of recent acquisitions and are capitalized and increases the future economic benefits embodied in amortized using the straight line method over their the specific asset to which it relates. All other useful life of maximum 20 years. expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognized in the Expenditure to acquire patents, trademarks and Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred. licenses is capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over their useful lives, but not Amortization methods, useful lives and residual exceeding 8 years, or 11 years in case of trademarks. values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. Other intangible assets Costs associated with maintaining computer Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or that software programs are recognized as an expense as are not amortized are tested annually for incurred. Development costs that are directly impairment. attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the 2.11 Right of use assets Group are recognized as intangible assets when the Marel recognizes a right of use asset and a lease following criteria are met: liability at the lease commencement date. At  it is technically feasible to complete the inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether software product so that it will be available for a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or use. contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to  management intends to complete the software control the use of an identified asset for a period of product and use or sell it. time in exchange for consideration. To assess  there is an ability to use or sell the software whether a contract conveys the right to control the product. use of an identified asset, the Group uses the  it can be demonstrated how the software definition of a lease in IFRS 16. product will generate probable future economic benefits. The right of use asset is initially measured at cost,  adequate technical, financial and other which comprises the initial amount of the lease resources to complete the development and to liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or use or sell the software product are available. before the commencement date, plus any initial  the expenditure attributable to the software direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to product during its development can be dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to measured reliably. restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received. Directly attributable costs capitalized as part of the software product include the software development The right of use asset is depreciated using the employee costs and an appropriate portion of straight line method from the commencement date relevant overhead. to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right of use asset or the end of the lease term. The Other development expenditures that do not meet estimated useful lives of the assets are determined these criteria are recognized as an expense as on the same basis as those of property, plant and incurred. Development costs previously recognized equipment. In addition, the right of use asset is as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, subsequent period. and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. Computer software development costs recognized as intangible assets are amortized over their The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 25 commencement date, discounted using the interest CGUs. Goodwill arising from business combinations rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be is allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs that are readily determined, the Group’s incremental expected to benefit from the synergies of the borrowing rate. combination. Lease categories The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the Marel is mainly using the following leases: greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs  Office buildings: Marel is leasing office buildings to sell. Value in use is based on the estimated future for regional offices. The lease terms, and the cash flows, discounted to their present value using a remaining lease terms at the date of the initial pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market application, vary between one month and 10 assessments of the time value of money and the risks years. The lease payments are adjusted every specific to the asset or CGU. year based on the change in the consumer price index in the preceding year. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying  Lease cars: Marel is leasing cars for which the amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable lease terms and remaining lease terms at the amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the date of initial application vary between 1 month Consolidated Statement of Income. They are and 5 years. allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets the carrying amounts of the other assets in the CGU Marel has elected not to recognize right of use assets on a pro rata basis. and lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of lowAn impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not value assets, including IT equipment. The Group reversed. For other assets, an impairment loss is recognizes the lease payments associated with reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying these leases as an expense on a straight line bases amount does not exceed the carrying amount that over the lease term. would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been 2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets recognized. Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not 2.13 Financial instruments subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization Trade receivables and debt securities issued are are reviewed for impairment whenever events or initially recognized when they are originated. All changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying other financial assets and financial liabilities are amount may not be recoverable. Non-financial initially recognized when Marel becomes a party to assets other than goodwill that suffer impairment the contractual provisions of the instrument. are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Assets held for sale which are A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable valued at fair value, are reviewed at each reporting without a significant financing component) or date. financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value At each reporting date, the Group reviews the through profit or loss, transaction costs that are carrying amounts of its non-financial assets (other directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the than inventories and deferred tax assets) to financial asset. A trade receivable without a determine whether there is any indication of significant financing component is initially impairment. If any such indication exists, then the measured at the transaction price. asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. On initial recognition, the Group classifies its financial assets as measured at either: amortized For impairment testing, assets are grouped together cost, fair value through other comprehensive into the smallest group of assets that generates cash income or fair value through profit or loss on the inflows from continuing use that are largely basis of both: independent of the cash inflows of other assets or Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 26  the Company’s business model for managing financial asset is classified as “at fair value through the financial assets; and profit or loss” and measured at fair value with  the contractual cash flow characteristics of the changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. financial asset. A financial asset measured at fair value through Financial assets at amortized cost profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value and Financial assets are measured at amortized cost if its transaction cost is recognized in profit or loss both: when incurred. A gain or loss on a financial asset  the financial asset is held within a business measured at fair value through profit or loss is model whose objective is to hold financial recognized in the Consolidated Statement of assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; Income for the reporting period in which it arises. and  the contractual terms of the financial asset give The Company may, at initial recognition, irrevocably rise on specified dates to cash flows that are designate a financial asset as measured at fair value solely payments of principal and interest on the through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or principal amount outstanding. significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from A financial asset measured at amortized cost is measuring assets or liabilities or recognizing the initially recognized at fair value plus transaction cost gains and losses on them on different bases. directly attributable to the asset. After initial recognition, the carrying amount of the financial Fair value measurement asset measured at amortized cost is determined The fair values of quoted assets are based on current using the effective interest method, less any bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not impairment losses. active (and for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. Financial assets at fair value through other These include the use of recent arm’s length comprehensive income transactions, reference to other instruments that are A financial asset is measured at fair value through substantially the same and discounted cash flow other comprehensive income if both: analysis refined to reflect the issuer’s specific  The financial asset is held within a business circumstances. model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling The fair value of investments that are not traded in financial assets; and an active market is determined by using valuation  The contractual terms of the financial asset give techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods rise on specified dates to cash flows that are and makes assumptions that are based on market solely payments of principal and interest on the conditions existing at each reporting date. Further principal amount outstanding. information is included in note 26. Investments in debt instruments measured at fair Impairment --Financial assets and contract value through other comprehensive income are assets recognized initially at fair value plus transaction cost Under IFRS 9, loss allowances are measured based directly attributable to the asset. After initial on the Expected Credit Losses (“ECL”) that result recognition, the asset is measured at fair value with from all possible default events over the expected changes in fair value included in other life of a financial instrument. Marel’s financial assets comprehensive income. Accumulated gains or are currently limited to trade receivables and losses recognized through other comprehensive contract assets without significant financing income are directly transferred to profit or loss when components and are as such always impaired based debt instrument is derecognized. on lifetime ECLs. The Group expects impairments losses to remain at similar levels as they are currently Financial assets at fair value through profit or going forward, although they become more volatile loss for assets in the scope of the IFRS 9 impairment When any of the above-mentioned conditions for model. The estimated ECLs were calculated based classification of financial assets are not met, a on actual credit loss experience over the past five Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 27 years. The Group takes a holistic view of it financial the Consolidated Statement of Income at the day of assets and applies the same expected credit loss rate modification or revision. over all trade receivables. Non-derivative financial liabilities Based on materiality considerations, Marel reports Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially impairment losses on trade receivables and contract recognized at fair value less any directly attributable assets as other expenses within selling and transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, marketing expenses, instead of presented these liabilities are measured at amortized cost separately in the Consolidated Statement of using the effective interest method. Comprehensive Income. Impairment losses on other financial assets are presented under finance costs. Derecognition financial assets The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the Cash and cash equivalents contractual rights to the cash flows from the Cash and cash equivalents can include cash on hand, financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights to deposits held at call with banks and other short-term receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in highly liquid investments with original maturities of which substantially all of the risks and rewards of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown ownership of the financial asset are transferred or in within borrowings in current liabilities on the which the Group neither transfers nor retains Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of the Impairment --Cash and cash equivalents financial asset. The majority of cash and cash equivalents are held with bank and financial institution counterparties, Derecognition financial liabilities which have a rating of A+, based on Standard & The Group derecognizes a financial liability when its Poor’s ratings as at 31 December 2019. Marel holds contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, majority of its cash and cash equivalents with or expire. The Group also derecognizes a financial financial institutions that are lending partners to the liability when its terms are modified and the cash Group to minimize further credit risks. flows of the modified liability are substantially different, in which case a new financial liability based The Group does not expect any impairment on cash on the modified terms is recognized at fair value. and cash equivalents as the Group considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based On derecognition of a financial liability, the on the external credit ratings of the counterparties. difference between the carrying amount extinguished and the consideration paid (including Financial liabilities any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as measured at assumed) is recognized in profit or loss. amortized costs or at fair value through profit or loss. A financial liability is classified at fair value through 2.14 Derivative financial instruments and profit or loss if it is classified as held for trading, it is hedging activities a derivative or it is designated as such on initial When initially applying IFRS 9, the Group may recognition. Financial liabilities at fair value through choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply profit or loss are measured at fair value and net gains the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 and losses, including any interest expense, are instead of the requirements in IFRS 9. The Group has recognized in profit or loss. Other financial liabilities chosen to continue to apply the requirements of IAS are subsequently measured at amortized cost using 39. the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is the date a derivative contract is entered into and are also recognized in profit or loss. subsequently revaluated at their fair value and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. Under IFRS 9, entities have to account for Embedded derivatives are separated from the host modifications and revisions on its financial liabilities contract and accounted for separately if the and report any (expected) gain or loss as a result in economic characteristics and risk of the host Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 28 contract and the embedded derivative are not However, when the forecast transaction that is directly closely related. hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory or non-current assets) The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss the gains and losses previously deferred in equity depends on whether the derivative is designated as are transferred from equity and included in the initial a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred item being hedged. amounts are ultimately recognized in cost of goods sold in case of inventory or in depreciation in case of The Group designates certain derivatives as either: non-current assets.  Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or probable forecast transaction (cash flow when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge hedge). Or accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in  Hedges of a net investment in a foreign equity at that time remains in equity and is operation (net investment hedge). Or recognized when the forecast transaction is  Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss ultimately recognized in the Consolidated are accounted for at fair value through profit or Statement of Income. When a forecast transaction is loss. no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately The Group documents at the inception of the transferred to the Consolidated Statement of transaction the relationship between hedging Income within finance income or finance costs. instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for Net investment hedge undertaking various hedging transactions. The Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or other income and presented in the hedge reserve in cash flows of hedged items. equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the Movements on the hedge reserve in equity are Consolidated Statement of Income within finance shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in income or finance costs. Equity. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included remaining hedged item is more than 12 months and in the Consolidated Statement of Income when the as a current asset or liability when the remaining foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as current asset or Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss liabilities. are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss Cash flow hedge Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for The effective portion of changes in the fair value of hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash of these derivative instruments are recognized flow hedges is recognized in OCI and presented in immediately in the Consolidated Statement of the hedge reserve in equity. The profit or loss Income within finance income or finance costs. relating to the ineffective portion is recognized 2.15 Inventories immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income within finance income or finance costs. Inventories are measured at the lower of historical cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined using Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the the weighted average method and an adjustment to Consolidated Statement of Income in the periods net realizable value is considered for items, which when the hedged item affects profit or loss. have not moved during the last 12 months. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprise raw Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 29 materials, direct labor, other direct costs and related classified as treasury shares and are presented in the production overhead based on normal operating share premium reserve. Where such shares are capacity but exclude borrowing costs. subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in transaction costs and the related income tax effects the ordinary course of business, less the costs of is included within share premium. completion and any applicable variable selling expenses. Private placements need to be approved by the shareholders at the Company‘s Annual General 2.16 Assets held for sale Meeting. Based on such resolution, where the Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising shareholders waive their pre-emptive rights, the assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if Board of Directors can approve for a private it is highly probable that they will be recovered placement. primarily through sale rather than through 2.18 Provisions continuing use. Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims Such assets, or disposal groups, are measured at the are recognized when the Group has a present legal lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to or constructive obligation as a result of past events, sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal group is it is probable that an outflow of resources will be allocated first to goodwill, and then to remaining required to settle the obligation and the amount can assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that be reliably estimated. A provision for restructuring is no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, recognized when the Group has approved a detailed deferred tax assets, employee benefits and and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring investment property, which continue to be either has commenced or has been announced measured in accordance with the Group’s other publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial termination penalties and employee termination classification as held-for sale and subsequent gains payments. Provisions are not recognized for future or losses on re-measurement are recognized in the operating losses. Consolidated Statement of Income. The Group provides a guarantee on certain products Once classified as assets held-for-sale, intangible and undertakes to repair or replace items that fail to assets and property, plant and equipment are no perform satisfactorily. If the Group expects a longer amortized or depreciated. provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is 2.17 Share capital recognized as a separate asset but only when the Ordinary shares are classified as equity. reimbursement is virtually certain. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of A provision for guarantee commitments is new shares or stock options are shown in recognized when the underlying product and shareholders' equity as a deduction, net of tax, from services are sold based on historical warranty data the proceeds. and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. Provisions are measured at Transaction costs, net of tax, for transactions in the present value of the expenditures expected to shares are deducted from the share premium be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax reserve. rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the When any Group entity purchases the Company’s obligation. The increase in the provision due to equity share capital (treasury shares), the passage of time is recognized as interest expense. consideration paid, including any directly 2.19 New standards and standards issued but attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), not yet effective is deducted from equity attributable to the Company's shareholders until the shares are A number of new standards are effective for annual cancelled or reissued. Repurchased shares are periods beginning after 1 January 2019 and earlier Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 30 application is permitted: however, the Group has not  Amendments to References to Conceptual early adopted the new or amended standards in Framework in IFRS Standards. preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements.  Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS3).  Definition of Material (Amendments to IAS 1 The following amended standards and and IAS 8). interpretations are not expected to have a  IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. significant impact on the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Estimates and judgments are continuously Estimated impairment evaluated and are based on historical experience The Group annually tests whether the financial and and other factors, including expectations of future non-financial assets, including goodwill, were events that are believed to be reasonable under the impaired in accordance with the accounting policy circumstances. In preparing these Consolidated stated in note 2.10 and 2.12. The recoverable Financial Statements, the Group has made amounts of CGUs have been determined based on judgments and estimates that affect the application value in use calculation. These calculations require of the Group’s accounting policies and the reported the use of estimates (note 16). amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The Group further makes estimates and Capitalized development cost assumptions concerning the future. The actual The recoverability of the capitalized development results will, by definition, seldom be exactly equal to cost is tested regularly and is subject to the annual the related accounting estimates used. impairment tests, to verify if expected future economic benefits justify the values captured in the Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed intangible fixed assets. The Group uses discounted on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are cash flow analysis for this purpose. recognized prospectively. Leases The estimates and assumptions that have a The Group has applied its judgment in presenting significant risk of causing a material adjustment to related information on leases in a manner that it the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within considers to be the most relevant to an the next financial year are discussed below. understanding of its financial performance and financial position. Estimates have been made on the Purchase Price Allocations estimated (remaining) useful lives of right of use Acquisitions by Marel as part of business assets and the remaining lease terms. combinations, which will be accounted for by the acquisition method, will result in recognition of Income taxes and deferred income taxes goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in based on assumptions and estimates about their fair determining the worldwide provision for income values. In making these estimates, management taxes. There are many transactions and calculations consulted independent, qualified appraisers, if for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates during the ordinary course of business. could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect As of each period-end, the Group evaluates the the amount or timing of charges to the Consolidated recoverability of deferred tax assets, based on Statement of Income, such as amortization of projected future taxable profits. Based upon the intangible assets. level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, Marel believes it is probable the Group will realize the benefits of Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 31 these deductible differences. As future contractually defined obligations. These estimates developments are uncertain and partly beyond include total estimated costs, total estimated Marel’s control, assumptions are necessary to revenues, contract risks, including technical, political estimate future taxable profits as well as the period and regulatory risks, and other judgments. Under in which deferred tax assets will recover. Estimates the percentage-of-completion method, changes in are revised in the period in which there is sufficient estimates may lead to an increase or decrease of evidence to revise the assumption. revenue. The Group recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax In addition, Marel needs to assess whether the audit issues based on estimates of whether contract is expected to continue or to be terminated. additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax In determining whether the continuation or outcome of these matters is different from the termination of a contract is expected to be the most amounts that were initially recorded, such likely scenario, all relevant facts and circumstances differences will impact income tax in the period in relating to the contract are considered on an which such determination is made. individual basis. Revenue recognition In the following table the book values of the assets The Group uses the percentage-of-completion and liabilities which include an element of method in accounting for its revenues for complete estimation are disclosed. solutions or systems. The percentage-of-completion method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and services required for fulfilling the 2019 2018 Notes Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Goodwill 16 645.8 641.3 Intangible assets 17 252.4 267.0 Right of use assets / lease liabilities 15 36.4 37.2 33.3 33.8 Current and deferred income taxes 20 11.9 59.2 10.2 66.6 Contract assets / liabilities 7 38.3 217.5 44.0 212.1 4 Business combinations Under IFRS 3, up to one year from the acquisition strategic objective to be a leading global supplier of date, the initial accounting for business advanced standard equipment, full solutions, combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect software and services to the poultry, meat and fish additional information that has been received about industries. facts and circumstances that existed at the Cedar Creek offers specialized software solutions acquisition date and would have affected the that integrate on-floor processing data capture, measurement of amounts recognized as of that production control, head office reporting and date. As a result of such adjustments the values of traceability throughout production. Cedar Creek assets and liabilities recognized may change in the has built long-standing relationships with some of one-year period from the acquisition date. the largest meat and poultry processors in Australia and New Zealand. The transaction will strengthen Acquisition Cedar Creek Company Marel´s presence in Australia and New Zealand. On 15 November 2019, Marel concluded the Cedar Creek Company has annual revenues of acquisition of a number of business assets and around EUR 3 million. liabilities from Cedar Creek Company (Australia) Pty Ltd. and Cedar Creek Company (NZ) Ltd. (“Cedar Creek”). This transaction is in line with Marel’s Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 32 Closing of the transaction was subject to customary Cedar Creek contributed EUR 0.3 million to revenues closing conditions. The transaction was funded from for the year 2019 and affected result from operations cash on hand and available facilities. positively. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations Acquisition of MAJA Maschinenfabrik Hermann the purchase price of Cedar Creek is allocated to Schill GmbH & Co. KG identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. On 14 August 2018, Marel concluded the acquisition of the limited partner interest in the company of Immediately after the acquisition date the Purchase MAJA Maschinenfabrik Hermann Schill GmbH & Co. Price Allocation activities started. The process is still KG to get transferred all business assets and ongoing and is expected to be finished in the first liabilities. As part of this transaction Marel also half of 2020. As a consequence all of the numbers acquired 100% of the shares of related companies in recorded for the acquisition are provisional. France and the United States (“MAJA”). This Provisional goodwill amounted to EUR 1.4 million, is transaction is in line with Marel’s strategic objective allocated to the meat segment and is primarily to be a full-line supplier of advanced food related to the strategic (and cultural) fit of Cedar processing solutions and accelerate market Creek and Marel with an experienced and capable penetration through acquisitions. workforce and highly complementary software and hardware solutions and geographic presence. The This bolt-on acquisition supports Marel in achieving goodwill is under certain conditions, deductible for its goals for future growth and value creation. With income tax purposes. MAJA’s innovative product offering and complimentary geographical reach, Marel is The impact of the valuation of property, plant and strengthening its product offering and market equipment, and as a consequence the impact on presence. intangible assets and goodwill, is described in note 14, note 16 and note 17 and is included in the In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, numbers as presented below. the purchase price of MAJA was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill The following table summarizes the consideration amounted to EUR 3.3 million and is allocated to the paid for Cedar Creek and the recognized provisional meat segment. The resulting goodwill from this amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed acquisition is primarily related to the strategic (and at the acquisition date being 15 November 2019. cultural) fit of MAJA and Marel with highly complementary product portfolios and geographic 15 November 2019 presence. The goodwill is under certain conditions, Property, plant and equipment 0.0 deductible for income tax purposes. Intangible assets 1.8 The Purchase Price Allocation of MAJA is finalized. Inventories 0.4 The impact of the valuation of property, plant and Trade receivables, current and non-current 0.4 equipment, and as a consequence the impact on Assets acquired 2.6 intangible assets and goodwill, is described in note Trade and other payables 0.0 14, note 16 and note 17 and is included in the numbers as presented below. Liabilities assumed 0.0 Total net identified assets 2.6 Consideration transferred 4.0 Provisional goodwill on acquisition 1.4 Since the PPA process is not yet finalized, no PPA related costs are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 33 The following table summarizes the consideration PPA related costs, including depreciation and paid for MAJA and the recognized amounts of assets amortization of acquisition-related (in)tangible acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition assets for MAJA relate to the following lines in the date being 14 August 2018. Consolidated Statement of Income: 14 August 2018 2019 2018 Property, plant and equipment 9.6 Cost of sales 3.8 Right of use assets 0.6 Selling and marketing expenses 0.4 0.1 Research and development Intangible assets 13.2 expenses 1.0 0.1 Deferred income tax 0.4 General and administrative Inventories 11.5 expenses 0.2 0.2 Trade receivables, current and non-current 4.0 1.6 4.2 Other receivables and prepayments 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 MAJA contributed EUR 30.2 million to revenues for Assets acquired 42.2 the year 2019 (2018: EUR 9.7 million) and affected result from operations positively. Borrowings, current and non-current 6.5 Lease liabilities, current and non-current 0.6 Provisions, current and non-current 0.4 Trade and other payables 5.5 Liabilities assumed 13.0 Total net identified assets 29.2 Consideration transferred 32.5 Goodwill on acquisition 3.3 5 Non-IFRS measurement Reconciliation of non-IFRS information Management has presented adjusted result from In this note to the Consolidated Financial operations as a performance measure in the Statements Marel presents certain financial Consolidated Statement of Income because it measures when discussing Marel’s performance that monitors this performance measure at a are not measures of financial performance or consolidated level and believes that this measure is liquidity under IFRS (“Non-IFRS”). Non-IFRS measures relevant to an understanding of the Group’s do not have standardized meanings under IFRS and financial performance. Adjusted result from not all companies calculate non-IFRS measures in operations is calculated by adjusting result from the same manner or on a consistent basis. As a result, operations to exclude the impact of PPA related these measures may not be comparable to measures costs (consisting of depreciation and amortization of used by other companies that have the same or acquisition-related (in)tangible assets). No other similar names. adjustments are included in adjusted result from operations. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 34 The reconciliation of adjusted result from operations to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, result from operations, is included in the following table. PPA 2019 PPA 2018 2019 as related non-IFRS 2018 as related non-IFRS reported charges measures reported charges measures In EUR million 2019 2019 2019 2018 2018 2018 Revenues 1,283.7 1,283.7 1,197.9 1,197.9 Cost of sales (792.6) (792.6) (735.1) 4.7 (730.4) Gross profit 491.1 491.1 462.8 4.7 467.5 Selling and marketing expenses (159.2) 6.6 (152.6) (140.0) 6.3 (133.7) Research and development expenses (85.9) 3.8 (82.1) (76.7) 3.0 (73.7) General and administrative expenses (83.4) 0.4 (83.0) (85.2) 0.3 (84.9) Adjusted result from operations 10.8 173.4 14.3 175.2 PPA related costs (10.8) (10.8) (14.3) (14.3) Result from operations 162.6 162.6 160.9 160.9 The reconciliation of earnings before interest (net The table below shows other key financial ratio’s finance costs), tax (income tax), depreciation and (definitions of these ratios are included in note 33). amortization (“EBITDA”) to the most directly comparable IFRS measurement, result from 2019 2018 operations, for the period indicated is included in Current ratio 1.5 0.9 the table below. Quick ratio 1.2 0.6 Return on equity 14.5% 22.2% 2019 2018 Leverage 0.4 2.0 Result from operations (EBIT) 162.6 160.9 Debt to adjusted capital ratio 0.1 0.8 Depreciation, amortization and Market capitalization in EUR impairments 57.7 54.6 billion 3.5 1.9 Result before depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) 220.3 215.5 6 Segment information Operating segments  Fish processing: Marel provides advanced The identified operating segments comprise the equipment and systems for salmon and three industries, which are the reporting segments. whitefish processing, both farmed and wild, These operating segments form the basis for on-board and on-shore. managerial decision taking. The following summary  The 'Others' segment includes any revenues, describes the operations in each of the Group’s result from operations and assets which do not reportable segments: belong to the three core industries.  Poultry processing: Our poultry processing product range offers integrated systems for The reporting entities are reporting their revenues processing broilers, turkeys and ducks. per operating segment based on the industry for  Meat processing: Our meat industry specializes which the customer is using Marel’s product range. in the key processes of slaughtering, deboning Therefore inter-segment revenues do not exist, only and trimming, and case ready food service for intercompany revenues within the same segment. processing pork, beef, veal and sheep. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 35 Results are monitored and managed at the no financial income and expenses nor tax are operating segment level, up to the adjusted result allocated to the operating segments. The profit or from operations. Adjusted result from operations is loss per operating segment is the adjusted result used to measure performance as management from operations (before PPA related costs including believes that this information is the most relevant in depreciation and amortization of acquisition-related evaluating the results of the respective Marel (in)tangible assets); finance costs and taxes are segments relative to other entities that operate in reported in the column Total. the same industries. Intercompany transactions are entered at arm’s The Group’s CEO reviews the internal management length terms and conditions comparable to those reports of each segment on a monthly basis. available to unrelated parties. Information on assets Fluctuations between quarters are mainly due to per operating segment is reported; however, timing of receiving and delivery of orders, margin on decisions on liabilities are taken at a corporate level projects and business mix. Decisions on tax and and as such are not included in this disclosure. financing structures including cash and cash equivalents are taken at a corporate level, therefore Poultry Meat Fish Others Total 31 December 2019 Revenues 690.4 423.2 148.5 21.6 1,283.7 Adjusted result from operations 120.5 44.6 6.4 1.9 173.4 PPA related costs (10.8) Result from operations 162.6 Net finance costs (20.7) Share of result of associates (0.1) Result before income tax 141.8 Income tax (31.7) Net result for the period 110.1 Assets 712.9 701.7 130.5 316.1 1,861.2 Investments (including right of use assets) 27.2 16.6 5.9 0.7 50.4 Depreciation and amortization (24.6) (25.0) (7.0) (0.4) (57.0) Impairments (0.7) (0.7) Poultry Meat Fish Others Total 31 December 2018 Revenues 638.2 387.0 159.1 13.6 1,197.9 Adjusted result from operations 117.2 43.8 12.6 1.6 175.2 PPA related costs (14.3) Result from operations 160.9 Net finance costs (14.9) Share of result of associates Result before income tax 146.0 Income tax (23.5) Net result for the period 122.5 Assets 673.6 689.0 140.4 62.9 1,565.9 Investments (including right of use assets) 36.0 21.7 8.8 66.5 Depreciation and amortization (22.8) (23.1) (6.5) (52.4) Impairments (2.2) (2.2) Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 36 Geographical information The Group’s three operating segments operate in Capital expenditures include investments in three main geographical areas, although they are property, plant and equipment, right of use assets managed on a global basis. The home country of the and intangible assets. (including capitalized Group is Iceland. technology and development costs, refer to note 17). Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 2019 2018 Capital expenditure 2019 2018 Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,300.3 1,262.9 Europe, Middle East and Africa 43.4 59.2 Americas 234.2 228.6 Americas 6.5 6.8 Asia and Oceania 23.0 18.1 Asia and Oceania 0.5 0.5 1,557.5 1,509.6 50.4 66.5 Iceland accounts for EUR 130.4 million (2018: EUR 101.2 million) Iceland accounts for EUR 9.3 (2018: EUR 15.2) Total assets exclude the Group’s cash pool which the Group manages at corporate level. 7 Revenues Revenues 2019 2018 The Group’s revenue is derived from contracts with Equipment revenue 812.8 781.7 customers. Within the segments and within the Aftermarket revenue 470.9 416.2 operating companies, Marel is not relying on any Total revenue 1,283.7 1,197.9 individual major customers. Trade receivables and contract balances Disaggregation of revenue The following table provides information about In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities primary geographical markets (revenue is allocated from contracts with customers. based on the country were the customer is located): 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade receivables 160.0 138.8 Europe, Middle East and Africa 643.4 609.7 Contract assets 38.3 44.0 Americas 473.0 459.5 Contract liabilities (217.5) (212.1) Asia and Oceania 167.3 128.7 1,283.7 1,197.9 No information is provided about remaining Iceland accounts for EUR 8.6 (2018: EUR 10.5). performance obligations at 31 December 2019 that have an original expected duration of one year or In the following table revenue is disaggregated by less, as allowed by IFRS 15. equipment revenue (comprising revenue from greenfield and large projects, standard equipment Marel continuously reassesses the impaired trade and modernization equipment) and aftermarket receivables. A part of the impairment is related to revenue (comprising maintenance, service and product risk. This part is reported as write-down to spare parts). net-realizable value of contract assets for an amount of EUR 0.3 million (2018: EUR 0.4 million). Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 37 8 Expenses by nature The table below shows the expenses by nature: 2019 2018 Cost of goods sold 455.2 426.4 Employee benefits 449.2 411.3 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 57.7 54.6 Maintenance and rent of buildings and equipment 15.3 15.0 Other 143.7 129.7 1,121.1 1,037.0 9 Net finance costs 2019 2018 Interest on borrowings (9.9) (10.1) Interest on leases (0.8) (0.9) Other finance expenses (14.5) (5.9) Net foreign exchange transaction losses (0.3) Subtotal finance costs (25.2) (17.2) Interest income 3.0 2.3 Net foreign exchange transaction gains 1.5 Subtotal finance income 4.5 2.3 Net finance costs (20.7) (14.9) New syndicated loan facility commitments, releasing the capitalized finance In December 2019 Marel received commitments charges, IFRS 9 revaluation, embedded derivatives from a mixture of current and new banking partners and interest rate swaps linked to the facility resulting for a new EUR 700 million revolving credit facility in additional finance cost of EUR 8.9 million in the which will replace the current syndicated loan fourth quarter of 2019. facility. The new facility was signed at 5 February 2020 and will be closed soon after, subject to Going forward and subject to utilization levels the standard condition president provisions. interest and finance cost is expected to decrease as the new facility includes more favorable terms. For With these commitments in place, Marel revaluated further information on the new credit facility see the fair value of the current syndicated loan note 23. 10 Staff costs 2019 2018 The employee benefit expenses relate to employees Salaries and wages 372.3 343.6 who are working on the payroll of Marel, both with Social security contributions 47.2 41.5 permanent and temporary contracts. Expenses related to equitysettled share-based payments 2.1 1.2 Post retirement costs 27.6 25.0 449.2 411.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 38 Employee benefit expenses are presented in the The average number of employees in FTEs per Consolidated Statement of Income as follows: geography is summarized as follows: 2019 2018 Employees in FTEs 2019 2018 Cost of sales 198.3 181.8 Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,093 3,684 Selling and marketing expenses 113.0 103.9 Americas 1,423 1,330 Research and development Asia and Oceania 311 270 expenses 77.5 71.8 Employees 5,827 5,284 General and administrative 3rd party workers 476 510 expenses 60.4 53.8 6,303 5,794 449.2 411.3 Iceland accounts for 695 FTE (2018: 669 FTE). For further information on post-employment Employees consist of those persons working on the benefit costs, see note 25. payroll of Marel and whose costs are reflected in the employee benefit expenses table above. 3rd party For details on the remuneration of the members of workers consist of personnel hired on a per-period the Board of Directors and the CEO, see note 29. basis, via external companies. The average number of employees in FTEs per cost category is summarized as follows: Employees in FTEs 2019 2018 Cost of sales 3,107 2,839 Selling and marketing 1,275 1,176 Research and development 895 753 General and administrative 550 516 Employees 5,827 5,284 3rd party workers 476 510 6,303 5,794 11 Fees to Auditors The following table shows the fees to KPMG 2019 2018 attributable to the fiscal years 2019 and 2018. Financial Statement audit fees 1.0 0.8 Other fees, including tax services 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.9 12 Income tax Income tax recognized in the 21.70% as of 2021. This change resulted in a loss of Consolidated Statement of EUR 1.7 million related to the remeasurements of Income 2019 2018 deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Group’s Current tax (30.7) (32.9) Dutch subsidiaries being recognized during the year Deferred tax (1.0) 9.4 ended 31 December 2019 that anticipated already (31.7) (23.5) for the lower future rate of 20.50%. In December 2019, a new corporate tax law was In December 2018, a new corporate tax law was enacted in the Netherlands. Consequently, the substantially enacted in the Netherlands. reduction in corporate tax rate as approved by the Dutch Government in 2018 will be delayed by a year Consequently, as of 1 January 2020, the corporate and the rate will only be reduced from 25.00% to tax rate in the Netherlands was planned to be Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 39 reduced from 25.00% to 22.55% and was planned to assessment of many factors, including be further reduced to 20.50% as of 1 January 2021. interpretations of tax laws and prior experience. This change resulted in a gain of EUR 7.6 million related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets The tax on the Group's profit before tax differs from and liabilities of the Group’s Dutch subsidiaries the theoretical amount that would arise using the being recognized during the year ended 31 weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of December 2018. the consolidated companies as shown in the table below. The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open tax years based on its 2019 % 2018 % Result before income tax 141.8 146.0 Income tax using Icelandic rate (28.4) 20.0 (29.2) 20.0 Effect of tax rates in other jurisdictions (6.0) 4.3 (6.3) 4.3 Weighted average applicable tax (34.4) 24.3 (35.5) 24.3 Foreign exchange effect Iceland (0.0) 0.0 (0.5) 0.3 Research and development tax incentives 5.3 (3.7) 5.7 (3.9) Permanent differences (0.6) 0.4 0.0 (0.0) (Impairment)/reversal of tax losses 0.1 (0.1) 0.0 (0.0) Effect of tax rate changes (2.0) 1.4 7.0 (4.8) Others (0.1) 0.1 (0.2) 0.2 Tax charge included in the profit or loss for the period (31.7) 22.4 (23.5) 16.1 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the of EUR 1.7 million (see note 12). Net results net profit attributable to Shareholders by the attributable to Shareholders of the Company is in weighted average number of ordinary shares in 2018 positively impacted by the remeasurement of issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares deferred tax assets and liabilities of EUR 7.6 million purchased by the Company and held as treasury (see note 12). Furthermore, as a result of the dual shares. listing on the Euronext Amsterdam the weighted average number of outstanding shares issued Basic earnings per share (EUR increased from 682.1 million shares for 2018 to 717.5 cent per share) 2019 2018 million shares for 2019. Net result attributable to Shareholders (EUR millions) 110.0 122.4 The diluted earnings per share is calculated by Weighted average number of adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary outstanding shares in issue shares outstanding to assume conversion of all (millions) 717.5 682.1 dilutive potential ordinary shares. Basic earnings per share (EUR cent per share) 15.33 17.95 Net results attributable to Shareholders of the Company is in 2019 adversely impacted by the revaluation of the syndicated loan of EUR 6.7 million, after tax (see note 9) and the impact of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 40 The Company has one category of dilutive potential Diluted earnings per share ordinary shares: stock options. For the stock options (EUR cent) 2019 2018 a calculation is done to determine the number of Net result attributable to shares that could have been acquired at fair value Shareholders (EUR millions) 110.0 122.4 (determined as the average annual market share Weighted average number of price of the Company’s shares) based on the outstanding shares in issue monetary value of the subscription rights attached (millions) 717.5 682.1 to outstanding stock options. The number of shares Adjustments for stock options (millions) 6.3 3.3 calculated as above is compared with the number of Weighted average number of shares that would have been issued assuming the outstanding shares for diluted exercise of the stock options. earnings per share (millions) 723.8 685.4 Diluted earnings per share (EUR cent per share) 15.20 17.86 14 Property, plant and equipment Land & Plant & Under conVehicles & buildings machinery struction equipment Total 1 January 2019 Cost 182.6 95.1 12.0 44.7 334.4 Accumulated depreciation (52.9) (68.1) (37.8) (158.8) Net book value 129.7 27.0 12.0 6.9 175.6 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book value 129.7 27.0 12.0 6.9 175.6 Divestments (0.3) (0.3) Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.1 0.1 0.2 Additions 4.9 2.5 6.0 5.9 19.3 Business combinations, note 4 (0.9) 1.4 0.2 0.7 Reclassifications between categories (1.8) (2.1) 3.9 Transfer between categories 9.1 4.0 (13.9) 0.8 Depreciation charge (4.9) (5.7) (3.5) (14.1) Closing net book value 136.1 27.2 4.2 13.9 181.4 At 31 December 2019 Cost 190.9 83.3 4.2 62.3 340.7 Accumulated depreciation (54.8) (56.1) (48.4) (159.3) Net book value 136.1 27.2 4.2 13.9 181.4 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 41 Land & Plant & Under conVehicles & buildings machinery struction equipment Total At 1 January 2018 Cost 146.4 96.8 19.7 42.2 305.1 Accumulated depreciation (50.6) (73.2) (36.6) (160.4) Net book value 95.8 23.6 19.7 5.6 144.7 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book value 95.8 23.6 19.7 5.6 144.7 Divestments (2.2) (2.2) Effect of movements in exchange rates (1.6) 0.1 0.1 (1.4) Additions 4.7 6.5 20.3 2.5 34.0 Business combinations, note 4 12.5 (0.1) 0.9 13.3 Transfer between categories 22.9 5.0 (28.1) 0.2 Depreciation charge (4.6) (5.9) (2.3) (12.8) Closing net book value 129.7 27.0 12.0 6.9 175.6 At 31 December 2018 Cost 182.6 95.1 12.0 44.7 334.4 Accumulated depreciation (52.9) (68.1) (37.8) (158.8) Net book value 129.7 27.0 12.0 6.9 175.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and 2019 2018 of acquisition-related tangible assets analyzes as Cost of sales 6.5 6.2 follows in the Consolidated Statement of Income: Selling and marketing expenses 0.5 0.5 Research and development expenses 0.2 0.3 General and administrative expenses 6.5 5.6 13.7 12.6 Depreciation of acquisitionrelated property, plant and equipment (see note 4) 0.4 0.2 14.1 12.8 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 42 15 Right of use assets Land & Plant & Vehicles & buildings machinery equipment Total At 1 January 2019 Cost 27.8 1.0 13.3 42.1 Accumulated depreciation (4.1) (0.2) (4.5) (8.8) Net book value 23.7 0.8 8.8 33.3 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book value 23.7 0.8 8.8 33.3 Divestments (0.6) (0.6) Effect of movements in exchange rates 0.4 0.4 Business combinations, note 4 0.2 0.4 0.6 Additions 5.0 0.2 7.3 12.5 Depreciation charge (4.7) (0.3) (4.8) (9.8) Closing net book value 24.6 0.7 11.1 36.4 At 31 December 2019 Cost 32.0 1.2 19.3 52.5 Accumulated depreciation (7.4) (0.5) (8.2) (16.1) Net book value 24.6 0.7 11.1 36.4 Land & Plant & Vehicles & buildings machinery equipment Total At 1 January 2018 Cost 22.4 1.0 9.8 33.2 Net book value 22.4 1.0 9.8 33.2 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book value 22.4 1.0 9.8 33.2 Divestments (0.4) (0.4) Effect of movements in exchange rates (0.1) 0.2 0.1 Additions 5.5 4.0 9.5 Depreciation charge (4.1) (0.2) (4.8) (9.1) Closing net book value 23.7 0.8 8.8 33.3 At 31 December 2018 Cost 27.8 1.0 13.3 42.1 Accumulated depreciation (4.1) (0.2) (4.5) (8.8) Net book value 23.7 0.8 8.8 33.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 43 For the annual maturity of the lease liabilities, refer 2019 2018 to note 23. Cost of sales 2.5 2.2 Selling and marketing expenses 1.9 1.9 Depreciation of right of use assets analyzes as Research and development follows in the Consolidated Statement of Income: expenses 0.3 0.2 General and administrative expenses 5.1 4.8 9.8 9.1 16 Goodwill 2019 2018 The annual impairment test includes property, plant At 1January and equipment, right of use assets, goodwill, other Cost 641.3 643.9 intangible assets and net working capital allocated Net book value 641.3 643.9 to CGUs to determine the final recoverable amount. Year ended 31 December The purpose of impairment testing is to determine whether the recoverable amount exceeds the Opening net book value 641.3 643.9 carrying amount of the above mentioned assets. The Business combinations, note 4 4.0 (1.6) recoverable amount of an operating segment is Exchange differences 0.5 (1.0) determined as the present value of the future cash Closing net book value 645.8 641.3 flows expected to be derived from a CGU, based on amongst others: At 31 December  the estimated future cash flows that the Group Cost 645.8 641.3 expects the CGU to earn. Net book value 645.8 641.3  possible variations in the amount or timing of those future cash flows. Business combinations for 2019 relate to the  the time value of money, which is reflected by acquisition of Cedar Creek (increase in provisional using a discount rate based on the current goodwill of EUR 1.4 million) and MAJA (increase in market risk-free rate of interest. goodwill of EUR 2.6 million due to the finalization of  the price for the uncertainty inherent in the the PPA). For 2018 it relates to the acquisition of CGU. MAJA (increase in provisional goodwill of EUR 0.7 million) and Sulmaq (decrease in goodwill of EUR 2.3 The sales growth rates and margins used to estimate million due to the finalization of the PPA). Further future cash flows are based on management information on the acquisitions is disclosed in note 4 estimates that take into account past performance to the Consolidated Financial Statements. and experience, external market growth assumptions and industry long term averages. The Impairment testing weighted growth rate for the period 2021 to 2024 of Annually goodwill is tested for impairment at the forecast cash flows is between 5% and 7% for all level of the CGUs. For Marel, the CGUs are based on CGUs, which is management’s best estimate. These the market oriented business model, poultry, meat growth rates are in line with external market and fish, in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating predictions of the worldwide industry for providing Segments. Poultry, meat and fish serve the customer equipment and solutions for the protein industry as needs in primary, secondary and further processing. well. Revenues, operating results and cash flows Only at the level of the operating segments the beyond the 5 year forecast period are extrapolated connection can be made between the businesses for using estimated growth rates of 1.9% (31 December which the goodwill was originally paid and the 2018: 1.9%) as shown in the table on the next page. results of the synergies after the acquisitions. The time value of money and price of uncertainty, calculated as the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (“WACC”), are based on external market information about market risk, interest rates and some CGU Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 44 specific elements like country risk. The post-tax Key assumptions used in the impairment tests for discount rate is calculated at CGU level and is in the the segments were sales growth rates, EBITDA and range of 6.6% 7.0% (2018: 6.5% 6.9%) for all CGUs the rates used for discounting the projected cash (refer to the table below). The pre-tax discount rate flows. These cash flow projections were determined for the three CGUs is calculated in the range of 7.9% using managements’ internal forecasts that cover an 8.5% (2018: 8.1% 8.6%). initial period from 2020. Projections were extrapolated with stable growth rates for a period of The goodwill impairment test performed in the 4 years, after which a terminal value was calculated. fourth quarter, which is based on the numbers of 30 For terminal value calculation, the terminal growth September 2019, is rolled forward to 31 December rate was determined based on management’s 2019, and exceeds the recoverable value of existing estimate of the long-term compound annual EBITDA goodwill. Breakeven scenarios and the current growth rate, consistent with the assumptions that a scenario used show that there is sufficient headroom market participant would make. and that there are no triggers indicating that impairment is necessary. For all three operating The sales growth rates and EBITDA used to estimate segments the recoverable amount exceeds the cash flows are based on past performance, external carrying amount by a substantial amount. A stress market growth assumptions and industry long-term test was performed on the impairment tests of the growth averages. EBITDA in all segments mentioned CGUs where the following items have been tested: in this note is expected to increase over the the potential changes in increase in pre-tax discount projected period as a result of volume growth and rates, decrease in compound long-term growth cost efficiencies. rates or decrease in terminal value growth rates. This test showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if significant adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. The key assumptions used for the impairment tests are listed below. 2019 Poultry Meat Fish Total Goodwill 330.0 286.5 29.3 645.8 Infinite Intangible assets 1) Terminal growth rate 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 2) Discount rate (post-tax) 6.7% 7.0% 6.6% 6.8% 2018 Poultry Meat Fish Total Goodwill 328.0 284.5 28.8 641.3 Infinite Intangible assets 1) Terminal growth rate 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 2) Discount rate (post-tax) 6.9% 6.7% 6.5% 6.8% 1) Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond strategic plan period. 2) Discount rate applied to the cash flow projections. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 45 17 Intangible assets TechnoCustomer logy & relations, developpatents & Other ment costs trademarks intangibles Total At 1 January 2019 Cost 255.3 178.6 79.2 513.1 Accumulated amortization (134.0) (57.7) (54.4) (246.1) Net book value 121.3 120.9 24.8 267.0 Year ended 31 December 2019 Opening net book value 121.3 120.9 24.8 267.0 Divestments (0.2) (0.2) Business combinations, note 4 (1.5) 1.8 0.3 Exchange differences 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.5 Additions 13.4 5.2 18.6 Impairment charge (0.7) (0.7) Amortization charge (17.5) (9.6) (6.0) (33.1) Closing net book value 115.3 113.3 23.8 252.4 At 31 December 2019 Cost 267.5 177.8 81.9 527.2 Accumulated amortization (152.2) (64.5) (58.1) (274.8) Net book value 115.3 113.3 23.8 252.4 TechnoCustomer logy & relations, developpatents & Other ment costs trademarks intangibles Total At 1 January 2018 Cost 232.4 171.6 73.3 477.3 Accumulated amortization (117.7) (46.2) (50.7) (214.6) Net book value 114.7 125.4 22.6 262.7 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book value 114.7 125.4 22.6 262.7 Divestments (0.5) (0.5) Business combinations, note 4 8.2 6.1 14.3 Exchange differences 0.1 (0.1) 0.2 0.2 Additions 16.3 6.7 23.0 Impairment charge (2.2) (2.2) Amortization charge (15.8) (10.5) (4.2) (30.5) Closing net book value 121.3 120.9 24.8 267.0 At 31 December 2018 Cost 255.3 178.6 79.2 513.1 Accumulated amortization (134.0) (57.7) (54.4) (246.1) Net book value 121.3 120.9 24.8 267.0 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 46 Business combinations for 2019 relate to the Amortization of intangible assets and amortization acquisition of Cedar Creek (increase in intangible of acquisition-related intangible assets analyzes as assets of EUR 1.8 million) and MAJA (decrease in follows in the Consolidated Statement of Income: intangible assets of EUR 1.5 million due to the finalization of the PPA) and for 2018 to the 2019 2018 acquisition of MAJA and to the finalization of the Cost of sales 0.0 0.0 PPA of Sulmaq. Further information on the Selling and marketing expenses 1.1 1.3 acquisitions is disclosed in note 4 of the Research and development Consolidated Financial Statements. expenses 14.1 13.6 General and administrative The additions for 2019 predominantly comprise expenses 7.5 6.2 internally generated assets of EUR 18.6 million 22.7 21.1 (31 December 2018: EUR 23.0 million) for product Amortization of acquisitiondevelopment and for development of software related intangible assets (see products. note 4) 10.4 9.4 33.1 30.5 The impairment charge in intangible assets analyzes as follows in the Consolidated Statement of Income: 2019 2018 Research and development expenses 0.7 2.2 0.7 2.2 18 Investments in associates The investments in associates relate to a 14.3% Although Marel holds less than 20% of the voting interest in the Canadian software company rights, Marel determined that it has significant Worximity Technology (“Worximity”) and a 50% influence because it has meaningful representation stake in the Iceland based company Curio ehf. on the board of Worximity. (“Curio”). Marel will invest an additional CAD 2.5 million in new 2019 2018 share capital in the company in the next six months, Carrying amount of interest in bringing Marel’s total ownership to 25.0%. associates 15.6 Curio ehf. Share of: On 22 October 2019, Marel has entered into an Loss from continuing operations (0.1) agreement to acquire a 50% stake in Curio ehf. On 8 OCI November 2019, the first phase of the transaction (0.1) was finalized as closing conditions were satisfied. Marel acquired 39.3% of the total share capital of Worximity Technology Curio. On 1 January 2021 Marel will acquire an On 19 June 2019, Marel acquired a 14.3% interest for additional 10.7% of the share capital bringing an amount of EUR 1.8 million (CAD 2.5 million) as Marel’s total share in Curio as of 1 January 2021 on initial investment in new share capital in Worximity. 50%. Marel has an option to acquire the remaining 50% of shares in four years. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 47 19 Trade receivables, other receivables and prepayments 2019 2018 Trade receivables that are less than 90 days past due Trade receivables 163.4 143.4 are not considered impaired. As of 31 December Less: write-down to net2019, trade receivables of EUR 52.3 million (2018: realizable value (1.3) (1.4) EUR 41.4 million) were past due but not impaired. In Trade receivables net 162.1 142.0 2019 the write-down of trade receivables to net Less non-current portion (2.1) (3.2) realizable value amounted to EUR 0.6 million (2018: Current portion of trade EUR 0.4 million) and relate to a number of receivables 160.0 138.8 independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. Due to the insignificant amount of Prepayments 12.3 6.6 write-downs, these are not shown separately in the Other receivables 34.5 38.4 Consolidated Statement of Income. Other receivables and prepayments 46.8 45.0 As of 31 December 2019, trade receivables of EUR 15.4 million (2018: EUR 13.0 million) were tested Non-current receivables for impairment and written down when necessary. Non-current receivables are mainly associated with The individually impaired receivables mainly relate an escrow account regarding the acquisition of to customers, which are in unexpectedly difficult Sulmaq for EUR 2.1 million (2018: EUR 3.2 million economic situations. long term outstanding debtors). All non-current receivables are due within one and five years. There were no material reversal of write-downs of trade receivables. Current receivables The carrying amounts of trade receivables and other receivables and prepayments approximate their fair value. The aging of trade receivables is as follows: 2019 2018 Provision Provision Gross for Gross for amount impairment amount impairment Not overdue 95.7 89.0 Up to 90 days overdue 52.3 41.4 Over 90 days overdue 15.4 (1.3) 13.0 (1.4) 163.4 (1.3) 143.4 (1.4) The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade 2019 2018 receivables (current portion) are denominated in the EUR 93.6 76.3 following currencies: USD 46.1 44.3 GBP 6.5 5.3 Other currencies 15.1 14.3 161.3 140.2 Write-down to net-realizable value (1.3) (1.4) 160.0 138.8 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 48 Movements on the Group trade receivables The impairment to net-realizable value and reversals impaired to net-realizable value are as follows: has been included in selling and marketing expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 2019 2018 At 31 December 1.4 2.3 Marel continuously reassesses the impaired trade Impact IFRS 9 & 15 (0.4) receivables. A part of the impairment related to Balance at 1 January 1.4 1.9 product risk. This part is reported as write-down to Provision for receivables net-realizable value of contract assets for an amount impairment 0.5 0.3 of EUR 0.3 million (2018: EUR 0.4 million), see also Receivables written off during note 7. the year as uncollectible (0.6) (0.4) Reclassification to production The other classes within other receivables and contracts and unused amounts prepayments do not contain impaired assets. reversed (0.4) Information about the Group’s exposure to credit At 31 December 1.3 1.4 and market risks is included in note 26. 20 Deferred income tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on when the deferred income taxes relate to the same temporary differences under the liability method. fiscal authority. The gross movement on the deferred income tax The deferred tax charged / (credited) in the account is as follows: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the period is as follows: At 31 December 2018 (47.1) Exchange differences and changes within the Fair value reserves in Group (0.1) Shareholders' equity 2019 2018 Consolidated Statement of Income charge Employer's contribution social (excluding tax rate change) 1.0 charges on stock option exercises Effect of change in tax rates (2.0) Hedge reserve 0.6 (0.4) Business combinations, note 4 0.4 0.6 (0.4) Hedge reserve & translation reserve recognized in other comprehensive income 0.6 Deferred income taxes recognized in the Listing Euronext Amsterdam 3.6 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is as At 31 December 2019 (43.6) follows: At 31 December 2017 (56.9) 2019 2018 Impact IFRS 9 & 15 1.8 Deferred income tax assets 11.9 10.2 At 1 January 2018 (55.1) Deferred income tax liabilities (55.5) (57.3) Exchange differences and changes within the (43.6) (47.1) Group 0.1 Consolidated Statement of Income charge Deferred income tax assets are recognized for tax (excluding tax rate change) 2.4 loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realization Effect of change in tax rates 7.0 of the related tax benefit through the future taxable Business combinations, note 4 (1.1) profits is probable. Based on future profits expected Hedge reserve & translation reserve in the strategic plan, the recoverability has been recognized in other comprehensive income (0.4) tested; a reversal of EUR 0.1 million tax losses (2018: At 31 December 2018 (47.1) a reversal of EUR 0.2 million) has been applied. Sensitivity analysis on impairment of tax losses used Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset the assumption of decreasing the forecast profit when there is a legally enforceable right to set off before tax by 5%. Based on the outcome of this current tax assets against current tax liabilities and Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 49 calculation the impairment is not substantially affected. The Group has no unrecognized deferred tax liabilities. Taxable effects of losses will expire according to below schedule: 2019 2018 Of which Of which Total tax not Total tax not losses capitalized losses capitalized Less than 6 years 18.8 0.9 16.2 1.3 Between 6 and 10 years 31.1 26.1 More than 10 years 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7 Indefinite 25.0 19.1 20.5 18.8 76.4 21.5 64.5 21.8 Recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Movement in At 31 Impact At 1 Recognized At 31 deferred tax December IFRS 9 & January in income December balances 2018 15 2019 statement Other 1) 2019 Assets Liabilites Property, plant and equipment (9.0) (9.0) (0.9) (0.0) (9.9) 0.8 (10.7) Intangible assets (52.6) (52.6) 0.4 (1.2) (53.4) 1.3 (54.7) Right of use assets 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Other financial assets (0.6) (0.6) 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.3 (0.0) Receivables 1.5 1.5 (1.7) (0.2) (0.4) 4.3 (4.7) Inventories 1.7 1.7 0.8 0.0 2.5 2.9 (0.4) Long term liabilities (0.9) (0.9) 0.5 (0.0) (0.4) 0.3 (0.7) Current liabilities 3.4 3.4 2.2 (0.3) 5.3 5.8 (0.5) Provisions for pensions 0.4 0.4 (0.1) (0.1) 0.2 0.2 0.0 Provisions for guarantees 0.2 0.2 0.3 (0.0) 0.5 0.8 (0.3) Provisions others 0.0 0.0 0.2 (0.0) 0.2 0.4 (0.2) Subtotal (55.8) (55.8) 1.8 (1.0) (55.0) 17.2 (72.2) Subtotal tax losses 8.7 8.7 (0.8) 3.5 11.4 15.1 (3.7) Overall total (47.1) (47.1) 1.0 2.5 (43.6) 32.3 (75.9) Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 50 Movement in At 31 Impact At 1 Recognized At 31 deferred tax December IFRS 9 & January in income December balances 2017 15 2018 statement Other 1) 2018 Assets Liabilites Property, plant and equipment (7.9) (7.9) (0.4) (0.7) (9.0) 0.7 (9.7) Intangible assets (61.9) (61.9) 2.3 7.0 (52.6) 2.5 (55.1) Right of use assets 0.1 (0.0) 0.1 0.1 Other financial assets (0.2) (0.2) (0.0) (0.4) (0.6) 0.0 (0.6) Receivables (2.3) 3.0 0.7 0.7 0.1 1.5 4.3 (2.8) Inventories 2.0 2.0 (0.3) 0.0 1.7 2.7 (1.0) Long term liabilities (0.0) (1.2) (1.2) 0.2 0.1 (0.9) 0.0 (0.9) Current liabilities 2.5 2.5 1.4 (0.5) 3.4 3.8 (0.4) Provisions for pensions 0.4 0.4 0.0 (0.0) 0.4 0.4 (0.0) Provisions for guarantees 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.5 (0.3) Provisions others 0.3 0.3 (0.2) (0.1) 0.0 0.1 (0.1) Subtotal (66.9) 1.8 (65.1) 3.8 5.5 (55.8) 15.1 (70.9) Subtotal tax losses 10.0 10.0 (1.4) 0.1 8.7 12.7 (4.0) Overall total (56.9) 1.8 (55.1) 2.4 5.6 (47.1) 27.8 (74.9) 1) Other includes the movements of assets and liabilities recognized in OCI, which includes foreign currency translation differences, acquisitions and divestments. 21 Inventories 2019 2018 The cost of inventories recognized as an expense Raw materials 31.2 19.8 and included in cost of sales amounted to Semi-finished goods 112.0 116.7 EUR 626.6 million (2018: EUR 590.1 million). Finished goods 47.8 35.5 191.0 172.0 In 2019 the write-down of inventories to netrealizable value amounted to EUR 5.2 million (2018: Allowance for obsolescence EUR 3.6 million). and/or lower market value (24.2) (22.1) 166.8 149.9 There were no material reversals of write-downs to net realizable value. The write-downs recognized following a recoverability analysis are included in cost of sales. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 51 22 Equity Share capital Outstanding reduced in connection with the preparation of the Ordinary Treasury number of dual listing of the Company, for the benefit of shares shares shares shareholders. Marel’s Articles of Association were (thousands) (thousands) (thousands) changed accordingly. At 1 January 2019 682,586 (10,762) 671,824 Treasury shares During the Extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on purchased (12,096) (12,096) 22 November 2018 the proposal to reduce the Treasury shares Company’s share capital by 53.0 million shares, from sold 506 506 735.6 million shares to 682.6 million shares, was Capital reduction (11,578) 11,578 approved. The reduction was executed by way of New shares issued 100,000 100,000 cancelling 53.0 million of the Company‘s own shares At 31 December of ISK 1 each, in accordance with the provisions of 2019 771,008 (10,774) 760,234 the Icelandic Act No. 2/1995 on Public Limited 100.00% 1.40% 98.60% Companies. The Company’s share capital was reduced in connection with the preparation of the At 1 January 2018 735,569 (41,747) 693,822 dual listing of the Company, for the benefit of Treasury shares shareholders. Marel’s Articles of Association were purchased (24,072) (24,072) changed accordingly. Treasury shares sold 2,074 2,074 The total authorized number of ordinary shares on Capital reduction (52,983) 52,983 the Nasdaq OMX Nordic Iceland and Euronext At 31 December 2018 Amsterdam exchange is 771.0 million (31 December 682,586 (10,762) 671,824 2018: 682.6 million) with a par value of ISK 1 per 100.00% 1.58% 98.42% share. All issued shares are fully paid. Class of share capital 2019 2018 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends Nominal value 6.8 6.1 as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at shareholders meetings of the Share premium reserve 478.1 159.1 Company. Shareholders who hold shares in Marel on Reserve for share based payments 5.0 2.6 Nasdaq Iceland and Euronext Amsterdam have Total share premium reserve 483.1 161.7 identical voting rights and the same rights to dividends. All rights attached to the Company’s Share capital treasury shares are suspended until those shares are On 7 June 2019, Marel began trading on Euronext sold again. Amsterdam, marking the dual listing of Marel on both Nasdaq Iceland and Euronext Amsterdam. A Dividends total of 100.0 million ordinary shares of ISK 1 each In 2019 a dividend of EUR 36.7 million (EUR 5.57 were issued and sold, increasing the Company’s cents per share) was declared and paid for the share capital from 671.0 million shares to 771.0 operational year 2018 (in 2018, a dividend of EUR million shares. 28.7 million (EUR 4.19 cents per share) was declared and paid for the operational year 2017). During the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 6 March 2019 the proposal to reduce the After the reporting date the Board of Directors will Company’s share capital by 11.6 million shares, from propose to the 2020 Annual General Meeting that 682.6 million shares to 671.0 million shares, was EUR cents 5.79 dividend per outstanding share will approved. The reduction was executed by way of be paid for the operational year 2019, corresponding cancelling 11.6 million of the Company‘s own shares to approximately 40% of net results. of ISK 1 each, in accordance with the provisions of the Icelandic Act No. 2/1995 on Public Limited Companies. The Company’s share capital was Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 52 Treasury shares The option holders in the 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, From time to time the Company purchases its own 2018 and February 2019 programs are required to shares in the market. Primarily the shares are hold shares corresponding to the net profit gained intended to be used for issuing shares under the from the options (after tax) until the following Group's stock option plans. The timing of these holding requirements are reached. This is measured purchases depends on the requirement to settle in total share value owned as a multiple of annual employee’s stock option exercises. Buy and sell base salary: for the CEO three times; for other decisions are taken by the Board of Directors. Based members of the Executive Team two times. on a motion approved in the Annual General Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors can Options are conditional on the employee acquire up to 10% of its own shares at a price which completing particular periods' / years’ service (the is not higher than 10% over and not lower than 10% vesting period). under the average price of shares in the Company for the two weeks immediately preceding the The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to acquisition. Secondarily, shares are intended to be repurchase or settle the options in cash. used as payment for potential future acquisitions. Movements in the number of stock options outstanding and their related weighted average In 2019, Marel purchased 12.1 million treasury shares exercise prices are as follows: for a total amount of EUR 37.6 million. Marel sold 0.5 million treasury shares for EUR 0.9 million in order to Average fulfill obligations of stock option agreements. There exercise Stock was a capital reduction of 11.6 million shares price per options according to the resolution of the Annual General share (thousands) meeting 6 March 2019. At the end of 2019 Marel had At 1 January 2019 EUR 2.256 11,910 10.8 million treasury shares. Granted in 2019 EUR 3.457 7,814 Exercised 2019 EUR 1.461 (506) In 2018 Marel purchased 24.1 million shares for At 31 December 2019 EUR 2.736 19,218 EUR 71.7 million. Marel sold 2.1 million shares for Exercisable stock options at 31 EUR 2.2 million in order to fulfill obligations of stock December 2019 2,904 option agreements. Following the approval in the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting 53.0 million At 1 January 2018 EUR 1.780 9,884 shares have been cancelled. At the end of 2018 Granted in 2018 EUR 2.881 4,100 Marel had 10.8 million treasury shares. Exercised 2018 EUR 1.048 (2,074) At 31 December 2018 EUR 2.256 11,910 Stock options Exercisable stock options at 31 Stock options are granted to Executive Management December 2018 1,650 and to selected employees. The exercise prices of options granted, in December 2014, in August 2015 At present employees will hold 2.49% (2018: 1.74%) and in May 2016 are higher than the market price of of the shares, assuming that all outstanding stock the shares on the date of grant. For options granted options are vested and / or are executed. in March 2017, February 2018 and February 2019 the exercise price is the same as the market price at the date of grant. For options granted in June 2019 the exercise price is the same as the final offer price in the listing on Euronext Amsterdam. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 53 Stock options granted in the year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Stock options expire in year 2021 2021 2022 2021 2022 2023 2023 The exercise prices* per share after: 28 April 2020 EUR 0.861 28 April 2021 EUR 0.887 28 October 2020 EUR 1.423 28 October 2021 EUR 1.463 28 April 2020 EUR 1.819 28 April 2021 EUR 1.855 28 April 2022 EUR 1.891 28 April 2020 EUR 2.681 13 February 2021 EUR 2.825 13 February 2022 EUR 3.194 28 October 2022 EUR 3.700 *) Exercise prices after dividend payment in 2015; EUR 0.0048 per share, after dividend payment in 2016; EUR 0.0158, after dividend payment in 2017; EUR 0.0214, after dividend payment in 2018; EUR 0.0419 and after dividend payment in 2019; EUR 0.0557. In 2019 the following shares were exercised: 90 share and 1,064 thousand shares at exercise price thousand shares at exercise price EUR 0.848 per EUR 1.097 per share. No options were cash settled. share, 200 thousand shares at exercise price EUR 1.382 per share, 108 thousand shares at exercise The fair value of the employee stock options granted price EUR 1.783 and 108 thousand shares at exercise is measured using the Black-Scholes model. price 1.801. No options were cash settled. Variables used in the Black Scholes calculation: In 2018 the following shares were exercised: 1,010 thousand shares at exercise price EUR 0.997 per Weighted Expected average Exercise Expected Annual risk-free remaining price per term dividend interest Estimated contr. life share (EUR) (years) yield rate volatility in months *) Option plan December 2014 60% exercisable > 28 April 2018 0.949 3.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 16 20% exercisable > 28 April 2019 0.975 4.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 16 20% exercisable > 28 April 2020 1.001 5.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 16 Option plan August 2015 60% exercisable > 28 October 2018 1.477 3.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 22 20% exercisable > 28 October 2019 1.517 4.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 22 20% exercisable > 28 October 2020 1.558 5.0 0.00% 3% 22.04% 22 Option plan May 2016 60% exercisable > 28 April 2019 1.902 3.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 28 20% exercisable > 28 April 2020 1.938 4.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 28 20% exercisable > 28 April 2021 1.974 5.0 0.00% 2% 21.52% 28 Option plan March 2017 100% exercisable > 28 April 2020 2.779 3.0 0.00% 2% 23.72% 16 Option plan February 2018 100% exercisable > 13 February 2021 2.923 3.0 0.00% 2% 21.16% 25 Option plan February 2019 100% exercisable > 13 February 2022 3.250 3.0 0.00% 2% 20.00% 38 Option plan June 2019 100% exercisable > 28 October 2022 3.700 3.0 0.00% 2% 20.00% 46 *) Based on last possible exercise dates in each stock option plan. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 54 Share premium reserve Limitation in the distribution of shareholders’ The share premium reserve comprises of payment in equity excess of par value of ISK 1 per share that As at 31 December 2019, pursuant to Icelandic law, shareholders have paid for shares sold by the certain limitations exist relating to the distribution of Company, less payments in excess of par value that shareholders’ equity. Such limitations relate to legal the Company has paid for treasury shares. According reserves required by Icelandic law included under to the Icelandic Companies Act, 25% of the nominal retained earnings for capitalized intangible assets value share capital must be held in reserve which related to product development projects and for cannot be paid out as dividend to shareholders. legal reserves relating to any legal or economic Marel is compliant with this requirement. restrictions to the ability of affiliated companies to transfer funds to the parent company in the form of As a result of the dual listing shareholders’ equity dividends. increased by EUR 370.0 million of which share premium increased by EUR 369.2 million. Total gross The legal reserve included under retained earnings transaction costs amount to EUR 17.8 million. for capitalized intangible assets related to product Transaction cost net of tax of EUR 14.2 million are development projects amounted to EUR 71.6 million deducted from the share premium reserve. as at 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: EUR 74.7 million). Other reserves Other reserves in shareholder's equity include the Since the profits retained in Marel hf.’s subsidiaries following reserves: can be distributed and received in Iceland, no legal  Hedge reserve: comprises revaluations on reserve for any legal or economic restrictions to the derivatives, on which hedge accounting is ability of affiliated companies to transfer funds to applied. The value of 31 December 2019 and 31 the parent company in the form of dividends is December 2018 relates to derivatives for the required. Group, the interest rate swap contracts.  Translation reserve: comprises the translation The amount of the legal reserve for the share of results of the consolidation of subsidiaries profit of affiliates is reduced by dividends received reporting in foreign currencies, as well as a from those companies and those dividends from currency revaluation related to financing of them which can be claimed. Therefore Marel could, subsidiaries. based on its control as the parent company, decide to let its subsidiaries pay dividends. The dividends Hedge Translation Total other would lower the amount of legal reserves within reserve reserve reserves equity and therefore leave more room for Marel to Balance at 1 make dividend payments to its shareholders. The January 2019 1.8 (12.1) (10.3) new provision of the act does not prevent Marel Total other from making dividend payments to its shareholders comprehensive in 2020 since the Company has sufficient retained income (2.5) 1.9 (0.6) earnings from previous years. Balance at 31 December 2019 (0.7) (10.2) (10.9) The legal reserves as required by Icelandic law are required as of effective date 1 January 2016. Balance at 1 January 2018 0.6 (8.8) (8.2) Non-controlling Interests Total other Non-controlling Interests relate to minority shares comprehensive income 1.2 (3.3) (2.1) held by third parties in consolidated Group entities. Balance at 31 The net income attributable to NCI amounted to EUR December 2018 1.8 (12.1) (10.3) 0.1 million for the year 2019 (31 December 2018: EUR 0.1 million). The NCI relates to MPS France S.A.R.L., France, in which the managing director of MPS France holds an ownership percentage of 24%. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 55 23 Borrowings and lease liabilities The Company’s policy is to finance its operations in The Group has a financing structure which can its revenue currencies. More than 99% of Marel’s accommodate the Group’s financing requirements revenues originate outside of Iceland and there is a until 2022 with USD and EUR borrowings matching good currency balance between the Company’s the Group’s exposure in these currencies to a large revenues and costs. Efforts have been made to extent. The facility has an embedded 0% floor in the systematically reduce currency risk in the Company’s EURIBOR and LIBOR rates. At the date of utilization of financing and to reduce interest cost. At the end of the loans (5 May 2017) the 5 year EURIBOR curve was 2019 Marel has two main funding facilities: negative and consequently the floor had intrinsic value at the date of inception. Schuldschein promissory notes On 7 December 2018 Marel finalized an issue of New syndicated credit facility Schuldschein promissory notes for EUR 140 million. In December 2019 Marel received commitments The investors were a mixture of Central European from a mixture of current and new banking partners and Asian commercial banks. The notes where split for a new EUR 700 million revolving credit facility in 5 and 7 year terms and a mixture of fixed and which will replace the current syndicated loan floating rates: facility. The new facility was signed at 5 February  EUR 8.5 million at 1.83% fixed interest for 7 2020 and will be closed soon after, subject to years. standard condition president provisions.  EUR 15.5 million at 1.366% fixed interest for 5 years. With these commitments in place, Marel revaluated  EUR 106 million with floating EURIBOR rate and the fair value of the current syndicated loan 1.1% margin for 5 years. commitments, releasing the capitalized finance  EUR 10 million with floating EURIBOR rate and charges, IFRS 9 revaluation, embedded derivatives 1.3% margin for 7 years. and interest rate swaps linked to the facility resulting in additional finance cost of EUR 8.9 million in the The floating rate tranches include a 0% floor on the fourth quarter of 2019. Going forward and subject to 6-month EURIBOR. At inception of the loan the 0% utilization levels the interest and finance cost is floor did not have an intrinsic value and is not expected to decrease as the new facility includes separated from the original contract in the more favorable terms. Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The new credit facility will allow Marel to better Syndicated loan utilize its cash balances and retain the strategical The Group has a 543 EUR million equivalents flexibility to support future inorganic growth. The facilities agreement with seven international banks, facility is based on investment grade Loan Market led by ING bank, Rabobank and ABN AMRO. The Association documentation. The new credit facility terms and conditions are generally in line with Loan interest terms are EURIBOR / LIBOR +80.0 bps that Market Association corporate standards. It is an all will vary in line with Marel’s leverage ratio and facility senior facility, which matures in 2022. utilization level. The key elements of the syndicated loan are: The new facility also includes a sustainability linked  A five-year all senior loan and revolver, incentive structure where Marel undertakes to meet consisting of a EUR 153 million and a USD 75 a set of sustainability key-performance-indicators million long term loan and EUR 323 million (“KPI”) targets and Marel will either receive a margin revolving credit facility, all with final maturity in reduction up to 0.025% or increase of 0.025% May 2022. depending on how many of the KPI’s are met. This  Initial interest terms are EURIBOR/LIBOR + 185 underpins and supports Marel’s strong commitment bps, which will vary in line with Marel’s leverage to fulfill our vision of a world where quality food is ratio (Net debt/EBITDA) at the end of each produced in a sustainable way. quarter. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 56 Borrowings and lease liabilities As of 31 December 2019, interest bearing debt The following tabled analyzes the borrowings and amounted to EUR 401.9 million including lease lease liabilities: liabilities (31 December 2018: EUR 502.3 million), of which for 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 2019 2018 nothing is secured against shares that Marel hf. Borrowings 333.5 429.3 holds in certain subsidiaries. Lease liabilities are Lease liabilities 28.4 27.1 effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset Non-current 361.9 456.4 revert to the lessor in the event of default. Borrowings 30.6 24.8 The Group loan agreements contain restrictive covenants, relating to interest cover and leverage. Lease liabilities 8.8 6.7 Current 39.4 31.5 At 31 December 2019 and 2018 the Group complies with all restrictive covenants. Total borrowings and lease liabilities 401.3 487.9 The Group has the following headroom in committed ancillary facilities: Borrowings 364.1 454.1 Lease liabilities 37.2 33.8 Floating rate 2019 2018 Total borrowings and lease liabilities 401.3 487.9 Expiring within one year Expiring beyond one year 277.4 213.5 277.4 213.5 31/12/2019 Embedded Capitalized derivatives finance and Lease Liabilities in currency recorded in EUR in 2019 Borrowings charges revaluation liabilities Total Liabilities in EUR 297.0 (0.6) 16.0 312.4 Liabilities in USD 67.0 10.7 77.7 Liabilities in other currencies 0.7 10.5 11.2 364.7 (0.6) 37.2 401.3 Current maturities (30.7) 0.1 (8.8) (39.4) Non-current maturities 334.0 (0.5) 28.4 361.9 31/12/2018 Embedded Capitalized derivatives finance and Lease Liabilities in currency recorded in EUR in 2018 Borrowings charges revaluation liabilities Total Liabilities in EUR 402.3 (7.7) (4.3) 11.4 401.7 Liabilities in USD 65.6 (1.3) (1.2) 8.0 71.1 Liabilities in other currencies 0.7 14.4 15.1 468.6 (9.0) (5.5) 33.8 487.9 Current maturities (30.8) 3.7 2.3 (6.7) (31.5) Non-current maturities 437.8 (5.3) (3.2) 27.1 456.4 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 57 31/12/2019 Embedded Capitalized derivatives finance and Lease Annual maturity of non-current borrowings in 2019 Borrowings charges revaluation liabilities Total Between 1 and 2 years 30.7 (0.1) 9.9 40.5 Between 2 and 3 years 160.8 (0.2) 3.8 164.4 Between 3 and 4 years 122.3 (0.2) 3.9 126.0 Between 4 and 5 years 0.7 6.0 6.7 After 5 years 19.5 4.8 24.3 334.0 (0.5) 28.4 361.9 31/12/2018 Embedded Capitalized derivatives finance and Lease Annual maturity of non-current borrowings in 2018 Borrowings charges revaluation liabilities Total Between 1 and 2 years 30.7 (3.7) (2.1) 11.0 35.9 Between 2 and 3 years 30.7 (1.3) (1.0) 3.3 31.7 Between 3 and 4 years 233.8 (0.2) (0.1) 2.1 235.6 Between 4 and 5 years 122.2 (0.1) 2.6 124.7 After 5 years 20.4 0.0 8.1 28.5 437.8 (5.3) (3.2) 27.1 456.4 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 58 Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: Derivatives Equity Interest Interest rate swap rate swap and and forward forward exchange exchange Share contracts contracts capital and used for used for share hedging hedging premium Other Retained Borrowings –assets –liabilities reserve reserves earnings NCI Total At 31 December 2018 487.9 1.3 1.4 167.8 (10.3) 403.2 0.2 1,051.5 Changes from financing cash flows Proceed from issue of share capital 352.2 352.2 Proceeds from loans and borrowings 40.0 40.0 Purchase of treasury shares (37.6) (37.6) Sale of treasury shares 0.9 0.9 Repayment of borrowings (145.3) (145.3) Payment of lease liabilities (14.3) (14.3) Dividend paid (36.7) (0.0) (36.7) Total changes from financing cash flows (119.6) 315.5 (36.7) (0.0) 159.2 Changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 2.7 2.7 Other changes Liability related 5.9 (1.3) 1.6 6.2 New leases 12.5 12.5 Borrowing costs expensed 11.9 11.9 Total liability-related other changes 30.3 (1.3) 1.6 30.6 Total equity-related other changes 6.6 (0.6) 110.0 0.1 116.1 At 31 December 2019 401.3 3.0 489.9 (10.9) 476.5 0.3 1,360.1 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 59 Derivatives Equity Interest Interest rate swap rate swap and and forward forward exchange exchange Share contracts contracts capital and used for used for share hedging hedging premium Other Retained Borrowings –assets –liabilities reserve reserves earnings NCI Total At 31 December 2017 396.8 0.9 2.7 235.9 (8.2) 313.9 0.3 942.3 Impact IFRS 9, 15 & 16 33.2 (4.8) 28.4 At 1 January 2018 430.0 0.9 2.7 235.9 (8.2) 309.1 0.3 970.7 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from loans and borrowings 289.0 289.0 Purchase of treasury shares (71.7) (71.7) Sale of treasury shares 3.6 3.6 Proceeds from settlement of derivatives 1.0 1.0 Repayment of borrowings (241.6) (241.6) Payment of lease liabilities (9.2) (9.2) Dividend paid (28.7) (0.2) (28.9) Total changes from financing cash flows 39.2 (68.1) (28.7) (0.2) (57.8) Changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses 7.3 7.3 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 2.6 2.6 Other changes Liability related (3.5) 0.4 (1.3) (4.4) New leases 9.5 9.5 Borrowing costs expensed 2.8 2.8 Total liability-related other changes 8.8 0.4 (1.3) 7.9 Total equity-related other changes (2.1) 122.8 0.1 120.8 At 31 December 2018 487.9 1.3 1.4 167.8 (10.3) 403.2 0.2 1,051.5 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 60 24 Provisions Guarantee Pension commitcommitOther ments ments provisions Total Balance at 1 January 2019 7.0 9.4 0.6 17.0 Additions 1.8 1.8 0.8 4.4 Used (0.8) (0.2) (0.4) (1.4) Release (0.8) (0.4) (1.2) Balance at 31 December 2019 7.2 11.0 0.6 18.8 Guarantee Pension commitcommitOther ments ments provisions Total Balance at 1 January 2018 7.9 8.3 1.5 17.7 Additions 1.5 1.5 0.2 3.2 Business combinations, note 4 0.3 0.3 Used (0.6) (0.4) (1.0) (2.0) Release (2.1) (0.1) (2.2) Balance at 31 December 2018 7.0 9.4 0.6 17.0 Analysis of total provisions 2019 2018 Non-current 10.6 9.2 Current 8.2 7.8 18.8 17.0 Nature of obligation for 2019 Country Maturity Likelihood Amount Guarantee Netherlands Dynamic Dynamic 3.0 Guarantee US Dynamic Dynamic 1.2 Guarantee Denmark Dynamic Dynamic 1.0 Nature of obligation for 2018 Country Maturity Likelihood Amount Guarantee Netherlands Dynamic Dynamic 2.5 Guarantee US Dynamic Dynamic 1.4 Guarantee Denmark Dynamic Dynamic 0.8 Guarantee commitments Pension commitments The provisions for guarantee commitments reflect The pension commitments includes the provision the estimated costs of replacement and free-offor early retirements rights, which has increased to charge services that will be incurred by the EUR 7.5 million as per 31 December 2019 (31 Company with respect to products sold. December 2018: EUR 6.1 million). For further information on the pension commitments, refer to note 25. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 61 25 Post-employment benefits The Group maintains various pension plans covering law (‘’the Dutch Pension Act’’), a multi-employer the majority of its employees. union plan must be monitored against specific criteria, including the coverage ratio of the plan’s The Company’s pension costs for all employees for assets to its obligations. This coverage ratio must 2019 were EUR 27.6 million (2018: EUR 25.0 million). exceed 104.3 percent for the total plan. Every This includes defined contribution plans for company participating in a Dutch multi-employer EUR 16.7 million (2018: EUR 15.1 million), as well as a union plan contributes a premium calculated as a pension plan based on multi-employer union plan percentage of its total pensionable wages and for EUR 10.9 million (2018: EUR 9.8 million). salaries, with each company subject to the same percentage contribution rate. The Company’s employees in the Netherlands, 1,651 FTEs (2018: 1,568), participate in a multi-employer The Company’s net periodic pension cost for this union plan (“Bedrijfstakpensioenfonds Metalektro”, multi-employer plan for any period is the amount of “PME”). This plan is determined in accordance with the required contribution for that period. the collective bargaining agreements effective for the industry in which Marel operates. This pension The coverage ratio (“Beleidsdekkingsgraad”) of the plan is treated as a defined contribution scheme multi-employer plan decreased to 96.9 percent as based on the following grounds: per 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: 101.3).  It is an industry-wide pension fund, used by the The decrease is caused by developments in the Company in common with other legal entities. financial markets and the average interest rate. The  Under the regulations of the PME, the only coverage ratio is below the legally required level of obligation for the affiliated businesses towards 104.3. The Recovery Plan PME 2019 (“Herstelplan the PME is to pay the annual premium liability. PME 2019”) indicates that the coverage ratio will  The affiliated businesses are under no increase within 10 years to the minimum required obligation whatsoever to pay off any deficits the coverage ratio of 119.0%. PME may incur, nor have they any claim to any potential surpluses. In 2020 the pension premium will be 22.7 % of the total pensionable salaries (2019: 22.7%), in The multi-employer plan covers approximately accordance with the articles of association of the 1,380 companies and 160,000 contributing Pension Fund. The coverage ratio is calculated by members. The plan monitors its risks on a global dividing the fund’s capital by the total sum of basis, not by company or employee, and is subject to pension liabilities and is based on actual market regulation by Dutch governmental authorities. By interest. 26 Financial instruments and risks Financial risk factors approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury This note presents information about the Group’s identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in exposure to each of the below mentioned risks, the close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. Group’s objectives, policies and processes for The Group’s overall risk management program measuring and managing the risk. Further focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets quantitative disclosures are included throughout and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on these Consolidated Financial Statements. the Group´s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk Risk management framework exposures and does not enter into financial The main financial risks faced by Marel relate to contracts for speculative purposes. market risk and liquidity risk. Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group The Group Audit Committee oversees how Treasury) under policies and with instruments management monitors compliance with the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 62 risk management policies and procedures, and The year end and average rates used for the main reviews the adequacy of the risk management currencies mentioned above are: framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its 2019 2018 oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit 1 undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk euro Year-end Average Year-end Average management controls and procedures, the results of = rate rate rate rate which are reported to the Audit Committee. USD 1.12 1.12 1.14 1.18 GBP 0.85 0.88 0.90 0.88 Market risk ISK 135.83 137.26 132.93 127.54 Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its The following table details the Group’s sensitivity of holdings of financial instruments. Market risk transaction and translation risk to a 10% increase comprises (a) foreign exchange risk, (b) interest rate and decrease in the EUR against the relevant foreign risk and (c) credit risk. The objective of market risk currencies. 10% is the sensitivity rate used when management is to manage and control market risk reporting foreign currency risk internally to key exposures within acceptable parameters, while management and represents management's optimising the return. assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. (a) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding to currency risk arising from mainly the USD and ISK, foreign currency denominated monetary items and primarily with respect to the EUR, as the EUR is the adjusts their translation at the period-end for a 10% Group’s reporting currency. Generally Marel change in foreign currency rates. maintains a good natural hedge in its operations with a good match between revenue and cost in The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as most currencies although only a fraction of a well as loans to foreign operations within the Group percentage of revenues is denominated in ISK, while where the denomination of the loan is in a currency around 7.32% (2018: 8.24%) of costs is in ISK. other than the functional currency of the lender or Financial exposure is hedged in accordance with the the borrower. A positive number below indicates an Group’s general policy and within set limits. The increase in profit or loss or equity where the EUR Group monitors foreign exchange risk arising from strengthens 10% against the relevant currency. For a commercial transactions, recognized assets and 10% weakening of the EUR against the relevant liabilities (transaction risk) that are determined in a currency, there would be a comparable impact on currency other than the entity’s functional currency. the profit or loss or equity, and the balances below Derivative hedging is applied if the exposure is would be opposite. outside of the risk tolerance band on a consolidated basis. Currently all exposures are within risk 2019 2018 tolerance and the Group has no FX derivatives in USD ISK USD ISK place. impact impact impact impact Profit or (loss) (2.2) 1.1 (1.6) 0.6 Currency exposure arising from net assets of the Equity 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Group’s major foreign operations (translation risk) is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies as the policy is to apply natural exchange rate hedging where possible. Economic risk is defined as the extent to which currency fluctuations can alter a company’s future operating cash flows, that is future revenues and costs. Economic risk is not hedged. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 63 (b) Interest rate risk (c) Credit risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates customer or counterparty fails to meet its expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. contractual obligations. Credit risk arises from cash Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to and cash equivalents, derivative financial fair value interest rate risk. The risk is managed by instruments and deposits with banks and financial maintaining a mix between fixed and floating institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, interest rate on borrowings. Generally the Group including outstanding receivables and committed raises long term borrowings and pays a floating transactions. The credit quality of the customer is interest rate. To hedge the resulting cash flow assessed, taking into account its financial position, interest rate risk the Group uses interest rate swaps, past experience and other factors. Each customer where it pays a fixed interest rate and receives a has a set credit limit and the utilization of the credit floating interest rate. The floating rates are fixed on limit is regularly monitored. a quarterly or semi-annual basis. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 50 – 70% of its The carrying amount of financial assets represents exposure to changes in interest rates on core debt is the maximum credit risk exposure: hedged with an interest rate swap with a maximum maturity of 5 years. Currently around 15% (2018: 2019 2018 34%) of the core debt has floating interest rates and Trade receivables 162.1 142.0 the rest is fixed. As at year-end 2019 a total of Other receivables and EUR 282.5 million (2018: EUR 281.2 million) of prepayments 46.8 45.0 liabilities were swapped into fixed interest rates or in Cash and cash equivalents 303.7 56.3 fixed rate debt instruments. The weighted average 512.6 243.3 fixed rate of the interest swaps currently is 0.0% (2018: 0.0%). In 2008 the Group started applying No significant credit limits were exceeded during the cash flow hedge accounting to hedge the variability reporting period, and management does not expect in the interest cash outflows of the 3 months any losses from non-performance by these EURIBOR/LIBOR Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes. counterparties (refer to note 17). Throughout the year 2019 as well as per year-end The Group has no significant concentrations of the cash flow hedge accounting relationships were credit risk. The Group has policies in place to ensure effective. As the syndicated loan facility is expected that sales of products and services are made to to be replaced, Marel ended the hedge relationship customers with an appropriate credit history and between the facility and the applicable interest rate products are not delivered until payments are swaps. The total mark-to-market valuation of those secured. The Group establishes an allowance for swaps were at year end EUR 2.0 million which were impairment that represents its estimate of incurred moved from hedge reserve in equity through the losses in respect of trade and other receivables (refer profit and loss statement in 2019. to note 17). The amounts deferred in equity at year-end are The Group has banking relations with a diversified expected to affect interest costs within the coming 4 set of financial institutions around the world. The years. Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution and has At year-end 2019, if EURIBOR interest rates had been International Swaps and Derivatives Association 25 basis points higher/lower with all other variables agreements in place with counterparties in all held constant, post-tax profit for the year would derivative transactions. have been EUR 0.1 million (2018: EUR 0.4 million) lower/higher. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter Among the actions taken to monitor the interest rate difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with risk are stress tests to establish sensitivity to possible its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering movements in rates and how they might affect the cash or another financial asset. Prudent liquidity risk Group's results. management implies maintaining sufficient cash Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 64 and committed credit facilities to give reasonable Cash flow forecasts are done at the local levels and operating headroom. Due to the dynamic nature of monitored by Group Treasury. Group liquidity the underlying businesses, the Group aims to reports are viewed by management on a weekly maintain flexibility in funding by maintaining basis. The Group has a cross border notional cash availability under committed credit lines. The Group pool with the aim of making better use of the Group has EUR 323.0 million of committed ancillary cash position and to further decrease the amount of facilities, which can be used both as a revolver and idle cash. to issue guarantees for down payments. The table below analyzes cash outflows per maturity At year-end 2019, the Group had nothing drawn on group based on the remaining period at reporting the revolving facility (2018: EUR 74.5 million), but date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts issued guarantees for EUR 45.6 million (2018: EUR disclosed in the table are the contractual 35.0 million) therefore the total usage is EUR 45.6 undiscounted cash flows. million (2018: EUR 109.5 million), leaving a headroom of EUR 277.4 million (2018: EUR 213.5 million). All facilities are subject to operational and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position covenants (interest cover and leverage). At the end of 2019 there is sufficient headroom. Less than Between 1 Over At 31 December 2019 1 year and 5 years 5 years Borrowings 30.6 314.0 19.5 Interest on borrowings 6.3 10.0 0.2 Lease liabilities 8.8 23.6 4.8 Trade and other payables 200.5 5.1 Interest rate swaps 1.2 3.0 247.4 355.7 24.5 Less than Between 1 Over At 31 December 2018 1 year and 5 years 5 years Borrowings 30.7 386.7 20.4 Interest on borrowings 6.0 16.7 0.5 Lease liabilities 6.7 19.0 8.1 Trade and other payables 217.0 Interest rate swaps 1.2 2.3 261.6 424.7 29.0 Capital management the leverage ratio in their approach to capital The Board of Directors’ policy is to maintain a strong management. capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future Insurance development of the business. The Group maintains global and local insurance programs. The coverage comprises property The Board monitors on leverage, defined as net debt damage, business interruption, general and product divided by EBITDA. The Board also monitors the level liability, marine cargo/mounting, directors’ and of dividends to ordinary shareholders. officers’ liability, employers practice liability, business travel and accident. The Group believes The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the that its current insurance coverage is adequate. higher returns on equity that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security of a sound capital position. The Group uses Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 65 The Group has covered Business Interruption Risks the reporting date. The quoted market price used for with an insurance policy underwritten by an financial assets held by the Group is the current bid independent insurance company for a maximum price. period of 24 months for Marel Poultry B.V. and 18 months for all other Marel entities. The insurance Level 2: benefits for Business Interruption amount to The fair value of financial instruments that are not EUR 662 million for 2019 (2018: EUR 597 million) for traded in an active market is determined by using the whole Group. valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on The Group insurance value of buildings amounts to market conditions existing at each reporting date. EUR 174 million (2018: EUR 150 million), production These valuation techniques are based on observable machinery and equipment including software and inputs, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. office equipment amount to EUR 184 million (2018: derived from prices). Derivatives are valued by an EUR 160 million) and inventories to EUR 206 million independent third party based on market (2018: EUR 179 million). Currently there are no major conditions, which takes into account credit value differences between appraisal value and insured adjustment and debit value adjustment corrections. value. Level 3: Fair value estimation Valuation techniques using significant unobservable The Group accounts for fixed rate financial assets inputs. and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group designates derivatives (interest rate The fair value of borrowings equals their carrying swaps) as hedging instruments under a fair value amount, as the impact of discounting is not hedge accounting model. These hedges previously significant and is classified as Level 2 in the fair value were accounted for using the hedge accounting and hierarchy. The fair values are based on cash flows recording changes in fair value over other discounted using a rate based on the borrowings comprehensive income. As of the fourth quarter of rate of 1.59% (2018: 1.66%). 2019 Marel temporary stopped applying hedge accounting for interest rate swaps linked to the The weighted average interest rate on borrowings in syndicated loan facility as it is expected to be repaid 2019, including effect of floating to fixed interest early 2020. When sufficient drawdowns on the new rates swaps is 1.59% (2018: 1.66%). facility will be established Marel intends to reestablish a hedge relationship between the The fair value of the lease liabilities equals its outstanding swaps and the new revolving facility. carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not Additionally a fair value instrument accounted for in significant. The fair values are based on cash flows the profit and loss statement being the 0% floor discounted using a rate based on the average embedded in the EUR term loan and revolving interest rate of the relevant currency and applicable facility. During 2019 the floor results in a profit of average credit spreads of the company’s external EUR 2.2 million in finance cost. funding sources. If 3 months EURIBOR restores to values above 0% the If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an result would be a profit EUR 1.1 million from fair asset or a liability fall into different levels of the fair value derivatives. value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair Fair value versus carrying amount value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is The Group measures fair values using the following significant to the entire measurement. fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making measurements: The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting Level 1: period during which the change has occurred. The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market is based on quoted market prices at Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 66 The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are as follows: Cash flowOther Total hedging Cash & financial carrying 2019 instruments receivables liabilities amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents 303.7 303.7 303.7 Receivables 208.9 208.9 208.9 512.6 512.6 512.6 Interest rate swaps used for hedging (3.0) (3.0) (3.0) Bank loans (364.1) (364.1) (364.1) Lease liabilities (37.2) (37.2) (37.2) Trade and other payables (205.6) (205.6) (205.6) (3.0) (606.9) (609.9) (609.9) 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 56.3 56.3 56.3 Receivables 187.0 187.0 187.0 243.3 243.3 243.3 Interest rate swaps used for hedging (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Bank loans (454.1) (454.1) (454.1) Lease liabilities (33.8) (33.8) (33.8) Trade and other payables (220.0) (220.0) (220.0) (0.1) (707.9) (708.0) (708.0) The table below analyses financial instruments, period, by the level in the fair value hierarchy into measured at fair value at the end of the reporting which the fair value measurement is categorized: Derivatives liabilities held for risk management Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 December 2019 3.0 3.0 At 31 December 2018 1.2 1.2 No financial instruments were transferred from Level This is in line with Marel’s risk management policy to 1 to Level 2 or from Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value have 50 70% of core debt fixed for 3 – 5 years. hierarchy. The notional principal amount of the outstanding Interest-rate swap active interest rate swap contracts at 31 December To protect Marel from fluctuations in Euribor-EUR2019 was EUR 282.5 million (31 December 2018: Reuters/Libor-BBA (‘’British Bankers Association’’) EUR 281.2 million). and in accordance with the interest hedge policy Marel has entered into interest rate swaps (the hedging instruments) to receive floating interest and to pay fixed interest. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 67 31/12 2019 Currency Principal Maturity Interest % Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP EUR 35.0 2023 0.4 Interest rate SWAP EUR 35.0 2023 0.4 Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP USD 10.0 2020 1.3 Interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2020 1.6 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 80.0 2022 0.4 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 40.0 2022 0.4 Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 50.0 2022 2.3 Embedded floor (0,00% cap on interest rates in financing agreements) EUR 168.0 2022 0.0 FX EUR DKK interest rate SWAP (EUR fixed, DKK floating) EUR 0.8 2027 5.2 31/12 2018 Currency Principal Maturity Interest % Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP EUR 35.0 2023 0.4 Interest rate SWAP EUR 35.0 2023 0.4 Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP EUR 50.0 2020 (0.1) Interest rate SWAP USD 10.0 2020 1.3 Interest rate SWAP USD 60.0 2020 1.6 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 80.0 2022 0.4 Forward starting interest rate SWAP EUR 40.0 2022 0.4 Forward starting interest rate SWAP USD 50.0 2022 2.3 Embedded floor (0,00% cap on interest rates in financing agreements) EUR 257.5 2022 0.0 FX EUR DKK interest rate SWAP (EUR fixed, DKK floating) EUR 0.8 2027 5.2 27 Trade and other payables 2019 2018 Information about the Group’s exposure to currency Trade payables 83.6 92.9 and liquidity risks is included in note 26. Accruals 11.0 10.4 Personnel payables 51.9 53.9 Other payables 59.1 62.8 Total trade and other payables 205.6 220.0 Less noncurrent portion (5.1) (3.0) Current portion of trade and other payables 200.5 217.0 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 68 28 Contingencies Contingent liabilities At this point in time, we cannot estimate any At 31 December 2019 the Group had contingent additional amount of loss or range of loss in excess liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees of the recorded amounts with sufficient certainty to and other matters arising in the ordinary course of allow such amount or range of amounts to be business from which it is anticipated that no material meaningful. Moreover, if and to the extent that the liabilities will arise. In the ordinary course of business contingent liabilities materialize, they are often the Group has given guarantees amounting to EUR resolved over a number of years and the timing of 82.4 million (31 December 2018: EUR 49.0 million) to such payments cannot be predicted with third parties. confidence. While the outcome of said cases, claims and disputes cannot be predicted with certainty, we Legal proceedings believe, based upon legal advice and information As part of doing business and acquisitions the Group received, that the final outcome will not materially is involved in claims and litigations, under such affect our consolidated financial position but could indemnities and guarantees. These claims are be material to our results of operations or cash flows pending and all are contested. Provisions are in any one accounting period. recognized when an outflow of economic benefits for settlement is probable and the amount can be Environmental remediation estimated reliably. It should be understood that, in The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to light of possible future developments, such as (a) environmental laws and regulations. Under these potential additional lawsuits, (b) possible future laws, the Company and/or its subsidiaries may be settlements, and (c) rulings or judgments in pending required to remediate the effects of certain incidents lawsuits, certain cases may result in additional on the environment. liabilities and related costs. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 69 29 Related party transactions and information on remuneration At 31 December 2019 and 2018 there are no loans to Group and members of the Board of Directors nor the members of the Board of Directors and the CEO. the CEO in the year ended 31 December 2019 and In addition, there were no transactions carried out 2018. (purchases of goods and services) between the Bought Pension shares acc. Board of Directors' fee for the year 2019 and shares at yearcontribuStock to stock Shares at end (EUR 1,000) Board fee tion1) options2) options2) year-end 2) Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir , Chairman 140.0 16.0 32 Arnar Þór Másson, Vice Chairman 97.0 11.0 Ann Elizabeth Savage, Board Member 54.0 6.0 Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Board Member 54.0 6.0 Helgi Magnússon, Board Member, (until 06-03-2019) 9.0 1.0 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir, Board Member 54.0 6.0 195 Ólafur S. Guðmundsson, Board Member 54.0 6.0 1,705 Ton van der Laan, Board Member, (from 06-03-2019) 45.0 5.0 Board of Directors' fee for the year 2018 and shares at yearend (EUR 1,000) Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir , Chairman 134.0 14.0 32 Arnar Þór Másson, Vice Chairman 93.0 10.0 Ann Elizabeth Savage, Board Member 52.0 6.0 Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Board Member 52.0 6.0 Helgi Magnússon, Board Member 52.0 6.0 3,039 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir, Board Member 52.0 6.0 195 Ólafur S. Guðmundsson, Board Member 52.0 6.0 1,705 Bought Share Pension shares acc. Key management remuneration Salary and based Incentive contribuStock to stock Shares at 2019 (EUR 1,000) benefits benefits payments tion1) options 2) options2) year-end 2) Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief 3) Executive Officer 680 379 220 2,260 132 4) Executive Management 3,514 1,164 1,131 594 10,682 466 1,273 Key management remuneration 2018 (EUR 1,000) Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief 3) Executive Officer 634 278 111 1,610 132 Executive Management 3,082 869 1,008 373 8,795 690 1,256 4) 1) Pension contributions for all board members and the management are part of a defined contribution plan. 2) Number of shares * 1,000. 3) Margrét Jónsdóttir is the Managing Director of Operation of Eyrir Invest hf. and Árni Oddur Þórðarson is a major shareholder of Eyrir Invest hf., which on 31 December 2019 held 190,366,838 (2018: 190,366,838) shares in Marel hf. (24.7% (2018: 27.9%) of total issued shares). 4) Marel has identified eleven executives who have material significance for Marel's operations. This group consists of Chief Financial Officer, executive vice president (“EVP”) Poultry, EVP Meat, EVP Fish, EVP Further Processing, EVP Global Markets, EVP Global Service, EVP Supply Chain, EVP Human Resources, EVP Strategy and Corporate Development and EVP Innovation. One of them joined the Executive Team in the beginning of September 2019 and one left the Team at the same time. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 70 2019 2018 Average Average exercise exercise Options Number of price EUR Number of price EUR Stock options granted shares * ) per share shares * ) per share Árni Oddur Þórðarson, Chief Executive Officer 2016 360 1.826 360 1.860 2017 600 2.681 600 2.737 2018 650 2.825 650 2.881 2019 650 3.194 Executive Management 2014 1,170 0.861 1,305 0.896 2015 1,040 1.407 1,280 1.434 2016 972 1.826 1,260 1.860 2017 1,900 2.681 2,200 2.737 2018 2,500 2.825 2,750 2.881 2019 2,850 3.194 2019 250 3.700 *) Number of shares * 1,000. 30 Subsequent events On 5 February 2020 a new syndicated loan facility has been signed. For further details refer to note 23. No other significant events have taken place since the reporting date, 31 December 2019. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 71 31 Subsidiaries The following lists presents the material subsidiaries All of the entities are fully consolidated in Group as per 31 December 2019 representing greater than financial statements. Companies are listed in 1% of either the consolidated Group revenues or alphabetical order of the country of incorporation: total asset value. Country of Ownership Incorporation Interest Marel Australia Pty. Ltd. Australia 100% Marel Brasil Commercial e Industrial Ltda Brazil 100% Sulmaq Industrial e Comercial S.A. Brazil 100% Marel A/S Denmark 100% Butina A/S Denmark 100% Marel Salmon A/S Denmark 100% Marel France S.A.R.L . France 100% MAJA-Maschinenfabrik Hermann Schill GmbH Germany 100% Marel Iceland ehf. Iceland 100% Marel Holding B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Meat B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Poultry B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Further Processing B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Water Treatment B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Red Meat Slaughtering B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Meat Service B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Food Logistics Systems B.V. Netherlands 100% Marel Norge AS Norway 100% Marel Food Systems LLC Russia 100% Marel Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100% Marel Ltd. UK 100% Marel GB Ltd. UK 100% Marel Inc. USA 100% Marel USA Holding, Inc. USA 100% Marel Seattle Inc. USA 100% Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 72 32 Quarterly results (unaudited) 2019 2019 2019 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 324.6 326.5 312.5 320.1 1,283.7 Cost of sales (199.2) (196.3) (193.0) (204.1) (792.6) Gross profit 125.4 130.2 119.5 116.0 491.1 Selling and marketing expenses (39.0) (41.3) (37.2) (41.7) (159.2) Research and development expenses (21.4) (21.4) (20.5) (22.6) (85.9) General and administrative expenses (20.1) (20.6) (20.2) (22.5) (83.4) Result from operations (EBIT) 44.9 46.9 41.6 29.2 162.6 Net finance costs (3.8) (2.5) (2.0) (12.4) (20.7) Share of result of associates 0.0 (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) Result before income tax 41.1 44.4 39.6 16.7 141.8 Income tax (8.9) (10.1) (6.2) (6.5) (31.7) Net result for the period 32.2 34.3 33.4 10.2 110.1 Result before depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) 59.1 61.1 56.4 43.7 220.3 2018 2018 2018 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 288.4 296.7 282.0 330.8 1,197.9 Cost of sales (176.9) (181.7) (171.3) (205.2) (735.1) Gross profit 111.5 115.0 110.7 125.6 462.8 Selling and marketing expenses (34.2) (35.0) (33.6) (37.2) (140.0) Research and development expenses (18.1) (17.4) (19.1) (22.1) (76.7) General and administrative expenses (17.7) (21.7) (20.4) (25.4) (85.2) Result from operations (EBIT) 41.5 40.9 37.6 40.9 160.9 Net finance costs (6.0) (3.1) (2.9) (2.9) (14.9) Result before income tax 35.5 37.8 34.7 38.0 146.0 Income tax (7.2) (8.3) (8.0) (0.0) (23.5) Net result for the period 28.3 29.5 26.7 38.0 122.5 Result before depreciation & amortization (EBITDA) 55.3 53.9 50.0 56.3 215.5 Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 73 The below tables provides an overview of the management believes to be a relevant Non-IFRS quarterly adjusted result from operations, which measurement, as mentioned in note 6. 2019 2019 2019 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 324.6 326.5 312.5 320.1 1,283.7 Cost of sales (199.2) (196.3) (193.0) (204.1) (792.6) Gross profit 125.4 130.2 119.5 116.0 491.1 Selling and marketing expenses (37.3) (39.7) (35.5) (40.1) (152.6) Research and development expenses (20.6) (20.4) (19.6) (21.5) (82.1) General and administrative expenses (20.0) (20.5) (20.1) (22.4) (83.0) Adjusted result from operations*) 47.5 49.6 44.3 32.0 173.4 PPA related costs (2.6) (2.7) (2.7) (2.8) (10.8) Result from operations (EBIT) 44.9 46.9 41.6 29.2 162.6 2018 2018 2018 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Revenue 288.4 296.7 282.0 330.8 1,197.9 Cost of sales (176.9) (181.7) (171.3) (200.5) 730.4 Gross profit 111.5 115.0 110.7 130.3 467.5 Selling and marketing expenses (32.6) (33.5) (32.0) (35.6) (133.7) Research and development expenses (17.4) (16.7) (18.4) (21.2) (73.7) General and administrative expenses (17.7) (21.6) (20.3) (25.3) (84.9) Adjusted result from operations*) 43.8 43.2 40.0 48.2 175.2 PPA related costs (2.3) (2.3) (2.4) (7.3) (14.3) Result from operations (EBIT) 41.5 40.9 37.6 40.9 160.9 *) Operating income adjusted for PPA costs related to acquisitions, including depreciation and amortization. Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 74 33 Definitions and abbreviations BBA British Bankers Association IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation BPS Committee Basis points IFRS CGU International Financial Reporting Standards Cash Generating Units KPI Current ratio Key performance indicator Current assets / current liabilities LIBOR Debt to adjusted capital ratio London Interbank Offered Rate Net interest bearing debt / adjusted capital (total equity – hedge reserve) Leverage adjusted result Net interest bearing debt / EBITDA EBIT Earnings before interest and tax NCI Non-controlling interest EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and OCI amortization Other comprehensive income ECL POC Expected credit loss Percentage of completion EPS PPA Earnings per share Purchase Price Allocation EURIBOR Quick ratio Euro interbank offered rates (Current assets – Inventories) / Current liabilities FTE Return on equity Full-time equivalent Result for the period / average of total equity. Average of total equity: (beginning balance + FVOCI ending balance for the period) / 2 Fair value through other comprehensive income SIC FVTPL Standard interpretation committee Fair value through profit or loss VPL FX Wet aanpassing fiscale behandeling VUTForeign exchange prepensioen en introductie levensloopregeling (Law relating to adjustments of fiscal treatment of GAAP (pre)pension and the introduction of a life plan Generally accepted accounting principles scheme) IAS WACC International Accounting Standard Weighted average cost of capital Consolidated Financial Statements 2019 75
