UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ABOUT DANISH AGRO Danish Agro was founded back in 1901 and is now The group primarily works with the sale of feed one of the biggest and most important agribusimixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, fertiliser, ness groups in northern Europe. plant protection, seeds and energy in addition to the purchase of crops from farms. FurtherThe Danish Agro group is an international agriculmore, the group represents a number of strong ture group, with 5,000 employees in 16 different machinery brands for agriculture and runs an countries, primarily in Scandinavia and the Baltic extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail outlets. region. This report deals with a number of policies, all Danish Agro is an independent, cooperative-baadopted by the entire Danish Agro group and thus sed company, owned by around 9,000 Danish applicable to all underlying subsidiaries. farmers. The report is the Danish Agro group’s fifth ComThe group is a member of DAKOFO, the trade munication on Progress report and is the group’s organisation for grain and feedstuff trading in mandatory report on Corporate Social ResponsibiDenmark, and the Danish Agriculture and Food lity (CSR) as per Section 99ab of the Danish FinanCouncil trade association, also in Denmark. cial Statements Act for the 2019 accounting year. 2 FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY Our trainee programme continues to be a focus Our business is founded on the protection of and area in which we take direct responsibility for focus on the environment, society and economy. our young trainees and give them a good start in The criterion for a productive, competitive and agribusiness industry, including giving them skills effective business is sustainable development and sharing our knowledge and experience with within society, and we believe that contributing to them. that is the only responsible thing to do. We do not tolerate any form of corruption in In our CSR activities, we focus on the areas in our corporate practices, including blackmail and which we have expertise and knowledge. As such, bribery, and our commercial activities are run in we have focused on measures that are directly accordance with local, national and international relevant to our business and the environment we laws and regulations relevant to our business. are a part of. The group takes an active interest in Furthermore, we trade on the world market in our social and environmental responsibilities at free competition, in accordance with competition all points of the value chain, based on the 10 prinlaw and we ensure that UN trade restrictions are ciples of the UN Global Compact. fully respected. We are also inspired by the UN’s 17 Sustainable We look forward to working with the Global ComDevelopment Goals, which are expressed through pact principles in the years to come. a range of areas of our business and through specific activities and initiatives. Danish Agro also shares the Danish Agriculture and Food Council’s vision of climate-neutral food products by 2050, which means that the agriculture and food industry will not emit any more greenhouse gases than it absorbs by that time. In close consultation with the Danish Agriculture and Food Council, farmers and food companies in Denmark, we will work together in accordance with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals to find a financially-sustainable means of climate-neutral food production. In relation to the climate and environment, we generally focus on having the smallest environmental footprint possible. We entered into a climate partnership in 2016 with the Danish energy company Ørsted A/S, an agreement we have continued to work on over the last few years. ConHenning Haahr sequently, Danish Agro in Denmark committed to Group CEO reducing its energy consumption over the coming years. With regard to social responsibility, we focus on a personnel policy that cultivates a healthy working environment, education and safety at work. When it comes to our suppliers, we want to conduct a constructive, innovative dialogue based on the principles of human rights and rights within the workplace. That’s why we also focus on health and the working environment and have zero tolerance for forced or child labour. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY We believe that by maintaining our policies on human rights in 2019, we made a positive contriAs a company, we should: bution to respecting human rights in the workplace, and we encountered no breaches of those 1. Support and respect the protection of rights during the year in our business. internationally-proclaimed human rights, and Danish Agro group’s support and respect for international conventions on human rights is reflected 2. Ensure that we are not complicit in internally in the organisation, including in our HR human rights abuses. policies, and externally in the trading activities and partnerships we enter into internationally. As such, we continued to work on risks in the POLICIES supply chain in 2019, for example, the purchase Danish Agro respects and supports internationalof soya from South America. The South Amerily-recognised human rights throughout the comcan soya used in feed for animal production in pany. That means that we respect and support Denmark has to be produced under responsible international agreements on human rights. conditions. That means stamping out child labour, repression and discrimination amongst workers, We do not accept forced or child labour, and we along with ensuring freedom of organisation. respect the rights of our employees to freely join trade unions and to take part in collective wage It also means that the international rules for the negotiations. use of pesticides must be respected, and production in vulnerable areas avoided. We also respect relevant standards concerning working hours throughout the group. FurtherThat’s why Danish Agro includes requirements more, we ensure that wages comply with legislain its contracts for our suppliers of soya to fulfil a tion and industry standards in those countries range of criteria for responsible production. We do where we operate. so based on industry-defined purchasing criteria agreed throughout the industry in Denmark. Danish Agro continues to focus on ensuring diversity, for example, in the Supervisory Board and Other measures within human rights were decileading positions. ded on at Danish Agro’s Annual General Meeting on 5 March 2019, including the introduction of a delegate assembly responsible for appointing the company’s Supervisory Board. Danish Agro’s owners appointed 42 members to the new assembly at six extraordinary regional meetings in November 2019. Each of the company’s six regions therefore elected seven delegates from Danish Agro’s owners. An employee representative will also be a member of the assembly. The new delegate assembly will allow Danish Agro to strengthen democratic representation throughout its regions, company types and competences amongst the company’s owners. 4 The delegates will also strengthen Danish Agro’s protection of its owners’ rights, ensuring enhanced and broader representation. The newly-elected assembly will meet for the first time in early 2020, when election of the members of the group’s Supervisory Board will be one of the items on the agenda. The group has also worked actively with targets and policies for the gender composition of the management and for reporting on the same. At this time, all nine members of the Supervisory Board are male, which should be seen in the light of Danish Agro operating in a male-dominated industry, generally making it hard to attract women to board and management positions in the agribusiness industry. It is therefore good news that four women are to be found amongst the 42 members of the newly elected assembly. Danish Agro believes in diversity for its Supervisory Board, including gender representation. Diversity must be prioritised, but not at the expense of competence. Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board will continue to work towards greater diversity within its ranks, and the target set to be fulfilled by the Annual General Meeting in 2022 is an increase of female representation on the board to 15% (equivalent to 1 person). This target was not achieved in 2019, as only one Supervisory Board member left and one joined, that person being a man. The above target only concerns the Supervisory Board members elected by the regions and externally elected. The employee-elected Supervisory Board members are not included. The composition of the Supervisory Boards in our subsidiaries is intended to provide the best possible support for group strategy. The Supervisory Boards of our subsidiaries are usually composed of members of the group management of Danish Agro a.m.b.a. and representatives from the ultimate owners. They also contain representatives from external minority shareholders. Danish Agro has set the following targets for the under-represented gender on the Supervisory Boards of the group’s subsidiaries, drawing inspiration from the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. A sub-goal under Goal 5 is gender equality, including The policy is designed to improve representation ensuring full, effective participation and equal opporof the under-represented gender within the group tunities for women in management at all levels of management, as per Section 139a(1)(2) of the decision-making, which is also the case at Danish Agro. Danish Companies Act. Targets have been established for the group’s large The breakdown of gender representation of Danish businesses and reflect the fact that our subsimanagement positions within Danish Agro is as diaries also operate in a male-dominated industry. follows: Consequently, only Dansk Vilomix A/S managed to 1. Group Executive Board 0% fulfil the target for the under-represented gender on 2. Group management, including staff 0% its Supervisory Board in 2019. 3. Company management in the group 23% The composition of the Supervisory Boards of the Compared to last year, the number of women in other subsidiaries continues to reflect the general company management within the group remains level of management representation. unchanged. A lot of work has also been done on the target of having The activities listed below have been initiated to more women be part of the management at Danish increase the number of the under-represented Agro. A policy for attracting more women to Danish gender in management jobs. Agro’s management positions has been formulated. PERCENTAGE OF TARGET SUBSIDIARIES MEN WOMEN TOTAL UNDER-REPRESENTED PERIOD NUMBER GENDER DANISH AGRO MACHINERY HOLD-ING A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End of 2022 DANISH AGRO MACHINERY A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End of 2022 DA AGRAVIS MACHINERY HOLDING A/S 4 0 4 0% 25% End of 2022 DV INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End of 2022 DV AGRAVIS INTERNATIONAL HOLD-ING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End of 2022 VILOMIX INTERNATIONAL HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End of 2022 VILOMIX HOLDING A/S 4 0 4 0% 25% End of 2022 DANSK VILOMIX A/S 2 1 3 33% 33% End of 2022 HATTING A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End of 2022 DAN AGRO HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20 % End of 2022 HEDEGAARD A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End of 2022 DAVA FOODS HOLDING A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End of 2022 DAVA FOODS DANMARK A/S 3 0 3 0% 33% End of 2022 DLA AGRO A.M.B.A. 7 0 7 0% 14% End of 2022 SCANOLA A/S 5 0 5 0% 20% End of 2022 6 Danish Agro wants to: Major risks related to human rights The main risks related to human rights are linked • Ensure that our personnel policy promotes the to the gender composition of the Supervisory equal career opportunities of men and women Board posts and management positions in the at all levels, including in connection with the group. company’s hiring procedures and recruitment. • Ensure that both male and female candidates This is due to Danish Agro operating in a male-doare, as far as possible, candidates for internal minated industry, making it difficult to attract and external recruitment for management women to the Supervisory Board and managepositions. ment positions. • Ensure internal training and development programmes intended to develop the talent of both The group is aware of this problem, and is worgenders. king as a whole on its targets and policies designed to increase the proportion of the under-reIn terms of human rights, Danish Agro’s Finnish presented gender for Supervisory Board posts and subsidiary Hankkija contributed to the campaign management positions. against breast cancer in 2019. The initiative was in the form of collaboration with Trioplast, a If these risks are not dealt with, the consequence manufacturer of, among other things, plastics for can be that we are unable to fulfil the target for wrap bales, and also a collaboration with the orgadiversity of the Supervisory Board and managenisation Europa Donna Finland, a member of the ment positions in the group. European Breast Cancer Association. The same risk applies to our suppliers in the Europa Donna supports research into breast canvalue chain. If these risks are not dealt with, the cer, helping women to understand their rights consequence could be that the soya we buy from and treatment options during the course of their South America is not produced under responsible treatment. Via the sale of wrap bales with pink conditions. plastic, three Euros were donated for each wrap bale to Europa Donna Finland – one each from Hankkija, Trioplast and the buyer. Baltic Agro in Lithuania also took an active part in the fight against breast cancer in 2019 by supporting the Nedelsk project, in which hot air balloons helped create awareness of the disease, and ten buses with health care personnel toured the country, offering women a free check-up. Baltic Agro in Latvia joined forces with Trioplast and farmers to support the “We support cancer-sick children in Latvia” Children’s Hospital Foundation with a donation of Eur 2,156 in 2019. Wrap bales in yellow plastic were sold in this case, with one Euro each donated by Baltic Agro, Trioplast and the buyer for each bale sold. Baltic Agro in Estonia also joined forces with Trioplast in a campaign designed to create greater awareness of treatment and prevention of prostate cancer. The campaign was part of Movember, a global organisation dedicated to attracting focus on and improving male health. The result of the campaign, which included the sale of wrap bales with blue plastic, was the collection of Eur 5,000. The money was donated to the Men’s Clinic at the University of Tartu in Estonia, which works actively to prevent and treat prostate cancer. 7 WORKERS’ RIGHTS UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY Danish Agro is a member of the GLS-A employer’s association, which acts as a guarantee for decent As a company, we should: conditions for our employees via collective and local agreements. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right The HR function carried on its work from previous to collective bargaining; years in 2019 on a process designed to enhance management effectiveness in the group, via such 4. Support the elimination of all forms of means as training and workshops. forced and compulsory labour; The objective is to enhance our commercial acti5. Support the effective abolition of vities and support the group’s management in child labour; and relation to change management, communication and employee handling. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Danish Agro’s trainee programme continued in 2019. The programme is aimed at young people with an agricultural background interested in a sales-oriented educational programme in the agribusiness industry. POLICIES Within the Danish Agro group, we work hard to One trainee completed the programme in the provide an attractive, exciting, efficient and inclusummer of 2019, and has subsequently been given sive workplace for all our employees. permanent employment with Danish Agro. That means that we produce a multi-faceted and Four new trainees started in September 2019, inclusive workplace offering equal opportunibringing the total to eight. They follow a tailties for everyone. We provide the means for our or-made programme focusing on either pigs, employees to advance in their job, and we develop cattle, plant breeding, poultry or logistics, going leaders able to inspire the employees to perform through every nook and cranny of the industry. at their best. We work constantly to ensure efficient working processes across the group. The programme involves periods switching between internal courses and postings with the We focus on creating a safe, healthy working parent company and subsidiaries where the focus environment and providing competitive terms of is on sales. employment for all our employees. In particular, we offer working conditions that comply with We believe that we have a responsibility for sharing legislation, relevant guidelines and according to our know-how and experience with young people the standards of the UN Global Compact. with an interest in the agribusiness industry. Danish Agro also has a working environment The agricultural educational programmes give committee to ensure the best conditions for our trainees an excellent grounding, and Danish Agro employees. supplements this knowledge with commercial skills and practical experience through our trainee Another committee within the group is the liaison programme. committee, in which management and employees are represented for the purpose of promoting job We plan to recruit a further four or five trainees satisfaction and dialogue throughout the group. in 2020. 8 We also have a number of students and apprentices from technical educational programmes within the group, including five apprentice goods vehicle drivers, two tanker drivers, one student within warehousing and logistics, one media graphics student, a sales assistant and an office student. We also had a number of interns getting practical work experience at several of our branches in 2019. As is the case with our trainee programme, we believe that we have a responsibility towards students, apprentices and interns to share our knowledge and experience, while giving them a better chance of gaining a foothold on the job market once they have completed their studies. Major risks related to worker’s rights The main risks related to workers’ rights are related to the lack of job satisfaction at work. We seek to prevent this through Danish Agro’s working environment committee, which ensures optimal working environment conditions for our employees, and the group also has a liaison committee on which management and employees are represented for the purpose of promoting job satisfaction and dialogue throughout the group. The group HR function carried on its work in 2019 on a process designed to enhance management effectiveness in the group, via such means as training and workshops. The objective is to support the group’s management in relation to change management, communication and employee handling. If such risks are not dealt with, the consequence can be a lack of employee job satisfaction, which can lead to a sub-standard working environment, stress and high rates of sick leave. These are factors that have a direct impact on the bottom line. 7 6 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY Social responsibility and caring for the environment are integrated elements of Danish Agro’s As a company, we should: business. As an agricultural business, Danish Agro is very aware of the need to reduce the impact we 7. Support a precautionary ap­proach to have on the environment and climate. environmental challenges; We all have a common responsibility to ensure 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greasustainability, and we of course take our share of ter environmental responsibility; and that responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and difWe have clearly-defined purchasing criteria and fusion of environmentally friendly codes of conduct, which our suppliers are required technologies. to sign, and that helps to ensure that rules are complied with and our responsibility to society and the environment is fulfilled. POLICIES We are inspired by the UN’s 17 Sustainable DevelDanish Agro wants to reduce its impact on the opment Goals. One of the ways this can be seen is environment as much as possible – especially in our focus on energy-efficiency, as described in locally in the areas where the group has a preGoal number 7, concerning sustainable energy. sence. That means promoting sustainable processes in the group, and engaging in constant diaThe Danish Agro group thus maintains a consilogue with stakeholders on environmental issues. stent focus on the impact we have on the environment, and we have implemented energy-efficiency We also focus on saving energy, and cutting matemeasures over the last few years in Denmark, rial consumption by continuously monitoring including via our climate partnership agreement and optimising our operations. We comply with with Danish energy company Ørsted A/S. relevant legislation, requirements and take a proactive approach to the principles of the UN Global The agreement commits Danish Agro to cut Compact. energy consumption in our companies over the next few years. Part of the agreement means that Ørsted provide us with consultancy services and is responsible for implementing those measures, while Danish Agro has committed to take a certain amount of electricity from sustainable energy sources. It should be noted, however, that our energy consumption is generally, and to a very large degree, dependent on the weather, over which, of course, we have no control. For example, in years with very high rainfall, the need to dry grain after harvesting will be high, causing high energy consumption compared to years with low rainfall. 11 That’s why we focus here on highlighting the Our efforts within climate and sustainability foleffect of the energy-saving measures we have low two themes: realised over the year, rather than on energy consumption. • Climate-neutral food production by 2050 – a common goal for the industry In 2019, the group also worked actively with the • Energy-efficient food company Danish food industry’s ambition of achieving over– with its own initiatives all climate-neutral food production by 2050. Danish Agro actively supports the Danish AgriculThe vision was defined and launched by the Danish ture and Food Council’s climate goals through a Agriculture and Food Council in spring 2019. number of initiatives. A separate point for Danish Agro is that the overWe are a member of a working group along with all goal for the industry as a whole is also our Arla, Danish Crown, DLG and Seges, set up to goal. We can only make a real difference if we do define ways of developing a standardised and so in cooperation with all the other operators in internationally-acknowledged climate tool that the value chain and if the cooperation is based on can be used to measure the climate impact of mutual, binding goals. Danish agriculture. This is an important instrument that will make it possible to prioritise and We fully concur with the Danish Agriculture & identify areas where we can apply our efforts. Food Council when they write that the main objective is to establish cooperation to find an econoDanish Agro’s vision is that this climate tool will mically sustainable path towards climate neutral become a standardised, mandatory solution food production. applied to everyone in the value chain. 8 It must be a solution able to measure the full That has allowed us to continue to reduce fuel range of a farmer’s work – on the fields and in liveconsumption, helping achieve a reduction of CO2 stock units – eliminating the need to consider the emissions from our HGVs. use of multiple programmes and certifications. Consequently, we were able to reduce our CO2 Danish Agro is also working on several other iniemissions by 310 tonnes in 2019. tiatives to ensure more sustainable protein supplements for livestock feed. We are represented The target for 2020 is to cut overall consumption via the Danish Agriculture and Food Council and of diesel in Denmark by 5%. This will be achieved DAKOFO in the Dansk Alliance for Ansvarlig Soja via a number of initiatives, including optimised (the Danish alliance for responsible soya) facilitaplanning, eco-friendly driving techniques, a new ted by the Dansk Initiativ for Etisk Handel – DIEH tyre strategy and new, more energy-efficient HGVs. (the Danish initiative for ethical trade), which has brought together a number of players across the Danish Agro’s new biofuel plant in Skamby was value chain to discuss sustainable soya imports. also opened in the spring of 2019. By-products from Danish Agro’s grain production are some of Danish Agro is proactively working on ways of the fuel sources reused here, and steam from the reducing the environmental impact from the proplant is conducted via pipes to Danish Agro’s feed tein we use in our feed production. factory located on alongside the biofuel plant. We are also working hard to reduce our depenThe steam is used to power feed production at the dence on imported protein for feed production. factory, resulting in natural gas savings. The plant One of the ways we are doing so is through the helped Danish Agro in Denmark to cut overall CO2 refinement of various protein crops, including emissions by 8.4% in 2019. broad beans, by the group’s specialist seed company Nordic Seed. Other initiatives undertaken in 2019 in Denmark include merging production units, resulting in We also entered into a new partnership in 2019 reduction of CO2 emissions. We also invested with Unibio, a company developing a new, climafurther in reusing the factories’ steam plant to te-friendly protein, based on cultured bacteria boost energy-efficiency even more. The overall from the seabed. results of these measures have meant that Danish Agro in Denmark reduced its energy consumption The product is called Uniprotein, and Danish Agro by 14% in 2019. is taking part in a large-scale trial along with Unibio, AU Foulum (part of Aarhus University) and The aim for the group’s production plant in Denthe Technical University of Denmark, designed to mark is to cut energy consumption by a further identify opportunities for use of the product. The 5% in 2020, which will be achieved via the impleaim is that the new product can replace other mentation of several energy-efficiency projects, protein sources for feed production that have gresuch as the general optimisation of processes for ater impact on the environment. fans and coolers at a number of our factories. Apart from collaborative projects designed to A further initiative in relation to the environment ensure climate-neutral food production, Danish and climate is the promotion of the use of susAgro continuously works to optimise and streamtainable biomass in Denmark by Danish Agro. We line the business to cut costs and reduce our support the EU’s Timber Regulation (EUTR), which impact on the environment. prohibits the sale and marketing of illegally felled timber in the EU, including wood pellets, chips Our focus in 2019 was on energy-efficiency and briquettes. As such, Danish Agro condemns through such initiatives as driving courses for our the purchasing and use of illegally-felled timber. drivers. We also support the use of sustainable biomass in Denmark, whether in the form of wood chips, Back in 2018, all Danish drivers were sent on a pellets or briquettes. course at Scania Denmark’s Driver Academy. An important aspect is the subsequent coaching, We launched the sale of bee-friendly post-crop which all drivers received through 2019, and this plants to Danish farmers in 2019, in the form of meant that our drivers were able to sustain their our own mixture of flower seeds, BI-VEJEN (‘The improved, energy-saving driving style. Bee Road’). BI-VEJEN is a mixture composed of 13 seed varieties that flower over an extended period, Danish Agro wants to ensure quality throughout benefitting bees and other insects right through the value chain from farm to table via a certified the summer and autumn. quality management system supervised by the management team, in which the control of resourAnd as a bonus, birds and other animals will beneces, production of safe products, validation, verififit from their seeds after flowering. We want seed cation and continuous improvement are in focus. mixtures such as BI-VEJEN to help the environAll group agribusiness and support companies in ment by improving conditions for, in particular, Denmark producing and selling feed are GMP+ bees, insects and birds. certified in order to ensure the unrestricted movement of feeds and crops at home and abroad. Danish Agro also started to reuse toner and ink cartridges in 2019. Collection boxes have been set Vilomix is certified according to FAMI-QS, which up in Danish Agro’s branches in Denmark, from is specifically for vitamins, minerals and additives, where all used toner and ink cartridges will be coland it gives the same unrestricted trade between lected for recycling. businesses within the group and also allows us to operate in both Denmark and international marDanish Agro’s subsidiary DAVA Foods set itself a kets. target in 2019 of producing CO2-neutral eggs. The objective is to have a climate-neutral production The volume of organic production in Denmark by reducing CO2 emissions per kilo eggs produced within livestock and arable farming has been on by at least 5% annually over the next five years. the increase for several years, as is the volume sold by Danish Agro and on the markets around us. This The way to a CO2-neutral egg will involve lots was also the case in 2019, putting pressure on the of small sub-targets, including a “grass box” for availability of organic ingredients at home and transporting eggs. The new box emits 26% less abroad. Unfortunately, such success can also mean CO2 than a conventional cardboard box. It is made that ingredients are counterfeited, which raises of grass paper, making it a much more eco-frirequirements for supplier approvals and goods endly form of packaging in which to send eggs to received inspections. the supermarkets in. To be part of the chain supplying products to DAVA Foods’ drivers have also been on a course Germany, we document quality assurance within in energy-efficient driving. Together with the organic egg-layer feed by being certified according investment in new goods vehicles with the latest to KAT (KAT – Verein für kontrollierte alternative technology, a CO2 reduction totalling 30% over the Tierhaltungsformen e. V.). last three years has been achieved. Danish Agro also supplies non-GMO feeds and Danish Agro’s Finnish subsidiary, Hankkija, took ingredients certified according to the German part in a campaign with Yara Suomi Oy and the VLOG standard. Non-GMO feeds are in particularly 4H organisation in 2019 designed to collect plastic high demand from dairy farmers in Denmark. bags for recycling, to the benefit of the environment. No less than 673,000 kilos of plastic bags were collected at 250 collection points. The camMajor risks related to the environment and paign has employed hundreds of young 4H memclimate bers, and has been running since 1975. The main risks related to environment and climate are linked to the group’s energy consumption and use of ingredients for feed production, Food safety and quality among other things. Danish Agro focuses on an Danish Agro focuses heavily on quality and food ongoing implementation of energy-optimised inisafety. We believe it is important for the business tiatives and choice of ingredients and follows-up to ensure high quality products with a very high on selected areas. degree of food safety. Quality assurance at Danish Agro concerns feed and food safety and quality. If such risks are not dealt with, the consequence can be that we emit more CO2, which will be to The requirements for all three of these factors the detriment of the environment. from our customers, the authorities and certification standards continue to increase. Our ambition is to continuously improve and fulfil expectations and requirements made of us as a business. 14 THE DANISH AGRO GROUP HOLDS THE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATIONS: ISO 9001 GMP + B1, B2 OG B3 Management standard Management standard for production, sales, warehousing and transport ISO 17025 / ACCREDITATION Requirement for testing laboratories FAMI QS Quality assurance for special feeds, vitamins, VLOG minerals and additives nonGM-certification, Verband Lebensmittel ohne Gentechnik REDcert Sustainability certification — rapeseed oil for KAT the diesel industry. Feed/products exported to Germany ANTI-CORRUPTION UN PRINCIPLES REGARDING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY We prioritised focusing on competition law in 2019. Danish Agro’s group management sign a As a company, we should: code of conduct that will help ensure compliance with applicable competition law rules. At 10. Work against corruption in all its the same time, all employees of Danish Agro’s forms, including extortion and bribery. procurement company DLA sign a special addendum to their contracts of employment concerning observance of competition law guidelines. POLICIES The objective of such laws is to retain the free iniThe Danish Agro group focuses on integrity and tiative in a healthy, competitive economy, which is competition law when we achieve commercial the foundation on which Danish Agro stands. results. In other words, we set high standards for business ethics at all points of the value chain and Regular audits conducted by external auditors the group. ensure that the rules of competition law are observed. Furthermore, we communicate the We seek transparency in all our business-related essence of competition law rules internally, and decisions and practices, and we deal with dilemwe also regularly hold seminars on competition mas based on our own value set. We comply with law for DLA employees. all relevant legislation, and take a proactive approach to the principle of anti-corruption in the UN No breaches of competition law occurred in 2019 Global Compact. among the group’s companies, which we regard as very positive. Danish Agro does not accept unethical business practices. Major risks related to anticorruption The main risks related to anti-corruption concern the group’s use of suppliers that fail to observe national legislation and internationally-recognised standards and conventions. That’s why the group has clearly-defined purchasing criteria and codes of conduct, which our suppliers are required to sign, and that help ensure that rules and our responsibility to society and the environment is fulfilled. If such risks are not dealt with, the consequences can be breaches of legislation, standards and conventions, which can affect the relationships we enjoy with our partners, and Danish Agro’s general reputation. 17 Køgevej 55 4653 Karise Denmark +45 7215 8000 danishagro.com
