Better COMMIT TED TO A Tomorrow 2 0 2 0 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WO O LWO R T H S G R O U P L I M I T E D A B N 8 8 0 0 0 0 1 4 67 5 We SECTION 1 SECTION 2 CONTENTS Performance Highlights People Unless otherwise stated, Introduction 1 Promoting gender equality 12 the report covers all our CEO and Chairman’s message 2 Embracing our diversity 14 operations in Australia and New Zealand for the Living our Group purpose during Supporting Aboriginal and Torres 2020 financial year – turbulent times 4 Strait Islander employment 16 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 Our 2020 commitments 6 Caring for the safety and wellbeing (F20). Only workforce data (excluding safety) is included Our Journey 8 of our teams and customers 20 for our global sourcing Creating opportunities for all 22 offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. Photos within the report may This is an interactive PDF designed to enhance your experience. The best way to view have been taken before social this report is with Adobe Reader. Click on the links on the contents pages or use the distancing restrictions were home button in the footer to navigate the report. in place. 1 This extraordinary year has highlighted the importance of continuing to work together to create better outcomes, greater resilience and health for all life on this planet. Through these difficult times, we have continued to drive sustainable practices through our business to support the: Safety and wellbeing of our team, customers, partners and communities Diverse and inclusive culture to recruit and retain talent Reduction of emissions and waste to shrink our environmental footprint Responsible sourcing of our products to reduce environmental risk and uphold human rights Relationships with our partners to identify opportunities to serve our customers better. We remain committed, through good times and challenging times, to a better tomorrow. SECTION 3 SECTION 4 Planet Prosperity Reducing our food waste 26 Working with our business partners 44 Moving to a circular economy 28 Responsible sourcing 46 Sourcing environmentally sustainable commodities 30 Making an impact in our communities 62 Animal welfare 32 S.T.A.N.D 64 Responding to climate change 34 Creating shared value with our customers 68 Supporting our customers to eat healthily 70 Responsible service of alcohol 72 Responsible gaming 73 Towards 2025 74 2 CHAIRMAN’S CEO AND CHAIRMAN’S REPORT MESSAGE Committed to helping one another 3 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 This has been an extraordinary year, marred by a number of Voice of Team natural disasters that none of us could have foreseen or imagined. engagement score Our farming industry continued to endure crippling drought 80 conditions. The White Island disaster in New Zealand took 21 lives. Australia faced a horrific bushfire season that impacted many 1 Remained steady of our communities. PERFORMANCE from F19 Then in late February of 2020 we began to inclusive workplace culture which values all HIGHLIGHTS experience the significant challenges that forms of diversity. the coronavirus pandemic would bring to Total recordable injury Sustainability is important to our customers, 2 Australia, New Zealand and other countries frequency rate (TRIFR) and is now an intrinsic part of our business. in our supply chain. We did not anticipate We are continuing to lift our ambitions 11.94 the degree and speed with which we would to drive the transformative change that is need to recalibrate our business and the way needed. We have been working hard on PEOPLE that we interact with each other. Yet the true our new sustainability plan, which sets out 19% from F19 measure of the strength of a business is how our new goals that will guide our efforts it responds to such challenges. in the coming years. We will collaborate Our community The ramifications of the crisis brought out the best in our teams. They adapted, worked and partner to influence and drive change beyond our walls, in our communities, 3 contribution innovatively and supported each other to supply chain and industry. We can no longer as % of EBIT on a rolling step up to their role as essential services be satisfied with simply limiting detrimental PLANET average basis personnel to provide our communities with impacts. We are actively looking for ways to essential everyday needs. create positive change and make the world a 1.05% Our purpose guides every decision we make and it has never been more important better place for tomorrow. This year we have seen the way that our 4 than during this period of unprecedented teams can lift to overcome a crisis, and what PROSPERITY challenge. We prioritised investment in the we can achieve together, at speed, when safety of our teams and customers. In order necessity calls. We will seek to apply these to meet surging demand, we welcomed lessons to how we play our part in tackling 20,000 new team members, many of whom the sustainability issues that are impacting had been stood down by lockdown-affected our planet. organisations. We cared for our most vulnerable customers by providing dedicated shopping hours and priority delivery We are proud to share with you our 2020 services. We know that our customers and Woolworths Group Sustainability Report. team members choose to shop with, and work for, a company that is purpose driven. Woolworths Group is a A NEW HORIZON OF SUSTAINABILITY signatory to the United FOR WOOLWORTHS Nations Global Compact We have been working hard on our (UNGC). UNGC sustainability agenda at Woolworths for signatories embrace many years. We are proud of the progress Brad Banducci Gordon Cairns a set of core values in that we have made, and this year we CEO CHAIRMAN the areas of human concluded our work against our 2020 rights, labour standards, sustainability commitments. Since their the environment and launch in early 2017, we have reduced anti‑corruption. In this report, we share our our greenhouse gas emissions by 24%, performance against the improved the sustainability credentials of UNGC core values. our Own Brand products, and built a more 4 Living our Group purpose during turbulent times nces together fo Our Ways-of-Working Our Purpose xperie ra How we work e re be tte Why we exist tt e We ow. We w cre ay s as ork e orr ate alwving om on e rt o b d We im ’re -en pr -to nd eam t We put our customers 1st ep g ke e s ou t t hi n We ple, re w ra I ca th s i m r sto ew ith g e c p e in g s fo en or in ri g h re d c te i a l We e do m k a m ly f r e f ra m he ee s ot pl y a sd ay lw Ia Our Values I li ste n a n d l e a r n Who we are As a diverse group In a year marked by a succession of crises, it has never been more important for us to living expenses, food, animal feed and psychological assistance in rural of retail businesses live our Purpose and our Core Values. communities impacted by adversity. This across Australia and F20 has been a challenging year for all, included using our logistics capability to transport over 37,000 tonnes of donated New Zealand, we are highlighting the importance of sustainable hay to over 3,200 farmers. business, and the role we have in united by our Purpose contributing to: In the lead up to Christmas, our busiest – to create better • our customers’ and team members’ lives time of the year, a number of our team also served as volunteers in rural fire brigades experiences together • our suppliers’ ability to weather across Australia. In support of them, and in for a better tomorrow. critical events the spirit of doing the right thing by them • the lives of vulnerable workers in our and the communities we serve, we did global supply chain what we could to help. Including providing extra paid leave for our volunteer team • our communities members to offering emergency services • the broader economy and personnel in-store discounts. • the environment which sustains us. Our bushfire response also included pledging $250,000 to animal welfare organisations nationally and distributing Climate change: from over 20 tonnes of fresh food to endangered drought to bushfires wildlife through emergency airdrops. We have also expanded our long term During this year devastating drought support for natural disaster-impacted and bushfires endangered the lives, communities with a new fundraising food security and psychological health initiative. Twenty cents from the sale of of our farming communities. With our a 24x600ml pack of Woolworths Spring partners The Salvation Army, Rural Aid, Water, or a Woolworths Spring Water Lifeline and Foodbank, our program 10 Litre pack, will now go towards our S.T.A.N.D (Support Through Australian S.T.A.N.D program. Natural Disasters) has helped to fund 5 Doing the right thing WOOLWORTHS GROUP • Protecting our team members and customers by adopting stringent through COVID-19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 health and safety protocols to mitigate infection risks. This includes Times of crisis only increase risks to complying with changing regulatory vulnerable people, something we were requirements and taking a leadership role in recommending masks be worn Community extremely conscious of during our response to the coronavirus pandemic. at all of our Australian sites. While this has required significant investment, support Our support initiatives include: safeguarding the health and safety of • Collaborating with Government, our team, customers and communities regulators, our competitors and industry to ensure an adequate and continues to be paramount. • Thanking and rewarding our store $8M+ in financial, food, transport 1 safe supply of food and essentials for team members by giving them over $50 all customers. Building urgent supply million in company shares and gift cards and labour costs to support solutions to meet the specific needs hunger relief charity • Supporting the economy by increasing partners Oz Harvest, PERFORMANCE of different groups of vulnerable employment from impacted businesses Foodbank and FareShare customers, including the elderly, such as the Qantas Group and deploying the disabled, remote and First HIGHLIGHTS our ALH team members, to meet higher Nations customers: demand in other areas of the business − With the support of Australia Post and support safety initiatives. 20,000 and DHL Supply Chain, we created the ‘Basics Box’ (comprising of meals, snacks and essentials). Over 23,000 Speaking up when plexiscreens installed across Woolworths Group stores to 2 PEOPLE support team and customer Basics Boxes have been delivered − Prioritising our home delivery service it matters health and safety to provide dedicated assistance to the We acknowledge the Black Lives Matter movement that has seen a groundswell 3,200+ elderly, people living with disability and those in mandatory isolation. of support in the United States and Over 350,000 Woolworths and Countdown customers have benefited globally, and recognise the connection and relevance it has to the serious issues farmers supported with donated hay 3 affecting our First Nations peoples. This PLANET from Priority Assistance to date. movement reinforces the importance • Instituting dedicated shopping of the work we are doing to support our hours for the elderly and disabled First Nations customers, team members, followed by dedicated community suppliers and communities. Including hours for emergency services and our backing of the Uluru Statement from healthcare workers. the Heart, and in our Reconciliation Action Plan. 4 Australian Leisure and PROSPERITY Hospitality David Mynard, Supply chain finance Group (ALH) With over 30 years of experience as a volunteer firefighter, David Mynard, Supply exhausted all other resources and need a quick turnaround or solution. He’s highly supportive, supporting Chain Finance Lead, has attended countless willing to try any task, and jumps in to help out FareShare incidents and community action days. when he is really needed,” Donna said. “It’s During one of Australia’s worst bushfire part of his caring and selfless nature, which he When lockdown measures seasons, he continues to showcase his showcases in both firefighting and the office. saw ALH venues closed dedication and extreme bravery in helping He just thrives in helping people and it comes and the Government asked others out on the front line, fighting fires from a genuine place.” FareShare to ramp up meal in terrible conditions in locations such as preparation from 40K to Bilipin, because for him, helping others just 100K per week, Woolworths comes naturally. donated meat and vegetables “It’s all about giving back, contributing to and paid for ALH chefs to my community and providing a better place work in FareShare’s Victorian to live,” David said. and Queensland kitchens. FareShare’s COO Kellie Donna Saarikko, Finance Manager, says that Watson noted “It has given us David is somewhat of a firefighter in the the ability to be agile, pivot and office too. “David is our go-to when we have achieve enormous production increases. I’d like to thank you again for your support to improve the lives of tens of thousands of We would also like to acknowledge the passing of Andrew O’Dwyer, a much respected team Australians doing it tough.” member whose commitment to volunteering touched the lives of many in the community. 6 Our 2020 OUR 2020 commitments and progress Launched in February 2017, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy People – Strength in diversity brought renewed We value diversity across Woolworths Group. Our customers should see in our people a reflection of themselves and their communities. In this strategy we embrace targets that focus and energy to support diversity and, hand in hand with this aim, inclusion and respect. Woolworths Group’s engagement with Promoting gender equity Building our diversity customers, communities, supply chains and team members, as well as our responsibility to minimise 1 2 3 4 COMMITMENT At least 40% of No salary wage gap 100% of those Continue the focus the environmental impact executive and between male and responsible for on encouraging of our operations. senior manager positions to be female employees of equivalent hiring new team members to cultural diversity, with a commitment held by women. positions on a have completed that our team will In the last three years, per‑hour rate unconscious reflect the at all levels of bias training. communities we have made significant the company. we serve. progress and have achieved many of our Focus on improving Create better pay Focus on building Focus on building commitments. We have the internal equivalency an inclusive an inclusive NEXT STEPS appointment between roles environment for environment for scored our progress in process and with similar all of our team all of our team ensuring enough the context of our three women are on the responsibilities. members. members. pillars of People, Planet short lists. and Prosperity. Our new 2025 Sustainability Strategy will be released in the coming months Offering which will guide our Supporting Aboriginal and Creating a safe opportunities efforts into the future. Torres Strait Islander employment environment for all Key: 5 6 7 8 Proportion of Proportion of We are committed Achieve Gold Tier COMMITMENT Achieved Indigenous team Indigenous to maintaining a employer status members to Graduates to workplace that at the AWEI for Materially equal Federal equal Federal safeguards the LGBTQ+ inclusion. progressed Government Government health and Employment Employment wellbeing of our Progressed Parity contract. Parity contract. team members, customers and visitors. Focus on Focus on Focus on creating a Working to achieve providing career providing career COVIDSafe and Platinum Tier NEXT STEPS development development COVIDCare employer status. opportunities for opportunities for environment. our Indigenous our Indigenous team members. team members. 7 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Planet – For a healthier environment 1 We recognise Woolworths Group’s environmental impact across our value chain and will work with our suppliers, service providers and operations to innovate for a healthy planet. We will support the move to a circular economy, source environmentally sustainable commodities and respond to climate change. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Sourcing environmentally Moving to a circular economy sustainable commodities Responding to climate change 9 10 11 12 13 14 2 PEOPLE COMMITMENT Towards zero Improve the Source key raw Achieve net zero Reduce Innovate with food waste going recyclability of materials and supply chain Woolworths Group natural refrigerants to landfill. our own brand commodities deforestation carbon emissions and reduce packaging and sustainably to for ‘high‑impact’ to 10% below 2015 refrigerant leakage contribute to the an independent commodities in levels by 2020. in our stores by 3 circular economy. standard by 2020. our own brand Revised: See 15% of CO2e below products. page 34. 2015 levels. PLANET Consistently Continue to Focus on sourcing Expand our focus to Continue to Continue to improve our systematically seafood from other commodities. implement implement NEXT STEPS processes to remove single sustainable innovative initiatives innovative initiatives reduce food waste use plastic from sources. to decrease our to decrease our going to landfill. our products. energy footprint. energy footprint. 4 PROSPERITY Prosperity – Founded on trusted relationships We will focus on positive relationships with suppliers, give back to the communities in which we operate, and rebuild trust with our customers and investors. Giving back to the communities Creating shared value with Working with our business partners in which we operate our customers 15 16 17 18 19 20 COMMITMENT We will achieve We will develop We will invest the We will publicly We will achieve We will help a top quartile a revised equivalent of 1% of report social leading customer our customers ranking in how we Responsible EBIT in community impact to quantify satisfaction scores. to consume all engage fairly and Sourcing Program. partnerships the positive of our products equitably with and programs. changes we in a healthy, our suppliers. are creating. sustainable way. Build on current Continue to embed Continue to support Continue to support Create customer Inspire (and NEXT STEPS momentum to build and improve our communities our communities advocates for nudge) our supplier advocates our responsible especially in this especially in this our business. customers for our business. sourcing program. time of COVID. time of COVID. to be healthy and sustainable. 8 OUR JOURNEY Sustainability No salary wage gap commitments Salary wage gap between male and female employees of equivalent positions reduced In February 2017 we launched to less than 1% (statistically insignificant). our 2020 strategy, setting out our sustainability journey. ACHIEVED Bias training LGBTQ+ inclusion Unconscious bias training pilot Awarded Gold Tier employer status in Australian program completed. Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for LGBTQ+ Our journey: Training is now embedded inclusion for three consecutive years since 2018. for all future leaders. ACHIEVED ACHIEVED PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY Energy management Plastic bags waste Commenced work on establishing Woolworths Group stores no longer offer single the Energy Management Centre use lightweight plastic shopping bags. of Excellence. Our Journey: We now offer a range of alternatives like Our journey: We now use the data to the paper bag and the reusable “Bag for Good” where identify and prevent issues in our assets. any money made from the sale goes to Junior Landcare. 1% EBIT contribution Responsible sourcing 1% of EBIT was donated to Reviewed and launched our new Responsible community causes across Australia Sourcing Program. and New Zealand Our journey: We have embedded this program and Our journey: We have donated 1% of EBIT continue to improve our processes to uphold human every year. rights in our supply chain. In F20, we have released our first Modern Slavery Statement. ACHIEVED 2017 2018 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Supporting mental wellbeing Resourcing the Future Launched ‘I am here’ program dedicated We have recruited over 2,800 Aboriginal and to supporting mental wellbeing. Torres Strait Islander team members, and have met Our journey: In F20, over 27,000 team members completed the program and we launched the “I am here Ambassadors” program. Government Employment contract conditions. ACHIEVED 1 PERFORMANCE Reconciliation Refugee Employment Program HIGHLIGHTS Launched our revised Reconciliation Providing employment opportunities to over 100 Action Plan. Our journey: See our progress on page 16. refugees to help with successful resettlement. 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET Climate risk workshops Reduced carbon emissions Held Group wide climate risk assessment workshops to understand our key risks. Our journey: In F20, we have taken learnings from Achieved both carbon emission targets for 2020, and progressing against our new target. 4 ACHIEVED PROSPERITY here to develop scenario analysis for our Australian Food business. Sustainable sourcing of key commodities Reset our emission targets We have made significant progress to source Having achieved our emissions targets early, our key commodities and raw materials from we revised our targets in line with limiting responsible supply chains. global warming to 1.5oC. Circular economy Healthiest own Improve the recyclability of own brand product packaging and reduce food waste going to landfill. brand products Woolworths own brand products named the healthiest in Australia by independent Strong relationships with researchers. Our journey: We continue to make healthier customers and suppliers easier for our customers and 100% of eligible We do the right thing for our customers products in Australia have a Health Star Rating. and partners and have improved our customer and supplier satisfaction scores. 2019 2020 10 PEOPLE STRENGTH IN DIVERSITY Our purpose, ways of working and core values are embodied in the targets and commitments in our People pillar. Together, with over 215,000 team members across the Woolworths Group, we are focused on maintaining an inclusive and supportive culture that values diversity in all its forms. Our commitment to a diverse and vibrant workforce gives us the strength, skills and ability to support, sustain and foster better experiences for our teams, customers and communities. 11 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Board diversity Voice of Team engagement Total recordable injury Proud score frequency rate (TRIFR) @ Woolworths 56% female 80 11.94 2,500+ members 44% male remained steady from F19 19% from F19 14% from F19 Notting Hill Pick and Collect team 12 Promoting IMPACT Commitment 1 gender Status Commitment PROGRESSED 2 equality Status Sustainable Development Goal ACHIEVED Woolworths Group is committed to maintaining an inclusive and supportive culture and workplace. We constantly strive to give all our team members equal access to the benefits, resources and opportunities to build their skills that working with us can provide. Our people are our strength – from our frontline team to those behind the scenes. Executive and senior manager positions held by women 35% 1% from F19 Supporting our team through Some of our other initiatives to support our team members this year included: different life stages Our Return to Work group Team members from our “Return to Work” Group shared Woolworths Group has a strong representation of women their personal stories of embarking on, and returning from, across our business, both in support and operational roles. parental leave at a special event, which also provided hints Over 50% of our workforce identifies as female and more and tips on how to survive the first 12 months, and beyond, as than half our board is compromised of female directors. a new parent. It was an opportunity for those who attended to connect, ask questions and meet people at a similar life While we have not achieved our commitment of having at least stage. The event was designed to support networking and the 40% of executive and senior management positions in our sharing of stories and experiences, and to ensure that team business be held by women, we have improved significantly members understand the support we can offer them. from F17 when we had 29% representation. Representation of women at senior levels of the organisation is currently at 35%, Our Staying Connected events and through our Gender Equity and Inclusion strategy and in Our “Staying Connected” events occur twice a year. They provide our next sustainability strategy, we are committed to improving team members that are on extended leave (for reasons including this figure and addressing the common challenges faced by our parental leave or a career break) with business updates as well female workforce, including the need to work flexibly, issues as updates on topics such as team benefits and our vacation care surrounding pay parity and systemic or unconscious bias. program operated in conjunction with the Guardian Early Learning Group. These events are an opportunity for team members to stay As a key priority within our broader business strategy, we aim connected to our business, assisting with the transition back into to provide equitable access to opportunities for people of all the workplace when they feel ready to return. genders. We are committed to creating an environment that recognises and values all team members equally. We value Woolworths Family Network and support flexibility across the Woolworths Group, in all Family is central to our purpose, our values and our ways of locations including stores, distribution centres and support working. At Woolworths Group, we are committed to making offices and commit to support team members in every part things better for families, including supporting our team members of our business to explore how flexibility can enable them while they are growing their own family. The Woolworths Family to lead better lives and to better meet our customer and Network provides important peer support for individuals within business needs. the Woolworths Group through listening sessions, networking lunches and other educational and information events. 13 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Gender Equity Gender Network launch equality SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 On 10 March, in honour of at Countdown International Women’s Day, we Throughout New Zealand, the launched our new Gender Equity inequities between men and Network, which comprises a women when it comes to pay, and passionate group of team members opportunities for career progression from across the Woolworths Group are well known, with the impacts who care deeply about, and believe being most keenly felt by Māori strongly in, equity in the workplace. and Pacific women. The Network is a peer‑led group to This year, the number of executive 1 help instigate change, break down and senior positions held by women gender stereotypes and gender in Countdown is 37%. While we are disappointed to have not met this bias and create a gender‑equitable PERFORMANCE commitment target, this number workplace for all our team members. has increased by almost 6% overall Going forward, the group will educate since F17. Although we have not HIGHLIGHTS team members that equality is not met the commitment this year, we just a women’s issue, but a business will continue to work to support all issue, and one that is critical to women to progress their careers our transformation. at Countdown. 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET WooliesX – Women in STEM Pay Parity 4 PROSPERITY WooliesX, our We strongly believe in equal pay for equal work. Our Pay technology business Parity Review methodology and ongoing review processes combining our digital, compare salaries of like‑for‑like roles of our team members e‑commerce, data and across the Woolworths Group, at all levels. This continuing customer divisions, is analytical work helps identify gender pay gaps between our keen to foster women, male and female team members by grouping our positions including women from and career streams, while accounting for team member diverse backgrounds, movements that may result in fluctuations. Our last review in science, technology, resulted in a statistically insignificant less than 1% gap which engineering and we will aim to maintain. mathematics (STEM) roles within its business. Zarah Dominguez, Senior Android Developer at WooliesX, who was raised in a rural community in the Philippines, helped to Salary payments create the Woolworths’ online shopping app, During F20, it was found that there were salaried team now used by over 1 million people. members that had not been paid in full compliance with the Woolworths Group obligations under the General Retail “It happens a lot that I’m the only woman in the team, so it is Industry Award and Hospitality Industry General Award. important to find and use your support network. To have others to Woolworths Group is committed to fully rectifying the payment bounce ideas off is really helpful!” shortfalls and an extensive plan is in place to check that team members’ pay is correct and fully compliant moving forward. 14 Embracing IMPACT Commitment 3 our diversity Status Commitment ACHIEVED 4 Status PROGRESSED Woolworths Group believes in the power of people. Our continuing commitment to maintaining and Sustainable growing a strong, diverse, engaged and inclusive Development Goal workforce mirrors our commitment to the diverse customers and communities we serve and the challenges they face. Inclusive leadership Over the last three years, all relevant leaders and managers across Australia, Refugee Employment training Asia and New Zealand have completed Program the inclusive leadership training, which Since 2018, the Woolworths Group is now being built into leadership Since F18, we have worked in has run inclusive leadership and development programs across the partnership with Community Corporate, unconscious bias training across business. In our next sustainability an award‑winning diversity and various key areas of its business. The strategy, we will explore more inclusion firm, to provide employment training seeks to assist team leaders opportunities to build an inclusive opportunities for displaced refugees and managers, who are in a position culture as we want every level of from over 16 different cultural to make hiring and promotion decisions, leadership in our business to develop backgrounds, including Syria, to develop and practice constructive and maintain more engaged, productive Democratic Republic of Congo, and inclusive behaviours in the and innovative teams, whose diversity Afghanistan, Bhutan and Iraq. The workplace. The training: is recognised and celebrated. program seeks to provide hope and • Provides an overview of unconscious opportunity to its participants, assisting bias and how it impacts and limits the them with successful resettlement in diversity of our workforce Australia. The program benefits the Woolworths Group as it helps us to • Demonstrates the importance better reflect the cultural diversity of the of role‑modelling inclusive and communities that we serve. Since the constructive leadership behaviours, program’s inception, over 151 refugees values and processes in hiring have commenced employment with us decisions and people management and, in 2020 alone, we had 66 refugees • Helps our leaders and managers join our team across the country, at develop strategies and actions our Metro, Supermarket stores and to better leverage diversity in Customer Fulfillment Centres. their teams. 15 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Supporting and upskilling our people At Woolworths Group, we invest in our people. Our team members, at every level, are provided with continued SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 learning, development and upskilling opportunities to help them achieve their personal and professional goals. This not only supports them at whatever stage of their lives and careers they are at, but helps them better support our customers, and our future growth. The Food Academy provides training for our team members working in store, and manage programs such as the Capabilities Pathways and Store Leadership programs. These are delivered through a combination of online learning, facilitated workshops and coaching to help develop the technical expertise and leadership skills required. To develop support office team members, we partnered with Performance Frontiers to deliver programs to support leaders and teams in transformation and establish a common language and approach across the organisation. Leaders and managers were targeted and programs delivered included: • GROW: focussing on supporting teams with growth mindset and personal buoyancy to live our purpose and values in a changing environment. 1 PERFORMANCE • CONNECT: focussing on supporting managers to develop stronger team first and customer first connections. • ADAPT: focussing on supporting leaders to partner effectively across the ecosystem for us to be stronger together. HIGHLIGHTS • COVID‑19 had an impact on the delivery of existing programs and created demand for an immediate response to managers leading and supporting their teams virtually during this time. A quick series of nine (45‑minute) virtually facilitated sessions were developed and launched within the first three weeks. 150 sessions ran over two months with 350 leaders from support offices across Australia, New Zealand and Asia attending one or more sessions. 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET Refugee Employment Program: Karim Mansour 4 PROSPERITY Karim Mansour is one of many shining Leader in a relief role in the Fresh examples of the amazing team members Food – Produce section at Kings Cross to come through the Woolworths Metro Supermarket. Refugee Employment Program. He Now, in 2020, Karim has again provides a great insight into the career been promoted to the role of “Fresh progression opportunities that occur as convenience Team Leader” at a new a result of the program and is a perfect Metro store in Rosebery. He is working example of how refugees contribute full‑time and is impressing his to building Australia’s economic and workmates and manager with his hard social prosperity. work and dedication. “I feel very proud of Before moving to Australia in 2017, Karim Karim, he has been open to advice and keen lived in Syria with his brother and parents to learn. He actively sought out mentorship where he was studying law at university. from me to advance his career and he put in Upon arrival, he began learning English the hard work – so having the first ongoing at TAFE and applied for many roles, promotion from the Refugee Employment “I’ve applied for more than 100 jobs since Program into a Team Leader role is arriving in Australia and have had no luck, something we are all very excited about not even an interview” said Karim. at Metro” said former store manager, Panetelis Archontides. Before the Woolworths Refugee Employment Program, Karim had no Karim is extremely grateful for this previous paid employment in Australia. opportunity to create a sustainable life That all changed in 2017, when Karim in Australia, through security of work. successfully applied for the program He says “Thank you Woolworths for caring and within five months was promoted for the refugees and giving me a chance to from team member to Acting Team work and get experience in Australia”. 16 Supporting IMPACT Commitment 5 Aboriginal and Status ACHIEVED 6 Torres Strait Commitment Status ACHIEVED Islander Sustainable Development Goal employment We continue to play our part in building understanding and respect between our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and non‑Indigenous Australia. With increased awareness of the challenges facing our First Nations People, our initiatives in this area have become more important. Reconciliation During the year, we undertook a range of initiatives including: Torres Strait Islander supplier diversity within our organisation. This year, we Action Plan • Further developing our RAP appointed a supplier diversity manager Working Group (RWG), which who has implemented improved Since the launch of our second actively monitors our RAP and its processes to track Aboriginal and Torres Innovate‑level Reconciliation Action Plan implementation, and tracks our Strait Islander supplier spend. As a (RAP) on 5 July 2019, we have made progress against our commitments result, we have seen a 1,100% increase significant progress on our commitment through reporting. Currently, our in spend with First Nations suppliers to to take concrete actions to build strong RWG has three Aboriginal and Torres the Woolworths Group. One example and lasting relationships, respect and Strait Islander representatives and 20 of the impact of this has been during the understanding between Aboriginal non‑Indigenous representatives, and COVID‑19 pandemic. We approached and Torres Strait Islander peoples and we are establishing a team member non‑Indigenous Australia. Our vision for network to have First Nations reconciliation is a better future in which representation on various RAP all Australians have an equal voice and squads throughout the business access to opportunities for prosperity. • Launched the quarterly“Having a Our progress Yarn” newsletter to reach out to all our team members to share more Having a yarn Strong governance in this area has been about the First Nations culture Kaya! (Hello), This is our very first newsletter and it’s for everyone who works and lives across our beautiful lands. a major part of our progress this year. We • Continuing to work with local Quarterly, we’re going to reach out to all our team members, share There is a role for everyone in reconciliation so take a look at participated in the annual RAP Impact culture and have a yarn. It’s an some suggestions of how you can Aboriginal land councils in opportunity to stay connected and make a difference. be reminded of what we can be This is our first go at a newsletter, doing to care for this land and its Measurement Questionnaire overseen by so feel free to send feedback and people. implementing our Resourcing the ideas about what you’d like to see Cheers, In this edition, you can get your more or less of. Clint Johnson and Courtney Palmer Reconciliation Australia to get baseline data head around this thing called Clint Johnson: If you are a First Nations team Text or call: 0404 829 093 Future Employment Program in reconciliation. You may hear a lot member, join the First Nations team Email: cjohnson1@woolworths.com.au about it but may not have taken the member network and contribute to Courtney Palmer: time to fully understand what it is regarding our progress against our second our RAP and sharing culture with Text or call: 0404 821 140 and why it’s needed. local communities. our 200,000 team members. Email: cpalmer@woolworths.com.au RAP. This assists us to continually develop, Giveaway The movie, The Final Quarter is a must-see for all Australians. To ensure you, your family implement and review our RAP, and our A key focus of our RAP is diversification and friends get to see it, we’ve made it available for you to watch online until 31 March 2020. It is a powerful exploration of racism in Australia, presented in an engaging and interesting way using only clips from the media at the time. Ask the actions to meet it. Our data also contributes of our supplier relationships by Finance team, as more than 100 team members watched it together during lunch. To watch the movie online go to: The Final Quarter http://bit.ly/WGTheFinalQuarter to Reconciliation Australia’s annual RAP increasing our number of Aboriginal and Password: wOOLgROup To win a copy of the DVD go onto the First Nations Bunji’s Google+ community Torres Strait Islander supply partners. and share an image or write something that tells us ‘what reconciliation means Impact Measurement Report, which to me’. Two winners from each state will be selected and sent a DVD. outlines the collective impact of the wider We continue to actively seek out RAP program. opportunities to build Aboriginal and 17 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Supporting the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 small Indigenous‑owned businesses Supply Aus, Cole Workwear and Position Promo, when COVID‑19 Uluru Statement was at its peak in March to get much from the Heart needed hand sanitiser supplies to its stores, with over 300,000 litres We have a deep respect for of hand sanitiser supplied by local Aboriginal and our Aboriginal and Torres Indigenous businesses. Torres Strait Islander Strait Islander team members, team members customers and all of those We delivered critical food who live in the communities 4,500+ supplies to remote Aboriginal we serve. We firmly believe 1 communities during the COVID‑19 they should have a voice in pandemic, whilst maintaining decisions that affect them. the integrity of remote travel That’s why we support the Uluru PERFORMANCE restrictions and protecting our Statement from the Heart, and the recommendations of the most vulnerable Australians. In Referendum Council. HIGHLIGHTS order to effectively contribute to Aboriginal communities, we A First Nations voice to developed partnerships and worked Parliament enshrined in our with Metcash, manufacturers and organisations, including the Constitution and a Makarrata Commission to oversee agreement‑making and 2 Arnhem Land Progress Aboriginal PEOPLE truth‑telling are critical steps Corporation (ALPA), Outback Stores toward reconciliation. They and the NSW Aboriginal Land allow First Nations people to Council. We are pleased to have claim their rightful place in our been able to donate approximately nation and enable us to move 6,500 Basics Boxes (equating to forward together. more than 100 tonnes of essential supplies) directly to those retailers. 3 PLANET We were able to move around 4,000 Basics Boxes (or around 64 tonnes of product) in approximately 24 hours of learning of the issues being faced to assist with urgent 4 distribution of essentials items. We have also invested in listening National Reconciliation Week and learning opportunities to foster PROSPERITY a deeper understanding of the Our vision for Reconciliation is a added their own personal commitments perspectives and experiences of our better tomorrow where all Australians to reconciliation. We distributed Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander have a voice and equitable access to reconciliation notebooks that contained team members, customers and opportunities for prosperity. During information about Acknowledgement of communities. While rollout has been National Reconciliation Week 27 May Country, our RAP and the Uluru Statement delayed due to COVID‑19, we have ‑ 3 June, we took this time to reflect, from the Heart, and launched our new educate and raise awareness across First Nations – Sharing Culture website, made plans for listening sessions the group. Our activities included containing links to register support for the in each State and Territory across sharing a video of Brad Banducci and Uluru Statement as well as information for Australia to better engage our Adam Goodes talking to Woolworths’ our team members to explore further. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander team members about Reconciliation team members and seek their views Week and the Uluru Statement from on our RAP and our framework the Heart, opening meetings with a to advance reconciliation. Two heartfelt Acknowledgement of Country, alumni of our Resourcing the Future encouraging team members to learn Employment Program, Iesha and about Australia’s true history and to find Ranelle of our Rockhampton team out more about their local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community. (see page 19), have been integral in designing the listening sessions, To reinforce our support for the Uluru which would include face‑to‑face Statement from the Heart, we used First Nations team members and Reconciliation Week as a platform to store and support office team share information, start a conversation and encourage our team to learn more. member participation. The national This included adding a reconciliation wall program of listening sessions containing the Uluru Statement from the will get underway as soon as the Heart to the team rooms of our stores pandemic passes. and sites to which our team members 18 Supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment Apprenticeship First Resourcing the Future Nations baker: Our Resourcing the Future Employment Program Cassandra Campbell is a partnership between us, the Australian Federal Government and Diversity Dimensions to WOOLWORTHS SUPERMARKET, COOMERA WESTFIELD address and overcome the barriers to employment Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders make up 6.9% of all of opportunities in our recruitment processes for our apprentices, and amongst them is Cassandra Campbell, a Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians and strong Aboriginal woman from the Waanyi people of the Lawn increase the number of First Nations team members Hill area near the Gulf of Carpentaria. joining the Woolworths Group. Since the program’s inception in 2015, we have offered employment In 2016 she moved to the Gold Coast to further her studies and to 2,884 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander job career, first approaching Woolworths Ormeau to complete her seekers, with most of these roles offered in regional apprenticeship as a baker. Cassandra chose Woolworths as or remote areas. Retention rates remain high at 71%. “bakers are in high demand and Woolworths has great job stability.” The program has been structured to set up both Balancing the demands of study with her apprenticeship was our teams and the candidate for success. Our team difficult at times, but Cassandra persevered. Cassandra’s members undertake Indigenous cultural training journey with us has made her stronger and more resilient. before the candidate commences work, and our “If you are a female, don’t be afraid to take on a trade! It can seem candidates have access to a mentor to support them very daunting but also very rewarding.” throughout the program. Jawun partnership: Simon Tracey WOOLWORTHS SUPERMARKETS MARKETING TEAM Since its inception in 2013, our partnership with the Jawun Indigenous Community Program has enabled team members from across the Group to take part in invaluable cultural immersion opportunities. Simon Tracey was seconded to help develop a partnerships strategy for the Gadigal Information Service Aboriginal Corporation (GIS), which broadcasts Koori Radio (93.7FM 2LND). Simon supported the management team to develop the sponsorship strategy and examine the GIS brand, communications and website and assisted with team training in areas such as project, time and information management. Simon found the secondment incredibly beneficial, as it forced him to challenge his personal beliefs and introduced him to more holistic, respectful and community‑oriented ways of thinking, working, living and behaving. During his time with GIS, Simon was told, “It’s not the job of Elders to educate, it is the privilege of the younger generation to be able to ask for knowledge when they are ready to listen.” Simon notes, “There was a lot I didn’t know, and conversations with First Nations peoples are steeped in truth‑telling. Once I took a hard personal look at who I am, and what I’d like to create for future generations, my paradigm view expanded.” Simon Tracey with Lola Forester, Presenter/Producer of “Blackchat” news and current affairs program on Koori Radio 93.7fm 19 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Resourcing the Future: IESHA GAGAI AND RYNELLE MAROU SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 We have been introduced to many talented Aboriginal and Rynelle says that this role with Woolworths has helped her to Torres Strait Islander peoples through our Resourcing the support her family and provided opportunities for growth that Future Employment Program delivered in partnership with she has never had before. “It has given me huge self confidence Diversity Dimensions. Two examples of that talent are Iesha and makes me believe that I can achieve my goals”. Iesha echoes Gagai, a community member from Cherbourg, Queensland and a similar sentiment to Rynelle and feels like Woolworths has the Badu community in the Torres Strait and Rynelle Marou, enabled her to “break the cycle” and be a positive role model from the Wangkumarra people of Queensland and the Torres to her children. They are both advocates for the program and Strait Islands. working at Woolworths, due to the short and long term benefits Iesha joined the Parkhurst store in 2019, which is her first ever job and Rynelle joined the Woolworths store in Yeppoon in that it has provided them in their personal and professional lives. They are excelling within their respective positions, with Rynelle taking the opportunity to step up into a relieving team 1 PERFORMANCE October 2019. Both team members started off in their own quiet support role. way, but quickly became familiar with our stores and customers and started to contribute and make a real difference. They are HIGHLIGHTS liked and respected by their team members and have a great relationship with our customers. 2 PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY Rynelle Marou, Woolworths Yeppon, Qld 20 Caring for IMPACT Commitment 7 the safety Status Sustainable PROGRESSED and wellbeing Development Goal Safety of our teams and customers Safety, health and sensors for our team to help improve their manual handling, are just two of undertaking (EU) with the Northern Territory regulatory agency (WorkSafe) wellbeing the innovations that are being currently and remain committed to improving the piloted within our business. effectiveness of how we manage our We care deeply about the physical more significant risks. In addition to these predictable risks, and psychological safety, health and we also face broader risks. One such We have seen a 19% reduction in wellbeing of our customers, team example is the complex area of vehicle total recordable injury frequency rate and business partners and we are logistics. Sadly, in 2016, a member of (TRIFR) in F20 (11.94) compared to committed to creating environments the public lost his life in the Northern F19 (14.75). Manual handling remains which uphold these commitments. Territory after being involved in a our key cause of injury, and throughout vehicle incident at a Woolworths store F20 there was a focus of tailored safety Physical safety and health loading dock. interventions. These included manual With over 3,000 sites and a diverse handling training and risk awareness We deeply regret this event and the set of operations spanning retail, campaigns, improved access and tragic loss of life, however we have manufacturing, logistics and hospitality, availability to manual handling aids made a commitment to learn from this safeguarding the physical health and and materials handling equipment, incident and have worked to further safety of our team, customers and and proactive utilisation of our early enhance the safety of our loading partners is of paramount importance. intervention physiotherapy programs docks. Specifically we have looked at: to deal with symptoms before an injury Our commitment is to implement the • Enhancing traffic controls, including occurs. As a result we have seen a most effective solutions to enable us to traffic lights for trucks at store docks 24% reduction in manual handling manage our physical health and safety injuries this year. We are exploring risks. As part of this commitment, • Installing sensors to detect people emerging technologies to help us we are continually looking at ways to and reversing trucks better assess and address manual innovate and improve and have invested • Installing lighting, CCTV and handling risks including the use of in new technology to align with current monitors to increase visibility biofeedback technologies that help map examples of best practice. real time biomechanics and identify at • Installing barriers, signage and line For a business like Woolworths marking to separate people from risk movement. Group, repetitive strain injuries for moving vehicles team members, and a slippery floor • Improving the training for our team. Psychological safety for customers, are amongst our and wellbeing biggest incidents. In response to this, As part of the incident investigation, Woolworths entered into a Workplace Safeguarding our team’s psychological automated robots that can detect spills Health and Safety enforceable safety and wellbeing is an equally and tripping hazards, and wearable 21 WOOLWORTHS GROUP critical part of our overall commitment members with additional skills and an As with our commitment to innovate to caring deeply for our people. Mental ability to support other team members and improve in terms of physical SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 health and suicide remains a major who may be struggling to cope. safety, we are also continuing to challenge for Australia and New listen and learn and have found that The concepts learnt through “I am Zealand, and industry and government financial wellbeing is an ever increasing here” not only improve the lives of team bodies recognise the impact of the yardstick in determining people’s members, but can also be used outside COVID‑19 pandemic is likely to lead to wellbeing. In response to this, we have of work with friends, family and the increased rates of suicide and mental launched a series of targeted financial broader community. health within our communities. programs, supported by our partner, In support of our commitment to Good Shepherd such as interest free At Woolworths we believe that it is mental health, we also introduced loans and targeted financial aid, so okay to not feel okay, and it’s absolutely Unmind, an app that can be as to support teams through difficult okay to ask for help. downloaded by any team member on life situations. To support this belief, we launched our “I am here” program, with over 27,000 team members completing the course. their phone that empowers our team to discover and care for their mental wellbeing. Unmind provides practical Our commitment to safeguarding our people remains resolute and by living 1 our values of caring deeply, constantly PERFORMANCE Using “I am here” at the centre we have tools based on positive psychology, listening and learning and, importantly, broken down our wellbeing offering into cognitive‑based therapy and being willing to do the right thing, we HIGHLIGHTS Physical, Mental, Social, Community neuroscience to support our team to believe we are strongly positioned to and Financial Wellbeing elements. help identify and manage mental health continue to create both physically and issues, and realise their full potential. 2 This year we also launched “I am here psychologically safe environments. We currently have over 10,000 active Ambassadors”. This provides team users of this app. PEOPLE Responding to COVID‑19 Safety, health and wellbeing was at the forefront of our response to COVID‑19 • Managing the number of customers in our stores unflinching commitment to the safety, health and wellbeing of all of those who 3 PLANET for both our customers and team came into contact with us whilst the • Making gloves and masks available members. As an essential service it was pandemic was playing out. As we settle for all team members to wear, critical that we could continue trading to into the “new normal” we continue to ramping up support for locations support our communities. focus on creating a COVIDSafe and where mask use is mandatory, and COVIDCare environment for our team Our response was shaped by our values highly recommending mask use for and customers. 4 of doing the right thing, listening and team members and customers in learning and caring deeply. We worked some regions We would genuinely like to thank all of closely with government bodies such as • Temperature checking options across you for your support in keeping us and PROSPERITY the Department of Health and shared all sites each other safe. learnings with other retailers both in Australia and across the world. It was • Providing wellbeing support programs, amazing to see how quickly we came particularly related to mental and together, learnt, adapted and implemented financial health. measures in over 3,000 sites. During this period, we were guided We significantly invested in new by our purpose and values in our measures in place to help make our interactions with our customers. Our stores a safer place to shop and work, team was empowered to continue to many as a direct result of feedback put the needs of the customer first, from store teams and customers. however they were equally empowered These included: to safeguard themselves and their teammates and do the right thing when it • A significant increase in cleaning, came to dealing with isolated examples especially “high touch” surfaces and of customer aggression. hygiene ambassadors to wipe down basket and trolley handles as you enter COVID‑19 amplified certain levels of aggression, so to protect our team • Sanitiser stations for customers at and customers, we employed extra store entrances and exits security in our stores and also worked • Reinforcing hygiene standards and with academics and industry experts messages around hand washing and to develop responses to support our staying away when you are unwell team members. • Physical distancing across all sites Despite these isolated incidents, – asking customers to keep 1.5m overall it was heartwarming to see how between each other in store much respect and kindness was shown • New Plexiglass screens across our to our team members and how the staffed checkouts public responded so positively to our 22 Creating IMPACT Commitment 8 opportunities Status Sustainable ACHIEVED for all Development Goal Building and maintaining an inclusive workplace is not only the right thing to do, but also allows us to recruit and retain strong talent. Gold Tier Employer • Continuing educational LGBTQ+ events and training sessions for role specific cohorts – Early Careers, Managers, Culture and People, Talent Acquisition, Woolworths Group is proud to announce that we have been Employee Relations and Allies recognised with gold tier status in the 2020 Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for the third year running. • Growing the Proud at Woolworths Group to The AWEI is a national benchmark for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, 2,500+ members Transgender and Queer + (LGBTQ+) inclusion and measures • Celebrating Wear it Purple Day across the Group, an organisation’s level of inclusion for LGBTQ+ people in nationwide the workplace. • Partnering with the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras In 2017, Woolworths pledged to reach AWEI gold tier status since 2018, with team members participating in the parade by 2020, which was documented in our 2020 Sustainability for our second consecutive year Strategy. We are incredibly proud to have not only achieved • Launching our new Proud at Woolworths Group website gold status in 2018 – two years ahead of schedule, but that houses all our tools, resources and learning materials. our continuous drive to embed a culture of inclusivity at Woolworths Group for our LGBTQ+ team members has enabled us to reach gold for three consecutive years, the first retailer to reach this milestone. In the past twelve months, Woolworths Group has undertaken the following initiatives to progress LGBTQ+ inclusion in the workplace: • Expanding our reach into regional and local pride festivals • Introducing our inaugural Proud awards, to recognise exemplary individuals that go above and beyond in promoting LGBTQ+ inclusion • Increasing our focus in raising awareness for Intersectionality and Transgender and Gender Diverse inclusion 23 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 NZ Rainbow Tick Welcome Here Proud For the second year running, In F19, BWS partnered with ACON, a Leadership NZ Countdown has achieved community organisation supporting health, inclusion and HIV responses We implemented the Proud Rainbow Tick accreditation. Leadership course this year, for people of diverse sexualities and This prestigious certification is designed specifically for genders, to become a registered given on an annual basis, and Welcoming Place, in support of LGBTQ+ team members. attests that we are a progressive ACON’s “Welcome Here” Project. This course is run over and inclusive organisation that The Welcome Here Project supports four full days, over eight reflects the community we serve. weeks. The course 1 businesses and organisations throughout Australia to create and combines management Organisations that meet the education subjects with promote environments that are Rainbow Tick benchmarks are visibly welcoming and inclusive of others aimed at fostering PERFORMANCE committed to an ongoing quality LGBTQ+ communities. inclusion. Learning occurs improvement program focused through a combination of HIGHLIGHTS on LGBTQ+ inclusion across BWS piloted this project with huge classroom teaching, group success, we currently have over 440 discussions, team exercises, the areas of Policies, Team participating stores, and this number self‑reflection and coaching. Training, Team Engagement and 2 continues to grow. Due to the success Feedback was positive: “it Support, External Engagement experienced at BWS, the Welcome was an amazing course...one and Monitoring. Here Project has, this year, expanded that helps us understand our PEOPLE to 75 Metro stores across Australia. paradigms and experiences”. 3 PLANET Proud at Proud Awards Woolworths Group The Woolworths Group Proud Committee hosted 4 our first annual Proud Awards in December In the past year the Proud network 2019, to acknowledge and recognise exemplary at the Woolworths Group has been individuals who have done great work in LGBTQ+ inclusion. Team members who PROSPERITY involved in more Pride festivals and identify as LGBTQ+, and their allies, can be nominated for this award. marches than ever before, expanding our Proud network all across We received 54 nominations, as well as pictures and videos of our team members Australia. As one of Australia’s displaying their passion for LGBTQ+ inclusion, and all nominees went into the largest employers, we have a place running to win a spot on our 2020 Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras Parade float. in every Australian community, and Guy Brent, Managing Director of FoodCo and Metro, and the Proud Committee we want all our team members to Co‑Chairs selected Ashley Martin as our well‑deserving inaugural winner. Ashley feel safe, supported and proud to is a wonderful LGBTQ+ role model, who lives our values every day. He took on the bring their whole self to work. Over responsibility for organising participation in our first ever Adelaide Pride March the year, the Proud network was very in 2019 and achieved the highest participation rate of any Pride march so far. He proud to take part in the: played an integral role in influencing the BWS leadership team to add the Proud • Sydney Gay and Lesbian rainbow logo as an option for team member name badges and also brought Wear it Mardi Gras 2020 Purple day to life across WA/SA/NT. • Fair Day 2020 • Melbourne Midsumma Pride March 2020 • Coastal Twist 2019 • Brisbane Pride 2019 • Perth Pride 2019 • Adelaide Pride 2019 • TasPride 2020. 24 PLANET FOR A HEALTHIER ENVIRONMENT We continue to take vital steps to increase the sustainability of our business, to benefit the communities we serve and environments in which we operate. Our customers expect us to reduce our environmental footprint and lead by example, so we continue to partner with industry stakeholders to explore new innovative initiatives. 25 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Total food relief diverted to Stores with transcritical Solar power 2020 carbon people in need or waterloop systems generation emissions 20.4M meals 34 16,466MWh 24% 9% from F19 89% from F19 54% from F19 below 2015 levels NSW farmers picking fresh produce for Woolworths distribution 26 Reducing our IMPACT Commitment 9 food waste Status Sustainable Development Goal PROGRESSED Sustainable Development Goal Woolworths Group continues to implement new initiatives to reduce food waste. This includes creating new product lines from unsold food and increase our support to our food rescue partnerships to provide relief to those suffering from food insecurity. Reducing food waste edible, “beautiful on the inside”, fruits and vegetables. This helps our farmers Our food rescue partnerships Woolworths has increased our donations sell more of their crops, benefits As Australia’s largest supermarket of surplus food and is now the largest cost‑conscious and environmentally chain, tackling food waste and helping food donor to Foodbank, OzHarvest and aware customers and keeps healthy, to feed Australians in need, continue FareShare, donating the equivalent of fresh food out of landfill. to be two of Woolworths Group’s key over 20 million meals this year. These priorities to support our communities. Within our own operations, we relationships with our major food relief introduced initiatives such as: partners, as well as our many local Food waste continues to be a circa community groups, ensure that our $20 billion problem for Australia, and it Our “Reducing Food Waste surplus fresh food is donated directly and is estimated that Australian consumers free of charge to thousands of smaller food threw out a staggering $10.1 billion to Landfill Program” relief agencies across the nation helping to worth of food in 2019. Food production, Since January 2019, 100% of our feed Australians in need everyday. processing, logistics and manufacturing supermarkets across Australia have utilises vast amounts of resources, a food waste diversion program in During the first four months of the including water, fuel and human place. Each store’s program contributes COVID‑19 outbreak from March to June, labour. It is estimated that global towards at least one of the following we were able to support our food relief food production is responsible for beneficial streams: food rescue for partners with $1.7 million additional cash roughly 26% of global greenhouse hunger relief, donations to local farmers for operating expenses, $5.29 million in gas emissions. As a concerned food for animal feed and commercial organic direct additional food donations, $1.09 retailer, we have been working hard recycling for composting. million in paid labour, and $180,000 in to reduce the amount of unsold food transport and logistics. that we throw out. We have also been partnering with our growers, Woolworths banana bread By reallocating our Australian Leisure We use the unsold, overripe bananas and Hospitality Group team members distributors and customers to help from our own stores to create in‑store into Australia’s two largest community them reduce wastage along the food Woolworths banana bread. kitchens run by FareShare, we were value chain from farm to table. able to support FareShare to increase To help reduce waste in the food chain Not only does this stop unsold produce their production of free and healthy we launched “The Odd Bunch” range from going to landfill, 50 cents from meals to over 500,000 a month. With of fruit and vegetables in December the sale of each banana bread loaf goes OzHarvest and Foodbank also recording 2014. Since launch, we have sold more directly to OzHarvest, supporting them record months for distribution of food to than 156,000 tonnes of these perfectly to deliver a meal to someone in need. Australian communities. 27 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Woolworths feeds endangered native SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 wildlife impacted by bushfires As part of our commitment to reducing food waste and supporting vital conservation and regeneration work, Woolworths already diverts over 30 million kilograms per year of surplus food to more than 700 local farmers for animal feed, including zoos such as Australia Zoo and Sydney Zoo. So this year, when the devastating bushfires destroyed the habitat and natural food supply of many vulnerable and endangered native species such as the brush‑tailed rock wallaby, grey‑headed flying fox, and mountain pygmy possum, Woolworths teamed up with the 1 WWF and the NSW Government’s “Saving our Species” program to PERFORMANCE distribute over 20 tonnes of fresh food for wildlife. HIGHLIGHTS Woolworths also teamed up with WIRES to launch the “Woolworths Food For Wildlife Initiative”. This initiative connected scores of local wildlife carers to local stores across Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria to supply free fruits, vegetables and nuts for them to feed displaced native animals until ultimately returning them to their natural habitats when their natural food sources regrow. 2 PEOPLE Endeavour Drinks Giving food 3 reducing waste a second PLANET Our Endeavour Drinks business continues to make great progress towards life the commitment to zero waste to landfill and improving the recyclability of its own brand packaging at its winery and production facilities in Across New Zealand we work with 4 South Australia. over 20 food rescue charity partners. Food that is safe to eat but can’t be Our sites (Dorrien Estate Winery and our Vinpac Angaston production facility) completed the implementation of their own environmental sold is picked up by our partners and PROSPERITY management systems and each obtained an ISO 14001:2015 Environmental distributed to people most in need. Management System certification, covering matters including storage, Other food that is safe for animal packaging materials, resource and solid waste usage and effluent quality. consumption, is donated to farmers to feed their livestock. In F20, we diverted Other highlights include: 6,279 tonnes of food from landfill. • The general waste produced on site at Dorrien Estate Winery is now processed at the ResourceCo facility in Adelaide. The waste is converted After seeing the unique challenges our into processed engineered fuel (PEF), which can be used to replace fossil communities are facing in the wake of fuels to generate energy COVID‑19, we established Countdown’s Food for Good Foundation. As the first • Participation in the Barossa Regional Recycling project as a member of the advisory group with local authorities and other members of the step, we donated $1 million in the wake region’s wine industry. The project’s objective is to understand waste of COVID‑19 to our food rescue and management systems, impacts to the area and identify opportunities to food welfare charity partners to help improve the waste management practices them answer the massively increased demand for food support, and help • The Wine Industry Sustainable Packaging Alliance (WISPA), chaired by Endeavour Drinks, is now into its second year. This “collective impact them operate in the immediate term. model” is a collaboration between APCO and key businesses across the wine industry value chain, working together to improve recycling rates, drive innovation and fuel the circular economy within the Australian wine industry. 28 Moving to IMPACT Commitment 10 a circular Status Sustainable PROGRESSED economy Development Goal Across our product ranges, we continue to work hard to remove or reduce plastic packaging, and increase packaging recyclability, to enable our customers to contribute to the circular economy Packaging initiatives and potatoes, Woolworths has removed 237 tonnes of plastic packaging families and we paused some of our initiatives (such as the “Unwrapped” in produce. trial in Countdown). However we have Our packaging work seeks to address not made any changes to our long‑term two significant environmental issues: We have also offered our customers plastic reduction commitments. We • Removing or minimising packaging access to the in‑store RedCycle believe that in the longer term, plastic due to its potentially detrimental program, and have recycled reduction, and living more sustainably effects on the environment during approximately 10,600 shopping trolleys in general, will continue to be important production and post‑sale worth of soft plastics this year. to consumers as the ongoing global • Minimising food wastage, During the COVID‑19 pandemic, we pandemic drives a renewed sense of recognising that some packaging is recognise that our customers are urgency regarding the impact humans necessary to reduce food waste for prioritising their health and that of their can have on the planet. perishable items. In response to these competing issues, we have been working hard to identify and reduce excess plastic packaging, as far as practical, across a range of Improving the recyclability of packaging fruit and vegetables. The trays for We continue to work with the Australian Packaging sweet potatoes and organic apples Covenant Organisation (APCO), a not‑for‑profit Tray Sleeve Film are now made of recycled cardboard, organisation partnering with government and industry, rather than plastic. Woolworths has to reduce the environmental impact of packaging, on our also commenced a trial of switching commitment that 100% of all our own brand packaging plastic packaging in its popular Fresh be reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. We Food Kids range of apples, pears and have been a member of APCO since 2007, and were the bananas to easy‑to‑recycle cardboard first supermarket to commit to the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL), which gives boxes. Also, by moving out of plastic customers clear on‑pack recycling information. We know that our customers want to contribute to a circular economy and do their part to increase recycling rates. clamshell and into adhesive tape for bananas, replacing rigid plastic trays This year we have added the ARL to more than 850 Woolworths own brand products with pulp fibre on tomatoes, moving to including ready‑made meals and pre‑packed salads. We will continue to add the ARL a paper tag on broccolini and reducing to other products as packaging is updated. plastic film by 30% in weight on carrots 29 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Bringing Loop™ Woolworths to Australia 360 730 Woolworths has partnered with Woolworths 360 was established in waste management company October 2019 to drive step changes TerraCycle to bring its zero waste on environmental priorities across reusable packaging solution, Loop™, our retail ecosystems. to Australia. Loop™ allows customers Woolworths 360 will leverage tonnes of plastic to sustainably consume a range our network including suppliers, 1 of common products (including removed from consumers, regulators and produce since F18 washing detergent or shampoo) assets, to address significant in customised, durable packaging, PERFORMANCE environmental challenges to delivered to their home in a reusable generate long‑term value for the shipping tote. When finished, the business and stakeholders. HIGHLIGHTS packaging can be collected from home, or dropped back in store, to be cleaned, refilled and reused. Through the partnership, which is due to commence in mid 2021, Woolworths 2 is committed to reducing plastic waste in Australia. PEOPLE A new option: The Paper Bag Woolworths Supermarkets and Countdown customers will have the option of purchasing paper 3 PLANET bags to carry their shopping. Countdown goes The new carry bags, which were trialled successfully at a number “Unwrapped” of our stores last year, have been introduced to meet growing From February 2020, Countdown bags. While some products, such as 4 customer demand for alternatives commenced a 10 week trial across bagged lettuce and herb portions, which can be easily recycled in its Orewa, Ponsonby and Manukau remained in plastic due to a lack of household curbside collection. PROSPERITY stores aimed at removing plastic and suitable alternatives, where possible, Made from 70% recycled paper, packaging from our stores, with the any plastic packaging provided was all paper used has been sourced goal of gathering learnings to further made from recyclable and reusable responsibly, as certified by the reduce plastic long‑term. PET or rPET. Each of the “Unwrapped” Forest Stewardship Council, stores also offered soft plastics with non‑recycled paper used in The new‑look “Unwrapped” fruit and conjunction with recycled paper to recycling. Countdown invested more vegetable section featured much less provide a stronger structure. The than NZ$500,000 in the trial, which plastic and more loose produce, and bags have been tested to carry up included the opportunity for direct to 6 kilograms worth of groceries. trialled new, specially‑designed paper customer and team feedback. While and cardboard packaging. 65 products Shoppers can now choose from trial was cut short due to COVID‑19, were “unwrapped” from their usual four carry bag options, with the feedback received are being plastic wrap or packaging, and plastic Woolworths’ Bag for Good, assessed by the produce team to make produce bags were also removed, with reusable plastic bags, and foldable improvements in the packaging space. bags at the checkout. We also offer customers encouraged to use reusable reusable mesh produce bags in approximately 200 stores. Since Woolworths Group began phasing out single‑use plastic bags in 2018, more than 6 billion bags have been taken out of circulation. Only 15% of customers now purchase a new bag during a transaction when visiting a Woolworths store. 30 Sourcing IMPACT Commitment 11 environmentally MATERIALLY Status PROGRESSED Commitment 12 sustainable Status Sustainable MATERIALLY PROGRESSED commodities Development Goal Sustainable Development Goal We continue to work hard to source environmentally high impact commodities and key raw materials from responsible supply chains, and to raise customer and suppliers awareness of sustainably‑sourced products. Seafood farmed mussels are considered by many advisory groups worldwide to • We are pleased to report that currently 94% of our seafood (by have a low environmental impact. We weight) is ecologically responsible Woolworths is proud to offer the are in the early stages of engaging • The remaining 6% comes from largest seafood range of any Australian in a process to support the broader 225 sources, all of which will have supermarket. However, this comes New Zealand mussel industry been independently reviewed by with unique challenges with regard towards third‑party certification WWF‑Australia to understand the to ensuring that our seafood comes against international standards for risk profile by December 2020. For from environmentally responsible sustainability and expect this product seafood that does not come from sources. We have made pleasing to be in compliance by the end of F21. environmentally responsible sources, progress this year in our key seafood categories, increasing the number of we will have developed an action plan sustainably sourced products available Canned seafood by the end of 2021. to our customers. As of June 2020, the majority of products on shelf meets our seafood Packaged and frozen seafood commitment, and by December 2020, 100% of canned seafood that meets Woolworths won the People’s 26 out of 27 own brand frozen, chilled our commitment will be offered. Choice Award in the Marine and deli seafood products are now Stewardship Council’s Sustainable sustainably sourced or have been reformulated so that they only contain Fresh seafood counter Seafood Award environmentally responsible raw We rely on more than 37 suppliers from material, and all new products must around Australia, NZ and the world, and also meet our sourcing commitment. have identified more than 345 sources Only our Woolworths Greenshell of seafood for our 229 products in this Mussels have not currently undergone category. After close collaboration with the required assessments, although our suppliers and WWF‑Australia: 31 Sustainably sourced WOOLWORTHS GROUP own brand commodities Paper, pulp in Australia and timber SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 PRODUCTS Across Australia and New Zealand, 100% of our own brand products containing over 5% paper, pulp and timber (for example own brand tissues, toilet paper and kitchen towels) have met our net‑zero 100% 100% deforestation commitment of being manufactured Tea Chocolate from independently certified sources or at least 95% post‑consumer recycled content. We have created a dedicated page on our 1 shopping website, to help customers directly purchase Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)‑certified products. PERFORMANCE CEO of FSC – Damian Paull says “Concerns over Coffee 100% Sugar 100% global deforestation have been at the core FSC’s HIGHLIGHTS DNA since its founding. We commend Woolworths for its stance on sustainability and sourcing FSC certified products”. All Woolworths own brand PACKAGING In Australia, packaging for own brand high 2 PEOPLE coffee, tea, chocolate and volume lines such as egg cartons have been sugar products are now sustainably sourced from independently certified from either Rainforest or recycled sources. We will continue to work Alliance, UTZ, Fairtrade with our suppliers on improving the primary and International or Bonsucro secondary packaging on our core range of own 3 certified sources. All brand products. products carry the Paper catalogues remain an important part applicable certification of our customers’ weekly shop. This year, we PLANET to help customers make transitioned all copy and catalogue paper used informed purchases. in our Australian businesses to come from sustainably managed sources certified by the FSC or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). 4 PROSPERITY Palm oil 100% of palm oil used in our own brand food products support the production of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)‑certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil. Currently, 91% of our own brand food products are independently certified and 9% of our range supports the production of Certified Sustainable Palm Oil Soy (CSPO) through the use of RSPO credits. Soy is an incredibly versatile source of protein We are still working towards transitioning away from the use of and vegetable oil that can be found in a wide RSPO credits, however progress this year has been impacted variety of products. Soybean meal is also widely by COVID‑19, which impacted auditing capacity. We will used in animal feed as it helps support and continue to work with the RSPO, and our supply partners, to be maintain healthy livestock growth. The use of soy is, however, not without its challenges. 100% independently certified by the end of F21. Soy is the second largest agricultural driver of Woolworths continues to partner with Tiger Trek, an educational tropical deforestation worldwide. Rainforests, experience at Sydney’s Taronga Zoo, which is designed to grasslands and wetlands are being cleared increase consumer understanding and sentiment towards CSPO. at a rapid rate in order to make room for soy Woolworths own brand products are featured in Tiger Trek to production. Woolworths is assessing the use of soy in our own brand products and will work with highlight our continued strong commitment to using sustainable our suppliers and other critical stakeholders to palm oil and palm kernel oil, and to build public support to ensure that soy used in products and livestock transform the industry. In F20, Woolworths received over 9,700 feed will not come from sources contributing emails from Taronga Zoo visitors acknowledging us for our to deforestation. commitment towards transforming the industry. 32 Animal welfare Animal welfare is of fundamental concern to us, our partners and to many of our customers. We continue to work with our farmers and partners to promote good animal welfare management in our supply chain. Animal welfare and the Five Freedoms ANIMAL WELFARE PRINCIPLES: FIVE FREEDOMS 1 2 3 4 5 Freedom Freedom from Freedom to Freedom from hunger Freedom from pain, injury express normal from fear and and thirst discomfort or disease behaviour distress As a major food retailer, animal welfare is important to us. We are committed to working responsibly in this area and We are committed to working responsibly in this area continue to progress and influence best practice through and continue to progress and influence best practice, our consultation with industry. Our approach is based on, consulting with a number of industry representatives such and endorses, the Five Freedoms, proposed by the Farm as veterinarians, academics, government representatives, Animal Welfare Council (FAWC). training providers such as RSPCA Australia, Compassion in We are proud to source all our fresh beef, lamb, pork, World Farming (CIWF), World Animal Protection and many poultry, eggs and dairy (fresh milk) from Australia, more to ensure that animal welfare in our supply chains is supporting Australian farmers and providing jobs. We not compromised. We are working towards a Tier 1 Score are also proud to work with a large number of Australian on the Business Benchmark for Farm Animal Welfare farmers, many of whom have supplied us for generations (BBFAW), the leading global measure of farm animal and are focused on good animal welfare as well as welfare management, policy commitment, performance a consistently high quality product. and disclosure in food companies. We maintained our Tier 3 position in the 2019 BBFAW benchmark. We have a dedicated Woolworths expert livestock team, who spend the majority of time out on the farm with Our Woolworths Animal Welfare Policy sets out our our producers. Our livestock team is based regionally minimum sourcing requirements and expectations for across Australia and collectively have over 250 years of Woolworths own brand dairy (fresh milk), beef, lamb, experience and is responsible for buying our Woolworths poultry, eggs, pork and aquaculture products. Our cattle, lamb and pigs. animal welfare principles and approach are embedded throughout our whole business, from Board level down. 33 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Pork SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 All our Woolworths EGGS RSPCA CHICKEN fresh pork is independently audited to the Since 2015, 100% of Woolworths Woolworths own brand fresh Australian Pork Industry Quality branded fresh eggs are cage‑free; laid chicken, and chicken used as an (APIQ) Assurance Programme by hens free from close confinement ingredient in Woolworths own standards, is certified gestation stall and produced to Egg Standards of brand products, comes from RSPCA free (GSF) and 100% Australian‑ Australia (ESA) Level 3 for farm and Approved farms. The RSPCA sourced. We are committed to grading floors. Approved Farming Scheme focuses improving the lives of animals on improving farm animal welfare within our supply chains and over We are continuing our work towards 1 the last year, we have worked with and production standards. As part using only cage‑free eggs as an our suppliers to ensure all our fresh of the scheme, RSPCA Australia ingredient in own brand products pork is free from any artificially conduct independent assessments and supplier branded eggs by 2025 PERFORMANCE added hormones, growth enhancers on all farms and sheds. In 2019, and we will continue to work with our or promotants. 2,949 assessments were conducted suppliers and industry to meet our HIGHLIGHTS to check for conformance with cage free commitment. RSPCA Approved standards in sheds that supply Woolworths. 2 PEOPLE Sustainable beef and cattle welfare We want to ensure that cattle in our supply chains are raised in a way that promotes it is treated by livestock team members who are trained by a veterinarian. As part of the ABSF’s Consultative Committee, we support the annual 3 PLANET responsible production to benefit people, performance review of various We believe strong collaboration will communities and the planet. indicators including environmental be the most effective approach in stewardship. These indicators will help Our Woolworths cattle are sourced addressing the sustainability concerns deliver the first national tree and grass directly from the farm by one of our surrounding beef production, and we cover measures for the beef industry. experienced livestock team and are are an active member of the Australian 100% Australian. Cattle in our supply chain are sourced from feedlots Beef Sustainability Framework (ABSF) Consultative Committee. The Tess Herbert the chair of the Sustainability Steering Group (SSG) 4 accredited by the National Feedlot framework defines sustainable beef of the Australian Beef Sustainability PROSPERITY Accreditation Scheme (NFAS), as production and animal welfare forms Framework, as well as a supplier of well as meeting our own Woolworths part of their six key priorities . The ABSF Woolworths cattle says “Producing Animal Welfare Policy. The NFAS allows us to engage with a variety of beef in a sustainable manner, is incredibly incorporates a strict animal welfare stakeholders to identify and protect important to the longevity of the component, which ensures the cattle in high conservation value areas within Australian beef industry. It is great to see an accredited feedlot are well cared for our supply chains and work with this is a priority area for Woolworths and and monitored on a daily basis. Feed, suppliers, governments, producers and the industry looks forward to working with water and air quality, temperature and other corporate and NGO partners to them on this journey”. heat levels are constantly monitored. achieve this. If an animal displays any signs of illness, 34 Responding IMPACT Commitment 13 to climate Status ACHIEVED 14 change Commitment Status ACHIEVED Sustainable Development Goal This year, natural disasters such as the bushfires were Sustainable a stark reminder of the effects of climate change. We Development Goal are committed to understanding the potential impacts of climate change on our business, and to implementing mitigation actions so that our business remains resilient in a carbon constrained future. Our position on that can be expected from our changing climate, the actions we can take to climate change manage our risks and how our business can evolve into the future. Over 2019 and 2020, Australia experienced unprecedented We support Australia’s commitment bushfires, floods and the devastating under the Paris Agreement to limit 2020 carbon effects of prolonged drought. Many global warming to 2 degrees above emissions communities across the country faced pre‑industrial levels and work towards extraordinary challenges. containing warming to 1.5 degrees. For Woolworths Group, our business and distribution partners were well Our original emissions target was achieved early, so in F19, we set out a new target to reduce our scope 24% equipped to manage the logistical challenge of supplying our stores due 1 and scope 2 emissions by 60% below 2015 levels to the bushfires. In such unprecedented against our 2015 emissions baseline conditions we supported the immediate by 2030. This target is in line with and ongoing emergency response by the 1.5 degree global ambition. providing water and other essentials For our business, climate change is to firefighting brigades and evacuation Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce a material sustainability issue (see centres. We are mindful of the deep on Climate‑related Financial 2020 Sustainability Report Appendix). and ongoing impacts on our team Disclosures (TCFD). As part of this As part of our broader sustainability members and the communities in globally recognised standard, we strategy, described on pages 6 to 7 the affected areas, and the struggles seek to provide our stakeholders, of this report, we have focused our our fresh food partners faced as particularly the investment community, response to climate change on driving they managed through the long and with information on our risk down the greenhouse gas emissions of widespread drought. management response. our operations. In the wake of these challenges, and Woolworths Group is also committed building on our emissions reduction to identifying and managing climate efforts over more than 12 years, we are change risks in keeping with the taking steps to understand the impacts recommendations of the global 35 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Carbon intensity Setting ambitious Our emissions (tCO2e/square meters) 1 targets and metrics reduction initiatives SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 0.76 0.70 0.69 This year Woolworths Group has LED lighting and 0.62 0.57 reduced our scope 1 and 2 emissions to 24% below 2015 level. Heating, Ventilation and Air‑conditioning (HVAC) Our target of reducing scope 1 and 2 emission to 60% below 2015 levels Optimisation Strategy has been calculated using the Sectoral We continue to roll out LED lighting 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Decarbonisation Method. This is in and HVAC programs across our stores. line with the level of carbon reduction On average LED lighting is saving Energy intensity required to limit global warming to 1.5 11% of total store energy consumption degree above pre‑industrial levels. and HVAC initiatives are reducing heating and cooling energy use by (tCO2e/square meters) 1 1 We have submitted our application to PERFORMANCE 30%. Combined, the projects have 2.8 2.7 2.7 have our target verified by the Science avoided over 272,000 tCO2e emissions. 2.5 2.4 Based Targets initiative and are awaiting HIGHLIGHTS our results. Solar Our ambition to have a verified science We now have 126 stores and two 2 based target shows our commitment distribution centres with solar panels, to play our part to reduce our impact with a total capacity of 14MW. The on the environment, and to help raise 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 TESLA battery at Erskine park Liquor PEOPLE the ambitions of others. We are still Distribution Centre is paired with a working towards our pathway to achieve 400kW solar system and continues 1 Carbon and Energy intensity is based the 1.5 degree target and are continually to provide 25% of the site’s electricity only on stationary emissions. improving the energy efficiency of needs from renewable energy. our operations, and actively scanning emerging technologies. Energy Management Centre (EMC) 3 Understanding our Electric distribution vehicles The EMC allows us to monitor energy Our first truck (“Eve”) introduced in PLANET emissions profile consumption live and now all Australian 2018 was, and remains, the largest This year we have emitted over supermarkets and 50 Dan Murphy and most fully functional heavy 2.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide stores are connected. We have also electric vehicle in Australia, including equivalent (CO2e) from our facilities launched predictive maintenance with 4 refrigeration. A second comparable truck (scope 1 and 2 emissions). This is mainly jobs generated through EMC analytics, (“Buzz”) has since been implemented. due to activities at our stores especially allowing us to identify issues in our assets We are conducting a number of electric from refrigeration. Electricity remains PROSPERITY before they lead to equipment failure. vehicle pilots with various suppliers, our most significant emissions source This proactive approach means we can however commercial supply to meet our accounting for 1.96 million tonnes of save on energy and refrigerant loss. needs at scale is challenging. CO2e. Scope 3 emissions relate to our waste disposals and indirect fuel usage. Scope 3 We have identified our material scope 3 Teys Australia making an impact categories to be fuel and energy‑related emissions, waste and purchased goods As part of understanding our scope 3, we are keen to work with our and services. For the emissions related partners to deliver more environmentally sustainable practices. We are to fuel and energy‑related emissions and aware that many of our suppliers are already proactively addressing waste we currently have active initiatives, environmental concerns. One such supplier is Teys Australia, the such as installing solar panels on our only Australian beef processor to publicly commit to reducing carbon sites, to reduce these emissions and have intensity by 20% and water intensity by 10% by 2023. To help achieve data to be able to track our progress. this, they have upgraded their Naracoorte facility in South Australia to Purchased goods and services also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by capturing methane‑rich biogas contributes significantly to our scope 3 from wastewater treatment and use it to offset grid electricity and emissions. Due to the size and complexity natural gas by installing a combined heat and power plant (CHPP). This of the Woolworths Group we currently provides renewable baseload electricity for onsite consumption. do not have data of a sufficient quality to “We’re committed to a sustainable future especially within the Australian beef track our emissions and progress for this industry. We have been working across our beef business and with our partners category. Our next step will be to develop across the supply chain to reduce emissions, energy and water intensity an action plan to improve the data quality while increasing uptake of renewables, raising the bar on animal welfare, and for this category and our ability to track supporting the communities in which we operate.” Brad Teys, CEO emissions reductions in the future. 36 Responding to climate change Improving our reporting systems Our winery and bottling plants Dorrien and Vinpac have obtained international certification (ISO 14001:2015) for the environmental management system used at the sites. This will allow the sites to track their resource usage, environmental incidents and Rainwater harvesting with Blake Miller Store Manager compliance to an internationally and Peter Gibney, Assistant Store Manager, Stanthorpe accepted standard. Improving our store resilience We always consider appropriate design • The addition of flood barriers to Our Stanthorpe store was one of our for the region in order to increase stores in flood prone areas (such worst drought affected stores, with the resilience of our store assets to as Townsville) the town’s supply officially running out extreme weather. We are undertaking • In areas of severe water shortages we in mid January 2020, and they were some measures retrospectively and are are investigating measures such as forced to cart water from Connolly building these into the specifications rainwater tanks to harvest water off Dam. Engineering adjustments were of our new stores going forward. Some the roof. made to various taps to reduce or cap examples include: off water flow to reduce overall store water usage, and we installed a rain • Cyclone specifications in areas Water‑related risk and water harvesting system. such as Northern Queensland – Stanthorpe these include shutters on windows As a first step towards better risk The droughts in Australia over the last management, we have now taken steps and larger gutters to cope with few years highlights the importance of to understand our water usage at store heavy rainfalls water management. We understand level. Smart water meters have been • In stores at high risk of power that being a food retailer that relies on installed and connected to our EMC in outages, the installation of standby agriculture production, there are water 20 stores. This will allow us to be notified generators and “easy connect” points risks embedded within our supply chain. immediately when a leak is detected. for portable generators 100th supermarket solar installation in Orange Orange is the 100th Woolworths sustainably, and energy use is a big part of planet with this solar supermarket to have solar panels installed the effort. We’re investing in more efficient installation. It will not to reduce the store’s environmental refrigeration and lighting systems, and only reduce the store’s footprint and cut energy costs. harnessing the power of renewables across environmental footprint, but also help keep the network too. At Woolworths Orange, costs down so we can continue offering the The 100kW solar system – which is we’re pleased to be doing our bit for the best possible prices to our customers.” shaped like the Woolworths logo – is made up of 357 high efficiency solar panels spanning around 1,000 square metres. The Orange store is one of more than 120 Woolworths Group sites now generating energy from solar power across Australia. The solar system has the capacity to generate more than 150 megawatt hours of electricity each year ‑ the equivalent to more than 23 Australian households’ annual energy consumption. This will help offset approximately 8 percent of the store’s energy consumption. Woolworths Orange Store Manager Rae‑Anne Ross said: “From store lighting and air‑conditioning to food refrigeration and preparation, there is no doubt supermarkets are energy intensive to run. In recent years we’ve been working to run our stores more 37 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Refrigeration SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Refrigeration is important to provide subsequent food waste and reduced the freshest and safest food for our carbon emissions related to the customers. As the operation of our refrigeration loss. We have now refrigeration system is a material installed these systems in 255 stores. contributor to our overall carbon We have also been investing footprint, we continue to work significantly in improving our towards reducing our reliance on refrigeration systems, especially in certain synthetic refrigeration gases the transcritical CO2 systems space. with high global warming potential. We continue to align our phase‑down of high Global Warming An older refrigerant system may use R404A gas, which has a GWP 2020 refrigerant leakage 1 of 3,922. Therefore if 1 tonne of this PERFORMANCE 26% Potential (GWP) refrigerants in gas leaks, it is the equivalent of 3,922 accordance with the Australian tCO2 emissions, in comparison to a HIGHLIGHTS Government phase‑down schedule transcritical CO2 system, where if under the Montreal protocol. below 2015 levels one tonne of CO2 gas is leaked, it has 2 Due to current technology, all large the equivalent of 1 tCO2 emissions. reticulated refrigeration systems leak Transcritical refrigeration systems gas. Therefore we aim to minimise also has a lot more waste heat PEOPLE the leak rate and transition to low available for store heating, water nearly all synthetic refrigerants GWP gases so the leaks are more heating, under floor heating, and from the store. We have captured environmentally benign. We have even store cooling. many learnings and system design been rolling out leak detection improvements from these stores, We have now rolled out a systems; and a monitoring system and will be incorporating these transcritical CO2 (natural) system to 3 which samples air through an improvements into our future stores 28 stores across Australia and New infrared sensor from multiple zones such as Greenvale Lakes in Victoria. Zealand and a waterloop system to 6 around the store, and notifies our PLANET stores in Australia. Upgrading to more energy‑efficient technicians if the refrigerant level refrigerators combined with the exceeds a set threshold. Early Three stores have a combined above strategies, have reduced detection of a leak has resulted in natural refrigeration and HVAC our carbon emissions and also our improved staff safety due to reduced system, into an integrated refrigeration leakage to 26% below risk of oxygen depletion in confined transcritical CO2 platform. This 4 2015 levels. spaces, reduced stock loss and combined system eliminates PROSPERITY 38 Responding to climate change Task Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures In line with the recommendations of the global Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate‑related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). we also seek to provide our stakeholders with information on our climate change governance, risk identification process and management and testing our strategic resilience against potential climate change impacts. Climate change governance Woolworths Group considers climate change to be a board‑level strategic issue. Woolworths Group Board Responsible for reviewing and appraising the Group’s climate related strategy, polices, performance and approve actions where necessary. Board Sustainability Board Audit, Risk Management and Committee (SusCo) Compliance Committee (ARMCC) Oversees the Group‑level strategy, including Monitor and has oversight of the response to climate change risks and opportunities. Enterprise Risk Management framework Responsible for reviewing actual or potential and the Group Risk Register. climate‑related impacts to the Company and recommending actions to the Board for approval. CEO and Executive Committee Management is accountable for the overall implementation of our sustainability strategy, including climate change initiatives and reports to SusCo on a quarterly basis. Sustainability team Heads of Business Woolworths’ Facilities Responsible for driving Units and Business Management climate risk and opportunity Areas Responsible for energy identification across the efficiency and managing Responsible for identifying, business, and preparing our the Board‑endorsed energy assessing, responding, sustainability disclosures, strategy targeting supply, managing, and reporting including reporting in line demand and innovation upon climate risks with the TCFD requirements. opportunities to reduce our within their scope and implementing appropriate carbon emissions risk treatment. 39 Identifying and WOOLWORTHS GROUP sets out the requirement for consistent the Group Risk Register. Governance identification, assessment, escalation, is supported by the Woolworths managing climate risks SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 management and monitoring of risks Executive Committee and relevant across the Company. Climate change committees and forums across the Under TCFD , companies should identify, has been identified as a material Group. Specific oversight of climate risk assess and manage their climate risks business risk and included in our Group is managed by SusCo. We understand (physical risks and transition risks) as Risk Register (see Annual Report page that there is a range of climate‑related well as potential opportunities. 37). As a result, climate‑related risks transitional and physical risks which are assessed and monitored in line with impact our business in different ways. Climate related risks and opportunities the Group Risk Management Policy. We disclose information on these risks are identified through the Woolworths The Board Audit, Risk Management and in our F19 Sustainability Report. Given Group risk management process in line Compliance Committee (ARMCC) is the breadth of impacts across our with our Enterprise Risk Management the primary Board committee that has business we have summarised them (ERM) framework. The ERM framework 1 oversight of the ERM framework and into three business areas as follows: PERFORMANCE Customers Suppliers Operations HIGHLIGHTS 2 Perception of Woolworths may Across the agricultural and Our operations may increase be influenced by our ability to food processing sectors, their energy use and equipment provide sustainable, affordable, climate‑related events such as may need replacing more PEOPLE high‑quality products that droughts, cyclones and flooding, frequently due to rising align to shifting customer along with climate‑related temperatures. We are likely preferences. We understand regulatory interventions, can to experience more store too that there are heightened affect the price, quality and closures, product loss and stakeholder expectations of our quantity of fresh produce and logistics disruption with role in tackling climate change, ethical sourcing and providing how Woolworths is perceived. increased numbers of extreme weather events. 3 healthy food options. PLANET We may see higher energy costs due to fuel and carbon cost changes. Our building and equipment costs may increase with improved efficiency requirements and a move to electrification. 4 PROSPERITY 40 Responding to climate change Using scenario analysis to understand and enhance our resilience Woolworths is committed to reducing We have used the scenarios to plans in place for the refurbishment of our carbon emissions. We are conscious understand how, over the longer term, refrigeration systems in stores with low of the threat of climate change to our climate change risks may impact the carbon emission alternatives. communities and our businesses. We have Australian Food business, its supply More broadly, our analysis showed therefore undertaken scenario analysis, as chains and the needs of its customers. that several features of the Australian recommended by the TCFD, to understand We assessed the impacts from a financial Food business may reduce the impact and enhance the climate change resilience and non‑financial perspective across our of extreme weather events across its of our businesses and strategy. operations, customers and suppliers, and operations. We have a wide geographic considered the impact to three financial Our analysis indicates that all forms of spread of stores of which a high percentage metrics – revenue, capital expenditure significant global warming pose challenges are leased, with a weighted average lease and operating expenditure. Indirect for our businesses and supporting expiry of around 9 years. This structure impacts to the supply chain were largely infrastructure. To address these challenges, means we will incur fewer costs associated determined using qualitative measures. we are reviewing our end‑to‑end operations with physical impacts to stores, even and our supply chains to identify ways The analysis indicates that our though we may still be exposed to events in which to improve their resilience to Australian Food business is relatively which reduce our ability to trade due to significant global warming. resilient under each scenario. Many of store closures and stock damage. Also, our current strategic priorities would over the longer term, as risks of climate In line with the TCFD recommendations, continue to be important under each change evolve (such as persistently and with the help of our third‑party of the scenarios, such as investment in extreme weather), or as changes in expert partner Energetics, we reviewed digital and online, increasing our offer of population occur within geographic areas, three different potential scenarios, sustainably sourced products, refrigerant we have options available to us. These including a low‑emissions scenario that phase downs and improving supply chain include adjusting our exposure to impacted is in line with a +1.5 degree world – the resilience through industry engagement. areas or seeking out tenancies which are ambition to which we have aligned located or built to mitigate the anticipated our own emissions reduction target. We expect there to be financial impacts physical impacts. The scenarios were developed from due to physical climate change, across research by the Intergovernmental all scenarios. The analysis suggests that Our logistics operations also have Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the our revenues will continue to grow, but inherent potential flexibility and Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial will be influenced by the distribution resilience, through mode switching, Research Organisation (CSIRO) and and growth of our population and the alternate routes and strategic placement the Australian Energy Market Operator impact of extreme weather events on of distribution centres. Recent bushfire (AEMO), and applied to an analysis individual store operations. Capital events have demonstrated the resilience of the Woolworths Australian Food and operating expenditures are also of our logistics operations as we were business, the largest reportable segment expected to be impacted by factors able to find logistics solutions to get of the Woolworths Group. such as policies which encourage earlier products to our stores that were affected investment in refrigeration replacement. by the bushfires. However, Australian Food already has Current store exposure What happens next? This phase of work has focused on We analysed our current store exposure to physical risk drivers, considering understanding potential impacts the density of stores per climatic region. We found that the East Coast region, to operations, the supply chain and containing the highest number of stores (450 stores) is at high risk of climate customers for Woolworths’ Australian change, due to higher risks of extreme rainfall, extreme fire weather and sea Food business, as well as quantifying level rise exposure. The Monsoonal North (29 stores) and Central Slopes (29 a limited set of direct impacts to stores) are the next highest risk areas. Woolworths Group from operational and socioeconomic changes and evolving To mitigate these risks, we have already begun working to improve our store customer preferences. resilience by incorporating appropriate designs for the region, such as installing The key next step is to assess flood protection systems in stores prone to flooding and including appropriate Woolworths’ business response: specifications when building our new stores. See page 35 for further details. • We need to understand the impacts more fully on our supply chain, as only the qualitative impacts have Central Slopes been considered East Coast Central Slopes East Coast Monsoonal North • We will also consider the need to Monsoonal North Murray Basin Murray Basin expand our assessment of supply chain impacts to include more commodities, Rangelands Rangelands Southern Slopes Southern and South-Western Flatlands Wet TropicsSouthern Slopes and expand the scenario analysis Southern and South-Western Flatlands beyond supermarkets to other parts Wet Tropics of our business. 41 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Burwood Brickworks – our most sustainable supermarket Anchored in the groundbreaking new • Reusable and washable produce bags • Providing an in‑store SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Burwood Brickworks Shopping Centre, made from lightweight nylon which collection bin for Woolworths Brickworks is undertaking can hold 2.5 kilograms of produce customers to return the Living Building Challenge™ (LBC), soft plastics and packaging through • Berries, sweet solanto tomatoes, mini which is the world’s most rigorous proven our Redcycle program qukes and vine sweet mini capsicums performance standard for buildings. The are available in loose format to remove • For every Bokashi One eco‑friendly site has a range of sustainability measures or reduce plastic packaging in‑store home compositing system sold in including a large solar PV system and store, 30 meals will be delivered an embedded electricity network, • Reducing bakery waste by diverting surplus in‑store baked bread to be through OzHarvest to people in need. achieving a 6 Star Green Star Design & As Built v1.1 (Design Rating) by the Green used as livestock feed Woolworths Supermarkets Managing Building Council of Australia. During the • Trialled fully recycled paper shopping Director Claire Peters said: “Woolworths construction of our store, we looked at all 1 bags which have now been rolled Burwood Brickworks is the next step in our angles to see how we could build and run out nationwide journey to create a neighbourhood food this store more sustainably: store, with sustainability and the needs of • Cardboard boxes at the front of store local customers at the heart of its design. PERFORMANCE • Refrigeration doors have been for customers as an alternative to bags Woolworths Burwood Brickworks is the included on all meat and dairy to carry their shopping culmination of all our efforts to‑date in one HIGHLIGHTS cases, which will reduce the energy • Providing customer resting benches store. We will continue to trial initiatives consumption by around 30% by made from a minimum of 97% recycled that help us reduce our environmental preventing cold air spilling from commercial packaging plastics impact and look forward to the feedback 2 the cases from our teams and customers as we do.” • Installing a battery recycling station at • By using natural refrigerants, front of store for customers to return Woolworths’ fridges contribute their batteries PEOPLE almost no direct CO2 emissions using 100% natural (CO2) rather than synthetic refrigerants • Reducing energy by using waste heat from refrigeration to heat the store 3 and switching lights off after hours to reduce power usage • Use of recycled materials such PLANET as timber buffer rails substituted with product made from 100% recycled plastic recycled by customers through REDcycle • Recycled or reclaimed timber on walls and registers and other locations with timber finishes which are permanently attached to the structure 4 PROSPERITY • All internal pipework and wiring is PVC free. Piping has been replaced with HDPE or aluminium. PVC wire casing has been replaced with silicon casing. • LED lighting is 35% more efficient than traditional lighting. We also have natural light in areas of the store which are occupied by team‑members for more than four hours a day. This saves energy and improves wellbeing. • 100% renewable energy is used within the store which is equivalent to taking 700 cars off the road each year • Recycled material shopping trolleys, carry baskets and roller baskets: plastic content shopping trolley made from 100% locally sourced recycled milk bottles, as well as hand and roller baskets (excluding handle). The Burwood Brickworks store is also where we have and will continue to trial new and innovative sustainability concepts that are customer focussed. So far, we have trialled: 42 PROSPERITY FOUNDED ON TRUSTED RELATIONSHIPS We are committed to building and maintaining strong relationships with our suppliers, customers and communities that are founded on mutual trust, communication, fairness, value and loyalty. We believe that by listening, learning and collaborating, we all benefit. 43 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Own brand products undergone Woolworths own brand products In kind Community a nutritional upgrade with the health star rating donations contribution 190 100% $15.5M 1.05% 25% from F19 steady from F19 16% from F19 as % of EBIT on a rolling average basis Michael Shelley, Group energy manager, inspecting the solar panels on one of our distribution centres. 44 Working with IMPACT Commitment 15 our business MATERIALLY Status PROGRESSED Sustainable partners Development Goal We understand the importance of long‑term relationships with our supply partners, and believe that collaboration, fair treatment and openness are key. More than 80% of our suppliers have worked with us for a decade or more, and we hope to continue to build long term beneficial partnerships. Working with our suppliers and tenants during COVID‑19 Giving suppliers a voice The Woolworths Group recognises the devastating impact that COVID‑19 has had on the economy. We are doing our We continue to work with global engagement experts, part to support other Australian businesses during this time. Advantage Group, to give our supply partners an open and Woolworths Group temporarily changed its payment policy anonymous platform to discuss our relationship with them. so that small business suppliers (those with less than $10 The Advantage Group prepares a detailed, aggregated million in annual turnover) are paid faster for their goods report based on these interviews annually, along with a more and services. From 31 March until at least 30 June 2020, regular “pulse” survey, to provide Woolworths with invaluable the payment terms for eligible small suppliers were aligned feedback across our business. These initiatives help us to: across the entire Group (including BIG W, Endeavour • Address supplier concerns more quickly Drinks and our New Zealand operations) to not exceed • Improve by making adjustments to our behaviours on an 14 days (down from 30 days in many cases). This change operational and/or organisational level positively impacted more than 1,100 of our small suppliers. Woolworths Group Chief Financial Officer Stephen Harrison • Deepen our relationships with our business partners to notes: “Our small business suppliers are an integral part of our better service our customers. supply chain – by paying them faster, we hope to ease some of In the 2020 Advantage Report, we are pleased to share the financial pressure many of them are currently facing amid the that Woolworths achieved a ranking of #2 retailer with ongoing pandemic.” an improved Net Favourable (NF) score of 44 against our Woolworths Group also provided rental relief for retail comparable peers. We have also achieved a first quartile partners and employment opportunities for retail tenants ranking of “Dealing with suppliers in a fair and equitable across its 28 Australian shopping centres and other retail manner”, an improvement from last year. assets. The multi‑million dollar support package will Woolworths Supermarkets also achieved a VOS score of provide rent relief for the majority of retail tenants and small 50 in March 2020 (a target we set when this program was businesses in our shopping centres and other retail assets to created, as a best in class indicator). This was surpassed in enable them to weather the crisis and bounce back. Wherever May with a score of 52. possible, we’ll also offer flexible contract and casual roles to employees of our speciality tenants, as we know the outlook The VOS score for BWS is 38 and Dan Murphys’ is 42 and we will continue to be extremely tough for our retail partners will continue to work on improving our supplier relationships. over the coming months. 45 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Woolworths Organic Growth Fund invests $1 million into four more Australian farms SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 In F19, we established the $30 million Woolworths Biofarms Australia – Forth, TAS: Run on a chemical‑free Organic Growth Fund, in partnership with Heritage basis since 1999, it produces a diverse range of certified Bank, to help Australian farmers meet growing customer organic vegetables such as broccoli, beetroot and demand for organic fruit and vegetables in the form of pumpkin. It will use its $500,000 interest‑free loan financial grants and interest‑free loans. to buy new machinery and equipment, and upgrade irrigation systems, to improve productivity and efficiency. Woolworths awarded $1 million in a second round of funding to four organic farms across Australia. The four successful Paringi Farms – Paringi, NSW: Third‑generation Paringi recipients grow a diverse range of fruits and vegetables on Farms will use a $170,000 interest‑free loan to convert its farms based across the country: electricity supply to renewable sources and invest in new 1 packing equipment. A producer of organic vegetables such as Gingin organics – Neergabby, WA: grows a range capsicums, zucchinis and tomatoes, the business is expected of organic and seasonal vegetables including celery, to be fully certified organic in the future. broccoli, carrots and cauliflower. It will use its $200,000 grant to develop six hectares of new organic farmland and Woolworths Head of Produce, Paul Turner, says: PERFORMANCE upgrade its packing facilities. “We’re proud to back the expansion plans of entrepreneurial HIGHLIGHTS farmers across Australia through our Organic Growth Fund. N&A Group – Batlow, NSW: has been supplying Our customers are increasingly demanding organic fruit Woolworths since 1956 and diversified into organics in and vegetables, and we believe the trend will only continue. 2015. It will use its $150,000 interest‑free loan to fund high‑quality organic berry cropping in Batlow. We’re particularly interested in working with conventional growers who are looking to diversify their crops and convert 2 to organic production.” PEOPLE 3 The Bread & Sustainable PLANET Butter Project Supplier of the Australia’s first social enterprise bakery, The Year: BioPak Bread & Butter Project, ordinarily operates as a wholesale Pty Ltd 4 bakery, using 100% of its profits to support training and employment opportunities for refugees and asylum seekers Woolworths’ annual Sustainability Supplier of the in Sydney. Year Award encourages our suppliers to innovate, PROSPERITY Due to COVID‑19, The Bread & Butter Project pivoted in and implement sustainability practices into late April 2020 to supply 26 Woolworths Metro food stores their business. and other online retailers directly, to ensure it could keep This year’s award went to BioPak in recognition of its operating during these challenging times. design of Woolworths’ compostable bakery trays. Like Woolworths, the bakery is invested in refugee This innovative packaging has helped support the employment, and we worked quickly to give the brand a good removal of 590 tonnes of plastic packaging from our shelf presence in order to support the bakery’s important in‑store bakeries over the past 24 months, reducing social enterprise work, which includes: our environmental impact while meeting the needs and expectations of our customers. • Maintaining much‑needed income, purpose and support for its trainees, many of whom are not eligible for the Made with carbon‑neutral sugarcane fibre, Government’s JobKeeper support program a by‑product of the sugar refining industry, the trays are certified home compostable and recyclable. • Helping the Project’s trainees In addition to supplying trays to us, BioPak also receive hands‑on training in the supplies these trays to a number of our fresh fruit company’s Marrickville bakery and vegetable suppliers. and a TAFE Certificate II in Food Processing, as well as intensive Through BioPak’s “Give Back” program where 7.5% of tutoring in English and numeracy. its profits are donated to environmental restoration initiatives with Rainforest Rescue (Australia) and More than 70 professional artisan Greenfleet (New Zealand), and community programs bakers have graduated from the in conjunction with its charity partners including program into employment in OzHarvest, Foodbank and Streat, an organisation Australia’s hospitality industry. supporting young homeless people to find We are also trialling a Bread & Butter employment in hospitality. BioPak has also planted bread bar in F21, where their team over 22,000 trees on behalf of their customers, members will work in our stores to including Woolworths. produce Bread & Butter bread. 46 Responsible IMPACT Commitment 16 sourcing MATERIALLY Status PROGRESSED Sustainable Development Goal We believe all workers in our global supply Sustainable chains have the right to be treated with Development Goal dignity and respect, including during crisis. Our year at a glance Importantly, our team continues to operate under the principle that crisis Key milestones in 2020: • Commenced our horticulture deep increases risks to vulnerable workers We have made solid progress in dive strategy resulting in better risk and now, more than ever, it is critical our second year of the Responsible identification of suppliers, growers to uphold human rights in our global Sourcing (RS) Program. While we and third‑party labour providers supply chains. maintained focus on getting the • BIG W joined Action, Collaboration, foundations right, including governance Globally, socio‑economic and Transformation (ACT) to begin to and supplier audit data management, political volatility is also reflected in address living wages in Bangladesh our teams further improved risk our F20 supplier risk segmentation. mitigation through enhanced We are seeing countries that were • Piloted a survey tool to drive investigation procedures and deepening previously considered lower risk worker‑level insights and engagement supplier engagement in high risk areas. shifting into higher risk categories. • Improved oversight at Endeavour Emerging risks are explored further Group‑owned vineyards through audit In half two, the focus of our program in the chapter, while specific forced and remediation processes partly shifted in response to two major labour risks are outlined in our external events – the bushfire crisis in • Enhanced our data platform resulting Modern Slavery Statement. Australia and COVID‑19. These events in better RS risk management and resulted in some planned activities reporting capability. being paused and additional due diligence requirements in other areas. AU$1,473,287 474 703 55 14 85 19 NZ$5,167 KEY METRICS audits commercial site virtual investigations cases returned to supply reviewed team members visits site visits of zero chain workers via direct IN 2020 completed tolerance suppliers or labour Responsible identified providers Purchasing Practices e‑learning module 47 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Responding to SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 COVID‑19 The outbreak of COVID‑19 caused significant disruption to global supply chains impacting not only the flow of goods but workers at all levels of the supply chain. Our commitment to respect human rights continues during the pandemic. We encourage workers and other stakeholders to raise human Woolworths Group, responsible for development, purchasing and the 1 developing an organisational‑wide underlying brand behaviours which may PERFORMANCE rights concerns in relation approach to human rights and impact workers. to COVID‑19 and prohibit modern slavery. They are supported HIGHLIGHTS any retaliation against these This year we launched a RPP eLearning by our RS Manager, two RS groups. Our ongoing COVID‑19 module as part of our license to Specialists, and a Sustainability response is focused on the core operate training for teams that manage Specialist in BIG W. 2 labour rights components of our commercial and supplier relationships. • In New Zealand, we have appointed The purpose of the training is to RS Standards: a full‑time Human Rights, RS & support our teams understand how PEOPLE • Health and safety protocols Sustainability Specialist that will purchasing behaviours can drive both to mitigate infection risks oversee compliance activities positive and negative impacts for • Working hours are kept for Countdown. workers in our broader supply chain. within healthy limits 84% of assigned team members have The ANZ team is supported by RS • Wages meet minimum and Specialists in China, Bangladesh and completed the training. legal wage requirements • Hiring in these periods meets Hong Kong. The RS team reports into the Human Rights Steering Responsible Sourcing 3 PLANET legal requirements and Committee, which reports to the Board Policy review addresses child and forced Sustainability Committee. Launched in July 2018, the Woolworths labour risks Group RS Policy governs our approach • Suppliers are able to meet Key processes to safeguard the human rights of demand and we are attune This year, we continued to refine key workers in our supply chains. This to risks of unauthorised subcontracting. processes and documentation to promote consistency across our global year the policy was reviewed to ensure it continues to reflect global best 4 operating teams and improve suppliers’ practice. Enhancements include: PROSPERITY The varied impacts of experience. Key updates include: • Explicit endorsement of the UN COVID‑19 on our RS Program • Developed standard operating Guiding Principles on Business appear throughout this section, procedures for managing and Human Rights with a detailed assessment of grievance investigations • Acknowledgement of our human our response available in the Modern Slavery Statement. • Reviewed audit grading for the rights governance via the Board non‑conformance of excessive Sustainability Committee overtime to better prioritise higher • Further emphasis on the expectation risk supplier sites for suppliers to cascade requirements • Conducted an effectiveness review of into their own supply base Governance our grievance mechanisms resulting • Recognition of our internal in improvements to our Supplier responsibility (e.g. Responsible Learning from the first year of program Speak Up hotline and information Purchasing Practices) as a vital factor rollout and responding to a dynamic risk made available to workers. in promoting respect for human landscape, this year we continued to rights in the supply chain. strengthen our RS governance including team structure, key processes, Building a responsible sourcing Whilst none of the recommended mitigating controls, and policy revisions. culture across our teams Policy enhancements constitute We recognise that our commitment significant changes to our RS Program, Team structure to responsible sourcing includes an nor place additional requirements obligation to promote Responsible on our suppliers, they reflect the Our Human Rights team in Australia and Purchasing Practices (RPP). Purchasing evolution of our vision and will help New Zealand (ANZ) expanded this year, practices are the way that global steer our 2020–2025 human rights reflecting the increasing importance of retailers interact and do business with commitments. The Policy updates were these countries for our work. the sites that supply their products. approved by the Board in May, effective • In Australia, we have appointed our RPP encompasses improvements 1 July 2020. first Human Rights Manager for in strategic planning, sourcing, 48 Responsible sourcing Risk trends and due diligence We source products from more than 50 countries. Each of • Moderate risk suppliers are manufacturing outside of high these products and countries presents a different set of human risk countries and in medium‑risk countries, which include rights challenges. This is why we use country‑level risk insights, Spain, Poland and Fiji including aggregated third party audit findings, to inform our RS • Priority risk suppliers were identified in 11 high‑risk strategy. Using a risk‑based approach allows us to prioritise our countries, including China, Turkey, Bangladesh, India, actions where we can have the greatest impact on human rights. Mexico and Brazil The risk landscape of global supply chains is constantly • The specialised risk segment continues to focus on the evolving and is sometimes unpredictable. Our 2020 risk unique risks to migrant workers in horticulture. assessment identified the following trends: We will incorporate these outcomes into our supplier • Globally and in Australia, horticulture remains a high‑risk management and monitoring processes in F21. industry for modern slavery and labour exploitation due to its seasonal nature and reliance on temporary and informal workers. This leads to decreased social protections for workers and potential forced labour risks. • Economic instability coupled with COVID‑19, have increased unauthorised subcontracting risks. It has been identified that downward market pressure can result in suppliers subcontracting production to un‑approved factories without notifying their customers in order to be competitive. This poses significant social risks to worker wellbeing. • COVID‑19 could not have been planned for and it has created a global ripple effect. Unparalleled occupational health and safety risks are emerging, while underlying social risks in certain countries, such as wages, working hours and protections for migrant workers are exacerbated. Supplier segmentation Our supplier segmentation approach blends country risk and leverage data to “segment” suppliers into four categories: priority, moderate, specialised and minimum. To ensure our supplier segments accurately reflect the latest global risk landscape, we refreshed our supplier segmentation in F20. Our methodology continues to be based on country risk. We updated all leading indicators, such as the World Bank Governance Indicators, the Global Slavery Index and the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index, with the latest versions. We then blended this data with aggregated third party audit insights to calculate the country risk for where our products are sourced. We then layered additional leverage information based on the length of our business relationship and historical purchase order data. Outcomes from the 2020 segmentation refresh by segment: • Minimum risk suppliers are manufacturers from low risk countries, such as Australia, New Zealand and some European countries 49 Data driven due diligence WOOLWORTHS GROUP Our program framework reflects these four supplier risk segments with increasing levels of due diligence applied as the level of risk increases. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 • The RS Policy is relevant to all Woolworths Group direct suppliers In Q2 we improved and updated our RS supplier (non‑vendor brands, vendor branded, trade and non‑trade) data management, further strengthening our • All direct suppliers, other than suppliers of branded goods and services, program foundations. System enhancements have are subject to further requirements that, at a minimum, include self‑ resulted in: assessments and training accompanying self assessment, training • Automated mapping and grading of third party and education programs. Additional layers, such as third party audit audits to the Woolworths RS Standards requirements, or unannounced factory visits, are then added as the level of risk increases with the moderate, priority and specialised groups. • Automated site level order blocking when a zero tolerance finding occurs or an RS audit Responsible sourcing due diligence framework has expired 1 • Individual tracking of corrective actions including ALL MINIMUM MODERATE PRIORITY SPECIALISED due dates 8. Annual Unannounced • Workflows to enable the team to better manage PERFORMANCE Site Visit 1 risk including prompts when audits have been submitted, when sites are due to expire, and HIGHLIGHTS 7. Implementing a Corrective Action Plan exception reporting • Automated supplier messaging to prompt 6. Sharing Audit Report 2 corrective action reviews, audit expiry or site changes 5. Mutual Recognition Audit Schemes • Easy access to supply chain insights enabling our teams to better identify risks quickly, especially PEOPLE 4. Supplier Self‑Assessment during crisis • Enhanced reporting capability that enables to 3. Training and Education proactively manage and target risk areas. 2. Responsible Sourcing Standards We now have the capability to look at macro RS compliance trends across our global supply chain, 3 as well as drill down into higher risk areas to drive PLANET 1. Responsible Sourcing Policy targeted interventions. We are better placed to identify systemic issues versus isolated cases and can also extract specific data on forced labour indicators for the purpose of reporting under the Modern Slavery Act. Promoting audit efficiency through mutually recognised audit schemes Managing risk for moderate and 4 PROSPERITY For suppliers required to submit an audit, we accept compliance priority suppliers information from seven different third‑party schemes. By accepting this selected range of schemes, rather than imposing Suppliers in the moderate and priority risk our own internal audit on our suppliers, we aim to reduce segmentations are required to submit a third party suppliers’ audit burden. These schemes were selected based on audit. This year audits were submitted from the their coverage, governance, relevance to our supply chain and following third parties: alignment to our RS Standards. The schemes are: • amfori BSCI • Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) • SA8000 • International Councils of Toy Industries (ICTI) Ethical Toy Program • Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) • GLOBAL G.A.P. Risk Assessment on Social Practice (GRASP) • Fair Farms Initiative. This coming year will review our controls of scheme partners n BSCI 393 and certification bodies with a focus on audit quality n SMETA 248 and robustness. n SA8000 26 n ICTI 17 n WRAP 5 n Global GAP GRASP 1 1 Selected based on risk assessment. 50 Responsible sourcing Audit grading and overdue, we focus on closing the most critical issues. Our team then assess the types of critical issues to prioritise non‑conformance trends follow up actions that have the most positive direct impact on workers. All audits are graded against four possible outcomes: zero‑tolerance (red), critical (purple), moderate (amber) Overdue NCs by risk area and minor (green). We can now track individual non‑conformances, enabling the RS team to focus on OPEN AND WOOLWORTHS OVERDUE corrective actions for priority‑segmented suppliers with STANDARD SECTION CRITICAL NCs % critical issues. Follow up actions vary based on severity and 1 Business integrity & ethics 17 9.1% include a follow up corrective action audit, an on‑site visit, capacity building, or further investigation. 2 Transparency 1 0.5% 3 Bribery & corruption 3 1.6% Audit grading for suppliers in moderate and priority 7 Forced Labour 1 0.5% risk categories 9 Non discrimination 3 1.6% 10 Freedom of Association 5 2.7% RISK SEGMENTATION 12 Wages & Benefits 7 3.8% AUDIT GRADE MODERATE PRIORITY TOTAL % 13 Working Hours 10 5.4% Green 36 29 65 9.4% 14 Health & Safety 107 57.5% Amber 120 192 312 45.2% 15 Dormitories & Canteen 2 1.1% Purple 108 200 308 44.6% 16 Environment 30 16.1% Red 2 3 5 0.7% Total 186 100% Total 266 424 690 100% As the table highlights, health and safety, business ethics and the environment are the key non‑conformances that remain Status of non-conformances (NCs) raised open. Drilling further into these we can see that: WOW RS • Issues raised for health and safety largely relate to STANDARD AUDIT CLOSED OR INDICATOR RATING SUPERSEDED NCs OPEN NCs OVERDUE NCs machinery safety and building licensees Zero tolerance 12 1 • The findings for business ethics typically relate to data management Critical 381 331 186 Major 1,130 1,821 40 • Although it is not a current focus area of the RS Program, non‑conformances related to environmental performance Moderate 1,321 980 17 relate to not maintaining legally required environmental Minor 87 140 permits and labelling and storing chemicals properly. Grand Total 2,931 3,273 243 This information enables our teams to focus efforts on the highest risk suppliers and issues. We are further assessing Overdue non‑conformances represent 243 or 4% of the risks of these NCs to identify those that may be prevalent total non‑conformances raised. We strive to close all in a particular region or industry so, where possible, we can non‑conformances as per the timeframes indicated by third take a root cause approach. Environmental supply chain data party‑audit schemes. In some cases, issues may be systemic will become of greater importance as we begin to explore and require more time to address or, in other cases, we agree scope three emissions in the coming years. new timeframes with suppliers. If non‑conformances become 51 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Country insights SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Improved systems for managing and reporting audit findings also gives our team insight into issues trends across key sourcing locations. In F20, 85% of audit NCs were raised in China where 77% of our moderate and priority risk suppliers are located. Bangladesh, Thailand, Malaysia and India together account for 12% of NCs identified. In China, Thailand and Malaysia excessive overtime was the top NC raised while machine and operational safety is the main concern on the subcontinent. Country China Bangladesh India Pakistan Number of direct suppliers in scope of the RS Program 535 27 22 8 1 PERFORMANCE Top NC identified in Excessive overtime Lack of machinery Safe and hygienic Safe and hygienic supplier audits safety guards workplace workplace Second most common NC Lack of internal Safe and hygienic Valid licences or Insufficient HIGHLIGHTS identified in supplier audits RS policies and workplace permits not being policies procedures; not maintained communicated and understood by all 2 workers PEOPLE 3 PLANET 4 PROSPERITY Country Thailand Malaysia Vietnam Number of direct suppliers 31 15 11 in scope of the RS Program Top NC identified in Excessive overtime Excessive overtime Workers found to pay supplier audits for personal protective equipment Second most common NC Insufficient Chemicals and Electrical safety not identified in supplier audits emergency exits hazardous substances compliant with legal are not contained requirements in secondary containment to prevent leakages, spills, and accidents 52 Responsible sourcing Managing risks for minimum risk suppliers Suppliers identified as minimum risk, mainly food • 95% workers can raise issues confidentially and in a manufacturers in Australia and New Zealand (ANZ), are language they understand. required to complete a self assessment questionnaire (SAQ). Although these food manufacturers are based in ANZ, If the supplier is an existing member of a mutual recognition we have identified that there is a level of risk among these scheme, we accept and review the corresponding SAQ. suppliers where migrant workers and labour hire providers Suppliers that are a not members of a scheme complete a are deployed. As a first step, we have proactively distributed Woolworths SAQ. The purpose of the SAQ is to validate 65 Supplier Speak Up posters to 13 minimum risk suppliers our risk assumptions and highlight any red flags. In F20 we that had been flagged during the SAQ process. identified that: • 48% of minimum risk suppliers utilise migrant workers In F21 we will provide resources to suppliers on our in their operations requirements for labour providers. Any sites that are deemed higher risk will be moved to the moderate risk • 43% use a labour hire provider to meet workforce needs segmentation and be required to submit a third party audit. Expanding visibility of our fresh food supply chain In 2019, guided by risk prioritisation, our efforts in the fresh Own brand seafood, including fresh and canned, is sourced food supply chain concentrated on horticulture. This year, as from 43 direct suppliers spanning operations and fisheries in our program matures, we conducted a baseline assessment of 18 countries. 56% of seafood is fished in Australia followed by meat and seafood suppliers. trans‑boundary waters to the north east and west of Australia, Vietnam and USA. We have reviewed audits of 11 direct seafood 100% of our fresh cut meat is sourced in Australia from 26 sites and identified non‑conformances in health & safety, suppliers across 50 sites. We have connected with 16 suppliers working hours and compliance to environmental standards. on the Sedex platform and 10 site audits meet our requirements Guided by our additional forced labour risk assessment, we will for review. Of these, 2 were graded green (low risk), 7 were prioritise further due diligence for seafood suppliers in F21. graded amber (medium risk) and 1 was graded purple (high risk). 93% of non‑conformances have been addressed and we are working to close the remaining 2 issues. 53 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Supplier engagement SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Framework for supplier engagement in our Responsible Sourcing Program Program SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT & WORKER COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Program Governance Objectives Supplier Monitoring Corrective Continuous RS Policy Transparency onboarding Action Improvement RS Standards Trust & partnership Speak Up 1 Policy Robust RISK SAQ SOCIAL CAP (Corrective Action Plan) Management RS Process SEGMENTATION (Supplier Self AUDIT AUDIT CYCLE Systems & Procedures & CAPABILITY Assessment (Where EMBEDDED Reduced Human ASSESSMENT Questionnaire) applicable) PERFORMANCE Supplier SITE VISITS Rights Risk Guidance tools Responsibly sourced HIGHLIGHTS Internal and products external Risk-based cadence Responsible capacity Exit Empowered building workers programs CAPACITY BUILDING, SUPPORT, TARGETED PROJECTS 2 Customer trust WOW RS leadership GOVERNANCE, BEST PRACTICE & INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT PEOPLE Embedding Responsible Sourcing in management interviews and a plant tour to check key health and safety measures such as entrance procedures, washing our supplier’s operations facilities, isolation stations, child care facilities, canteen area seating arrangements and social distancing protocols on 3 This year we continued to embed the RS Program in our supply the production floor. To date, 14 virtual site visits have been chain through supplier engagement and capacity building. 669 conducted at higher risk and strategic supplier factories PLANET suppliers attended the annual Supplier Roadshows across six representing 70% of our total order volume. All factories cities in China and Australia. Drawing on feedback from last have formed a COVID‑19 Task Force. Our team verified that year, this year we used case studies to deepen our collective factories are following government requirements by observing understanding of root causes of RS non‑compliances. We temperature checks, hand wash facilities and appropriate PPE also launched Supplier Speak Up and distributed guidance material on operational level grievance mechanisms. 67% of during the virtual visit. 4 PROSPERITY roadshow attendees returned a feedback survey, on average, 4.35/5 people were satisfied with the RS session. In response Supplier training on effective to COVID‑19, the team is considering alternative training opportunities for higher risk suppliers in F21. grievance mechanisms Our Supplier Speak Up channel has been a top priority this Site visits year. To assist suppliers with site level implementation of grievance mechanisms, we delivered an e‑learning module on “How to Manage Worker Feedback” for all priority and Whilst audits to our supplier sites are carried out by third party moderate sites. The online module, available in both English certification bodies, we believe it’s important to engage with and Chinese, had the following learning objectives: our suppliers directly to improve oversight of supply chain risks. Site visits are carried out by our RS Specialists and offer an • Identify key channels for accepting worker feedback opportunity to build a sense of partnership with suppliers. Visits • Learn procedures for handling worker feedback aim to support long term improvements by: • Learn how to implement and monitor a worker • Raising awareness of RS Program requirements feedback system. • Understanding our supplier’s perspective and the During 2020, 735 suppliers completed the course. 97% of challenges they face suppliers reported that this training was useful and that they • Sharing tools and tips to help suppliers meet requirements have a better understanding of how to manage worker feedback. • Where required, agreeing a capacity development plan. Topics identified by suppliers for future training include production and capacity planning, communication and During the reporting period, our teams conducted a total of 45 site effective management. In F21 we will deepen our engagement visits, 21 in China, 20 in Bangladesh and 4 in Thailand. Visits were with amfori BSCI and Sedex to better leverage online training a combination of announced, for new sites, and semi‑announced for suppliers. This exercise was paused in F20 due to the and un‑announced visits for existing priority suppliers. re‑prioritisation of the team in H2. In light of COVID‑19, we modified our site visit methodology to conduct virtual site visits in Bangladesh. Visits include 54 Responsible sourcing Grievance and remediation procedures Supplier Speak Up Investigating and by labour contractors to 37 workers in the trolley and cleaning sector across This year we progressed our remedying breaches 32 sites in six states. As a result of our investigations, 23 subcontractors and commitment to improve the Group’s and grievances their key management personnel were grievance mechanism through terminated and debarred from all sites. leveraging our Speak Up channel. This year we investigated 85 supply A further three primary contractors Supplier Speak Up, governed by chain breaches or worker grievances, were put on hold due to critical issues the Supplier Speak Up Policy, is an increase of 27% from last year. At identified and later released from hold an independent and confidential this stage of our program, this suggests when the issues were remediated. Two platform available to suppliers and continuous improvement in procedures workers reflecting on their experiences workers in our global supply chain. to identify and resolve labour issues. of the remediation process said: The service can be accessed by The channels through which issues are phone from key sourcing countries raised is also diversifying: “Thank you for helping me with the and is available globally online. situation.. and for giving me my rights and what I deserve back to me. I would have This year we translated the Speak Up Supplier Speak Up 56 never claimed my right or speak up to it Policy, online intake form and posters until I received the encouragement and into languages of our key sourcing Referred by the Fair Work 13 hope from you. countries and migrant worker cohorts. Ombudsman (FWO) These are: Chinese, Bengali, Malay, I and my colleague got a pay out from Thai, Hindi, Arabic and Korean. We Referred by Ministry of my employer as a result of a compliance have continued to work with suppliers Business, Innovation and 4 activity by the Woolworths Facilities to cascade information posters Employment (MBIE), NZ Management Compliance team. I to raise awareness of the service appreciate the assistance and efforts Media investigations 4 among workers. taken by the auditor and their team to Audits and self assessment ensure the right thing is done with us, We also conducted an operational 5 questionnaires the trolley collectors.” review of the telephone service, which identified some issues with Union engagement or direct In horticulture, our RS team monitored language selection. These have contact from affected workers 3 the repayments of $819,990 in since been addressed and the phone to our RS team miscalculated wages and unpaid intake reflects both the national and superannuation for 277 workers key languages of migrant workers across 3 supplier sites. As a result in that location. Of the 85 matters raised, 60 cases have of our investigations one supplier been closed and the rest remain either was temporarily suspended from under investigation or the suppliers have trade while corrective actions were agreed to a management action plan. addressed. In total, 12 cases were raised Our Facilities Management team in horticulture in relation to direct facilitated $653,297 in repayments suppliers, and three from workers in our second tier supply chain. If you have any of these problems at work… Forced to work Underpaid Bullied, abused or treated badly In danger Speak Up. Contact Supplier Speak Up on: AU 1800 772 173 Speak Up is a service managed by an independent third party. NZ 0800 393 76739 It provides an avenue for suppliers and their workers to report WoolworthsSpeakUp .ethicspoint.com issues confidentially and anonymously, where they have not been resolved by the employer or regulator. Scan the QR code for more information 55 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Case study: Addressing root causes – a 2020 remediation update As disclosed in last year’s sustainability report, we have STRENGTHENING OUR PROCESSES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 been investigating and remediating an unauthorised As part of our investigation, we reviewed our internal subcontracting case with a general merchandise supplier purchasing practices and processes. We identified that based in China. This case was reported in 2018 and we did not have a clearly defined process for managing investigated in alignment with our formal grievance process. factory capacity and subcontracting risks. We developed The initial investigation identified a number of issues, an action plan to strengthen our systems and mitigate including validating the claim of unauthorised subcontracting future exposure. Progress to date includes: and uncovering the underpayment of overtime wages involving three suppliers across four factories. SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT 1 Woolworths and ELEVATE engaged the four factories as part of a targeted year‑long capacity program, which concluded in Training our team November 2019. The program focused on helping suppliers PERFORMANCE develop stronger management systems to better align with We expedited planned training for commercial the RS Standards. and procurement teams on responsible purchasing practices. All relevant team members HIGHLIGHTS A baseline assessment was conducted at the beginning in FoodCo Asia and BIG W Asia have completed of the program to identify where factories needed to the training. strengthen controls to improve health and safety, wages and working hours. The results informed factory‑specific remediation plans to build supplier capability to strengthen 2 PEOPLE management systems. Upon completion of the program, each factory was Factory capacity assessments assessed to identify their overall improvements. The outcomes include: The general merchandise team completed factory capacity assessments for all (100%) 3 • All sites demonstrated improvements in workforce of its active factories and consolidated its management and health and safety active factory list from 232 to 215 sites, from • Three sites established procedures to maintain accurate 175 suppliers. No suppliers were identified PLANET attendance and payroll records and aligned worker as high risk, which would then trigger further wages to local regulations due diligence. • Two sites improved their production management systems to improve capacity planning and labor 4 forecasting to reduce risks of future overtime • One site implemented effective systems to monitor working hours and rest days. Verifying supplier capacity during onboarding PROSPERITY Each factory received a final report and recommendations Factory capacity assessments are verified during a for continuous improvement. We will work with factories site visit as part of the factory onboarding process and monitor progress as part of quarterly supplier meetings. before orders can be placed for all new sites. For existing sites, the sourcing team had commenced Outcomes of factory development program on‑site capacity assessments, however, the in China plan is temporarily delayed due to COVID‑19 IMPROVEMENT AREA SITE 1 SITE 2 SITE 3 SITE 4 travel restrictions. 1. Workforce management 2. Health and Safety 3. Production On-site third-party capacity assessments Management 4. Attendance We have developed and piloted an on‑site Records capacity verification protocol for third‑party 5. Payment assessments. This protocol will be used when Records a factory is identified as high‑risk during a 6. Wage Guarantee site visit. The assessment considers available Mechanism production time and planned capacity at 7. Weekly Working different stages of the manufacturing process. Hour Monitoring The protocol has been piloted at two sites and 8. Reset Day has been deemed fit for purpose. Monitoring Total number of 7 3 6 4 improved area: 56 Responsible sourcing Projects and partnerships A commitment to living Shobola update: wage in Bangladesh Year two of amfori’s In February 2020, BIG W joined Action, women empowerment Collaboration, Transformation (ACT) to address living wages in Bangladesh. ACT is an agreement program in Bangladesh between global brands, retailers and trade unions to achieve living wages for workers through collective bargaining at industry level linked to brands’ purchasing practices. The first step for ACT was to conduct a purchasing practices self‑assessment survey across our BIG W team. Given the significant impacts of COVID‑19 on the global apparel sector this is paused until later in the year. In response to COVID‑19, ACT’s strategy has pivoted to focus on the immediate needs in key sourcing countries. BIG W is an active participant in ACT’s Bangladesh country group meetings, a tripartite dialogue between ACT brands, the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), and trade unions represented by the IndustriALL Bangladesh Council. The Bangladesh country group members agreed to share information on the payment of wages and festival holiday bonuses. ACT’s ongoing support for workers during the pandemic will be conducted in coordination with the International Labour Organisation’s Global Call for Action. 1 BIG W has also endorsed the Call to Action. Last year, a BIG W supplier was selected by amfori BSCI to participate in a women’s empowerment program, Shobola. Shobola, meaning independent and empowered woman in Bengali, is a two‑year project designed for female workers in Bangladesh’s ready‑made garment sector to consider pathways into supervisory positions. In the first year a baseline assessment identified barriers ACT’s purchasing practice women face in pursuing supervisory positions in factories commitments 2 including a lack of confidence from limited education or leadership experience, and concerns with juggling family 1. Brands commit that purchasing prices commitments. The assessment also highlighted the need include wages as itemised costs for training in the area of gender equality and sexual harassment in the workplace. 2. Brands commit to fair terms of payments These insights formed the basis of the Shobola Project 3. Brands commit to better planning training conducted in F20 including topics such as and forecasting understanding and reporting cases of sexual harassment, effective communication and leadership for career 4. Brands commit to undertake training on development. BIG W’s supplier said of the training, “Overall responsible sourcing and buying this training was beneficial for workers and staff. Managerial and communication skills among employees has been improved 5. Brands commit to practice responsible and employees are very aware about gender equality and exit strategies. sexual harassment.” The planned consultation in factories in Q4 F20 has been postponed due to COVID‑19. 1 For more information see: https://www.ilo.org/global/topics/coronavirus/sectoral/WCMS_742343/lang‑‑en/index.htm 2 For more information see: https://actonlivingwages.com/wp‑content/uploads/2019/10/ACT‑GLOBAL‑PURCHASING‑PRACTICES‑COMMITMENTS‑1.pdf 57 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Embedding responsible sourcing in our global horticulture SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 and viticulture supply chains 1 PERFORMANCE Woolworths continued to engage across industry through formal mechanisms such 1. Type of harvest (manual/mechanical) HIGHLIGHTS 2. Location (including known risk Supermarkets as the FWO’s Horticulture Industry regions and regulatory oversight) 2 Reference Group and by liaising directly This year, our horticulture‑specific RS with peak bodies. We partnered with 3. Seasonality strategy in Australia focused on three the United Workers Union (UWU) on 4. Suspected or known red flag sites PEOPLE key areas to strengthen our visibility worker education sessions and met with worker representatives during As a result we identified six categories and controls for higher risk suppliers: COVID‑19 response planning. The RS at higher risk for worker exploitation: • Supplier due diligence in high team continued to work closely with the berries, grapes, stonefruit, brassica, risk categories Fresh Produce team to engage suppliers tomatoes and cucumbers. This year we 3 • Industry collaboration on the requirements and manage commenced our high risk horticulture investigations when issues were raised. program for these categories, and • Worker engagement. included citrus (oranges) in this group PLANET In the first half of the year we achieved based on geographic risks heightened Due diligence program for during COVID‑19. Our program our first major milestone with all direct suppliers onboarded to the RS Program. high risk categories for higher risk categories has five We are now rolling out self‑assessment Last year we took a risk‑based approach key activities. and audit requirements to second tier to determine our highest risk fruit and veg growers in higher risk categories. We categories. We consider four key factors: 4 PROSPERITY 58 Responsible sourcing 1 2 3 Pre-harvest Supplier, grower and briefing labour providers Information sessions due diligence checks 1. PRE-HARVEST BRIEFING SESSIONS 2. SUPPLIER, GROWER AND LABOUR PROVIDERS DUE DILIGENCE In December we piloted our first pre‑harvest briefing session in Mildura attended by 39 direct and indirect grape suppliers. This step requires suppliers to conduct basic due diligence in their operations, for growers and any labour providers used in The forum offered the opportunity for suppliers to discuss their supply chains. This has already improved transparency areas of concern with our team and we were able to work in high risk areas. This year we conducted information through labour hire issues ahead of harvest. In February, checks on 212 direct suppliers across all high risk categories, Woolworths presented at the National Citrus Conference, identifying 447 indirect suppliers that contribute to our reiterating our Program expectations to some 150 industry supply chain. Prior to COVID‑19, we also requested suppliers participants. When face‑to‑face briefings resume, we will to undertake an audit at the site of their main operations trial combined category and RS updates so that human rights and/or one significant tier two grower. Audit requests were is integrated into business‑as‑usual discussions alongside put on hold from March‑June, and will be reconsidered in commercial and quality updates. consultation with certification bodies in Q1 F21. 3. INFORMATION CHECKS Our team reviews the supplier and grower data to assess if our RS requirements are met. Key insights from this process include: • The number of direct and indirect suppliers (also known as tier one and tier two suppliers) • The mutual recognition scheme direct and indirect suppliers have selected • If indirect suppliers have conducted an audit • The names of the labour hire providers used in the supply chain and if those labour providers meet our Requirements (State‑based license, registered with the Federal Government’s Seasonal Workers Program, or Staffsure accredited). This information enables the RS team to identify information, or information gaps such as undisclosed labour providers, that are a red flag for further due diligence. Summary of due diligence activities in higher risk produce categories in Australia # TOTAL # OF LABOUR # OF SITES # DIRECT #INDIRECT SITES USING PROVIDERS IDENTIFIED CATEGORY RESPONSE RATE SUPPLIERS SUPPLIER SITES LABOUR HIRE IDENTIFIED AS AT RISK 1 Berries 87% 44 148 107 62 103 Cherries 100% 17 35 16 14 7 Grapes 73% 32 71 28 24 55 Stonefruit 50% 33 102 128 51 56 Tomatoes 39% 33 135 31 31 18 Citrus 47% 58 243 53 46 78 Cucumbers 50% 25 37 3 4 15 1 At risk is defined by sites that are using a labour provider but that provider does meet our Requirements, or are using a provider and details are still to be confirmed. 59 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 4 Worker engagement 5 Site visits during peak harvest 4. WORKER ENGAGEMENT 5. SITE VISITS DURING PEAK HARVEST 1 PERFORMANCE This year we continued worker outreach in key locations in Visits to cherry, grape and strawberry suppliers partnership with retail peers, labour hire providers, suppliers commenced this year, while plans for other strategic HIGHLIGHTS and UWU. Key engagements included: categories were delayed due to COVID‑19 travel restrictions. • October 2019: Worker education session in Elizabeth, In Q4 alternative due diligence measures were put in place South Australia, organised by the UWU and attended by including one‑on‑one calls with suppliers to discuss their Woolworth’s RS team and Chief Legal Officer. • December 2019: A multi‑stakeholder roundtable on the labour management plan for harvest and ensuring Supplier Speak Up posters were visible on sites. 2 PEOPLE Sunraysia region attended by retailers, investors and UWU To support suppliers at this time and maintain a focus on delegates and worker representatives. worker voice and wellbeing, packages have been mailed to 90 high risk suppliers containing Speak Up posters in 6 • February 2020: We piloted a joint retail, union and labour languages, guidance on effective Grievance mechanisms hire provider session for workers in Sunraysia. Participants and government COVID‑19 health and safety posters. reported a positive experience. 3 Suppliers are encouraged to reach out if further support • May 2020: We coordinated a meeting with UWU is needed, and engagement will continue, prioritising worker representatives and received direct feedback suppliers with harvest underway. PLANET from key sourcing regions on the impact of COVID‑19 on migrant workers. • June 2020: We convened a meeting with the Sunraysia pilot group to discuss next steps in the region. The group agreed to focus the next event on awareness raising among labour providers. 4 PROSPERITY Fair Farms Fair Farms Certification: Fair Farms is a grower‑led initiative launched in June Arnhem Mangoes 2019, with the aim of promoting workplace compliance in Australian horticulture. Woolworths was a founding retail member and this year we assumed a role on Arnhem Mangoes was one of the Fair Farms Stakeholder Reference Group. The the first growers to register and purpose of this group is to provide advisory support complete the Fair Farms Training and to improve the Fair Farms program. Our priority areas Certification Program. The business while on the Reference Group are worker voice, best employs over 100 workers every practice protocols for worker interviews and grievance year including overseas workers via the Government’s mechanisms. To date: Seasonal Worker Programme. The online self assessment highlighted only a few minor issues that were then • 77 of our suppliers have registered with Fair Farms addressed in training. • 57 of those have now completed the Fair Farms SAQ Arnhem Mangoes was audited during the summer • 22 have completed training mango harvest, where auditors identified best practices deployed at the site. Workers who stay in the provided • 9 have so far become Fair Farms certified. accommodation are given toiletries and basic food packs, In F21 we will continue to collaborate with Fair Farms and a full‑time chef is employed to provide all workers with by piloting the online buyers dashboard, promoting free breakfast and morning tea. the program to our indirect growers, and improving Arnhem Mangoes was set on a 3‑year recertification cycle. audit quality with a particular focus on deepening A yearly check‑in by way of completing the self assessment confidentiality in worker engagement during audits. is still required to ensure that standards are maintained. 60 Responsible sourcing Reviewing management when filing a complaint; more so for younger workers Respecting freedom of association effectiveness • On average, only 54% of workers This year we have engaged with the of grievance channels across all surveyed farms think that management will treat their United Workers Union (UWU, formally the National Union of Workers) and grievances seriously, with workers on the Retail Supply Chain Alliance (AWU, In late 2019 we partnered with smaller farms less confident. TWU and SDA) on issues arising from ELEVATE’s LabourLink service to pilot a technology‑based worker survey on The results of this survey have informed our horticulture supply chain. Key grievance mechanisms among migrant our communication strategy for meetings with UWU are outlined above workers in our fresh produce supply Supplier Speak Up and will continue in the section on worker engagement. chain. The purpose was two‑fold: to to guide the development of tools to In H2 our priorities with union trial a mobile‑based survey as a means support suppliers manage grievances. engagement shifted in response of gathering real‑time insights directly to COVID‑19. At this time, we are from workers; and to gather baseline FWO Horticulture engaging with unions to: information on the channels workers trust to raise issues. We worked with Reference Group • Better understand the impact on six suppliers, reaching a total of 230 For the past eighteen months workers in key growing areas workers. Key findings include: Woolworths has been a member of • Improve insights into horticultural • Workers prefer to talk to their the Fair Work Ombudsman’s (FWO) supply chain worker sentiment supervisors or farmer/owner directly Horticulture Industry Reference Group. during COVID‑19 (80%) rather than using hotlines to Members of our RS team have attended • Support the most vulnerable workers raise issues. five quarterly meetings since March 2019 with access to basic health and to discuss shared industry challenges • There is a correlation between sanitation products. with government, industry bodies, language (proxy for nationality) and suppliers and unions. In this time we We remain committed to working with access to the grievance mechanism. have deepened our relationship with key all relevant unions to ensure necessary 68% of English speakers said there horticultural supply chain participants changes are made to protect workers in is an easy way to make a complaint/ and will continue to engage across the horticultural sector. suggestion, while only 25% of industry once the formal FWO Reference Chinese and 37% of Korean speakers Group comes to an end in F21. surveyed agreed with this statement • On average, 53% of respondents are concerned about retaliation from 61 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Countdown New Zealand There has been a heightened focus on responsible • failure to provide employment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 sourcing over the past year in New Zealand, driven by agreements or keep accurate both market and regulatory events. Countdown is the records. first major food retailer to require social compliance We have engaged with the suppliers involved and in from its produce suppliers. We have been working to one instance facilitated restitution of underpayments of raise awareness of our RS Program through supplier $5,166.97 to workers by a direct supplier on behalf of the communications, grower updates, and industry events. Labour Provider. We have received evidence that instances Countdown worked closely with NZGAP, the certification of worker underpayment in the other cases have been arm of Horticulture New Zealand, to support the launch of addressed via payments made directly to the Employment its Social Practice Add‑on module in Autumn 2020. NZGAP Relations Authority or Employment Court. During our has also developed a Standard for Contractors that seeks to meetings suppliers have analysed the root causes of the strengthen oversight of labour providers in the horticulture sector. This year Countdown advanced the onboarding of identified breaches, and set targets for follow‑up actions via our Management Action Plan process. 1 New Zealand produce suppliers to its RS Program: PERFORMANCE Three of these four investigations related to the activity This year Countdown advanced the onboarding of New of Labour Providers on the suppliers’ sites, currently a HIGHLIGHTS Zealand produce suppliers to its RS Program: vulnerable point in the supply chain for protecting worker welfare. It is our expectation that suppliers and growers • 104/108 (96%) direct suppliers are onboarded conduct due diligence on third party labour providers. We • 95/108 (88%) of direct suppliers have completed Self‑Assessment Questionnaires or submitted third‑party assessments also welcome the development of NZGAP’s Contractor Standard as a mechanism to drive improved performance through the contractor sector and are exploring how we 2 support this through our RS Program requirements in F21. PEOPLE SUPPLIER INVESTIGATIONS Planned investigatory audits and support for professional This year, Countdown has undertaken four investigations development for social practice auditors in New Zealand into four direct and two indirect suppliers linked to Labour was impacted due to COVID‑19. We are working to draw Inspectorate and Immigration NZ investigations. The 3 on international expert practitioners remotely to support Government findings related to activities that occurred capability building in New Zealand in this area. between 2015 ‑ 2020, with the main issues identified: PLANET • workers on holiday or expired work visas • failure to pay workers full entitlements 4 Endeavour Group PROSPERITY This year Endeavour Group (EG) took a risk‑based approach identified in our supply chain to determine RS due diligence requirements in its operations suggest that these practices could and supply chains. The most salient risk identified was our be seen more broadly across the Australian wine industry. ownership of vineyards in Australia and New Zealand. EG’s To address these issues at an industry level EG engaged with strategy is threefold: members of the Australian Grape and Wine Association (AGWA) and the South Australian Wine Industry Association 1. Conduct a gap audit of EG owned vineyards to the (SAWIA) in a roundtable discussion. Key outcomes from the RS Standards roundtable were: 2. Build a due diligence framework with key suppliers 1. The establishment of a shared understanding of the challenges 3. Foster a collaborative working relationship with industry in responsible sourcing and ethical recruitment in the sector and the FWO. 2. Initial discussions on driving suppliers and labour hire Woolworth’s RS team and global social audit experts, Verite, companies towards better practices and implementation of co‑audited EG’s vineyards in Australia. One of the audits resulted responsible recruitment principles in an investigation of two labour hire providers contracted with 3. Agreement by AGWA to drive the change with its members EG’s direct supplier for viticulture management. The investigation to improve the labour hire standards in Australian viticulture identified underpayments via labour hire providers and all with support from EG. repayments have been made. Where repayments could not be verified, this has been escalated to the Fair Work Ombudsman. In Q4 a follow up meeting was held with AGWA, Endeavour Due to COVID‑19, the planned audit of our winery in New Zealand Group and the Fair Work Ombudsman with a commitment scheduled for March 2020 was postponed. from the parties to continue proactive compliance efforts in the industry in F21. EG, in partnership with our key wine suppliers, EG is conscious of the leadership role it can play in the will continue to support the AGWA in their engagement work Australian wine industry, especially as the company looks to across the wine industry. demerge from the Woolworths Group. The non‑compliances 62 Making an IMPACT Commitment 17 impact in our Status Commitment ACHIEVED 18 communities Status Sustainable Development Goal ACHIEVED Our community investments 1 $6.8M $15.5M $8.8M cash donations in kind donations team member time $31.1M $11.6M 1.05% our total community leveraged our community contribution investment fundraising as % of EBIT on a rolling average basis 1 Cash donations, in kind donations and team member time have been verified by LBG Australia & New Zealand. 63 WOOLWORTHS GROUP White Island Share the Dignity support Woolworths’ partnership with women’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 charity, Share the Dignity, supports When Whakaari erupted in December, it sent Australian women and girls dealing with shockwaves throughout New Zealand. Many people period poverty. More than $1.3 million donated had travelled to the island to see it, but on this since our partnership commenced in March 2019 occasion a number of visitors to its shore did not is set to deliver 80 #Pinkbox Dignity Vending make it home alive. This sadly included a number of Machines nationally. our team from Woolworths Australia. Share the Dignity’s #Pinkbox Dignity Vending Machines dispense period packs, free of charge, and Our team immediately set about supporting are discreetly located in areas of social disadvantage the families of our wider team who had been to give at‑risk women and girls access to sanitary items. hurt or killed in the eruption. We worked with As of March 2020, 31 machines have been installed; 1 the Australian High Commission and the New further installations are delayed until late 2020 due Zealand Police to help the families as soon as they to COVID‑19 precautions. landed in the country by providing food, phones, PERFORMANCE Woolworths also participated in Share the Dignity’s transportation and support during what was an twice annual Dignity Drive in August 2019 and incredibly difficult time. Our Manukau store also March 2020. Our customers were invited to donate HIGHLIGHTS prepared food that was delivered to Middlemore sanitary products during those months to collection hospital for the families and emergency workers. boxes located in all supermarkets, which were then distributed to those in need. Share the Dignity’s Corporate Relations Manager, Tracey Wickham says “Share the Dignity’s partnership 2 PEOPLE with Woolworths helps so many at‑risk women and girls and is invaluable in the fight to end period poverty.” Junior Landcare Grants In 2020, proceeds from the sale of our 3 PLANET “Bag for good” continued to fund the Woolworths Junior Landcare Grants program. The program provides grants of up to $1,000 to primary schools and early learning centres for environmental projects. The second round of funding was distributed in late 2019, bringing the total Real Care Community Program number of organisations who have received a grant to 1,155. Our program has supported more than 100,000 Australian students get hands‑on experience in caring for the environment; helping to grow our next generation of Since 2016, BIG W has partnered with Good360 Australia to connect surplus 4 stock to families who need it most. PROSPERITY environmental champions. Through the Real Care Community To coincide with the 2020 school year, Junior Landcare Program, BIG W stores are matched launched an online Learning Centre funded by with local charities and eligible schools in their Woolworths, with resources developed by educational areas, making a real difference for families in professionals and aligned to the school curriculum. The their community. Learning Centre features dynamic 30‑minute learning activities for educators, parents and carers, youth groups During F19/20, BIG W donated over 3.1 million items and Landcare community groups. The activities make it to 240 Good360 member charities and eligible easy and fun to get children involved in environmental schools which include The Salvation Army, St. Vincent sustainability activities at school, at home or in De Paul Society, Heart & Soul Community Group, the community. Global Care, Lomandra School and many more. Since its launch, there have been thousands of visitors to To build healthy minds and bright futures for Australian the Junior Landcare Learning Centre. The team behind it will continue to create new learning activities focused on children, BIG W also donated an additional 40,000 four key areas: food production, Indigenous perspectives, books through the Free Books For Kids campaign to waste management and biodiversity. regional and rural schools across Australia. Another 48,000 books were created in partnership with The Woolworths also sponsors the Woolworths Junior Wiggles, which were donated to charities and schools Landcare Team Award, to recognise a youth organisation also across Australia. Podcasts of the books were also or young Landcare team that contributes to raising awareness, knowledge and understanding of Landcare created, ensuring access to books for families who amongst young people. In late 2019, State and Territory don’t live near a BIG W store. Landcare Associations held their awards events, where Over the lifecycle of BIG W’s partnership with the Woolworths Junior Landcare Team Awards were Good360, over 6.8 million items have been donated presented. Winners from the 2019 State & Territory Landcare Awards go forward to the 2020 National to 956 charities and disadvantaged schools, helping Landcare Awards, with winners announced in late 2020. thousands of Australian families. 64 IMPACT 17 S.T.A.N.D Commitment Commitment 18 Support Through Australian Natural Disasters The past few years have been tough for the S.T.A.N.D program with The The Salvation Army, Rural Aid, Lifeline so many Australians, with communities Salvation Army to provide Support and Foodbank. across the country suffering Through Australian Natural Disasters We are supporting each partner with widespread damage due to severe and help Australians impacted funding to help them all deliver their drought, cyclones, devastating floods by adversity. expertise and care where it is needed. and unrelenting bushfires. The effects In F20 we reaffirmed our commitment Through our S.T.A.N.D program we of these disastrous events will be felt to provide practical support in times are helping our partners to address for many years to come. of Australian natural disasters, with immediate needs following a disaster Woolworths commitment to supporting additional charity partners joining us. event, support for living expenses, communities in need is longstanding. We are proud to now be working with supply of food and psychological first More recently, in 2016 we established aid and counselling. 65 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 The Salvation Army 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS $5.66M 5,310 14,362 497,000+ funds raised for The volunteers people meals and refreshments 2 PEOPLE Salvation Army supported supported provided Since 2016 more than $8.2 million has been raised 3 PLANET to fund The Salvation Army’s Emergency Services (SAES) to support people at their point of need. These funds have been raised through a $500,000 annual donation, proceeds from S.T.A.N.D bottled water and customer and team donations, helping 4 to provide the SAES teams with the equipment and capability to attend hundreds of emergencies each year – with over 5,000 volunteers, assisting over PROSPERITY 14,300 people with recovery support. With an additional corporate donation and the generosity of our customers and team, Woolworths Group raised over $3.75 million in support of bushfire‑affected Australians across the country during summer bushfires. This meant that SAES teams could provide services and support at over 290 locations, including evacuation, relief and recovery centres. Janine and Robert Donaldson, The Salvation Army Australia Commissioners said “Woolworths support, during the 2019/2020 bushfires, was crucial in equipping The Salvation Army’s Emergency Services. We simply could not have predicted the scale of disaster that was to unfold as our teams sprang into action from September 2019, at the forefront of bushfire emergency and relief efforts. Throughout the bushfires, over 3,000 Salvos worked around the clock to provide more than 250,000 meals, 220,000 light refreshments and personal packs to first responders and evacuees. Being able to provide practical and emotional support to those on the frontline and those impacted by the bushfires has been vital. Thank you for your continued commitment to help communities when they are most in need.” 66 S.T.A.N.D Rural Aid Since our partnership began in 2018, Woolworths and our conduct face‑to‑face and telephone counselling, and are customers have donated more than $8.7 million to Rural responsible for saving lives. Aid, facilitating the purchase of over 34,000 tonnes of Rural Aid’s Chief Executive Officer, John Warlters, said hay to assist approximately 3,900 farmers. 1 the partnership with Woolworths meant much needed This has helped keep farmers on the land and enabled drought support to keep livestock alive could be delivered their stock to survive in extreme conditions. Importantly, at scale, and with urgency. these deliveries have provided hope; demonstrating to “Rural Aid’s mission includes partnering with key stakeholders rural communities that they are not alone. to provide financial and operational assistance to rural In 2018, Rural Aid initiated the employment of rural communities impacted by natural disaster. This is at the heart counsellors as a resource for communities under of our partnership with Woolworths. Woolworths’ generous significant strain. Our financial support has facilitated donations, and supply chain and logistics expertise, help us the employment of two of these counsellors, who get help more efficiently to where it is needed.” Woolworths Group CEO Brad Banducci (left) attend a hay drop in Dubbo, November 2019. 1 Calculations are based on average cost of hay and average number of bales delivered to each farmer. 67 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Lifeline Foodbank Lifeline, a national charity providing 24 hour crisis support and suicide prevention Support volunteer, and Queensland dairy farmer, Ross Blanch, allow Lifeline services, their 13 11 14 crisis support line to travel into drought‑stricken areas Foodbank is the largest hunger relief receives a contact from someone in crisis to visit those directly affected. Ross provider in the country, supporting around 815,000 Australians experiencing food insecurity every every 30 seconds. With recent events, there has been unprecedented demand for Lifeline’s services. provides support to farmers in the safety of their own homes, or in familiar community settings such as pubs and 1 PERFORMANCE milk bars. month. Woolworths is Foodbank’s Over half of Lifeline’s 40 centres are largest food donor, and largest located in rural and regional areas. There COMMUNITY RECOVERY HIGHLIGHTS pro‑bono freight provider. In 2020 has been increased demand for support Woolworths donated more than from these and other communities Through our S.T.A.N.D (Support 5 million meals including 110,000 because of the devastating effects Through Australian Natural Disasters) kilograms of non‑food items for distribution through Foodbank’s of multiple natural disasters and the COVID‑19 pandemic. program, Woolworths is assisting Lifeline to provide life‑saving support to vulnerable communities affected by 2 network of 2,400 community groups PEOPLE Woolworths’ funding of three initiatives natural disaster. Part of this involves the Australia‑wide. over the past year has helped Lifeline delivery of psychological first aid and reach more people in crisis, and provide counselling in affected communities. This has been the largest year on record connection, compassion and hope. This support is critical to ensuring for the volume of food and groceries affected communities have every chance donated by Woolworths to Foodbank LIFELINE TEXT to build resilience and recover. and has been in direct response to growing challenges and demand. Our support over the last three years helped with the launch of a new crisis “Over the last three years, Woolworths has worked with Lifeline in two crucial 3 Foodbank has faced in supporting PLANET texting service this year. Lifeline Text, ways. First, Woolworths donated $1 million community groups impacted by a new outreach channel, has helped to assist us to launch, and pilot, Lifeline drought, bushfires and the ongoing some users overcome previous Text. This new platform has meant young COVID‑19 pandemic. barriers to accessing Lifeline’s services. people are accessing our service in greater Offering multiple channels of support In addition to the millions of kilograms of numbers than ever before. An independent – Phone, Chat and Text – is essential in 4 surplus food donated via our stores and evaluation of the service found that 53.7% ensuring that a full safety net of crisis of people who accessed Lifeline Text last distribution centres, the final 4 months support is available to everyone in the year were under the age of 24. of the year saw the direct donation community, 24/7. PROSPERITY of $3.75 million worth of purchased Second, with Woolworths’ support, we’ve goods including ambient groceries; DROUGHT SUPPORT been able to deliver community education Woolworths Basics Boxes; fresh fruit, programs and face‑to‑face counselling Woolworths are supporting six projects for communities stricken by drought, vegetables and protein. This was further in rural and regional Australia, which and mobilise and deploy teams to deliver supported by over $700,000 in free provide face‑to‑face counselling, training psychological first aid in communities freight across the year. and resources to bolster the wellbeing ravaged by bushfire.” of people impacted by drought, and help We expect this demand to continue, if them develop community connections. Colin Seery, Chief Executive Officer, not increase. Foodbank Australia CEO, Projects like that led by Lifeline Crisis Lifeline Australia Brianna Casey, says the longstanding partnership with Woolworths is crucial, especially in times like these. “Woolworths has helped us provide key staple foods to communities who need it most. Through our partnership, we’ve been able to provide a reliable source of food that offers variety, nutritional value and cultural appropriateness. It’s been amazing to receive the ongoing support we have from across Woolworths’ business to get the most food to the most people, as efficiently as possible.” Woolworths, together with Foodbank, continue to fight hunger while tackling Australia’s $20 billion food waste problem by redirecting edible food from landfill. 68 Creating shared IMPACT Commitment 19 value with our Status MATERIALLY PROGRESSED customers This year, it was more important than ever to work with our partners to meet our customers' food and everyday needs. Voice of Customer Meeting our • Established five additional third‑party sites across Victoria, New South We regularly undertake Voice of customers’ food Wales and Queensland, with a BIG W distribution centre partially Customer (VOC) surveys to help us and everyday needs repurposed to support Supermarkets better understand our customers’ needs and measure our team’s performance. during COVID‑19 • Seen a record number of cartons In 2020, customers reacted positively handled by our Supply Chain team; to our initiatives in Australian Food Due to the unprecedented increase in higher than Christmas‑week levels. Group, with our VOC Net Promoter demand and distribution challenges Supply Chain continues to operate 24 Score averaging 53%, despite COVID‑19 brought on by the COVID‑19 crisis, the hours a day and is running at capacity impacting stock supply and customer Woolworths Group has striven during across most sites. Increasingly, accessibility. The surveys tell us that our these times to meet the twin challenges the team is returning to scheduled customers value sourcing local products of ensuring that: delivery times at most distribution to support Australian farmers and • Our customers’ food and daily needs centres and product availability producers; and product ranges with local are met; particularly the needs of our pressures have abated, with few relevance for customers. most vulnerable shoppers, during a product limits remaining. Dan Murphy’s is 76 and 70 for BWS, time of acute product shortages in • Scaled up our Australian and New which has improved by 2 point and some areas Zealand eCommerce business 5 points respectively from last year. • Our operational systems support materially. In Australia, we doubled safety and social distancing, however overall home delivery capacity our customers wish to shop or through hundreds of Woolworths Australian Sourced Fresh Supermarkets, a new pop‑up delivery engage with us. Products 1 (%) hub in Notting Hill, Melbourne, To meet these challenges, we have: and the onboarding of on‑demand 100 • Increased employment (circa 22,000 delivery services via Sherpa, Drive 96 new team members) across our Yello and Uber. In New Zealand, four 88 Supermarkets, Store, Endeavour stores were temporarily converted Drinks, eCommerce and Supply into dedicated online hubs, and 72 Chain to meet higher demand and Countdown’s first dedicated support safety and social distancing, eStore was opened in Auckland. Fruit and vegetables including increased cleaning, The significant disruption in the security and PPE. This includes the Group’s online businesses through redeployment of more than 3,600 March and April did lead to the temporary suspension of our Pick up Seafood Hotels team members following Meat Bakery the Government directive to close and Home delivery services in our our hotel venues on 23 March, and Australian supermarkets. new team members joining us from 1 In Australian supermarkets. lockdown‑impacted businesses such as the Qantas Group. 69 WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 1 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS • With the help of our community Prioritising vulnerable partners Food bank and FareShare, we supported over 3,000 residents Australians during COVID‑19 Voice of in the Melbourne Towers with fresh food relief. We also redeployed 40 The Woolworths Group has sought to prioritise access to grocery and food essentials for vulnerable Customer 2 team members to our store at The PEOPLE BIG W’s Voice of Customer District Docklands to be specifically Australians and New Zealanders, (VOC) score has improved one dedicated to help pack and provide frontline emergency workers and point to 79 in F20, largely driven supplies for those in that area. isolated communities during these by the Friendly & Helpful Team difficult times. Some of our initiatives and Team Availability metrics. • With COVID‑19 in Victoria rapidly have included: The rollout of Customer Led changing, to support as many customers in Victoria as possible we added further precautionary Priority Assistance: our Home Delivery service reprioritised to provide Rostering has also resulted in a one point improvement in the Quick Checkout metric. 3 PLANET dedicated assistance and delivery measures across the state. This With a significant increase in windows to the elderly, people living include deploying nurses in hotspot online demand due to COVID‑19, with disability and those in mandatory stores, Victorian distribution centres our Online Net Promoter Score isolation. To date, over 350,000 and the customer online fulfilment (NPS) pleasingly remained Woolworths Supermarkets and centre; monitor customer numbers stable at 60. Our Ease of Pick up 4 Countdown customers have benefited entering the store and putting limits metric has improved one point from Priority Assistance, with the to 85, which is a reflection of the on products. For customers who service expected to continue for the focus on making BIG W a more prefer not to visit a store, we added PROSPERITY foreseeable future. convenient place to shop. over dozens of new trucks to help with online delivery orders. Priority Delivery Hubs: In 200 locations across Australia, and four in New Zealand, existing stores have become hubs with reduced trading Assistance customers to place an hours to support prioritising the order online for someone to pick up delivery of groceries to the homes on their behalf. of vulnerable customers. Partnership with Australian food Woolworths and Countdown Basics Box: services supplier PFD: To support the Containing set meals, snacks and essential temporary fulfilment of orders to B2B items, the Basics Box is available online to customers and essential services all customers and made possible through including day care centres, schools, a partnership with Australia Post and disability services and nursing homes. DHL Supply Chain in Australia, and New Zealand Couriers in New Zealand. Over First Australian supermarket to launch 23,000 Woolworths Basics Boxes have an “Elderly Hour”: On 17 March, been donated to organisations including Woolworths was the first supermarket Arnhem Land Progress Aboriginal to introduce a community shopping Corporation, the Commonwealth hour for the elderly and people Government‑supported Outback Stores living with disability, extending it to and the New South Wales Aboriginal Land healthcare and emergency service Council’s Indigenous communities. workers later that month. Community Pick up: Available in 900 Partnering with Meals on Wheels: selected locations across Australia, this to help deliver 80,000 packs (320,000 contactless initiative allows Priority rolls) of toilet paper directly to vulnerable clients across Australia. 70 Supporting our IMPACT Commitment 20 customers to Status Sustainable PROGRESSED eat healthily Development Goal Healthy eating is important to our customers, with 93% of those surveyed taking at least one healthy step in the last year, such as eating more fruit and vegetables, and drinking more water 1. We share this vital focus on health with our customers, and are committed to making healthier eating easier for them, and their families. Developing healthier foods Our reformulation strategy Healthier product innovation Woolworths’ team of qualified expert Our Macro Wholefoods Market brand nutritionists work closely with our offers a range of simple, wholesome Healthier product development team to make our own brand products healthier. food that’s nutritious, delicious and affordable. We continue to go from choices in Since 2012 we have reformulated our products to reduce “nutrients strength to strength, recently winning the Organic Brand of the year 2020 New Zealand of concern” such as salt, sugar and by Organic Week Aotearoa, a Vertex • Currently, 99% of Countdown’s saturated fat while still maintaining design award and winner of the eligible own brand products the taste and quality that our best vegetarian product in the 2019 display the HSR, with 53% of these customers love. Healthy Food Guide Awards. New and products having a rating of 3.5 stars exciting products introduced in the or more (the greater the number Since July 2017, all of our own brand year include Macro breads, Macro of stars, the healthier the product) products have been free from artificial Organic frozen vegetables and further colours and flavours. • In the past 12 months we have Macro snacking lines. improved the nutrition of our Over the past three years we have reformulated 190 own brand products and cassava vegetable crisps removing added more whole grains into our range. This has resulted in: MSG and reducing sodium resulting in one tonne less salt in the food supply. Our mueslis 68 tonnes less salt 2 were also reformulated this year resulting in 1.6 tonnes less sugar 24 tonnes less saturated fat 2 • We have committed to the New Zealand Heart Foundation’s 132 tonnes less sugar 2 HeartSAFE program, with 75% of eligible products meeting the 5,400 tonnes more whole grain 3 targets for sodium and sugar • Countdown stores also display 1 IPSOS. Woolworths Food & Health Survey. June 2019. health attribute information 2 Through reformulation when compared to equivalent previous Woolworths own brand products on 121 products instore. since July 2017 (F18). 3 Through Woolworths own brand products launched since July 2017 (F18). 71 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Stakeholder Supporting Encouraging Aussie Engagement healthier choices kids to be healthier SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Woolworths is part of the Australian Government’s Healthy Food Health Star Rating Fresh Food Kids Partnership Executive Committee, a joint collaboration between Woolworths supports Health Star Discovery Tours Government, food industry and Rating, a Government‑led front‑of‑pack We continued to educate Aussie public health which aims to support labelling system designed to help kids through a free, interactive and Australians to eat healthier. customers make healthier choices. hands‑on learning experience in‑store, All eligible Woolworths own brand In F20, Woolworths provided with more than 61,000 students across submissions on Government products display a Health Star Rating the nation experiencing the tours this consultations related to health on pack. financial year. While the COVID‑19 1 including the National Obesity crisis continues, the Fresh Food Kids Strategy and the ongoing Health Online dietary and lifestyle filters Discovery Tours will be delayed for the Star Rating Five Year Review. safety of all participants. PERFORMANCE In June 2019, Woolworths partnered with UK Tech Company Spoon Guru Free Fruit for Kids HIGHLIGHTS to launch online filters to help our customers identify products that may Our Free Fruit for Kids program be suitable for their dietary or lifestyle continues in all of our supermarkets needs. Our search function includes health and lifestyle filters such as high fibre or vegetarian, as well as filters across Australia. During this financial year alone, we have provided more than Woolworths 2 for allergies and intolerances such as 18 million pieces of free fruit to kids through this program. and Coeliac PEOPLE gluten‑free and lactose‑free. Australia partnership Supporting junior sports Making vegetables more This year we continued to proudly In March 2020, Woolworths became Coeliac Australia’s official convenient In the past year, almost three in five customers have actively made an effort partner with junior sports organisations across Australia including the Woolworths Cricket Blast program with supermarket partner. Coeliac Australia members and affiliates 3 can now receive a 5% discount on PLANET to eat more vegetables 1. To help, we Cricket Australia, as well as ongoing eligible gluten‑free products. have launched a variety of vegetables partnerships with Surfing Australia and In the last three years, we have in convenient time‑saving formats Netball Australia. seen double digit growth in the including tray bakes, steamers and demand for Woolworths gluten‑ punnets. We also launched Woolworths Woolworths Centre for free products and now have over Prep Set Go, a range of pre‑sliced and diced vegetables in the freezer. Childhood Nutrition Research 40 products in our “Woolworths Free From Gluten” range. 4 The Woolworths Centre for Childhood PROSPERITY Nutrition Research (WCCNR), a Promoting fresh produce $5 million research centre offered in in stores partnership with the Children’s Hospital In the past 12 months, 269 stores Foundation, harnesses the combined have been reformatted to highlight resources of experts to improve the destinations for berries, avocados, nutritional health of Australian children. organics and Odd Bunch, making it To date the WCCNR has easier for customers to identify and invested in research into the link shop these fresh food categories. between parasites, their effect on gut microbiome and food allergy prevention. Woolworths Discovery Garden Program This year, we inspired Aussie kids and families to learn and experience for themselves where fresh food comes from, by providing a free seedling kit with eligible in‑store or online shopping. The program encouraged families, schools and communities to get outdoors and grow their own garden. 1 IBID 72 Responsible IMPACT Commitment 20 service of Sustainable Development Goal alcohol We have obligations as a responsible retailer of alcoholic beverages. We are committed to remaining an industry leader with managing and mitigating issues relating to responsible drinking, responsible service of alcohol and the ranging, sale and marketing of alcohol. Our aim is to go beyond basic regulatory compliance: DELIVERY CODE OF CONDUCT • We ask for ID if a shopper looks under the age of 25 Using our internal responsible service of alcohol policies • We run ID25 Mystery Shop programs at all BWS and as the foundation, we have worked with Retail Drinks Dan Murphy’s sites, as well as in our online business. Australia (RDA) to develop an industry applicable Every BWS store is tested twice a year, and Dan Delivery Code of Conduct. This document is now Murphy’s stores are tested every eight weeks adopted by all RDA members including Coles and other independent retailers. • We help to stop secondary supply through our Don’t Buy It for Them policy and awareness campaign ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ADVERTISING CODE (ABAC) • We take the lead in campaigns for responsible drinking, As a signatory since 2013 to ABAC, our advertising e.g. DrinkWise Australia cultural change programs and campaigns and exclusive brand packaging aim to meet labelling initiatives community standards. Our own advertising and packaging • We never knowingly serve an intoxicated person are subject to the ABAC review and complaints process to ensure that we do not target young people, nor will • We refuse service if a young shopper is in we stock any product if its advertising and packaging school uniform evidently appeal to young people, or encourage excessive • We ensure a first home delivery is attended and consumption. We regularly engage with ABAC’s have our delivery team ask for ID and check for signs management committee regarding changes in advertising of intoxication platforms. We submit the majority of our marketing campaigns to the ABAC Alcohol Advertising Pre‑Vetting • We are implementing DrinkIQ, a responsible drinking Service, which considers whether our marketing plan training program developed by our trading partner executions are consistent with ABAC standards. Diageo for all our team members. DRINKWISE LIQUOR ACCORDS PORTAL We are a funding supporter of DrinkWise – an Our internal Liquor Accords Portal is a platform that independent, not‑for‑profit organisation whose primary connects our store teams with information and resources focus is to help bring about a healthier and safer provided by Liquor Accords across Australia. The drinking culture in Australia. To promote such significant portal has empowered store teams to drive community behavioural changes, DrinkWise develops and implements engagement with other local industry representatives, a range of national information and education campaigns, businesses, council and local police. We are active in local as well as providing practical resources to help inform and liquor accords where they exist. support the community about alcohol use. 73 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Responsible IMPACT Commitment 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 gaming Sustainable Development Goal 1 Problem gambling is a serious community issue, PERFORMANCE and we have taken steps to enhance responsible HIGHLIGHTS gaming practices. 2 PEOPLE The Australian Leisure ALH’s Hotel and Gaming Charter: 9. We ensure that ATM machines, where approved, are provided for and Hospitality Group 1. We provide a safe, friendly environment in which all hotel the convenience of all patrons in a safe, central location and not in (ALH) customers can socialise and enjoy gaming areas Woolworths Group has a significant 2. themselves in a good atmosphere We provide good value, good 10. We do not serve complimentary alcohol in gaming rooms 3 stake in ALH Hotels through the PLANET quality meals and family‑friendly Endeavour Group. ALH Hotels work dining experiences 11. We support local communities in to provide a safe and supportive numerous ways, including working 3. We believe we have a shared environment at all of our venues so our with charities to raise money responsibility, along with customers make informed decisions through our hotels individuals, families, communities 4 about gambling and timely appropriate 12. We conduct internal and external and governments, to ensure assistance and information is provided. audits to ensure we deliver on our responsible behaviour We have committed to and have commitment to be Australia’s most PROSPERITY 4. We do not conduct promotions which implemented a range of best practices, responsible operator of hotels encourage irresponsible drinking recommended by the Responsible 13. We have introduced a national Gambling Council of Canada (RGCC): 5. We restrict gaming room access to Gaming Code of Conduct to ensure adults and ensure gaming rooms • Enhanced training programs to assist a consistent approach to customer are screened or separated from gaming team with customer care engagement across the business. other areas of the hotel, as to not to • Enhanced programs and customer attract children engagement to promote voluntary 6. We offer and promote voluntary pre‑commitment to gaming limits pre‑commitment – a system that In July 2020 the NSW by customers helps players stick to their limit by Independent Liquor and Gaming • Enhancements to privacy training nominating maximum spending or Authority (ILGA) released its and procedures time limits on gaming machines decision, upholding a complaint • Preclude the service of made in connection with 2 7. We train our team to be aware ALH Hotels in NSW relating to complimentary alcohol in of behaviour that may indicate conduct in 2017. ALH agreed to gaming rooms gambling problems and to provide be subject to a formal reprimand • Developed a whistleblower platform appropriate customer care. We and to pay the costs of ILGA’s to identify any issues across require all ALH hotel managers investigation. At the time the the business. and responsible gaming hosts to issue was first identified ALH complete additional advanced commissioned a full review These commitments are underpinned responsible gambling training of our responsible gambling by ALH’s Responsible Gaming Charter programs and operations across 8. We partner with expert groups and all venues and implemented a (introduced in 2010, updated in 2018) specialists who can help staff and number of measures to address and its Australia‑wide voluntary patrons deal with problem gambling, the issue. ILGA acknowledged precommitment program. including Gamblers’ Help (Australia’s the work undertaken by ALH leading professional counselling within its findings. service) and the Salvation Army 74 TOWARDS 2025 We look forward to launching our new sustainability strategy which will guide the next horizon of sustainability at Woolworths Group. Company directory F20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX For information on sustainabiltiy metrics, materiality, auditors report, UNGC Index, GRI Index please refer to the 2020 Sustainability Report Appendix found at: www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/sustainability REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: www.woolworthsgroup.com.au AUDITOR Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Tel: (02) 9322 7000 Web: www.deloitte.com.au WOOLWORTHS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY Alex Holt General Manager, Quality, Health & Sustainability Fiona Walmsley Head of Sustainability Governance Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ ArmstrongQ.com.au What we mean by ‘we’ What we mean by ‘create’ What we mean by ‘experiences’ Our team and our partners We constantly innovate to make The moments we create in store and a positive impact on the lives of our online for customers, communities customers and team and shareholders, as we work together in our teams – and with our partners We create better experiences together for a better tomorrow What we mean by ‘better’ What we mean by ‘together’ What we mean by ‘tomorrow’ We always look for ways to improve – How we work in partnership – The plans we make and the actions for our customers, team, communities with each other, as well as with our we take today will have a positive impact and partners partners and communities for generations to come
