Report 2020 Contents Editorial Policy ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p1 Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p169 Scope of the CSR Report 2020 ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p2 Promotion System ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p170 Long-term Environmental Management Vision Top Message ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p3 Sekisui Environment Sustainability ESG Management ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p4 Vision 2050 ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p172 Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group ‥ ‥ p7 Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p173 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Basic Concept ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p11 Sustainability Index ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p184 Promotion System ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p12 Environmental Management System ‥ ‥ p189 Sekisui Chemical Group ESG Education ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p197 “Human Rights Policy” ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p14 Environmental Accounting ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p205 Basic Policies ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p16 Usage of Natural Capital ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p209 Identifying key issues ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p24 Climate Change ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p211 CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019)and Efficient Use of Resources ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p227 Key Measures Concerning ESG Management Conservation of Water Resources ‥‥‥‥ p234 (2020-2022) ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p28 Chemical Substance Management ‥ ‥‥ p246 Respect for Human Rights ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p37 Environmental Impact Assessment ‥ ‥‥ p251 Intellectual property ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p44 Material Balance ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p252 Stakeholder Engagement ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p46 Contributing to Return of Natural Capital ‥‥‥ p253 SDGs Initiatives ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p55 Products to Enhance Sustainability ‥ ‥‥ p254 Social Contribution Activities ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p57 Conserving the Environment Declaration of Support for Initiatives and ~ Biodiversity ~ ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p260 Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p91 Human Resources ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p268 Diversity Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p269 Governance ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p93 Building a Diverse Organizational Structure ‥p270 Corporate Governance ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p93 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel ‥ p278 Risk Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p107 Basis for Fostering Personnel ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p294 Safety ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p116 Data on Employees ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p299 CS & Quality ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p130 Working Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p302 Medium-term Plan ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p135 Creating Attractive Products Fusion‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p313 and Services ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p138 Improving Quality ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p149 External Evaluation ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p314 Compliance ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p156 Cyber Security ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p165 GRI Content Index ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p318 DX ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p168 Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p401 References ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p402 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy •“The CSR Report 2020” is published with the goals of informing stakeholders about Sekisui Chemical Group's social responsibilities and the various initiatives in which it is involved to resolve social issues and of increasing public understanding of the Group’s activities. ・Sekisui Chemical Group’s long-term vision is to support the basis of LIFE and to continue to create “peace of mind for the future” in order to realize a sustainable society. Guided by this vision, we are placing particular importance on strengthening ESG management from fiscal 2020. This report focuses on the initiatives that will strengthen the ESG management base, including “governance,” “digital transformation (DX),” “the environment,” “human resources,” and “fusion.” ・The information posted here has been decided upon in reference to various report-drafting guidelines, based on internal and external surveys and third-party reviews, and in consideration of what is important for both society and Sekisui Chemical Group. ・“The CSR Report 2020” has been edited with an anticipated readership of all stakeholders involved with Sekisui Chemical Group, particularly institutions that evaluate ESG and long-term investors. ・In order to ensure that information is both comprehensive and easy to read, this CSR Report 2020, which contains all information relating to the CSR activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, has been centrally consolidated and posted to the CSR section of the Company’s website. The Report is provided in the two PDF and HTML formats. The “CSR Report 2020 PDF Edition,” which has the same content as the Web Edition, can be obtained from the PDF download page. ・The standards used for calculating the major reported performance indicators are compiled together and listed after each set of performance data. ・To ensure reliability, the environmental and social information in the Japanese version of the “CSR Report 2020 PDF Edition” has been assured by a third-party organization. Guidelines Used for Reference, etc. ・GRI Standards ・The Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Reporting Guidelines” (2012 and 2018 editions) ・ISO26000 (Guidance Regarding Social Responsibility) ・10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 1 Scope of the CSR Report 2020 Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by This Report :The basic function of this Report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by This Report : April 2019-March 2020 (Includes some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) Published : July 2020 (Previous report was published June 2019 / Next report is scheduled for publication in July 2021) Scope of Independent Practitioner's Assurance The environmental and social information in the Japanese version of the “CSR Report 2020 PDF Edition” has been assured by a third-party organization. Information that falls within the scope of independent practitioner's assurance is identified by a mark. Please refer to page 401 of the Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report for details. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in the “CSR Report 2020” includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in line with expansion in the scope of summation, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 2 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Top Message Through its prominence in technology and quality Sekisui Chemical Group will open up new frontiers and help to improve people's lives and the global environment. In this manner, we will maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. President and Representative Director TOP MESSAGE Since its foundation, Sekisui Chemical Group has leveraged its unparalleled technological, quality, environmental, and other strengths to cultivate frontiers in various fields starting from daily necessities, and expanding to housing, social infrastructure, transportation, electronics, and medical fields. In the conduct of its business activities, the Group has also worked diligently to create social value. Put simply, our track record of growth is a history of social contribution. Against the backdrop of an increasingly harsh and unpredictable environment, expectations toward the Group and the depth of its mission continue to mount. Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its new long-term vision for the decade that lies ahead in May 2020. The Group also set its vision statement as “Innovation for the Earth” which entails supporting the basis of LIFE and creating “peace of mind that continues into the future” in order to realize a sustainable society. This “Innovation for the Earth” statement embodies the strong will of the entire Group to contribute to society by continuing to generate innovation. Looking even further into the future, Sekisui Chemical Group is working diligently to resolve social issues on a global scale while contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. Top Message 3 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ESG Management Positioning of the Long-term Vision, Medium-term Management Plan and ESG Long-term Vision “Vision 2030” “Innovation for the Earth” In line with its Long-term Vision, “Vision 2030*,” Sekisui Chemical Group will follow a path along two clearly defined directions. Moving forward, we will achieve a higher level of effort toward expanding existing businesses through product and business reform and at the same time creating new businesses through the development and acquisition of a new business base while centering our endeavors on ESG management. We envisage doubling our sales volume in fiscal 2030 by contributing more than ever to the resolution of social issues through the Group’s businesses. As far as its current business domains are concerned, Sekisui Chemical Group is supporting people’s peace of mind, safety and comfort in the Residential domain while solving infrastructure issues and supporting social infrastructure globally in the Advanced Lifeline domain. Moreover, we are contributing to a sustainable lifestyle and society in the Innovative Mobility domain and supporting global health and longevity in the Life Science domain by cultivating the medical business into the next business pillar. The value that helps to realize a society in which all generations can enjoy a prosperous “LIFE” in each of these four domains will be reflected in the Group’s sales. Our goal is to expand the scale of our operations in each domain from 1.5 to three times over the next decade. While working toward the benchmark of 1 trillion yen through growth in Japan, we will also aim to expand the scale of our business overseas to 1 trillion yen, which is more than triple the current level without slowing the pace of growth. In addition to its current business domains, Sekisui Chemical Group will proactively demonstrate innovation in new business domains by leveraging its prominence in technologies in a variety of fields. While the source of Sekisui Chemical Group’s growth includes prominence in process creation as well as adaptability, each and every employee serves to drive the Company’s long-term strategy forward. On top of our organizational culture, we will encourage employees to set more concrete and ambitious goals while actively expanding investment. As far as new investments are concerned, we are looking at expenditures of over 2 trillion yen over the 10-year period to 2030 while taking into account the health of our finances and improving the probability of securing an acceptable return. The Long-term Vision for expanding sales volume requires more than just an extension of existing measures. This goal is only feasible through exponential growth. In order to achieve its goal, Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting business growth, reform and creation centered on ESG management. * Please refer to the following materials for more details on the Long-term Vision “Vision 2030.” ・SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group's Long-term Vision “Vision 2030” https://www.sekisuichemical.com/whatsnew/2020/1350152_36556.html ・Long-term Vision and Medium-term Management Plan Presentation(May 22, 2020) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/event_account/index.html ESG Management 4 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Vision Statement Innovation for the Earth Vision Statements and declarations which present the overall Long-term Vision In order to realize sustainable society, we support the basis of Statement and promote initiatives inside and outside of the Company LIFE and will continue to create “peace of mind for the future”. Sales ¥2 trillion Target Innovation for the Earth Operating income ratio: 10% or higher In order to realize sustainable society, we support the basis of LIFE and will Business growth, reform and creation, continue to create “peace of mind for the future”. Strategic centered on ESG management Direction Hopes embedded into the Vision Statement Advanced Innovative Life “Earth” can mean both the Earth, our planet, itself and the people of the Earth. We Residential Lifeline Mobility Science Domains Innovation for the Earth express our Group attitude through innovation which continually contributes to both (Housing) meanings of Earth. (Social (Electrics / Mobility) (Health and Medical) Infrastructure) The goal image proposed by the SDGs for achievement by 2030 is “sustainable society.” Sekisui Next frontier Achieving a sustainable society Chemical Group shares this goal, and this point refers to the Group’s initiatives to resolve social problems moving toward its achievement. Process Creation and Adaptability The Group’s business fields of lifestyles, life, and lifelines are summed up simply with the term Supporting the basis of LIFE Employee Active Participation LIFE, and this point refers to supporting the basis of LIFE for both society and individuals. Capabilities Corporate Governance This point refers to creating and providing safety and value (comfort, resilience, functionality, Peace of mind for the future health, etc.) expanded from it for all generations, including future ones, through products and services with improved sustainability. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Long-term Vision“Vision 2030” Long-term Vision “Vision 2030” Vision Statement ESG Management 5 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Medium-term Management Plan Drive 2022 As a first step to formulating this Long-term Vision, Sekisui Chemical Group put in place Drive 2022*, a medium-term management plan that covers the period from fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2022. Guided by the basic policy of driving sustainable growth/reform/preparation for doubling sales volume by expanding our contribution to solving social issues, the thrust of this medium-term management plan is to accelerate preparations for the next stage of growth and establish a solid management infrastructure through full-scale ESG management. As a basic strategy, Sekisui Chemical Group will build a corporate structure that is capable of practicing ESG management. To this end, the Company will adopt “Three Drives.” First, an “existing business drive” of business growth and reform, second, a “new business drive” to create and acquire new businesses for long-term growth, and third, a “business base drive” which entails strengthening the ESG management base. Under the medium-term management plan, Sekisui Chemical Group will accelerate this basic policy through fusion and digital transformation. By carrying our basic strategy, we are targeting net sales of 1,220 billion yen, operating income of 110 billion yen in fiscal 2022. In addition, we have adopted return on invested capital (ROIC) as a new indicator. We are targeting ROIC of 8.6% (up approximately one percent). Expanding contributions to resolve social issues is directly linked to improving social sustainability. We believe that net sales, which we regard as compensation for this contribution, is the sum value of the amount that customers are willing to pay for the Group’s products and services. Sekisui Chemical Group will work toward sustainable growth by improving this value thereby expanding its contributions to all stakeholders including customers, business partners, employees, local communities, the global environment and shareholders. Drawing on these chain of events, we are working to secure remaining earnings, which we will use to fund further improvements in quality, the development of new products, and investments to increase production capacity with a view to ensure the next stage of growth. In maintaining this virtuous cycle, we will work to realize a sustainable society by supporting the basis of LIFE and creating “peace of mind for the future.” Risk Classification Domain Incident Example Five major Safety Fire / explosion; fatality / serious accident “Promote ESG Management” incident domains Quality Quality and other falsification; quality defects that threaten human life n) Existing Business Drive (Accelerate) u Purs Accounting Fraud and improper accounting Fusio Investment 1 Business growth and reform Structural Legal / Ethical Violation of the Monopolies Act; bribery-related infringements for growth Accelerate business reform growth and accelerate structural reform e Pro Information Exploitation and destruction of data; information system failure; (acce ●Early acquisition and growth of returns ●Accelerate preparations for changes in demand management leakage of personal and confidential information lerat e by Major quality issue Quality issues with external losses of more than ¥1 billion (expected) lerat e by New Business Drive (Ignite) (acce M&A 2 Preparations for long-term growth Accelerate Creation and acquisition of incubation ivity new businesses and domains Item Policy / Measures Acce duct ●Expansion in life sciences fields ●Accelerate realization of new domains Strengthen governance Promote the establishment of a BCP lerat Digital transformation (DX) Increase productivity; promote digitization e Gro Business Base Drive (Launch) Environment Mitigate and adapt to climate change; promoting a circular economy; wth KPI 3 Strengthening the ESG management base Digital management transformation reduce water risks DX) Innovation of the management base for long-term sustainable growth Human resources Implement various measures aimed at creating a challenging ●Enhance ESG management ●Accelerate productivity improvement corporate culture and promote employee participation Promote work style reform; enhance ESG human resource capabilities Fusion Promote open innovation Accelerate globalization toward doubling the Group’s business Strengthening the ESG Management Base Overview of the New Medium-term Management Plan Drive 2022 Strategy * Please refer to the following materials for more details on the Medium-term Management Plan “Drive 2022.” ・SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group's Medium-term Management Plan “Drive 2022” https://www.sekisuichemical.com/whatsnew/2020/1350154_36556.html ・Long-term Vision and Medium-term Management Plan Presentation （May 22, 2020) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/event_account/index.html ESG Management 6 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group Globally rolling out diverse businesses that create social value Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Housing Company Housing business : Steel-framed unit housing Sekisui Heim, wooden-framed unit housing Sekisui Two-U Home, land for sale in lots Housing Renovation business : Sekisui Fami-S Real Estate business : Second-hand distribution, rental management Residential Services business : Homes for the elderly with services, interiors, exteriors, etc. Power trading service : SMARTHEIM DENKI Town and Community Development business : Ready-built apartment (condominium) HEIM SUITE, etc. Business Value Chain Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group 7 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Pipes and Infrastructure field : PVC pipes and joints, polyethylene pipes and joints, plastic valves, pipe rehabilitation materials and methods, reinforced plastic complex pipes, water tanks Building and Living environment field : Construction materials (guttering, exterior materials), functional mats, care instruments, bathroom units Advanced Materials field : Decorative seats, synthetic wood, thermoplastic CFRP, soundproof vibration-suppressing materials, blow containers, farming and construction materials Business Value Chain Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group 8 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report High Performance Plastics Company Electronics field : Liquid crystal particles, photosensitive materials, semiconductor materials, optical film, industrial tape Automobiles and Transportation field : Interlayer film for laminated glass, foam polyolefins, vehicle resin and rubber molded products, industrial tape, heat dissipation materials (grease and sheets), carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) composite mold materials Building and Infrastructure field : Functional resin for infrastructure materials, flame-resistant materials, foam polyolefins, non-flammable polyurethane, polyurethane, livestock panels Other industrial fields : Adhesives, wrapping tape, plastic containers, polyvinyl alcohol resin, hygiene materials Business Value Chain Medical Business Diagnostics business : In-vitro diagnostics reagents, analyzers Pharmaceutical Sciences business : Active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and pharmaceutical intermediates, drug development solutions, enzymes materials Other Business Products and services not listed in the above companies, such as film-type lithium-ion batteries. Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group 9 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Europe Asia / Oceania (including China) Japan America Companies: 17 Companies: 45 Companies: 81 Companies: 21 Employees: 977 Employees: 4,329 Employees: 19,727 Employees: 1,970 ● Housing Company ● Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company ● High Performance Plastics Company ● Headquarters( Medical Business,Other Business) Totals: 164 companies, 27,003 employees * Figures current as of the end of March 31, 2020 (on a consolidated basis) Business Data Number of employees by region Sales by region Asia / Oceania 16.0% Other 1.3% Asia 10.7% Europe 3.6% Europe 5.1% U.S 7.2% America 7.3% Japan Japan 73.1% 75.7% See the fact book for details of the management indices. Fact Book http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/fact/index.html Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group 10 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basic Concept Taking into Consideration the Need to Put into Effect the “3S Principles” of the Group’s Corporate Philosophy, We Will Promote Measures That Are in Tune with Business Activities under ESG Management Basic Stance CSR at the Heart of the Group’s Management Strategy Contributing to society and creating value through its business activities, lies at the heart of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR activities. Put another way, promoting CSR activities is essential to realizing the Group’s vision and the “3S Principles.” By positioning CSR at the center of our management strategy, we remain convinced that we will raise the quality of corporate management. With this understanding, we recognize the important need to engage seriously in CSR activities that are grounded in ESG management and to continuously change and evolve in order to achieve sustainable growth and innovation in our businesses. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 11 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promotion System Promoting CSR Across the Group as a Whole in an Effort to Increase Corporate Value Venue and System for Deliberation on CSR Committee in which Top Management and Employee Representatives Participate As a venue for deliberation on CSR, Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the CSR Committee. Under the umbrella of this Committee, the Group has established five subcommittees covering the environment, CS & Quality, human resources, safety, and compliance. Through these and other means, energies are directed toward promoting CSR across the Group as a whole. Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee’s membership also includes the Senior Managing Executive Officer Responsible for the ESG Management Department serving as deputy chairperson, as well as the presidents of the Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance Plastics Company. In addition to three employee representatives, including the chairperson of the central executive committee of the Sekisui Chemical Labor Union, meetings of the CSR Committee are attended by officers of the CS & Quality, Human Resources, Safety, and Compliance departments, who serve as chairpersons of each subcommittee, where every effort is made to improve committee deliberations and measures. Meetings of the CSR Committee and each of its subcommittees were held twice a year in fiscal 2019. Key items reported on during subcommittee meetings were reviewed by the CSR Committee and reported to the Board of Directors for further deliberation. At the same time, the CSR Committee scrutinized other key items that were deemed to require attention on the back of social trends and demands. These items were also reported to and deliberated by the Board of Directors. Items deliberated and approved by the Board of Directors were then reflected into activities at the operational level by each subcommittee. In addition, a new Cyber Security Subcommittee was established to promote advanced cyber-attack countermeasures, bringing the total number of subcommittees to six. Recognizing the critical need to further raise the sustainability of society and the corporate sector, the CSR Committee was renamed the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020 as part and parcel of the Group’s ESG management. Looking ahead, the Sustainability Committee will uncover those risks and opportunities that companies can be expected to encounter in the future. In addition to prioritizing these risks and opportunities, the Sustainability Committee will deliberate on appropriate policies and measures while accelerating endeavors. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 12 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report CSR Committee / Subcommittee Structure (to Fiscal Sustainability Committee / Subcommittee Structure 2019) (from fiscal 2020) Board of Directors Board of Directors Reporting/Discussion Reporting/Discussion CSR Committee Chairperson: President and Representative Sustainability Committee Chairperson: President and Representative Director Deputy Director Environmental Chairperson: Keita Kato, Representative Director, Environmental Deputy: Futoshi Kamiwaki, Director and Sub-committee Senior Managing Executive Officer, Sub-committee Chairperson Senior Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for ESG Management CS & Quality Department, Head of Business Responsible for ESG Management Strategy Department* CS & Quality Department, Digital Transformation Sub-committee Sub-committee Members: Divisional Company Presidents, Department, and New Business Human Resources Director and Executive Officers Development Department, Head of Human Resources Business Strategy Department Sub-committee at headquarters, Executive Officers Sub-committee at headquarters, and Employee Members: Divisional Company Presidents, Representatives (Three people Director and Executive Officers at Safety Sub-committee including head of Labor Union and Safety Sub-committee representatives of female employees) headquarters, Executive Officers at headquarters, and Employee Compliance Sub-committee Office: ESG Management Department Representatives (Three people Compliance Sub-committee including head of Labor Union and representatives of female employees) Cyber Security Cyber Security Sub-committee Office: ESG Management Department Sub-committee * Keita Kato appointed President and Representative Director as of March 1, 2020. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 13 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that it is our responsibility to protect human rights of all individuals affected by our business activities. In order to advance efforts to promote respect for human rights, we hereby announce the adoption of Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” (“Policy”), based on the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council in June 2011. Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to society through its business activities under its Corporate Philosophy, the “3S Principles” (Service, Speed, and Superiority), in order to meet the expectations of its stakeholders. As part of our Group Vision, residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions are designated as the business domains that should be pursued, through which we are working to improve the lives of the people of the world and the Earth’s environment. For the Sekisui Chemical Group to truly contribute to the achievement of a sustainable world, we understand that the human rights of all individuals within our sphere of influence must be respected. 1. Basic principles on human rights The “Policy” is our promise to respect human rights, in order to fulfill our responsibilities to all stakeholders, based on our Corporate Philosophy and Group Vision. To that end we support and respect the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights (specifically the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), which sets out the basic human rights of every individual. Furthermore, in addition to the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work from the International Labour Organization (ILO), which sets out people’s fundamental rights at work, we also support and respect international human rights standards for workers adopted in conventions on such matters as wages and working hours, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Lastly, as a company that has signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (“GC”), we support and respect the GC Ten Principles. 2. Scope The “Policy” is applicable to all employees and exec＋utive officers of Sekisui Chemical Group. Our Group also expects all of our business partners to comply with the “Policy” in connection with our products and services. 3. Responsibility of respect for human rights Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that it is not possible to completely eliminate every possibility of an adverse impact from its business activities. That said, we aim to fulfill our responsibility of promoting respect for human rights by building a responsible supply chain that avoids infringing the human rights of the people affected by our business activities, and, if our business activities do have an adverse impact on someone’s human rights, appropriate action will be taken in an effort to rectify that situation. 4. Human rights due diligence Sekisui Chemical Group will establish a system of human rights due diligence to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on human rights that our Group causes in society. 5. Dialogue and Consultation In its implementation of the “Policy”, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in earnest dialogue and consultation with our stakeholders, and will apply expert human rights knowledge from independent third parties. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 14 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 6. Education and training Sekisui Chemical Group will provide education and training as is appropriate to ensure that the “Policy” becomes an incorporated part of all of our business activities and is implemented effectively. 7. Remediation If it emerges that Sekisui Chemical Group’s business activities have had adverse impact on someone’s human rights, or if our involvement in the same through for example one of our business relationships emerges or is suspected, we will work to remedy the same through dialog and the appropriate processes in line with international standards. 8. Responsible executive officer(s) Sekisui Chemical Group will entrust an executive officer or officers with the responsibilities for execution of the “Policy”, who will supervise its progress and status. 9. Information disclosure Sekisui Chemical Group will disclose the progress and the results of our efforts to promote respect for human rights, on its website and through other media. 10. Applicable laws and regulations Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with the laws and regulations of each of the countries and regions in which our business activities are conducted. Where there is a conflict between a country’s laws or regulations and internationally recognized human rights standards, our Group will pursue ways to respect international human rights principles to the maximum extent possible. The “Policy” has received the approval of our board of directors and the signature of our President and Representative Director. Date of Enactment: May 15th, 2019 Date of Revision: March 1st, 2020 President and Representative Director Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 15 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basic Policies We have determined all policies that presume CSR activities Sekisui Chemical Group Environment Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a recycling-based society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and offices, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make efforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make efforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objectives and targets. 6. We enhance confidence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider CS & Quality as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (goods and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 16 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basic Policy We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider Customer's Feedback as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about Quality of Products, Quality of People and Quality of Systems based on the motto We consider customer's feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing. Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and affluent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring basic qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of Product Quality, we effectively leverage customer's feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating attractive qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing what the customer value and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading technological capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all fields in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere efforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing thorough employee education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. Sekisui Chemical Group Personnel Policy Mission Based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their specialties and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure working environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 17 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basic Policy on Human Resources 1. Creating opportunities for employees to take on new challenges We encourage employees to exceed their performance goals and actively take on new challenges. 2. Corporate culture fostering individual learning and growth We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a corporate culture that fosters individual learning and growth. 3. Continuous enhancement of performance and remuneration systems We recognize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment systems regarding performance and processes. 4. Understanding and inclusivity of various working styles We respect various values and working styles and strive to provide an environment where every employee can work with enthusiasm and achieve a balance between life and work. 5. Creating safe and secure working environments We ensure that our employees work in a safe environment. Harassment Prevention Guidelines We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain personal character. 1. We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be misunderstood as sexual harassment. 2. We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such offensive language or conduct. Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced working environment to support growth. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 18 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal characteristics, and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Declaration of Health Sekisui Chemical Group has been engaged in health management initiatives for our employees based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society.” Sekisui Chemical endeavors to take these initiatives to the next level by treating the promotion of the health of our employees as a management strategy that is aimed at achieving the physical, mental, and social well-being of all employees. Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management Strive to achieve the well-being of all employees, and create workplaces where a diverse personnel can play an active role with vitality. · Practice a comprehensive health promotion program that encompasses everything from health management (defense) to improving (offense) the fulfillment and rewards of working. · Focus on improving productivity by advancing the awareness and behavior of each and every employee. · Encourage employees to make a proactive and ongoing effort to strive for well-being now and in the future. · Strive to contribute to society by realizing the happiness of employees and their families, and our customers through the well-being of our employees. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 19 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a Safe and Secure enterprise that establishes safe and secure working environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that everyone is invaluable, we prioritize safety over anything else as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero occupational injuries, equipment-related accidents, commuting-related accidents or extended sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group “Cyber Security Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that cyber assets—information received from a wide range of parties, confidential corporate information, and systems for managing this information—are an increasingly important management resource and a source of our competitiveness. We believe that preparations against cyber-attacks threatening these assets are an important management responsibility, and strive to continually undertake cyber security measures as defined in the basic policy, to ensure a stable management foundation. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 20 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basic Policy 1. Compliance with laws and regulations We comply with laws, regulations, contractual requirements, and other social norms related to cyber security. 2. Maintenance of the cyber security management system We have established a cyber security management system across the entire Sekisui Chemical Group, positioning cyber security as essential to management policies and investments, and always strive for continuous improvement under the responsibility of management. 3. Implementation of cyber security measures We identify cyber security risks, and undertake measures to prevent cyber security incidents. 4. Ensuring business continuity We formulate business continuity plans (BCPs) and recovery plans in preparation for the occurrence of cyber security incidents, and strive to quickly recover and prevent reoccurrence should any incident occur. 5. Education of employees We continually perform education and awareness activities with regard to the appropriate use, management, and maintenance of cyber assets, so as to develop the cyber security literacy of our employees. Sekisui Chemical Group Social Contribution Activities Policy As a good corporate citizen, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the Environment, the Next Generation, and Local Communities, and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic effects. Sekisui Chemical Group Basic Procurement Policy Sekisui Chemical Group will perform its procurement of goods according to the following five basic ideas (openness, impartiality and fairness, compliance with laws and regulations, mutual trust, and environmental considerations). We will strengthen our harmonious and mutually beneficial partnership with our business partners through fair transactions. Also, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in the promotion of CSR activities through the cooperation of business partners in the Group's procurement activities. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 21 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 1-1. Basic Principles of Procurement Openness Sekisui Chemical Group opens its doors not only to domestic companies but also widely to overseas companies. Impartiality and fairness Sekisui Chemical Group selects business partners based on impartial and fair evaluation standards with emphasis on quality, price and delivery lead-time, services, etc., as well as environmental considerations. Compliance with laws and regulations When engaging in purchasing transactions, Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with relevant laws, regulations and administrative instructions in Japan and overseas. Mutual trust Sekisui Chemical Group will establish and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with its business partners, as well as sincerely fulfill all contractual obligations. Environmental considerations Sekisui Chemical Group will further promote the purchase of raw materials and goods that have minimal negative impact on the environment (Green Procurement), and strive to establish a resource-recycling society through concerted efforts with business partners. 1-2. Requesting Cooperation from Business Partners Concerning Procurement Sekisui Chemical Group, with its sincere attitude, aims to become a company trusted by society. The Company is aware of CSR in all spheres of its business operations based on its philosophy of contributing to society through its business activities. In order to achieve the above aim, it is absolutely necessary to engage in activities through mutual cooperation with business partners. Proactive cooperation from all business partners is requested on the following activities. (1) Securing Superior Product Quality Establish and operate a quality assurance system to improve and maintain the quality of products offered to customers. · Establish a quality assurance system in conformity with ISO 9000 (2) Environmental Considerations Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reduce negative impact of its products on the environment from the development and production stages to disposal. To do so, the environmental consideration of our suppliers concerning raw materials and goods is essential. · Establish environmental management system in conformity with ISO 14001 · The procurement of parts and raw materials with minimal negative environmental impact, such as reduction of potentially hazardous chemicals · Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as promoting the effective use of energy · Initiatives to preserve water resources and biodiversity Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 22 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report (3) Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Social Customs Business partners are requested to ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations and appropriate social norms of the countries and regions where their business operations are conducted. · Comply with relevant laws and regulations in the business operations · Prohibit forced labor · Prohibit child labor · Prohibit discrimination against employees (4) Safety and Hygiene Quality is built through human resources and facilities. The safety management of these resources is the basis of production. Business partners are requested to perform the following. · Safety and hygiene management of the workplace and maintenance of employee health · Machine safeguarding and safety and hygiene management of facilities · Appropriate response to occupational injuries, equipment-related accidents, other accidents, etc. Timber Procurement At Sekisui Chemical Group, in order to contribute to the elimination of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, we make every effort to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements. Therefore, in cooperation with our suppliers, we implement investigations on commercial distribution with regard to the logging area, tree species, and quantity of timber materials, in order to ensure traceability. For recycled materials, we use timber and wood-based materials that are already used in markets, as well as unused thinnings and branches. In those cases where we find timber that we have concerns about in terms of legitimacy while investigating our distribution channels, we take appropriate measures in cooperation with our suppliers to promote responsible procurement. Conflict Minerals Sekisui Chemical Group is working in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. to eliminate conflict minerals (gold (Au), tantalum (Ta), tungsten (W) and tin (Sn)) connected with inhumane acts by local armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries. If we find minerals that we have concerns about while investigating our distribution channels, we take appropriate measures in cooperation with our suppliers to promote responsible procurement. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 23 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Identifying key issues Sekisui Chemical Group Has Defined the Key Issues to be Addressed in Our ESG Management Efforts Extracting key issues Identifying key issues Under the Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT2019 -Fusionlaunched in fiscal 2017, we undertook a review of our CSR initiatives from the viewpoints of the environment, society, and governance (ESG), defined the key issues (materiality), and continued to promote relevant initiatives through fiscal 2019. In line with its long-term vision to “support life infrastructure and create ‘peace of mind that continues to the future’ in order to realize a sustainable society,” Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to bolstering its ESG management from fiscal 2020. We will review the key issues that need to be addressed in order to achieve this from an outlook centered on our ability to create profit, contribute to the resolution of social issues, and maintain our business, while focusing our ESG management initiatives on governance, digital transformation (DX), the environment, and fusion. Identification Process for Key ESG Issues Key ESG issues were identified based on the following processes. Step 1. Discussing issues from the global guidelines, etc. (1) Identify candidate issues from the UN global compact (GC) and ISO26000 While adhering to the 10 principles in the GC, we examine the involvement status within the Group for relevant activities and aspirations concerning each of the seven main core issues in ISO26000, and identify the points where involvement was insufficient. (2) We identify candidate issues by considering the boundaries both inside and outside the Group while considering the relationship between Sekisui Chemical Group and business regarding the economics, environmental, and social items described in the GRI standard. (3) We analyze the social issues described in SDGs, and select the issues that provide business opportunities for Sekisui Chemical Group. In contributing to these solutions, we identify initiatives required for their success. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 24 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Step 2. Identifying issues from ESG/CSR surveys and other companies' trends (1) Identifying candidate issues from ESG/CSR surveys We analyze the issues based on the details of the replies and evaluation results to each ESG and CSR survey, and identify candidate key ESG issues where future involvement can be considered important. (2) Analysis of other companies' ESG/CSR involvement and information disclosure trends We examine involvement by other advanced ESG/CSR companies and trends in their disclosure using ESG/CSR reports, etc., and identify issues where improvements to Sekisui Chemical Group's future involvement and information disclosure are to be desired. Step 3. Analysis of stakeholder opinions and expectations (1) Sorting the major stakeholder opinions We collect and sort the main opinions regarding ESG/ CSR from the results of talking to various stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, investors, employees, trading partners, and local communities, etc. (2) Analysis of major expectations by stakeholder We factor in the main opinions from the various stakeholders described in (1) above, and analyze the main stakeholder expectations from their relationship to Sekisui Chemical Group business and ESG/CSR involvement. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 25 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Step 4. Identifying key ESG issues (1) Sorting key ESG candidate issues We add the CSR issues in which we have been strategically involved from before to candidate ESG issues identified in steps 1 to 3 above, and sort the future key ESG candidate issues. (2) Evaluating the importance of key ESG candidate issues We evaluate the key ESG candidate issues sorted in (1) along 2 axes: A. Importance to stakeholders and B. Importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management, and identify the key ESG issues. We then rank the key ESG issues that had been identified by priority. A. Importance to stakeholders is evaluated based on the viewpoints of stakeholder expectations, global trends, and positive and negative impact on the planet and society, and B. Importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management is based on the viewpoints of Conformance to management policy and management strategy, extent of compliance with ESG issue, risk and reputation, and priority considered on the time axis. From fiscal 2020 and based on the newly formulated vision*, the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index will be newly used as an indicator for A. Importance to stakeholders while our approach toward the SEKISUI Sustainable Spread based on ROIC and capital costs has been added as an indicator for B. Importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management. * For more details, please refer to the Long-term Vision and new Medium-term Management Plan presentation materials. https://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/event_account/index.html (3) Identifying key ESG issues The key ESG issues are discussed at company management meetings, with items for implementation and management targets reviewed by the main departments before final internal approval is granted. Key management targets and items for implementation that have been approved are given suitable management through the PDCA cycle. As a rule, the key ESG issues will be reviewed and items for implementation and management targets will be set every three years when the medium-term management plan are created, though revisions will be discussed each year based on business conditions as well as social expectations and requirements. Governance ・Reducing serious incidents (safety, quality, accounting,legal /ethical, information management) ・Risk management, crisis management, BCP A. Importance for stakeholders the most important DX priorities ・ Visualization and standardization ・Increase productivity ・Sophistication Environment ・Contribute to the resolution of environmental issues (adapt to and mitigate climate change, promote a circular economy, reduce water risks) Human Resources ・A challenging corporate culture and evolution toward active employee participation (culture and human resource development, system design) ・Promote work style reform ・Enhance ESG human resource capabilities Fusion ・Promote open innovation ・Create and expand the market for products to enhance sustainability B. Importance for Sekisui Chemical Group management Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 26 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Key ESG issues (2020-2022) Issues where the importance for stakeholders is extremely high, and is also extremely high for management of Sekisui Chemical Group Governance ・ Reducing serious incidents (safety, quality, accounting, legal/ethical, information management) ・ Risk management, crisis management, BCP DX ・ Visualization and standardization (standardize operations, introduce ERP, renew infrastructure and network) ・ Increase productivity (automation / unmanned shifts, improve operational efficiency through the use of digital technology, ICT and AI) ・ Sophistication (increase the sophistication of operational control, governance and the supply chain) Environment ・ Contribute to the resolution of environmental issues (adapt to and mitigate climate change, promote a circular economy, reduce water risks) Human Resources ・ A challenging corporate culture and evolution toward active employee participation (culture and human resource development, system design) ・ Promote work style reform ・ Enhance ESG human resource capabilities Fusion ・ Promote open innovation ・ Create and expand the market for products to enhance sustainability Issues where the importance for stakeholders is high, and is also high for management of Sekisui Chemical Group ・ Strengthening intellectual property strategies ・ Promotion of activities that contribute to the resolution of issues through cooperation with local communities ・ Implementation of human rights due diligence ・ Reduced environmental degradation ・ Promotion of globalization ・ Diversity Management ・ Health management ・ Strengthening the equipment maintenance system ・ Reducing supply chain risk Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 27 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report CSR Medium-term Plan (2017 -2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) In its Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -FusionSekisui Chemical Group places considerable emphasis on balancing the needs to secure both social and corporate value. Engaging in CSR that is in tune with business activities is the theme of the 2017 to 2019 period. In addition to creating social value, the Group is conscious of the need to identify what is required to fulfill its corporate social responsibility while promoting long-term growth. With this in mind, we have positioned the Three Prominences of the environment, customer service (CS) & quality, and human resources, our pledge to society encompassing safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and the workplace environment, as well as governance and stakeholder engagement as key issues. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 28 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Three Prominences Key Measures Medium-term (2017-2019) Targets 1. Manage progress using integrated indices Secure a rate of return on natural capital of 90% or (sustainability index) more 1) Environment2. Expand and create contributing Product 60% or more markets for sales ratio Environmentcontributing Products 2) Number of newly 30 or more registered products 1) Reduce greenhouse 6% or more gas emission (vs. FY2013) Environment ① Reduce water usage by 3% or more (vs. FY2016) 3. Reduce environmental impact 2) Maintain water resources ② Reduce the total amount of river discharge water chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 3% or more (vs FY2016) Secure an employee participation rate in SEKISUI 4. Conserve natural environment Environment Week of 100% ① Reduce the number of major quality issues to zero 1. Improve basic qualities CS & Quality ② Reduce new product external failure costs to zero 2. Improve attractive qualities Introduce nine new attractive quality products ① Secure a ratio of women to total hires of 35% 1) Empower women Human Promote ② Number of women in management positions: 200 Resources diversity 2) Develop global talent Number of participants in the Global Trainee Program: employees 20 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 29 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ü・・・Medium-term target achieved △・ ・・Medium-term target not achieved, however, initiatives promoted ×・ ・・Medium-term target not achieved, however, it will be necessary to promote further initiatives in the future Medium-term Reference FY2017 Results FY2018 Results FY2019 Results (2017-2019) pages Self-evaluation Secured a rate of return on Secured a rate of return on Secured a rate of return on natural capital of 86.2%*1 natural capital of 95.8%*1 natural capital of 104.5%*1 ü P185 50.2% 56.3% 58.3% △ P259 24 18 (cumulative: 42) 5 (cumulative: 47) ü P259 1.5% (vs. FY2013) 2.3% (vs. FY2013) 6.1% (vs. FY2013) ü P218 ① Water intake volume, ① Water intake volume, ① Water intake volume, amount of water extracted amount of water extracted amount of water extracted × P239 3.1% increase (vs. FY2016) 3.0% increase (vs. FY2016) 0.1% increase (vs. FY2016) ② Increased the total amount ② Increased the total amount ② Increased the total amount of river discharge water of river dis+3charge water of river discharge water chemical oxygen demand chemical oxygen demand × P239, 245 chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 28.2% (vs (COD) by 20.7% (vs (COD) by 5.1% (vs FY2016) FY2016) FY2016) Secured an employee Secured an employee Secured an employee participation rate in SEKISUI participation rate in SEKISUI participation rate in SEKISUI △ P261, 267 Environment Week of 84.9% Environment Week of 88.1% Environment Week of 89.7% ① There were two major ① There was one major quality ① There was one major quality × P137 quality issues issue issue ② Definition confirmed at two companies, defining is ② 288 million yen ② 210 million yen × P137 ongoing at one company Introduced two new attractive Introduced four new attractive ー △ P146 quality products quality products ① Secured a ratio of women ① Secured a ratio of women ① Secured a ratio of women △ P284 to total hires of 30% to total hires of 29.7% to total hires of 31.4% ② Number of women in ② Number of women in ② Number of women in management positions : management positions : management positions : △ P283 138 156 185 Number of participants in the Number of participants in the Number of participants in the × P293 Global Trainee Program: 10 Global Trainee Program:21 Global Trainee Program: 15 *1 For products that have a high degree of contribution and significant impact, calculated results are retroactively revised after reconfirming actual results on a volume basis as opposed to sales. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 30 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Pledge to Society Key Measures Medium-term (2017-2019) Targets Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries Safety Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries attributable to machinery and equipment to zero 1. Prevent major violations of laws and ordinances Reduce the incidence of major violations of laws and Compliance that impact society ordinances that impact society to zero and Respect for Human Rights 2. Expand the area and scope of CSR procurement Undertake CSR procurement in five global areas Reduce the number of subsidiary companies where 1. Manage and control prolonged working hours (in employees work more than 2,000 hours on an annual excess of 2,000 hours annually) basis by 30% (vs. FY2016) Working Environment Raise the number of Group companies certified as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity 2. Promote health management Management White 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to 21 Governance Key Measures Medium-term (2017-2019) Targets 1. Put in place a structure of overseas regional Complete area coverage headquarters Governance 2. Increase the effectiveness of risk management Achieve effectiveness of 70% or more (prevent risks before they occur) Stakeholder Engagement Key Measures Medium-term (2017-2019) Targets Stakeholder Promote active engagement between investors and 200 Engagement management Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 31 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ü・・・Medium-term target achieved △・ ・・Medium-term target not achieved, however, initiatives promoted ×・ ・・Medium-term target not achieved, however, it will be necessary to promote further initiatives in the future Medium-term Reference FY2017 Results FY2018 Results FY2019 Results (2017-2019) pages Self-evaluation Occupational injuries Occupational injuries Occupational injuries attributable to machinery and attributable to machinery and attributable to machinery and equipment amounted to 19 equipment was reduced by equipment amounted to 7 △ P116 cases, vs. 20 cases in half at 10 cases (vs. the 20 cases vs. the 20 cases in FY2016 (-1 case) cases in FY2016) FY2016 (-13 cases) Reduced the incidence of Reduced the incidence of Reduced the incidence of major violations of laws and major violations of laws and major violations of laws and ordinances that impact society ordinances that impact society ordinances that impact society ü P160 to zero to zero to zero Undertook CSR procurement Undertook in Conducted survey in the EU the China area in the Asia region (excluding area ü P42 China) Reduced the number of Reduced the number of subsidiary companies where Reduced the number of subsidiary companies by 2% employees work more than subsidiary companies by △ P312 (vs. FY2016) 2,000 hours on an annual 19%*2 (vs. FY2016) basis by 8.5% (vs. FY2016) Raised the number of Group Raised the number of Group Raised the number of Group companies certified as an companies certified as an companies certified as an Excellent Enterprise of Health Excellent Enterprise of Health Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management and Productivity Management and Productivity Management ü P310 White 500 by Japan’s Ministry White 500 by Japan’s Ministry White 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and of Economy, Trade and Industry of Economy, Trade and Industry Industry to 5 to 21 to 28 *2 Based on projections as of March 2020 Medium-term Reference FY2017 Results FY2018 Results FY2019 Results (2017-2019) pages Self-evaluation Established a structure and Enhanced accounting function Established supervising systems for the Asia and in the Asia and Oceania △ ー company in Thailand Oceania regions regions Achieved effectiveness of 55% Achieved effectiveness of 75% Achieved effectiveness of 75% ü P109 Medium-term Reference FY2017 Results FY2018 Results FY2019 Results (2017-2019) pages Self-evaluation Ensured that investors and Ensured that investors and Ensured that investors and management engage on 88 management engage on 87 management engage on 67 ü P52 occasions occasions occasions Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 32 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Key Measures (2020-2022) in ESG Management In line with its long-term vision to “support life infrastructure and create ‘peace of mind that continues to the future’ in order to realize a sustainable society,” Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to bolstering its ESG management from fiscal 2020. We will review the key issues that need to be addressed in order to achieve this from an outlook centered on our ability to generate profit, contribute to the resolution of social issues, and maintain our business, while focusing our ESG management initiatives on governance, digital transformation (DX), the environment, and fusion. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 33 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report FY2020 FY2022 Key Measures Management indices quantitative quantitative targets targets Expand organizational Risk Consolidated sales activities Group-wide, 93% 98% or more Management composition ratio including overseas groups Rebuild audit mechanisms Major occupational injuries (multi-level control) and utilize Zero Zero (including construction) digital technology Serious equipment Clarify Global Equipment accidents (fires, explosions, Zero Zero Safety Standards leaks) Safety Promote equipment intrinsic Injuries attributable to Zero Zero safety machines and equipment Position key people according to fields of Improve site qualities 30% 100% disaster prevention/safety/ environment Prevent serious incident Number of major quality Governance Zero Zero occurrences issue occurrences CS & Quality Strengthen quality assurance New product external in the development of new Zero Zero failure costs businesses Strengthen discovery control Serious legal infractions Zero Zero for compliance violations Introduction of rules to prevent violations to anti100% 100% monopoly laws, bribery and introduction practiced Compliance other serious offenses at Strengthen overseas control overseas Group companies Construct an internal North America, whistleblower system in China, Europe, Regions which anyone can easily ASEAN, India, worldwide report improper activity South Korea Reduce the number of Cyber Strengthen information major incidents regarding Zero Zero Security management information management to zero Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 34 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report FY2020 FY2022 Key Measures Management indices quantitative quantitative targets targets Complete understanding Score of the current improvement status of (10-20% Raise productivity, promote Indirect and direct operating DX each region, in business digitalization ratio completion if management issue scoring and supply and the setting chain areas) of goals Return rate Raise return rate of natural/ Sekisui Environmental of natural/ Maintain 100% or more social capital Sustainability Index social capital Rate of renewable energy 5% 20% of purchased electricity Realize a decarbonized society Rate of reduction in GHG -7% -9% emissions (vs. FY2013) Environment Per unit Amount of waste generated of output Impact Realization of a circular per unit of output reduction of -1% reduction on economy (vs. FY2019) 1% every natural/social three years capital Water usage at production sites that require high -10% -10% volumes of water (FY2016) Minimization of water risk COD emission volume at production sites with high -10% -10% COD emissions (vs. FY2016) Range of Consideration initiatives of creating a Introduction to facilitate framework of scheme Raise engagement Engagement score management to raise complete/score Human Resources participation engagement improved by employees score Transformation Rate of progress of Consideration to a culture Introduction of a new 100% introduction of new completed that confronts personnel system introduced personnel system 100% challenges Number of companies Work Style Maintaining Improve productivity where total hours worked zero Reforms zero per year is over 2,000 hours Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 35 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report FY2020 FY2022 Key Measures Management indices quantitative quantitative targets targets Promote open innovation (cultivate a culture to promote internal and external ー ー ー collaboration, promote human resource development and system design) Fusion 800 billion yen; ratio of 710 billion sales growth Improve the ability to help Products to enhance yen; ratio of of around resolve issues through sustainability*1 (ratio of sales growth 22% (vs. products sales growth vs. 2019) of around 8% 2019); sales (vs. 2019) ratio of around 63% *1 Previously, Sekisui Chemical Group had operated under an Environment-contributing Product system that comprised products that contributed to the resolution of issues in the natural and social environments. Moving forward, we will realize our vision of a sustainable society and planet be evaluating the sustainability of companies and products that are necessary to help resolve issues on a sustainable basis and operate a systems that is capable of enhancing corporate sustainability. Details are presented in “Products to enhance sustainability” of the “Environment” section on page 254 of the CSR Report 2020. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 36 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Respect for Human Rights Striving to respect the human rights of all stakeholders affected by our business activities, we are promoting a wide range of global-scale measures. Management Approach Basic Concept Striving to Respect the Human Rights of All Individuals Affected by Business Activities At Sekisui Chemical Group, we consider it our duty to advocate for the human rights of all people affected by our business activities. Nowadays, the enaction of rules and laws related to human rights continues to progress both inside and outside of Japan, and human rights issues are getting increasing attention in society. In these conditions, we consider human rights initiatives for not only employees of the Group but also our business partners and other stakeholders to be essential for solidifying our sustainable management platform. Human Rights Policy Formulation Newly Formulating Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” Sekisui Chemical Group began formulating Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Rights Policy” in October 2018. Subsequently, we established a new Human Rights Policy in May 2019 after implementing a human rights risk assessment and securing approval at a meeting of the Board of Directors. This policy has been disclosed in the June 2019 CSR Report. Unlike the earlier Sekisui Chemical Group Personnel and Human Rights Policy, which mainly focused on Group employees, the new Human Rights Policy is different in that it proposes to firmly respect human rights across the board, including the value chain beyond the Group, in compliance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council. Going forward, we will work to achieve an understanding of and instill this new Human Rights Policy among all employees of the Group, as well as our suppliers and business partners. Note: For details regarding Sekisui Chemical Group’s “Human Rights Policy,” see page 14. Actions in regard to the UK Modern Slavery Act The Sekisui Chemical Group Modern Slavery Statement Sekisui Chemical Group previously released a statement in regard to the UK Modern Slavery Act through a UK Group company, but we formulated the Sekisui Chemical Group Modern Slavery Statement in September 2019 in recognition of the need for the group as a whole to take action in regard to human rights issues. The Sekisui Chemical Group Modern Slavery Statement is pursuant to section 54 (1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the actions taken by Sekisui Chemical Group to prevent any form of modern slavery or human trafficking in any part of the Group’s business or within its supply chains. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to take appropriate measures to comply with human rights laws and regulations in countries and regions that are relevant to our operations. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 37 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Launching initiatives to build a human rights due diligence* framework Sekisui Chemical Group in November 2018 launched initiatives aimed at building a human rights due diligence framework. As a first step, we took the following measures to identify potential human rights risks within the Group. (1) Employing a specialized agency to assess human rights risks in primary business activities (2) Based on the risk assessment results, conducted Internal interviews with staff members of the Group Moving forward, we intend to conduct on-site interviews at production sites in Japan and overseas to confirm that working environments for employees are satisfactory and to assess the degree of impact from the identified potential human rights risks. * Human rights due diligence is the ongoing management process of identifying and assessing any potential negative impact on human rights (human rights risks) from a company’s business activities, and if there are human rights risks, the process of creating mechanisms to prevent or mitigate the impact from such risks. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 38 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Identifying Human Rights Risks Within the Group Employing a Specialized Agency to Assess Human Rights Risks in Primary Business Activities In November 2018, we employed an external specialized agency (Verisk Maplecroft*1) to conduct a human rights risk assessment among the primary business activities of Sekisui Chemical Group. On the basis of 10 human rights issues, this agency calculated a human rights risk score for four industries, namely Homebuilder, Auto Parts, Industrial Machinery and Goods, and Pharmaceutical. Moreover, the results, which take into account the risks of each country in which Group companies are located, confirmed that Sekisui Chemical Group business activities, particularly overseas (China, India, Thailand, Brazil), held a potentially high risk of human rights violations in terms of occupational health and safety, etc. 10 Human Rights Issues in Primary Business Activities (1) Child labor (2) Fair wages, (3) Fair working hours, (4) Discrimination in the workplace, (5) Modern slavery*2 (6) Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, (7) Rights of indigenous peoples, (8) Rights relating to property, assets, and housing, (9) Occupational health and safety, and (10) Right to privacy Industry Priority Country (Latent) Priority Issues ● Modern slavery Homebuilder Thailand ● Occupational health and safety ● Fair wages China ● Fair wages India Auto Parts ● Modern slavery Brazil Thailand ● Occupational health and safety Industrial Machinery China ● Occupational health and safety and Goods Thailand ● Occupational health and safety Pharmaceutical China ● Right to privacy *1 A risk analysis and research corporation with a global perspective and knowledge of human rights, economic, and environmental risks. *2 The definition of slavery in the modern era as established in the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Primarily refers to (1) slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labor, (2) human trafficking, and (3) exploitation (sexual exploitation, organ harvesting etc.). Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 39 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Identifying Human Rights Risks within the Group Implementation of Internal Interviews Based on Risk Assessment Results Since February 2019, we have been implementing interviews of related internal staff with third parties (Caux Round Table Japan*). By carrying out these interviews regarding countries with high latent risks identified in human rights risk assessments and with staff at the Group who have experience stationed in Thailand, China, and India, as well as related internal departments, we confirmed whether there was any gap between the assessment results and actual business conditions at the Company. Interview Results ・Awareness of safety at overseas production companies is high and safety activities have taken hold ・Positive conditions such as a lack of discrimination toward immigrant laborers, foreigners, and women working there were identified at the Group companies involved in the interviews ・Although headquarters-led CSR procurement survey are implemented for suppliers, no supplier checks were performed from the perspective of human rights at the site level ・Some overseas production companies have factories that use a large number of temporary workers (fixed-term employees) As per above, some of the findings indicated issues requiring further confirmation of on-site conditions. We accordingly plan to conduct interviews at our production sites in Japan and overseas in fiscal 2020 with the aim of listening to the opinions of our employees to confirm if our business activities are adversely impacting human rights and to better understand how seriously those rights are being impacted. We will then work toward addressing the issues made clear during the interviews and conduct follow-up assessments as we build our human rights due diligence framework. * A non-profit organization with a network of a variety of CSR initiative organizations both inside and outside of Japan and extensive experience with support programs for initiatives to reduce human rights risks within corporate supply chains Business Activities That Respect Human Rights Deepening Understanding of Human Rights, Implementing Business Activities That Respect Human Rights Along with its suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group engages in business activities that respect human rights as part of its obligation to all stakeholders. All Group employees are provided with a copy of the Company’s Compliance Manual. We have set strict standards for respecting human rights, prohibiting discrimination, preventing harassment, and protecting personal information. We conduct training and e-learning sessions for employees about the prevention of all forms of harassment. We work diligently to raise the understanding and awareness of such issues among all of our employees. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 40 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Preventing Harassment Conducting Educational Programs for the Purpose of Preventing Harassment In order to prevent power, sexual, maternity, and other forms of harassment, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to cover harassment prevention as part of its compliance educational programs during employee rank-based training, including new employee and newly appointed manager trainings. In this way, we provide knowledge for preventing harassment tailored to each rank and position. We also periodically provide harassment training as part of field-based educational programs. Assessing the Human Rights Situation at Our Suppliers Caring About Human Rights Issues Across the Entire Supply Chain Through CSR procurement with our suppliers, we make sure our business partners respect human rights. In order for our suppliers to understand the Group’s procurement policy, including respect for human rights, we have produced English and Chinese translated versions as well as the Japanese version and are promoting the process of making procurement policies available in a variety of languages, such as by posting them in Japanese and English on our websites. With regard to suppliers that do not meet the prescribed standards, a request is made to ensure that the necessary steps are taken to resolve any issues. Sekisui Chemical Group works together with suppliers in the implementation of appropriate measures. We are making progress with the development of mechanisms, designed specifically for our overseas business partners and suppliers, to encourage improvements via our regional headquarters. We are currently focused on confirming procurement policies with our direct business partners but are also working to build a mechanism to ensure understanding throughout the entire supply chain, including at secondary and tertiary suppliers by taking into account the opinions of outside experts. As for the disclosure of results, we are considering what measures we should take, while we ask our partners to understand the importance of CSR awareness. We are also considering endorsing and participating in accredited supply chain initiatives in order to further improve the quality of human rights due diligence. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 41 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Engagement with External Stakeholders Sekisui Chemical Group in May–July 2019 took part in a Stakeholder Engagement Program* in which participants with differing backgrounds, including those from corporations, NGOs and NPOs, and academia exchanged opinions in order to promote human rights due diligence. After listening to questions being raised from NGOs, NPOs, and academic experts, participating companies identified and discussed important human rights issues in various industries, using the human rights guidance tools developed by the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). We also engaged in individual dialogue* with overseas experts in October 2019, speaking with four specialists in human rights, including a global value chain expert from India, as well as experts from the Danish Institute for Human Rights, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the World Benchmarking Alliance in regard to Sekisui Chemical Group’s initiatives in human rights. The discussions included advice from these experts as to how the Company could best develop its related activities moving forward. Through the incorporation of external opinions obtained here, we will continue to promote human rights initiatives on a systemic basis in accordance with the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Individual dialogue with overseas experts * The Stakeholder Engagement Program and the individual dialogue were both organized by Caux Round Table Japan. Initiatives Geared Toward Suppliers Conducting CSR Procurement Surveys Guided by its procurement policy, Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting surveys focused on social responsibility, environmental conservations, and the human rights considerations of our partners since 2007. We began inspections of overseas group company partners in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2019, we implemented CSR procurement surveys for the partner firms of Sekisui Chemical Group companies in the EU to get a better understanding of the status of human rights-related initiatives. We were accordingly able to confirm that no major human rights infringements, including child labor and forced labor, occurred at our major suppliers. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 42 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives Geared Toward Employees Implementing Human Rights Training and Education Sekisui Chemical Group conducts training and educational programs focusing on the theme of human rights for its employees. In this manner, the Group is endeavoring to engage in management that takes into consideration concerns regarding human rights. We incorporate content that raises awareness about human rights issues, such as forced labor, child labor, harassment, etc., in particular in training carried out at career milestones, such as when joining the Company or upon promotion. The compliance manual for domestic group companies and the global compliance manual for overseas group companies outline respect for human rights and measures for the prevention of harassment. In addition, training programs that aim to prevent all forms of harassment are held every year, with 867 individuals taking part in fiscal 2019. Addressing the Issue of Conflict Minerals “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines Put into Effect Sekisui Chemical is concerned about the conflict mineral problem, namely the mineral resources controlled by armed forces in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries that commit human rights violations and destroy the environment. We conduct surveys on the use of conflict minerals at companies throughout our supply chain from a CSR perspective. We put our “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines” into effect in April 2017. These guidelines were newly formulated for each Group division* responsible for receiving survey requests for conflict minerals from suppliers and for conducting the surveys. In fiscal 2019, we conducted 619 conflict mineral surveys at Sekisui Chemical's Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, High Performance Plastics Company, and the Group companies of each. We were unable to identify any conflict minerals or smelting facility uncertainties among the surveyed companies. * For the quality control department of each divisional company factory and the quality control departments of affiliated companies or affiliated company factories Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 43 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Intellectual Property Intellectual property is an important management resource that underpins growth and revenue aimed at optimizing corporate value. Basic Stance Protection and Respect Protecting Our Intellectual Property and Respecting the Intellectual Property Rights of Others The Company regards intellectual property (IP) that has resulted from its R&D activities to be an important management resource underpinning Sekisui Chemical Group’s growth and profitability as well as efforts toward the maximization of corporate value. For that reason, Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to secure strategic IP that supports its business activities, as well as to maintain and manage any acquired IP. Meanwhile, we conduct periodic investigations to avoid infringing upon the IP rights of others, and take appropriate measures to avoid and prevent others from infringing upon the IP rights of Sekisui Chemical Group. In order that each individual developer can implement these measures, we have prepared several educational programs tailored to the level of each developer, from the acquisition of basic knowledge to strategy building, and conduct Group-wide educational activities relating to IP. Reasonable Evaluations with Regard to Inventions Paying Fair Monetary Incentives for Valuable Inventions In addition to paying monetary incentives for inventions made by employees, the Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of our efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the evaluations and recognition they deserve. The Invention Grand Prize pays out monetary incentives to inventors employed by the Company as compensation for those of their achievements that have made a particularly large contribution to profits. In fiscal 2019, a first-class certification was granted for a patent on heat insulation interlayer films. Management Approach Toward Securing Intellectual Property Placing Considerable Emphasis on Strategic Intellectual Property Activities Sekisui Chemical Group places considerable emphasis on strategic IP activities in order to maximize its technological prominence and contribute to business growth. Among a host of activities, the Group identifies business strategies based on an analysis of the competitive environment. To this end, the Group assesses the IP landscape, which includes a review of IP, market and peer data. The Group also engages in IP portfolio management. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 44 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promotion System Set Up Independent Intellectual Property Division at the Group’s Corporate Headquarters and Each Divisional Company Sekisui Chemical Group has set up independent intellectual property divisions at its Corporate headquarters and at each divisional company. This takes into account the Group’s divisional company structure and enables the Group to promptly engage in activities that are attuned to the business environment of each divisional company. The intellectual property divisions, the business divisions, and the R&D divisions at each divisional company maintain constant cooperation and are engaging in activities that facilitate the building of an IP network almost to the complete exclusion of competitors putting in place a forum to deliberate on IP activities with management. The Intellectual Property Division at the Group’s Corporate Headquarters is responsible for the planning and drafting of basic IP strategies that are common to the entire Group, the protection of trademarks, IP education and training as well as IP management. Taking into consideration its corporate R&D mission of creating new businesses, Sekisui Chemical Group draws on an analysis of the IP landscape at an early stage to engage in strategic IP activities that allow it to overwhelmingly succeed while continuously dominating the market. In this manner, the Group’s Corporate Headquarters and the intellectual property divisions of each divisional company are working closely together to build the Group's intellectual property while engaging in strategic intellectual property activities in line with the business environment. Performance Data Number of patent application filings Number of patents held (Applications) (Applications) 1,500 6,000 1,380 5,573 5,356 1,248 1,262 1,277 5,078 Group-wide Group-wide 4,638 4,775 1,139 1,000 4,000 500 2,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 45 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Stakeholder Engagement Improving Corporate Value Through Strengthening Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Constructive Dialogue with Stakeholders To build relationships of trust with its five stakeholders—customers, shareholders, employees, business partners as well as local communities and the environment—Sekisui Chemical Group considers that it is important to improve corporate value through constructive dialogue. Positioning its stakeholders as partners in improving corporate value, having constructive dialogue with them, assessing their expectations and requests as well as resolving society-wide issues together with them, leads to great opportunities for Sekisui Chemical Group. We will create a relationship of mutual prosperity with our stakeholders while continuing to promote sustainable growth. Promoting Engagement with Stakeholders Reflecting Stakeholder Opinions in Corporate Activities In fiscal 2019, the ESG Management Department, which falls under the purview of the Representative Director and Head of the Business Strategy Department, was responsible for promoting constructive dialogue with all stakeholders. The various assessments and opinions of all stakeholders are reported to the CSR Committee (renamed the Sustainability Committee in fiscal 2020), which is chaired by the Company president and is composed of directors, among others, and the Company strives to adequately reflect these views in its activities. There were no major concerns voiced by stakeholders through any of the engagements in fiscal 2019. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 46 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Main Responsibilities, Communication Channels, and Communication Methods Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods ・Customer ・Day-to-day Consultation Office (handles inquiries) ・CS surveys (customer ・As necessary (carried satisfaction surveys) out whenever needed at each divisional We take the voices of our ● Departments in company, business customers seriously, offer Charge of ESG site, or sales office) prominent products and ● Departments in Customers ・Sales activities ・Day-to-day services and strive to build Charge of Quality ・Website, social ・Day-to-day a long-term relationship of Control media trust with our customers. ● Sales Department ・exhibition spaces, ・As necessary expos / events (implemented through questionnaires and conversations at venues) ● Departments ・General Meeting of ・Once per year To meet the expectations of in Charge of Shareholders all our valued shareholders, General Affairs ・Management ・Twice per year we strive for highly efficient ● Departments in briefings use of capital, fair ethical Charge of IR ・Integrated reports ・Issued once per year Shareholders disclosure of information, ● Departments in ・Responding to ・As necessary (handled adequate returns from Charge of Public surveys from in order of inquiry) profit, and increasing Relations institutions that corporate value through ● Departments in evaluate ESG sustainable growth. Charge of ESG Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 47 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods ・Individual boss ・Regularly and subordinate interviews ・Counseling ・As needed (counseling available upon request through an inhouse occupational counselor or external ● Departments in clinical psychologist) Charge of Human ・Labor-management ・Regularly We foster among our Resources meetings employees a spirit of taking ● Departments in ・Central Occupational ・Once per year on new challenges and are Charge of Safety Safety Committee actively creating workplaces ● Departments in ・Internal ・As needed (handling Employees where every employee Charge of Legal whistle-blowing for consultations and can stand out and diverse Affairs system reports) human resources can both ● Departments in ・Employee ・Once every three excel and feel that their Charge of ESG satisfaction surveys years work is worthwhile. ● Departments in ・Various employee ・As needed Charge of Public questionnaires (questionnaires Relations implemented for internal publications, various types of training sessions, etc.) ・Dialogues with ・Regularly management ・Intranet and internal ・As needed newsletter (information updated when necessary), four times per year Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 48 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Communication Stakeholders Contact Frequency Group’s Commitment Methods When procuring materials, ・Purchasing activities ・Day-to-day we follow the fundamentals ・Explanatory meetings ・Regularly of being open, fair, with suppliers compliant with the law, ・CSR procurement ・Once per business engaged in relationships questionnaires partner every three ● Departments of mutual trust, and year in Charge of environmentally conscious. ・Points of contact for ・As needed (handling Purchasing We aim to achieve consultations from, for consultations and Business ● Departments in coexistence and shared and whistleblowing reports) partners Charge of Legal prosperity by building more by, business partners Affairs robust partnerships with ・Website ・As needed ● Departments in our business partners and (information updated Charge of ESG engaging in fair trade. when necessary) We are also engaged in promoting CSR based on cooperation with our business partners. We emphasize a ・Volunteering by ・Regularly perspective that employees encompasses contributions ・Dialogues with NPOs ・As needed to the development of and NGOs (implemented as ● Departments in communities through necessary before and Charge of ESG our business, coexistence after activities) ● Factories and Local with communities, and ・Support for learning ・Regularly Offices communities environmental conservation. (dispatching of ● Departments in We think about how to instructors, factory Charge of Public make measures that are tours, etc.) Relations tailored to the needs of ・News releases ・As needed (latest each community and information posted practice business in ways as necessary) that engender trust. We are engaged in ・Volunteering by ・Regularly ● Departments in expanding and creating the employees Charge of ESG market for Sustainability ・Dialogues with NPOs ・As needed ● Factories and contributing Products, and NGOs (implemented as Offices Global reducing our environmental necessary before and ● Departments in environment impacts, and conserving after activities) Charge of Sales the natural environment— ・ Sales operations ・Day-to-day ● Departments all with the aim of realizing ・Purchasing activities ・Day-to-day in Charge of “earth with maintained Purchasing biodiversity.” Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 49 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialogue through Various Methods of Communication Continuing from fiscal 2018, we implemented conversation through the “CAT (Customer And Top” meeting (fiscal 2019: held 189 times, 1,413 participants), which features housing sales company executives listening to customer feedback directly, as well as initiatives such as communication with customers at the Eco Pro* event we participate in every year, interviews with investors and investigative organizations, and conversation with business partners at events such as the “Heim Mutual Prosperity Meeting.” As for employees, we set up opportunities for direct conversation with the company president and other high-ranking management officials and carried out information gathering activities to collect the opinions and requests of employees related to CSR activities. These internal opinions and requests, as well as the opinions and requests received from outside the company in response to CSR reports and other public information, are compiled and used for the promotion of CSR. * For more information about Eco Pro, see the “Products to Enhance Sustainability” page 256. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 50 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Dialogues with Employees Direct Communication between Management and Employees at “Town Hall Style Meeting with President / Top Management Believing that dialogue between management and employees is essential in resolving the problems faced by the Company as well as work-related issues, Sekisui Chemical Group has been providing opportunities for employees to have direct communication with top management since fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2019, Sekisui Chemical Group held “Town Hall Style Meeting with President / Top Management,” in which employees and management leaders were able to exchange views, for employees at our 13 Group companies in Thailand. Participating employees actively exchanged their views on “fusion,” a subject also highlighted in the Medium-Term Management Plan (2017 – 2019). The President and other participating executives spoke directly with the local employees based on several of their various recommendations and proposals, including measures for improving productivity through collaboration between local Group companies and new business models that fuse the management resources of each company. The details of these meeting dialogues have been shared with each company and measures to realize these are underway. Going forward, we will hold these meetings in Europe, North America, and other areas, and will work to increase opportunities for Group employees throughout the world to have direct communication with top management. President Kato of Sekisui Chemical speaks directly with employees in Thailand Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 51 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Dialogue with Investors Continuing to Engage in Direct Communication in an Effort to Enhance Understanding Interest in ESG investment, by which investments are actively made in companies that engage in CSR activities, has been mounting recently. At the same time, ratings agencies are increasingly undertaking surveys. As its business domains are so diverse, Sekisui Chemical Group believes it important to give explanations individually and carefully to ensure that the Group's overall business characteristics and CSR initiatives are sufficiently and correctly understood. We listed “active engagement between investors and management” as one of the crucial tasks in which we are engaged in our CSR Medium-term Plan (2017 – 2019). To assess how our corporate value and sustainable growth are reflected in how we appear from an outside perspective, we have set a medium-term target of holding over 200 dialogues on a cumulative basis between fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2019 and are continuously engaged in direct dialogues with ESG investment assessment and ranking institutions, particularly in Europe, as well as with financial institutions and investors in Japan and throughout the world. During fiscal 2019, we held 67 engagements. As we did in fiscal 2018, Sekisui Chemical Group held management briefings for investors living in the Kanto region. We also held housing business briefings and Sekisui Heim Industry ASAKA Leadtown tours for sell-side analysts and institutional investors for the purpose of deepening their understanding of our housing business growth strategies. With the investor and ESG investment assessment as well as SRI ratings agencies very much in mind, Sekisui Chemical discloses detailed information, including through CSR Reports, Notices of Convocation for the Annual General Meetings of Shareholders, and Integrated Reports on its website. Since 2016, the Group has published an integrated report. In addition to the conventional approach of explaining Sekisui Chemical Group strategies, its medium-term vision, and financials, such as the shareholder return policy, an explanation of its activities and results related to social value, a type of non-financial information, are comprehensively published in this report. Information in the CSR Report is provided in line with what is considered important to both society and Sekisui Chemical Group, is based on internal and external surveys as well as third-party reviews, and references various report-drafting guidelines. Management Briefings for Shareholders in Tokyo Active Engagement Between Investors and Management FY2017 Results FY2018 Results FY2019 Results Number of engagements 88 87 67 Note: The number of engagements represents the number of times company presidents and executives in charge of specific areas had dialogues with investors. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 52 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Spreading Awareness of CSR Through Communication Various initiatives to deepen understanding among employees We are carrying out a variety of initiatives to deepen the understanding and penetration of various issues including Sekisui Chemical Group’s approach to CSR. In fiscal 2019, we published the Sustainability Report in both Japanese and English with the aim of conveying various information including Sekisui Chemical Group’s basic concept of ESG management. This publication was prepared as a guide to all Group employees and distributed in a PDF forma. Sekisui Chemical Group provides CSR training to new employees, newly appointed managers, and all Group company employees. The following communication tools also allow us to increase awareness and understanding of the Group CSR concepts. ● A variety of CSR materials on the intranet, including “Our CSR,” which explains the concepts of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR, in seven languages (Japanese, English, Chinese, German, Spanish, Dutch, and Thai). ● CSR navigator email newsletter to employees to keep them up to date with the latest CSR topics at Sekisui Chemical Group. In addition to having reached the stage at which employees are able to freely download them via the intranet, these kinds of communications and CSR-related materials are also distributed to all target employees, regardless of whether they are regular or non-regular staff, on an as needed basis, for example when employees join the Company or when implementing CSR-related educational programs. In the US and Europe, regional headquarters distribute CSR-related information to employees of each Group company. In Europe, information is posted on the intranet once a month, while information in the US is distributed via the News Wave booklet. Sustainability Report 2019 Our CSR Japanese English Chinese Japanese English German Dutch Spanish Thai Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 53 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Distribute Value to Stakeholders Calculating Economic Value Distribution Based on GRI Standards Sekisui Chemical Group calculates distribution status for each stakeholder based on its financial statements, using GRI and other accounting standards as a reference. We will accelerate CSR by quantifying, visualizing and assessing the business and social value brought about by engagement with our stakeholders. (Unit: Millions of yen) Stakeholders Method of Calculating Amounts FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Shareholders Dividends 19,064 20,615 22,400 Cost of Sales, Selling Costs / General Business partners Administrative Costs (Excluding Personnel 811,642 840,514 829,809 Costs) Labor costs, Salaries and allowances as part of sales costs and general Employees 196,554 206,511 211,675 administrative costs, Provisions for bonuses, Provisions for retirement pay Local communities Donations 150 165 158 Global environment Environmental conservation costs 22,569 21,882 17,850 Government and Corporate taxes, local taxes, business 23,393 22,261 22,619 administrative bodies taxes Interest paid as part of costs apart from Creditors 533 480 695 sales Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 54 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report SDGs Initiatives Sekisui Chemical Group's Contributions to the SDGs through its Business In its Group Vision statement, Sekisui Chemical Group has declared that it will contribute, through its primary business activities, to “improving the global environment” and “improving the lives of people around the globe”—that is, the resolution of issues called for in the SDGs. In fiscal 2019, the Group then formulated its Group-wide long-term vision of itself for the year 2030. Through reform and creation centered on ESG management, Sekisui Chemical Group will aim for two trillion yen in sales and 10% or higher in operating income ratio in fiscal 2030 in order to life infrastructure and create “peace of mind that continues into the future” toward the realization of a sustainable society. In each of the four residential (housing), advanced lifeline (social infrastructure), innovative mobility (electronics/mobility), and life science (health and medical) business domains, as well as the next frontier businesses that these domains inspire, we will work to solve environmental and social issues, create value that derives from “peace of mind that continues into the future,” and support life infrastructure. By fiscal 2019, we had designated products that would to a high degree contribute to the resolution of environmental issues, and strove to create and expand markets where we should increase contributions so as to accelerate solutions to issues. From fiscal 2020, we will work to realize our vision for 2030 by commencing action on “products to enhance sustainability” as a new product evaluation system that will work to create products that drive corporate growth while facilitating their popularity. Products that solve issues relating to both the natural and social environments are those items that help raise the level of sustainability for the environment and society. Without the companies that make the products, and the sustainability that comes from the products themselves, however, it will be impossible to sustain resolutions to issues. This is why we must move forward on a system to confirm and register the sustainability of companies and products, in terms of profitability, governance, the product manufacturing process and sustainable management, and the degree of customer satisfaction and other aspects, in addition to the high degree of contribution made to solving issues. While operations are set to commence following a detailed design of the system during fiscal 2020, we will continue to adopt the approach of contributing to the resolution of issues as Environment-contributing Products held since 2007 under the new system. As far as our business domains are concerned, we are contributing to the achievement of SDG goals 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, and 15 as part of our contribution to improving the Earth’s environment, as set forth in our Group Vision, as well as SDG goals 3, 9, and 11 in order to help with improving life for everyone around the world, by creating products and services and expanding markets. We will continue to work with our stakeholders to resolve a wide range of issues based on these efforts. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 55 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Involvement History Sekisui 2006 System of Certifying 2010 Start of Checks by an Evolution of the Products that Contribute Shift in the Framework product evaluation Chemical to the Environment External Advisory Board system Standards Contributions in terms More types of contribution brought into considerations: Energy Creation of standards (list of reasons for for Certifying of the 3Rs, energy savings, and pollution generation, conservation of biodiversity, disaster preparedness registration) covering the Products to enhance sustainability Products prevention and mitigation, area contributions, etc. social environment 2006~2008 2009~2013 2014~2016 2017~2019 From 2020 2015 Society Adoption of the United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs) Triple bottom-line Products which contribute to reinforcement: improving natural Background Economy 2012 Natural Capital Declaration 2016 Natural Capital Protocol environment, sustainability not only for society and the social Earth but also for the environment, 2003 2016 company and its 2010 and economy Natural The Kyoto Protocol comes into effect The Aichi Targets are set The Paris Agreement comes into effect product line Expanding the definition of Environment-contributing Products Contributions to improving the global environment Natural Environment – Group Vision Contributing Products Corporate Social Environment – Philosophy Contributions to improving the lives of Contributing Products the people of the world ・Diagnostics business Extend healthy life ・Elderly business Group Vision ・Wells nursing /self -sufficiency support equipment ・New infrastructure construction in emerging nations (vietnam) Build and promote ・InfraGuard infrastructural renovation resilient infrastructure product series InfraGuard Management strategy Make lifestyles safer and ・Wedge-shaped HUD interlayers more disaster resilient ・Disaster-proofed housing for the elderly Harvestment Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 56 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Social Contribution Activities Proactively Working to Contribute to the Society as a Company in Tune with Local Communities Management Approach Our Philosophy Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society Through the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities That Leverage the Distinctive Features of Our Company Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to society not only through our business activities but also through a variety of social contribution activities which we promote through interactions with society leveraging the strengths and resources of the Group. In addition, these activities focus on the perspectives of “the environment,” “the next generation,” and “the local community” within their various fields, and we make efforts and promote them in order to contribute to the SDG directive of “creating a sustainable society.” For example, we are vigorously engaging in social contribution activities aimed at the local environment including activities related to the preservation of nature in accordance with our Environmental Management Policy on the environment. “The next generation” refers to our career training using the distinctive characteristics of our business. We carry out initiatives to help children acquire the knowledge, techniques, and way of thinking that they’ll need to be independent and productive members of society. In terms of “the local community,” in addition to deepening understanding of the problems faced by local communities in recent years, we are also expanding volunteer activities to move toward resolution of these issues. We are also involved in these initiatives aside from just as a company. Our employees are also involved on an individual basis, and with contributing to society at the core of these activities, we have created a framework for enabling larger numbers of employees to participate in social contribution activities. We have set up a system for accumulating time off with the goal of acquiring greater participation in volunteer work, and through support such as paying a portion of the expenses required for these social contribution activities, we are making efforts to create a system which will inspire greater number of employees to take part in social contribution activities of their own accord. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 57 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Environment Mangrove Planting Activities in Thailand and the Collection of Marine Plastic waste Forest Preservation Activities by our Housing Company Cooperation with Local Communities Hands-on Environmental Education for the Next Generation Next Generation Houses and the Environment Learning Program Chemistry Classroom Project Chemistry Classroom for Children Science and Engineering Classroom Science Courses Promotion of Next-Generation Environmental Education through an Environment-Related Painting Contest Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Local Communities Contributions to Local Communities by Factories, Including Tours for Social Studies Classes Activities to Improve Civic Order in Regions Support Activities for Underprivileged Children in Thailand TABLE FOR TWO BOOK MAGIC Heart+Action Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 58 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Major Activities Contributing to the Environment Conducted or Participated in During Fiscal Year 2019 (Excerpt) Domestic Domestic Production Sites and Research Institutes Business site involved in Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation the activities Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Shimafukuro Environmental Research Industry Co., Ltd. Life observation event at the Society, Ministry of the Environment Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido on-premises biotope Hokkaido Regional Environmental Office Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim The Society to Conserve Beeches & Minamizao beech tree-planting activities Industry Co., Ltd. Water of ZAO Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Greenery Trust, environmental Society for Preservation of Tokyo Office awareness and preservation activities Kurohamanuma Nature and Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. related to Kurohamanuma and the Surroundings, etc. Musashi Plant surrounding area Omotehama environmental conservation Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. activities with a children’s group Toyohashi Museum of Natural History Chubu Site (flora and fauna observation, cleaning activities) Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Forest conservation activities in the city Akaiwa City (Forest creation agreement Industry Co., Ltd. of Akaiwa in coordination with businesses) Conservation activities at Yadai Jinnuma Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Residents of Onecho, Ota City and spring pond in cooperation with the Ota Plant various organizations local area “Moist Forest” mountain CHIBA SEKISUI INDUSTRY Ichihara Municipal Urutsu Elementary ecosystem-building project CO., LTD. School (nature observation event) Agricultural and Rural Development Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Promotion Division, Department Co., Ltd. Yurikago Rice Paddy Project of Agriculture and Fisheries, Shiga Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Prefecture; Kurimidezaikecho, Shiga-Ritto Plant Higashiomi, Shiga Higashinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Head Gunma Children’s Nature Academy Shimofuchina 6-ku Healthy Office (Birdhouse Making and Environmental Development Society Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Education) Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 59 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Business site involved in Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation the activities Higashinihon Sekisui Tree-planting activities in the Arahama The Society to Conserve Beeches & Industry Co., Ltd. coastal forest areas Water of ZAO Watari Office SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Coastal forest tree-planting activities at NPO The Life style Research Institute of Chiba Plant Kujukurihama Forests SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Watarase Reservoir conservation activities Watarase Mirai Foundation Kanto Plant (flora and fauna observation event) “Ho-no-Kuni Everyone's Forest” SEKISUI NANO COAT conservation activities in the Toyo River Honokuni Forestry Association TECHNOLOGY, CO., LTD. headwaters Forestry Division, Agriculture, Forestry, TOKUYAMA SEKISUI “Sekisui Forest” forest management and Fisheries Office, Shunan City, CO., LTD. activities Yamaguchi Prefecture, etc. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tree-planting activities at the site of the Forest’n People Project Organization Iwate Plant former Matsuo Mine ruins Sekisui Taga Kako Co., Ltd. Biwa Lake lakeshore and Inukami River The University of Shiga Prefecture Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. cleaning activities WasteBusters Taga Plant Minase Children's Nature Academy Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (riverside flora and fauna observation Shimamoto Kankyo Mirai Network, etc. R&D Institute event) Conservation activities (rice patty Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. activities) in the Kasumigaura headwaters Tsukuba Kankyo Forum Tsukuba Office in the Mt Tsukuba foothills Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 60 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Housing Companies Business site involved in Coordination / cooperation Activity program contents the activities (outside the company) Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Forest conservation activities at Hokkaido Forestry and Greenery Group Mt. Shirahata (Tree-planting activities) Association Tohoku coastal forest restoration / Disaster Area Uncultivated Land Relief Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group coastal forest tree-planting activities and Regional Seedling Production with children Network Woodland conservation activities in Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group the Mt Tsukuba foothills (woodland Tsukuba Kankyo Forum maintenance) Kizugawa City, Kizugawa Area Woodland Conservation Activities at Sekisui Heim Kinki Group Coordinated Preservation Activity Kaseyama (bamboo forest maintenance) Support Team Conservation of human settlementadjacent mountain ecosystems in the Nagoya Higashiyama Forest Creation Sekisui Heim Chubu Group Higashiyama neighborhood of Nagoya Association (bamboo forest maintenance) Woodland conservation activities in Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Okayama City Park Association, Mt. Mt Misao Park Group Misao Park Satoyama Center (bamboo forest maintenance) Forest conservation activities involving Sinomenium acutum around rice Ukiha City, Ukiha Mountain Village Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group paddies in the city of Ukiha Preservation Association （afforestation activities） Forest conservation activities in Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Kicyushinrinkumiai Hidakagawa-cho mountain forests Wakayama Branch Hidakagawa-cho, Wakayama Prefecture (Tree-planting activities) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 61 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Overseas Overseas Production Sites and Research Institutes Business site involved in the activities Activity program contents Coordination / cooperation SCG-SEKISUI SALES CO., LTD. SEKISUI-SCG INDUSTRY CO.,LTD. SEKISUI HEIM REAL ESTATE (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI S-LEC (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. Marine and Coastal Resources SEKISUI SPECIALTY CHEMICALS (THAILAND) Bureau, Ministry of Natural CO.,LTD. Resources and Environment Chonburi mangrove THAI SEKISUI FOAM CO.,LTD. (Thailand) tree-planting activities S AND L SPECIALTY POLYMERS CO.,LTD. Sekisui Plastics (Thailand) (Thailand) SEKISUI CHEMICAL (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. Co.,Ltd., SEKISUI SOUTHEAST ASIA CO.,LTD. SEKISUI JUSHI (THAILAND) SEKISUI POLYMATECH (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. CO.,LTD. SEKISUI POLYMATECH TRADING (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI PLANT (THAILAND) CO.,LTD. SEKISUI DLJM MOLDING PVT LTD. Painting contest (India) Echoor High School SEKISUI VOLTEK LLC. Cleanup activities (US) Optimus Park Tree-planting activities and SEKISUI DIAGNOSTICS P.E.I. INC. sand dune restoration Island Nature Trust (US) Tree-planting activities SEKISUI S-LEC MEXICO S.A de C.V. Anatani Foundation (Mexico) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 62 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Activities Contributing to Society During Fiscal Year 2019 (“Next-generation” and “Local Communities”) Programs FY2019 Results Achievements Up Until Now Total number Number of One Number of Total number of Heart+Action 16 of times 60 1,051 implementations times participants participants implemented Total number of school lunches 238,899 Number of 12 Number of school Number of 12 provided to TABLE FOR TWO implementing business lunches provided to 24,507 implementing business developing countries business sites sites developing countries business sites sites Tohoku food 649,910 yen assistance* Number of One Number of school Number of One Number of school TABLE FOR TWO implementing business lunches provided to 5,169 implementing business lunches provided to 31,762 vending machines business sites site developing countries business sites site developing countries Houses and the Number of Total number of 17 Number of Total number of Approximately Environment implementing 1,907 implementing 174 schools participating students participating students 19,980 Learning Program schools schools Total number Chemistry Number of 31 Number of Total number of 2,783 of times 280 30,654 Classroom implementations times participating students participating students implemented Total number Number of Ten BOOK MAGIC Donation amount 162,307 yen of times 130 Amount of donation 1,162,045 yen implementations times implemented * Tohoku food assistance was provided from April 2013 to December 2014. Details of Donation Activities in Fiscal 2019 (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Unit: thousands of yen) Type of Donation Total Amount Donations 158,144 Employee volunteers 124,992 Donations of goods 411 Administrative costs 27,090 Breakdown of Cash Donations in Fiscal 2019 International exchange Other 4% and cooperation 5% Environment 6% Health, medicine, sports 8% Donations 158 million yen Disaster relief 13% Local communities and social welfare 16% Academia, researchand education 48% Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 63 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environment Developing Personnel Who Engage in Environmental Activities as a Part of Efforts to Conserve the Natural Environment in Various Regions Around the World Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Conservation of the Natural Environment Sekisui Chemical Group promotes environmental conservation to realize the “earth with maintained biodiversity” called for in “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030.” Based on this policy, employees are now engaged in activities for conserving the natural environment around the world. These activities for conserving the natural environment by employees are considered by the group to be an effective means of achieving the vision, bolstering the organizations required to conduct the activities, and fostering human resources adept at engaging in environment-related activities. Since fiscal year 2013, the group has held “SEKISUI Environment Weeks,” which are meant to be attended by all employees at all business sites, has helped to raise the activities spearheaded by business sites to whole new levels, where they are conducted in partnership with local communities, and has otherwise expanded the range of activities engaged in. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 64 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Mangrove Planting Activities in Thailand and the Collection of Marine Plastic waste Sekisui Chemical Group is engaged in mangrove tree-planting activities as part of its efforts to revitalize and maintain mangrove ecosystems in Thailand and contribute to local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group held its ninth round of mangrove tree planting activities in Chonburi Province, Thailand in fiscal 2019. There were 177 participants, including local individuals active in tree-planting efforts and employees of the Group’s 12 business with locations in the country and their families. On the day of the event and before the start of activities, the Chairman of Thailand’s National Economic and Social Development Board as well as the Department of Marine and Coastal Resource’s officer in charge of the protection of mangrove forests gave an important talk to participants regarding the importance of mangrove ecosystems in the global environment, the significance of mangrove tree-planting activities, and the issue of plastic waste. The participants then moved to the planting site and waded deep into the mud to plant about 2,000 seedlings. The activities also included the collection of a substantial number of empty bottles and plastic waste from the sea. Employees and their families participating in mangrove tree-planting activities Participants in the mangrove tree-planting activities Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 65 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Forest Preservation Activities by Our Housing Company Woodland Conservation and Afforestation Activities In fiscal 2019 our Housing Company continued to carry out forest preservation activities, as well as afforestation and a number of other efforts performed to protect the environment. Woodland conservation activities (Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group/woodlands on the Mt. Tsukuba foothills) Having gained the cooperation of the Tsukuba Kankyo Forum, an NPO, in April 2019 Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group carried out conservation efforts to protect the mixed-species forest of the Mt. Tsukuba foothill woodlands, thus helping to recharge the Kasumigahara watershed. Participating employees worked at the direction of the NPO by performing maintenance activities such as clearing brush, and learned about how human hands can facilitate the penetration of sunshine that preserves the woodland environment. They also observed aquatic life such as the eggs of a species of red frog (rana japonica) and water scorpions (laccotrephes japonensis) in a rice paddy prior to planting. They came away from the experience with a keen awareness that woodlands function to nurture a diverse array of life. In appreciation of how this hands-on experience made employees think of the relationship between urban areas and woodlands, they will continue to perform activities that contribute to their local community. Preservation activities in a mixed-species forest (clearing brush) Observing Woodland Life and Environmental Education Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 66 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report In fiscal 2019 we continued to work on environmental preservation activities, not just by the Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group, but all of the Sekisui Heim companies. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group Mt. Shirahata conservation activities Coastal forest restoration /tree-planting activities (Sapporo City) (Yamamoto-cho, Miyagi Prefecture) Sekisui Heim Chubu Group Sekisui Heim Kinki Group Conservation of human settlement-adjacent Mt. Kaseyama conservation activities mountain ecosystems in the Higashiyama (Kizugawa City) neighborhood (Nagoya City) Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Group Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group Woodland Preservation Activities on Mt. Misao Conservation of rice paddy-adjacent mountain (Okayama City) ecosystems (Ukiha City) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 67 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Afforestation Activities in Local Communities (SEKISUIHEIM KINKI CO ., LTD. /Hidakagawa-cho, Wakayama Prefecture) In January 2019, the Wakayama Branch of SEKISUI HEIM KINKI CO ., LTD. entered into a five-year agreement with Wakayama Prefecture and Hidakagawa-cho covering forest conservation and management. Under the agreement, the Wakayama Branch of Sekisui Famis Kinki Co., Ltd. will work collaboratively at forest preservation activities in “SEKISUI HEIM no MORI WAKAYAMA.” Activities undertaken in May and November of 2019 included planting the saplings of native tree species (approximately 500 trees), such as konara oak (quercus serrata) and ubame oak (quercus phillyraeoides), the source of high-quality Kishu charcoal. Together with contributing to the preservation of the area’s natural environment as a member of the local community, these activities will lead to increased environmental awareness among employees. Signing ceremony for the forest preservation and management agreement (January 31, 2019) Conducting tree planting, underbrush clearing activities Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 68 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Collaboration with Local Communities Initiatives taken at Group business sites Group business sites carry out a variety of environmental preservation activities in efforts to safeguard the Kinki region’s natural environment, working in collaboration with the local community. While a myriad of environmental problems exist in the region, in fiscal 2019, we endeavored to continue as a corporate citizen by offering our support for solutions. Cleanup Activities in the Vicinity of Lake Shinji (Sekisui Seikei, Ltd., Izumo Plant, Izumo City) Every year employees and their families take part in concerted cleanup activities sponsored by five cities, located along the shores of Lake Shinji and Nakaumi Lagoon, which are registered with the Ramsar Convention on wetlands. Eradication of invasive aquatic grasses in the Shinmachi River (SHIKOKU SEKISUI CO., LTD./ Saijo City) In collaboration with the local NPO Saijo Nature School, four times a year SHIKOKU SEKISUI CO., LTD. employees work to eliminate Canadian waterweed (Elodea nuttallii), water speedwell (Veronica anagallis-aquatica) and other invasive species, and takes action to preserve indigenous species such as curlyleaf pondweed (potamogeton crispus). Woodland Preservation Activities in Kyoto’s Sen Forest (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant/Koka City) In the Dosenbo area on the highlands of Kyoto’s Minamiyamashiro Village, employees and veteran staff worked together with people from the region to maintain mixed-species forests and develop foot paths, making efforts to preserve woodlands. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 69 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Hands-on Environmental Education for the Next Generation Sekisui Children's Nature Academy Sekisui Chemical Group is collaborating with local communities and working to convey to the next generation the importance of conserving the natural environment. Kyusyu Sekisui Children's Nature Academy (Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd./ Kanzaki City) In partnership with Chiyodatobu Elementary School located in the Kinki region, in November 2019 Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. invited second-grade students to “Country Woods,” its on-site biotope, and held the Kyusyu Sekisui Children's Nature Academy, so students could gather to make observations of living organisms. This observation event is driven primarily by the “Biotope Committee,” an internal entity comprised of employees who developed the event’s program and carries out the day’s activities. Based on the guidance of the event’s instructor, Committee members serving as leaders convey to the children the mysteries of life and the importance of being close to nature. The children discovered Japanese grass lizards (lacertids), tree frogs (hyla japonica), the larva of rhinoceros beetles and other organisms. Through this hands-on experience, the children learned about the diverse range of life forms that surround them. Getting together to observe living organisms at the biotope “Country Woods” Note: Sekisui Chemical Group has held the Sekisui Nature Academy as environmental training for employees since fiscal 1997 to nurture leaders in nature preservation activities. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 70 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Observing living organisms and checking water quality at Nitanda River (Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Site/ Kasama City) As an extracurricular class of the compulsory education school, the nearby elementary school Kasama Municipal Minami Gakuen, employees and fifth grade students carried out aquatic insect observation and a water quality survey at the Nitanda River (a tributary of the Hinuma River) using simplified test kits. At the extracurricular class Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 71 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Next Generation Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. Management Approach Basic Concept Helping to Build Local Communities in Which Children Can Develop and Healthily Grow into Adulthood. Targeting communities where the children who will form the next generation can develop and healthily grow into adulthood, we provide educational programs for elementary, middle and high school students that leverage our business activities. Including field trip lessons, for example Science classes, given by Company employees as well as support and assistance for research based on innovations inspired by nature, the Company conducts a wide range of activities. Major Initiatives Initiatives of the Housing Company Houses and the Environment Learning Program At the Housing Company, we have run a “houses and environment” learning program since fiscal year 2007 in which employees make use of their knowledge to teach about homes and the environment at schools. This is a new type of class where Sekisui Chemical Group employees work alongside teachers. The classes are carefully designed to let the students experience the building of environmentally friendly homes using models while thinking about the layouts and other aspects of the homes through group discussions; and the students learn about the role that homes play in our lives and about the impact that our lives have on the environment. In fiscal 2019, classes were offered at 17 junior high schools and high schools in the Kanto, Kansai, Chubu, and Kyushu areas. One of the students who took the class said, “When I build a house of my own in the future, I want it to be a house that prioritizes the environment and safety first, even over design or ease of use.” Another student said, “I was interested in construction work, and now I am even more interested after taking this class.” These were just two of the remarks we heard from those who took the classes. A teachers said, “The students were very interested in this assignment because they could use kits to build model homes, following on from a previous class that also used visual materials. I believe this is precisely the active learning that is being promoted by the Ministry of Education.” A total of 1,907 students participated in the classes in fiscal 2019. Children assembling model housing kits Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 72 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Chemistry Classroom Project At the High Performance Plastics Company, the “Experiment-based Support Class” for middle school students have been conducted since fiscal 2008. For this program, volunteers from the Minase Office designed the classes along with the middle school teachers and provided a program that was not just interesting but also easy to understand, by linking to the school’s curriculum units. The “Children’s Experiment Classrooms” for elementary school students are also conducted using the Company’s products. In fiscal 2019, a total of 2,783 elementary and middle school students experienced the fun and usefulness of science through these programs. In addition, the Company created its first program for high school students and held classes at Sakata Koryo High School in Yamagata Prefecture in fiscal 2019. In line with the desire of teachers to allow their students to experience how the properties of synthetic polymer compounds emerge from their chemical structures, the Company used polyvinyl alcohol and other water-soluble plastics produced by the Company to carefully design the classes in a way that would deepen the understanding of the students. The Company plans to continue these activities to allow even more children to become interested in, and fascinated by, the field of chemistry. A view of the experiment In-class explanations by employees of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 73 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Chemistry Classroom for Children At the Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Shiga Minakuchi Plant, the “Challenge! Chemistry Classroom for Children” initiative for elementary school students in the local city of Koka is being carried out with the goal of revitalizing the local area and supporting the development of the children. Although these activities have been held every year on a limited basis restricted to the families of employees since 2009, the Company partnered with a welfare organization in Koka, Shiga prefecture (Japan Workers’ Co-operative Union Center) starting in fiscal year 2016 and has included them in a children’s event hosted by this organization so that more children could participate and experience the depth of science and the fun of experiments for themselves. At the Company’s 4th exhibition at the children’s event in fiscal 2019, the Company conducted an experiment called “Let’s Make Strange Ooho Water That Can Be Held by Hand” under the concept of “See, Touch, and Enjoy Chemistry.” This chemistry experiment immerses an aqueous sodium alginate solution in a calcium lactate solution, which drives a cross-linking reaction to form a gel film that adheres to the surface of water and enables it to be held by hand. Many of the children shouted excitedly and asked lots of questions, and the experiment was well-received. The employees who participated as staff tried to come up with a way to explain the experiment content in a simple way that anyone could understand through trial and error, finally developing an explanation covering aspects ranging from the structure of the compounds on the molecular level to the cross-linking reaction using lots of illustrations. Many of the employees stated that the experience of communicating with a different generation in this way gave them feelings of “achievement and satisfaction.” We hope to continue providing academic support through even better content in the future, encouraging the children who participate to take an interest in chemistry. Using illustrations to explain the experiment to Experiment for making strange Ooho Water children in an easy to understand way Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 74 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Science and Engineering Classroom At Sekisui Medical, we have been implementing a “Science and Engineering Classroom” for middle school students in the city of Ryugasaki, Ibaraki prefecture, the site of our diagnostic agent plant and laboratory, as part of our social contribution activities, one of our Activity Guidelines, since fiscal 2016. Classes have been implemented for a total of 2,238 students in the program since 2013 (216 of them in fiscal 2019). We held a program for 9th grade middle school students in fiscal 2019 called “Blueprints of Life: Exploring the Secrets of DNA,” a developmental lesson from the textbook. In addition to having the students actually extract DNA from broccoli and observing it with their own eyes, this program helped the students understand the importance of the link between medicine and society. The program was also held as an activity that recognized career education, and thus provided time for lecturers to speak about why they joined Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., after the class. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., plans to continue these activities. An employee serving as a lecturer and Students performing experiments while being providing an explanation advised by employees Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 75 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Initiatives Science Courses At SHIKOKU SEKISUI, a science course on the theme of “substances around us” is being implemented for 7th graders at a neighboring middle school. This initiative has been implemented every year since fiscal year 2009 in response to a request from the local middle school in response to children’s decreasing interest in the sciences, “as professionals in the field, please help us increase students’ interest in science, even in a small way.” In fiscal 2019, classes and a plant study tour were held for 7th grade middle school students (49 students) at Saijo Municipal West Middle School. After an experiment using plastic conducted as part of the “substances around us” lesson for 7th grade students, they were also invited on a study tour of the plant. During the tour, the participating students saw the actual production line for plastic products up close, felt the raw materials used for plastics as well as the finished products, and experienced the sight of a manufacturing facility for themselves, a rarity in their daily lives. We will continue these activities in the future with the goal of increasing the next generation of children’s interest in MONOZUKURI (manufacturing). Plant study tour An employee providing advice on the process for the experiment Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 76 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Sekisui Chemical Initiatives Promoting Environmental Education for the Next Generation Through an Environment-related Painting Contest As one of its initiatives to promote environmental education for the next generation, Sekisui Chemical supported the “23rd National Elementary and Middle School Student Environmental Painting Contest” in fiscal 2019. This is a painting competition sponsored by the National Elementary and Middle School Environmental Education Research Society based on the idea of “wanting to create opportunities which will drive individual children to face environmental problems and take initiative,” and all elementary and middle school students in Japan are eligible to take part. The themes for the paintings in fiscal 2019 were “building a sustainable society together” and “protecting our rich natural environment nature together.” The Company also selected “Sekisui Chemical Special Prize” winners to show approval for the ideas of the competition. Note: National Elementary and Middle School Environmental Education Research Society http://kankyokyoiku.jp/about/ “Sekisui Chemical Special Prize” winners Elementary School Division Middle School Division Saitama Prefecture: Kanagawa Prefecture: Satoe Gakuen Elementary School Senzoku Gakuen Middle School Teppei Ito, 6th Grade Misuzu Sato, 9th Grade Award-winning paintings can be viewed on the page below. 23rd National Elementary and Middle School Student Environmental Painting Contest Prize Winners http://kankyokyoiku.jp/activity/553/ Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 77 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. To aid the utilization of scientific knowledge learned from nature and the workings of nature in invention, Sekisui Chemical Group has been running the “Sekisui Chemical Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program” since fiscal year 2002 as a program in commemoration of the 55th year since Sekisui Chemical’s founding. In fiscal year 2019, research grants were provided for six “manufacturing” themes and six “fundamental research” themes, for a total of 12 grants from among 257 applications. Examples of innovations inspired by nature research Research findings relating to themes granted support as part of the “Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program” were published in preliminary form in the online edition of the British science journal Nature Communications. (Affiliations and positions are those at the time of receiving awards) FY2018 Support Themes Shiki Yagai (Professor, Chiba University) Development of new supramolecular polymer materials based on lessons learned from protein topology Chiba University press release http://www.chiba-u.ac.jp/general/publicity/press/files/2019/20191011S_polymers.pdf Article posted on Nature Communications website (released October 8, 2019) https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-12654-z Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 78 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report FY2019 Support Themes Manufacturing Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so forth Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Compact urban development in preparation Tetsuo Professor, Faculty of Engineering, for the next major natural disaster; learning from Morita Maebashi Institute of Technology natural disasters and their history Associate Professor, Advanced Institute Creation of catalytic carbon materials learned from Hiroshi Yabu for Materials Research (AIMR), Tohoku marine life University Professor, Head of Research Institute, Hisashi Development of innovative peptide synthesis Frontier Research Institute , Chubu Yamamoto methods University Development of innovative photon upconversion Nobuo Professor, Faculty of Engineering, Kyushu molecular laminated materials learned from Kimizuka University photosynthetic thylakoid membranes Professor, Graduate School of Informatics Pest control utilizing the vibration responses of Takuji Koike and Engineering, The University of Electroorganisms and development of crop cultivation Communications promotion methods Group Leader, Biopolymer Group, Design and functions of surgical adhesives learned Tetsushi Research Center for Functional Materials, from temperatures of living things and collagen Taguchi National Institute for Materials Science denaturing properties (NIMS) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 79 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Fundamental Research Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so forth Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Associate Professor, Faculty of Creation of new immune-suppressants learned from Midori Arai Pharmaceutical Sciences, Active Structural how invasions of pathogenic microorganisms evolve Chemistry Laboratory , Chiba University Norikazu Professor, Graduate School of Arts and Development of new artificial enzyme evolution Ichihachi Science, The University of Tokyo method using artificial cells Project Researcher, Department of Creative Research , Exploratory Research Creation of self-organizing soft materials that learn Muneyuki Center on Life and Living Systems from biological intracellular liquid-liquid phase Matsuo (ExCELLS) , National Institutes of Natural separation Sciences (NINS ) Construction of spatial cognitive system that utilizes Shunsuke Assistant Professor, School of Engineering chemical sensing learned from the active sensing of Shigaki Science, Osaka University insects Creating new manufacturing principles from Shigeru Professor, Graduate School of Frontier understanding the mechanism of Japanese spiny Kondo Biosciences , Osaka University lobster morphogenesis Research and development of an ultraKenjiro Associate Professor, Graduate School of comprehensive deployable robot hand mechanism Tanakuma Information Sciences, Tohoku University learned from the structure a ribbon worm uses to evert its proboscis. The recipients of the Fiscal Year 2019 Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 80 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Holding of the Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum Sekisui Chemical Group considers the environment to be a core aspect of management and is contributing to efforts aimed at building a sustainable society with the goal of resolving environmental problems and the social problems which result from them. The Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum is held to report the results of the Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program, which gives grants to research that utilizes foundational science knowledge learned from nature and the functioning of nature in innovation, as well as to promote research exchanges among the involved researchers, the graduate students who will be the researchers of tomorrow, and others. At the Fiscal 2019 Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum we welcomed Professor Emeritus Yoshinori Ohsumi from Tokyo Institute of Technology, the 2016 Nobel Prize Laureate in Physiology or Medicine, who presented a lecture on the importance of curiosity-based foundational research. There were also lectures based on examples of innovation inspired by nature and presentation sessions by fiscal 2018 research grant recipients and others. Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum 2019 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 81 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Lectures Looking back on 30 years of autophagy research Spherical concretion science Progress of research techniques Yoshinori Ohsumi Hidekazu Yoshida Professor Emeritus Tokyo Institute of Professor Nagoya University Technology Poster Presentation Sessions and Research Exchanges A valuable opportunity to come into contact with the forefront of “innovations inspired by nature” ・Announcement of grant research theme results (fiscal year 2018 grant themes) ・Introduction of Sekisui Chemical’s business and research and development structure, environmental initiatives Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 82 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Local Communities As a Company, We Aim to Engage with the Local Communities Which We Are a Part of. Management Approach Basic Concept Contributing to the Creation of a Sustainable Society as a Corporate Citizen As a member of the local communities in which it operates, Sekisui Chemical Group proactively deploys social contribution activities and thereby hopes to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The Group engages in social contribution activities to help solve issues faced by local communities, such as creating safe and secure cities in collaboration with local communities and support programs that assist developing countries. Major Initiatives Housing Company Initiatives Contributions to Local Communities through Tours for Social Studies Classes at Factories Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., located in Saga Prefecture, aims to help bring joy to its customers and regularly conducts activities rooted in the local community to that end. In recent years, the numbers of people choosing to find employment within Saga Prefecture have been low, and companies in the prefecture face an ever-worsening situation in terms of labor shortages and difficulties securing talent. This has become an issue to resolve if the region is to be revitalized. Faced with these issues in the region, the Company has conducted factory tours as part of a series social studies field trips for students, primarily in elementary and middle school, with the aim of conveying to the local community what manufacturing companies there are locally and the joys of manufacturing. We welcomed 1,696 elementary and junior high school students in fiscal 2019. Our experience recreation of the Kumamoto earthquake was praised, with participants sharing comments such as “it was a truly precious experience that made me more conscious and aware of disaster prevention.” We will continue to increase its collaboration with the local community so as to make its contribution to it. An employee explaining to students participating in s social studies field trip Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 83 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives of the Housing Company Activities to Improve Civic Order in Regions The Housing Company believes that it is essential that it contribute to resolving societal problems, such as by offering housing that is robustly built to survive natural disasters and decked out in ways that help prevent crime, and working on urban-development initiatives that allow residents to leave in peace, as well as on initiatives to deter crime. The Housing Company is thus engaged in activities that contribute to society in cooperation with prefectural police forces throughout Japan. The main action pursued is to create agreements for support and cooperation between Sekisui Heim sales companies throughout the country and local police forces. The Housing Company also participates in various events, distributes goods themed around crime prevention and traffic safety, and donates to groups that offer assistance to victims of crimes. We are carrying out specialized initiatives for each local area. Some specific examples include distribution of materials such as specialized fraud damage prevention flyers, the production of posters (in Japanese and English) warning people against theft at ski resorts, the use of residential exhibition areas as “#110 Emergency Homes for Children,” and traffic safety education activities in the streets. We have created a pamphlet describing these activities and makes use of it as a communication tool both within the Company and for the general public. Distribution of specialized fraud damage Supporting the printing of “Bike Safety prevention flyers Classroom” pamphlets (Japan Traffic Safety Association) 盗 難 注 意！ ！ Beware of th eft ! スキ ー、スノーボード、動 画 撮 影用 Many cases of theft of skies, 小型カメラの盗難が多発しています。 snowboards, and wearable cameras are occurring! 休憩中、スノーボードはワイヤーで During breaks, lock your snowboard 縛っておきましょう using wire rope. 休憩中、カメラなどの貴重品は目の During breaks, please keep your 届くところに置いておきましょう valuables such as camera in sight at all time. 不審者を見たら If you find a suspicious person, 110番 通報をしてください call 110. 長野県警察シンボルマスコット 小谷村キャラクター 大町市キャラクター 白馬村キャラクター 長野県警察シンボルマスコット Nagano Police symbol mascot Otari village character Omachi city character Hakuba village character Nagano Police symbol mascot ライポくん たりたりOTARI おおまぴょん ヴィクトワール・シュヴァルブラン・村男Ⅲ世 ライピィちゃん Raipo-kun TARITARI OTARI OMAPYON VICTOIRE CHEVAL BLANC MURAO Ⅲ Raipi-chan 大町警察署・大北防犯協会連合会 Omachi police station/ Crime prevention association Participation in Ueno Police Department Posters (in Japanese and English) warning traffic safety events people against theft at ski resorts Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co. Ltd. Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 84 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Pamphlet describing the Housing Company’s social contribution activities (Issued in April 2018) Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Support activities for underprivileged children in Thailand The Group engages in activities that reflect a strong consciousness and commitment toward contributing to society at Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand). In fiscal 2019, Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) donated items to the Baan Nokkamin Foundation in Thailand to help underprivileged children, homeless, and orphans. The foundation operates 11 children's homes in five provinces in Thailand and provides nursing homes, drug rehabilitation centers, day care centers and 100 educational scholarships for orphans. After a call to its employees for donations by Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand), a large number of goods were collected and donated, including 15 bags of clothes, 6 bags of toys and sports equipment, and 50 bags of electrical appliances. Donated items collected Employees loading donated items onto trucks Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 85 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group TABLE FOR TWO As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has continued to implement the TABLE FOR TWO* (TFT) initiative since FY2008, a program in which 20 yen is added to the cost of a meal in employee cafeterias, with this amount donated to support the provision of lunches to children in developing countries. Furthermore, TFT was expanded, from April 2013 to December 2014, to “TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku,” in order to support the provision of food to roughly the equivalent of 650,000 yen to victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake in the Tohoku region. In fiscal 2019, 12 locations participated in the program, including the Sekisui Chemical headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka, the Gunma Plant, the Musashi Plant, the Tsukuba Office, the Shiga-Minakuchi Plant, the Kyoto Research and Development Laboratories, the Research and Development Institute, Kinki Sekisui Heim, Co., Ltd., Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry, Co., Ltd., Sekisui Board, Co., Ltd., and the Ota Plant of Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2019, approximately 500,000 yen was donated for food assistance to countries in Asia and Africa, bringing the total amount donated since the initiative began including the “TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku” program to more than roughly 5.9 million yen. * TABLE FOR TWO A social contribution activity implemented through everyday meals by the specified nonprofit corporation, TABLE FOR TWO International. The program not only feeds hungry children in developing countries by providing them with school lunches, but it also contributes to boosting attendance at schools, and improving academic performance and physical fitness. Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Installation of TABLE FOR TWO Vending Machines In order to enable as many employees as possible to participate in the TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) initiative, Sekisui Chemical Group installed the first vending machine linked to the TFT program at its Osaka Headquarters in July 2013. For each TFT-linked product purchased through this vending machine, 10 yen is donated to help fund meals and catering to schools in developing countries. Donations collected totaled around 50,000 yen in fiscal 2019. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 86 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report A letter of appreciation as a “Gold Support” presented to Sekisui Chemical Group from the specified nonprofit corporation TABLE FOR TWO International Once again in fiscal 2019, Sekisui Chemical Group received a letter of appreciation from the specified nonprofit corporation TABLE FOR TWO International recognizing the Group as a “Gold Supporter” for its TABLE FOR TWO activities. We will continue carrying out these activities in the future, supporting a stable food supply for children in developing countries. Letter of thanks from TABLE FOR TWO International Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 87 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group BOOK MAGIC As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing BOOK MAGIC* since September 2009. Through this program, money made from selling unneeded books and CDs is used to help fund education support programs through JEN, an NPO, in various countries throughout the world. Approximately 160,000 yen was donated in fiscal 2019. Poster to raise awareness about BOOK MAGIC (created by JEN) * BOOK MAGIC A recycle and donate program hosted jointly by the specified nonprofit corporation, JEN, and BOOKOFF CORPORATION, LTD. Books, DVDs and CDs that people have finished reading, watching or listening to are sold instead of being thrown away, and the money is donated to JEN to help provide educational support (school support program) in regions scarred by natural disasters or wars. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 88 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives of Sekisui Chemical Group Heart＋Action As social contribution activities that allow easy participation by individual employees, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing programs such as TABLE FOR TWO and BOOK MAGIC. In fiscal 2012, we further expanded these programs by promoting a new initiative known as Heart+Action. This program is based on activities involving international cooperation to help children and infants living in developing countries and those who are suffering from pediatric cancer. People only need about an hour to take part in the one of the many programs. Feedback received from participants included comments such as “It was easy to take part in” and “I’m glad to have been able to contribute to society through such a simple activity.” Overview of Each Program Send a Picture Book An activity involving international cooperation in which stickers are stuck on Japanese picture books with translations of the text in languages of countries or regions where almost no children’s books are published. These picture books are then delivered to the relevant countries through Education Sponsorship in Asia, a specified non-profit corporation. Stickers being affixed to Japanese picture books Sort the Coins An activity in which coins of foreign currencies collected in donation boxes set up at international airports are sorted into the main countries of origin and used to help improve living standards in developing countries and in restoration efforts after the Great East Japan Earthquake through the authorized NPO, Japan Habitat Association. Coins of various countries being sorted Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 89 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Send the Sounds Through the NPO The Lifestyle Research Institute of Forests, we give African calimba musical instruments that are made out of thinned out trees from forests in Japan to young children suffering from pediatric cancer. Making a calimba with the SEKISUI logo carved into it Send a Textbook Participating in international cooperative activities by creating handmade teaching materials in the Bengali numbers and having them delivered to the children of Bangladesh through the NPO ESA (Education Sponsorship in Asia). A homemade textbook displaying Bengali numerical characters Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 90 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO 26000, the OECD's Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO's International Labor Standards, and the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact*. In compiling and issuing its 2020 CSR Report, Sekisui Chemical Group conforms to the “Core” options of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. In addition, Sekisui Chemical Group is a supporter of the Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Declaration. As such, the Group is joining the front line of the global push for decarbonization from Japan. * United Nations Global Compact: A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. Declaration of Support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Information Disclosure Declaration of Support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Information Disclosure Based on Its Recommendations Sekisui Chemical Group declared its support for the TCFD*1 in January 2019. The Group began disclosing information*2 based on TCFD recommendations from July 2019. By promoting information disclosure*2 based on TCFD recommendations, the Group will build a sustainable management foundation including relationships of trust with its stakeholders going forward. *1 The TCFD recommends that companies analyze the impact of climate change on their financial status and disclose information about their strategies to respond based on those impacts. *2 Information Disclosure based upon on the TCFD Statement of Support https://www.sekisuichemical.com/csr/assets/images/csr_tcfd_e.pdf Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 91 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Organizations Major Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates Main Positions Undertaken by Sekisui Chemical Organization, Committee, Conference, etc. Group Personnel Including Directors Japan Business Federation Vice Chairs of the Board of Councilors Committee on Urban Policy and Housing Development, Chair Japan Business Federation Japan Chemical Industry Association Director and Vice Chairman The Japan Plastics Industry Federation Director Kansai Chemical Industry Association Chair Japan PVC Pipe and Fittings Association Chair, Representative Director FRPM Pipes Association of Japan Chair Lift-in Method Research Institute Chair Federation of Japan Water Industries, Inc. Director Japan Federation of Housing Organizations Director Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Managing Director Manufacturers Association The Machinami Foundation Director Consortium for Building Research & Development Vice Chair The Provision of Quality Housing Stock Association Vice Chair (SumStock) Japan Adhesive Tape Manufacturers Association Chair Environmentally Symbiotic Housing Promotion Council New Energy Foundation Elderly Service Providers Association Smart Wellness Housing R&D Consortium Senior Housing Association KIDS DESIGN ASSOCIATION Japanese Conference on Overseas Development of Eco-Cities Japan Housing Association Geo-Heat Promotion Association of Japan Association for Ground water and thermal energy Resources Enrichment and Activation Japan Sewage Pipe Renewal Method Association Nature Environment Coexistence Technology Association Japan Initiative for Marine Environment (JaIME) Japan Clean Ocean Material Alliance (CLOMA) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Sustainability 92 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Governance Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to strengthening the governance function and to engage in corporate activities that help support the basis of LIFE and to continue to create “peace of mind for the future” in order to realize a sustainable society. Corporate Governance Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place Its Own Corporate Governance System That Reflects Its Divisional Company Organization System Management Approach Basic Philosophy Basic Philosophy and Framework for Corporate Governance Sekisui Chemical Group (the Group) has put in place a basic philosophy regarding corporate governance that lays out efforts for securing sustainable growth and increasing corporate value over the medium and long terms. To help achieve these goals, we are increasing the transparency and fairness of our management and pursuing swift decision-making and will do so while continuing to meet—through the creation of value for society that is part of our Corporate Philosophy—the needs of the five types of stakeholders the Group emphasizes: customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, and local communities and the environment. SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles The Company has established and disclosed the Sekisui Corporate Governance Principles for the purpose of further evolving its corporate governance initiatives and communicating our corporate governance approach and initiatives to our stakeholders. In addition to the above Principles, the status of the Company’s initiatives and its approach with respect to all 78 items of the Corporate Governance Code, consisting of the General Principles, Principles and Supplementary Principles, are summarized and disclosed in the form of the Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code. ・Corporate Governance Report (June 24, 2020) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20200624cgre.pdf ・SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles (June 10, 2020) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20200610cgpe.pdf ・Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code (June 24, 2020) https://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20200624cgie.pdf Governance 93 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Corporate Governance Organizational Structure As an organizational structure under the Companies Act, the Company has chosen to be a company with Audit and Supervisory Board. Under the Divisional Company Organization System, the Company has adopted the Executive Officer System in order to clearly distinguish the business execution function from the decision-making function in management. Organizational Structure A company with an Audit and Supervisory Board Total number of directors 10 (In-house: 7; Outside: 3) including 1 female director Ratio of outside (independent) directors 30.0% Ratio of female directors 10.0% Director’s term of office 1 year Executive officer system introduced Yes Organization to assist the president in Policy Committee making decision Voluntary advisory board to the Board of Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee established Directors Governance 94 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiatives Taken to Enhance Corporate Governance 1999 2009 2015 2020 1959: Corporate Philosophy and 3S Principles established Incorporated into the Corporate Philosophy Group Principles From 1999: Corporate Principles 2014: and Group Vision through revisions From 2009: Group Vision 2001: Divisional Company Organization System introduced 2007: The term of office of Directors shortened from 2 years to 1 year 2008: Executive officer system introduced Initiatives for strengthening From 2008: 2 independent Outside Directors appointed From 2018: Increased to 3 governance Legal, accounting, and quality From 2003: Quality specialist selected as an Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Member From 2007: specialist system implemented Nomination and Remuneration From 2016: Advisory Committee 2015: Sekisui Corporate Governance Principles established Corporate Governance System Chart (As of June 23, 2020) Governance 95 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Board of Directors Roles and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Positioned as the body responsible for decision-making concerning the Company's fundamental policies and upper-level management issues as well as for supervising the execution of business, the Board of Directors has in place a highly effective supervisory system for Directors by appointing three sufficiently experienced Outside Directors to ensure transparency in management and fairness in business decisions and operations. Composition of the Board of Directors The number of Directors shall not exceed 15, and two or more of them shall be Outside Directors. The Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of directors who are of excellent character, have insight, and high moral standards in addition to knowledge, experience, and competence. In addition, Audit and Supervisory Board Members, including outside Audit and Supervisory Board members, shall attend the meetings of the Board of Directors. Following the change in the Company’s president, the Board of Directors is chaired by the Chairman, a non-executive director. The Company ensures diversity among board members and keeps the number of Directors at an optimal level for appropriate decision-making that is commensurate with the business domain and size. The presidents of the divisional companies, who are the top management of each business and senior corporate officers with significant experience and strong expertise, are appointed as inside Directors. Together with the independent Outside Directors, who have broad knowledge and experience, and Audit and Supervisory Board Members with strong expertise, the presidents of the divisional companies effectively perform the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and maintain a balance with respect to diversity, optimal size, and capabilities. Governance 96 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Number of Attendance of Years (At the Attendance Nominating Attendance closing of of Audit and and of Board of the Annual Supervisory Remuneration Position in the Directors Name General Board Advisory Company Meetings of Meeting of Meetings of Committee the Company Shareholders the Company Meetings of (Fiscal 2019) held on June (Fiscal 2019) the Company 23, 2020) (Fiscal 2019) Chairman of the 100% 100% Teiji Koge Board and 15 years ― (17 out of 17) (6 out of 6) Representative Director President and 100% 100% Keita Kato Representative Director 6 years ― (17 out of 17) (1 out of 1) Chief Executive Officer Representative Director 100% Yoshiyuki Hirai Senior Managing 5 years ― ― (17 out of 17) Executive Officer Representative Director 100% Toshiyuki Kamiyoshi Senior Managing 1 year ― ― (13 out of 13) Executive Officer Representative Director Futoshi Kamiwaki Senior Managing ― ― ― ― Executive Officer Director 100% Hiroyuki Taketomo Managing Executive 4 years ― ― (17 out of 17) Officer Director 100% Ikusuke Shimizu Managing Executive 1 year ― ― (13 out of 13) Officer Independent Outside 94% 100% Yutaka Kase 4 years ― Director (16 out of 17) (6 out of 6) Independent Outside 100% 100% Hiroshi Oeda 2 years ― Director (17 out of 17) (6 out of 6) Independent Outside 100% 100% Yoko Ishikura 1 year ― Director (13 out of 13) (5 out of 5) Corporate Audit and Toshitaka Fukunaga Supervisory Board ― ― ― ― Member Corporate Audit and 100% 100% Moritoshi Naganuma Supervisory Board 3 years ― (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Member Independent Outside 94% 94% 100% Tetsuo Ozawa Audit and Supervisory 6 years (16 out of 17) (17 out of 18) (6 out of 6) Board Member Independent Outside 100% 100% Kazuyuki Suzuki Audit and Supervisory 5 years ― (17 out of 17) (18 out of 18) Board Member Independent Outside 100% 100% Ryoko Shimizu Audit and Supervisory 1 year ― (13 out of 13) (13 out of 13) Board Member Governance 97 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Directors’ and Audit and Supervisory Board Members’ Outstanding Expertise, Experience and Capabilities Human Name Corporate and Labor Financial Management / Quality Administration / International Research & Affairs/ Legal Affairs Management Control Human Mindset Development Accounting Strategy Resources Development Teiji Koge ● ● Keita Kato ● ● ● ● ● Yoshiyuki ● ● ● Hirai Toshiyuki ● Kamiyoshi Futoshi ● ● ● Kamiwaki Hiroyuki ● ● ● Taketomo Ikusuke ● ● ● ● Shimizu Yutaka ● ● Kase Hiroshi ● ● Oeda Yoko ● ● Ishikura Toshitaka ● ● Fukunaga Moritoshi ● Naganuma Tetsuo ● Ozawa Kazuyuki ● ● ● Suzuki Ryoko ● ● Shimizu Note: The list above does not reflect the full range of expertise possessed by the Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Governance 98 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report About the Age-group Composition of Corporate Officers Under 30 30〜39 40〜49 50〜59 60 or older Men 0 0 0 5 4 Number of Directors by Age Women 0 0 0 0 1 Note: As of the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2020. Outside Directors The Company appoints to the Board three Outside Directors with verified independence from the Company who contribute to the enhancement of corporate value by providing oversight and advice based on their extensive administrative experience and specialized knowledge gained in backgrounds different to those of the Company. Based on their diverse and objective perspectives, the Outside Directors provide counsel especially on priority management issues, such as global development strategy, business model revisions, and the strengthening of ESG management. Yutaka Kase, Outside Director Mr. Kase serves as Advisor at Sojitz Corporation. Mr. Kase has provided advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervised business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant experience and past achievements regarding global corporate management and business strategy fostered through his position as a corporate manager of a general trading company. Therefore, the Company has judged that he would be able to contribute to further enhancing the corporate value of Sekisui Chemical Group and thus appointed him as a director. Hiroshi Oeda, Outside Director Mr. Oeda serves as Corporate Special Advisor at Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. As Mr. Oeda has been a management executive of the largest milling company in Japan, the Company expects him to provide advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervise business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant experience and skill regarding global corporate management, business strategies, and M&A activities fostered through his positions. Therefore, the Company has judged that he would be able to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of Sekisui Chemical Group and thus appointed him as a director. Yoko Ishikura, Outside Director Ms. Ishikura is the Professor Emeritus of Hitotsubashi University. Ms. Ishikura has advanced academic expertise in international politics/economics and international corporate strategy, and is well-versed in corporate management through her experience as outside director at multiple global enterprises. Furthermore, she has been actively involved in diversity management and promotion of greater participation of women, which are areas being addressed by the Group. Therefore, the Company has judged that she would be able to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of the Group and thus appointed her as a director. Governance 99 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Assessment Relating to the Board’s Effectiveness The Company evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors every year. Having set an appropriate agenda, the Board of Directors engages in sufficient discussion with opinions and recommendations actively provided by Directors (including Outside Directors) and Audit and Supervisory Board Members. The Company has therefore determined that the current Board of Directors is contributing to enhancing the corporate value of the Group and functioning properly. In fiscal 2019, the Board of Directors thoroughly deliberated important management issues such as its Long-term Vision, new Medium-term Management Plan, growth strategies, including R&D, M&A, investment, and large new businesses, and fundamental strategies, including work style reform, digital transformation, and CS & quality. The Board also ensured that adequate time was provided to sufficiently discuss these issues and active participation and opinions and recommendations were actively provided by both outside and inside directors as well as Audit and Supervisory Board members. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee made recommendations to the Board of Directors on such matters as director as well as Audit and Supervisory Board member nominations, individual performance, and remuneration levels. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee met six times, including to discuss the plan for the president’s succession, the composition and effectiveness of the Board of Directors, and initiatives for strengthening governance. In fiscal 2020, the Company will further enhance deliberations on important management issues and ensure fairness and transparency in the Company’s management by making what the Board of Directors deem to be appropriate decisions. Support for and Collaboration with Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members To enable the Outside Directors to enhance deliberations at Board of Directors’ meetings, the Company continuously provides opportunities for them to deepen their understanding of the Group’s businesses. This is done, for example, by the prior distribution of materials for Board of Directors’ meetings and explanations given beforehand by the executive officer in charge of the secretariat, orientation visits at the time Outside Directors are appointed, and inspections of business sites several times a year. To further enhance the effectiveness of management supervision by Outside Directors, the Company is making improvements to the deliberations that take place at the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, where the majority of the members are Outside Directors, and facilitating their dialog with Audit and Supervisory Board Members and corporate auditors. From the point of view of succession planning, the Company is strengthening contacts between current management and next-generation management candidates, for example by having Outside Directors give lectures at Executive Officers Liaison Meetings that are held on a quarterly basis and providing opportunities for Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members and Executive Officers to meet when the new management system is inaugurated following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Business Site Visits To deepen their understanding of the Company and the characteristics of the Group’s wide-ranging businesses, outside directors conduct business site visits every year. In fiscal 2019, outside directors visited the Kinki site of Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., which is advancing innovation in manufacturing at the Housing Company, and the headquarters Tsukuba Office, which is engaging in new technology development with a view to commercialization. Governance 100 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Consultations with Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental and Social Topics At the quarterly Executive Officers Liaison Meetings, the sharing of earnings announcements is combined with invited speakers from outside the company, so that stakeholders obtain the latest information on economic and social trends that are directly linked to management issues. Fiscal 2019 Executive Officers Liaison Meeting Lecture Topics ● Key Management Points〜Basic Strategy of Nisshin Seifun Group ● Toward Realizing a Lifelong Society Nominating and Remuneration Advisory Committee The Company has established an optional advisory committee concerning nomination and remuneration to further enhance the fairness and transparency of management. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee deliberates on matters related to enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including the nomination and non-reappointment of senior executives, including representative directors, the nomination of candidates for director, and the system of remuneration and levels of remuneration for directors. The Committee also discusses the commissioning of and dealings with advisors or executive advisors, including former representative directors and presidents, and submits recommendations and advice to the Board of Directors. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee comprises six members, the majority of whom are independent outside directors. The Chairperson is elected from the independent outside directors. Governance 101 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Remuneration and Other Compensation for Officers (1) Policy regarding determination of remuneration and other compensation (1) Basic policy The remuneration system policy for officers of the Company is defined as follows in keeping with the corporate philosophy of the Group. ・The policy should contribute to continuous growth and mediumto long-term improvement of corporate value for the Group ・Officers of the Company should share value with shareholders and increase their awareness of shareholder-focused management ・The remuneration policy should be highly-connected to business performance, providing motivation for officers of the Company to achieve management plan goals ・The policy should provide a framework and baseline which enables the Company to acquire and keep on staff with a diverse variety of management talent in order to increase the competitiveness of the Group (2) Remuneration mindset Remuneration and other compensation for executive directors of the Company is made up of basic remuneration, bonuses, and stock options. For Outside Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members, remuneration is made up of basic remuneration only. <Basic Remuneration> Basic remuneration within the framework of officer remuneration is a fixed payment determined by the roles and responsibilities of each Director. For executive directors, a portion of the basic remuneration is required to be used for the purpose of the Company’s stock through the Officers Stock Ownership Plan, increasing the emphasis on and awareness of stock prices in management. <Bonuses> The bonus represents the performance-based remuneration, the amount of which is determined based on the payment standards linked to the business performance of the Company and each divisional company, ROE (return on equity), and dividend policy. <Share-based compensation> The share-based compensation is an incentive plan aimed at further raising motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group’s corporate value, under which the number of shares to be granted is determined in accordance with the position of Directors (excluding Outside Directors). Said plan has a structure enabling Directors to receive a benefit at the time of retirement for the results for which they contributed to enhancing the Company’s midand long-term corporate value in the form of the Company’s shares reflecting such enhancement in share value, thereby enhancing the link with midand long-term shareholders’ value. Governance 102 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report (2) Determination Process for Officer Remuneration and Other Compensation In order to achieve the goals of the officer remuneration system, the Company has established a Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee as an advisory organization to the Board of Directors. This committee deliberates on the structure and levels of Director remuneration and verifies the validity of remuneration for individuals, carrying out these processes with objectivity and transparency. <Overview of Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Activities> ● This committee is convened by the chairperson (an Outside Director). ● The agenda items of this committee are introduced by the committee members, and the secretariat compiles them and presents them to the chairperson. ● The deliberation results of this committee are reported to the Board of Directors by the chairperson. ● The Board of Directors carries out final policy determination, respecting the report of this committee. In addition, the Directors and members of this committee must carry out these decisions from the perspective of whether or not they contribute to the corporate value of the Company and providing benefit to shareholders. Decisions must never have the goal of providing individual benefit to the Directors or committee members themselves, management ranks, or any other third party. Officer Remuneration in Fiscal 2019 (Amount: Millions of yen) Share-based Basic remuneration Bonus Total compensation Number Number Number Number of eligible of eligible of eligible of eligible Amount Amount Amount Amount officers officers officers officers (persons) (persons) (persons) (persons) Directors 13 311 6 136 6 54 13 502 (Of which outside 4 41 − − − − 4 41 directors) Audit and Supervisory Board 6 93 − − − − 6 93 Members (Of which outside Audit and 4 34 − − − − 4 34 Supervisory Board members) Notes: 1. The number of eligible officers includes four directors and one Audit and Supervisory Board member who retired at the closing of the 97th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2019. 2. The amount paid to officers does not include the portion of employee’s salary (including bonus) amounting to 46 million yen for directors who concurrently serve as employees. ⇒ Notice of Convocation of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders https://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/stock/shareholder_info/index.html Governance 103 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Director Company Stock Ownership Guidelines In addition to having introduced, for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and divisional company Executive Officers, a share-based compensation plan to further raise motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group's corporate value, the Company has established Company Stock Ownership Guidelines for those who are holding more than a certain number of shares. Executive Officer System and Executive Committee To maximize corporate value, the Company has built its management structure based on the Divisional Company Organization System. Together with assigning to each divisional company Executive Officers specializing in business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decision-making body in each divisional company. Executive Committee members, whose term of office is deemed to be for one year, are appointed by resolution of the Board of Directors. By transferring authority to the divisional companies, the Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in corporate value as an organization responsible for decisions on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as high-level management decision-making and supervision of business execution. Management System Governance 104 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Auditing System Approach to Appointment of Audit and Supervisory Board Members Sekisui Chemical Group maintains an Audit and Supervisory Board structure consisting of two full-time Corporate Audit and Supervisory Board Members and three part-time Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members for a total of five Audit and Supervisory Board Members. As far as the composition of the Audit and Supervisory Board is concerned, one or more members will have knowledge and expertise in corporate finance and accounting, one or more will have knowledge and expertise in legal systems, and one or more will have knowledge and expertise in manufacturing and CS & quality, which are extremely important for manufacturers. Officers with experience as Head of Corporate Finance & Accounting Department and Head of Technology & CS Promotion Department have been appointed as full-time Corporate Audit and Supervisory Board Members in fiscal 2020. A certified public accountant with experience working for an auditing firm, a lawyer with extensive experience in corporate law, and a university professor specializing in quality control have been appointed as Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Internal Control System In May 2006, the Board of Directors resolved to adopt a fundamental policy regarding the establishment of an internal control system for ensuring the appropriateness of the Group’s business activities. Based on the Corporate Activity Guidelines set forth in accordance with the Group corporate philosophy, the Company seeks to realize collaborative interaction concerning the supervision, directives, and communications of Sekisui Chemical Group (the Company and its subsidiaries), and Sekisui Chemical’s duties include providing guidance and counsel, and undertaking evaluations of all Sekisui Chemical Group members to ensure that their business activities are being conducted in an appropriate manner. Compliance To further strengthen the Group’s compliance activities, the Sustainability Committee, chaired by the president, deliberates the Fundamental Compliance Policies, which are subject to approval by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Compliance Sub-committee supervises compliance activities Group-wide, and conducts activities to highlight the importance of compliance as a fundamental aspect of our corporate culture. Note: The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Governance 105 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Risk Management Sekisui Chemical maintains a risk management structure for integrated management of measures to prevent risk events from occurring (risk management) and to respond with risk events occur (crisis management). Previously positioned within the Human Resources Department, the Risk Management Group was transferred to the ESG Management Department from April 2020. Steps will also be taken to establish a Group-wide enterprise risk management (ERM) structure. In fiscal 2019, 175 task forces are working to reduce and eliminate risk by analyzing and assessing conditions and implementing risk management measures followed by periodic reviews and implementation of the PDCA cycle of risk management for ongoing improvement. In addition, the risks that are uncovered are then sorted and arranged in a timely manner by a dedicated department. While these risks were reported to such organizations as the subcommittees of the Sustainability Committee with deliberations regarding Group-wide countermeasures undertaken as required, steps will be taken to integrate the risks uncovered by dedicated department into Group-wide risks and promote an ERM structure under the new Medium-term Management Plan (2020-2023). Crisis management activities are carried out following Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines. Risk management officers of each headquarters department and company regularly hold crisis management liaison meetings to research incidents and reinforce practices. Note: The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Information Disclosure and Communication with Stakeholders In order to deepen mutual trust with all of our shareholders, we believe it is important not only to actively disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner, but also to enhance two-way communications with our shareholders. To steadily put this belief into practice throughout the Group, we set up the “Corporate Information Disclosure Regulations,” which specify the content and system of disclosure, guided by the “Principle of Corporate Information Disclosure” and beefed up our internal information disclosure framework. In Sekisui Chemical Group, the Investor Relations Group within the Business Strategy Department is working hard to strengthen two-way communications with our shareholders and investors, not only by disclosing financial statements in a timely and appropriate manner but also by actively reflecting our shareholders’ voice in our management. For example, we hold quarterly briefings on financial results where our management explains these figures. Also, we pay heed to the voice of capital markets by holding one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors. To ensure information is provided in a fair manner, the Group posts its financial statements and results briefings on the Company website in Japanese and English simultaneously and additionally provides audio recordings of the briefing and a transcript of the question and answer session. Governance 106 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Risk Management We Are Increasing Risk Sensitivity and Improving the Quality of Our Activities Through Further Strengthening of Our Risk-management Structures Management Approach Basic Philosophy A System That Can Be Brought to Bear on Ever-changing Risks and Crises Here at Sekisui Chemical Group, we are working to build a risk management structure that unifies “risk management,” which aims to prevent risks from occurring in the first place, and “crisis management,” which responds to serious risks that have manifested. Through this unification of concepts, we aim to build a system that can be brought to bear on ever-changing risks and crises. Concept of Risk Management in Sekisui Chemical Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Crisis management Normal management Emergency management Crisis Risk management in a wide sense Prevent secondary Assessments for Confirming the conditions Prevent each region Identification of Treatment for emergency significant likelihoods reoccurrence Emergency response Assessment for company-wide risks occurrence each overseas area Risk management (prevention) of each business and on-site organization Treatment for Prevent damage Recovery expansion consequences Assessments for Selection each organization and addition of Preparation (identification/ for crisis local risks Preparation analysis/evaluation) for crises Disaster prevention / BCP (Business continuity plan) Governance 107 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Management Structure Explicitly State Risk Management Policies in Writing and Share Them with All Company Employees To date, the head of the HR department has overseen Sekisui Chemical Group’s risk management structure and systems. Ultimate responsibility has shifted to the Managing Director of the ESG Management Department, who now handles day-to-day risk management operations from April 2020. We are striving to publicize and thoroughly install among the directors, executive officers, and employees of Sekisui Chemical and its Group companies the “Sekisui Chemical Group Risk Management Guidelines,” which were established based on the revised “Basic Philosophy on Internal Corporate Governance Systems” of April 2015, to identify significant risks and to prevent them from manifesting by centrally and comprehensively collecting and evaluating information about risks. In the event that a significant risk does become manifest, an Emergency Response Headquarters will be established based on the “Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines,” creating a framework capable of swiftly and appropriately handling the situation. In preparation for such rare contingencies, a code of conduct regarding this framework, to be referred to by all employees, has also been shared with all group employees via the group intranet and other means. In the New Medium-term Management Plan, which will get its start in fiscal 2020, we will deploy ERM* in a way that fuses our existing organization-specific risk management activities with our Group-wide risk management activities. In addition to domestic organization, we will accelerate the deployment of existing organization-specific activities in overseas Group companies (including M&A and new businesses), and instill these throughout every corner of the Group. Moreover, we will newly carry out risk assessments specific to each business domain and region as a mode of Group-wide risk management. At the same time, we will identify and evaluate major risks throughout the Group and incorporate them into action plans, design Group-wide targets, and manage progress. * ERM: ERM, which stands for Enterprise Risk Management, refers to the Group-wide mechanisms and processes involved in Group-wide and integrated risk management and risk management activities. Governance 108 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Bolstering Risk Management (Prevention) Structures Increasing Risk-sensitivity Using PDCA Cycles It is extremely difficult to accurately monitor for risks that could foreseeably occur at some point in the future, as our corporate activities become more complex. We at Sekisui Chemical Group believe that increasing risk sensitivity among employees is essential to handling such risks, and the Group continuously runs PDCA cycles in line with the international standard for risk management ISO 31000. These activities were launched during fiscal 2011 among 27 organizations, primarily business units within the Company. The number of organizations engaged in these actions has increased each year, reaching 175 in total, including Japanese and overseas affiliates, in fiscal 2019. While steps have again been taken to reorganize and add to the number of organizations, the number of organizations remains the same at 175 in 2020. The percentage of consolidated revenue covered is also unchanged at approximately 93%. In addition, the Group is also working to improve the effectiveness of these actions through inter-organizational cooperation and linkages among specialist divisions. Risk management activity Sales organization total net sales （％） composition = ×100（％） 100 ratio Sekisui Chemical Group total net sales 89 93 93 90 *1 80 93 80 89 70 Enactment and 65 enforcement of group 60 regulations and risk 53 Revision of Basic 50 management 44 46 Philosophy on regulations 40 Internal Corporate Governance Systems 30 Establishment of Risk (compatible with Management Group revised Companies 20 Act) 10 Launch of risk management project 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020Plan *1 Temporary decline resulting from a large-scale M&A. Recovery is expected once new organizations begin participating in Risk Management Activities. Notes: The ratio of consolidate revenue for the entire Group accounted for by those organizations involved in Risk Management Activities serves as an indicator that considers the extent of impact on Sekisui Chemical Group. Governance 109 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Identifying and Assessing Risks Risks for Which the Group Should Be Prepared To make clear which risks the Group as a whole should prepare itself for, in terms of both organization-specific risk management and Group-wide risk management, we have broadly categorized these as business environment, strategic, and operational risk, and have further subcategorized each category in order to comprehensively identify risk. Based on the different risk criteria for organization-specific risk management and Group-wide risk management, we quantitatively assess the risk level for each of the identified risks using a risk matrix that combines results and likelihood of occurrence. ●Major Risks Faced by Sekisui Chemical Group 1. Business environmental risks Major market trends Fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates, and asset value Raw material price volatility and procurement Natural disasters Climate Change and environmental issues (resource depletion, water, marine plastics) Politics and society (political change / terrorism / infectious diseases) 2. Strategic risk M&A / New Business / R&D 3. Operational risk Information-management (information leaks / technical information outflow) Quality (responsibility for manufactured goods / Major Quality Issues) Safety (fire and explosions / major workplace accidents / hazardous substance leakage) Laws / Compliance / Human Rights (unethical or criminal behavior / volitions of the Monopolies Act or fraudulent transactions / unauthorized overwriting of data / bribery/ harassment/ environmental regulations, etc.) Intellectual property (IP disputes) Bolstering the Crisis-management System The Operating of the Crisis-management System Based on its experience during the Great East Japan Earthquake, Sekisui Chemical Group carried out a full-scale overhaul of its crisis management system in fiscal 2011 and has been refining that system ever since. Specifically, the Group, among other initiatives, has been conducting drills (at least twice yearly) based on the Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual, annual education (for all employees) using the Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual, and organizing disaster-preparedness systems based on disaster-preparedness checklists in all offices (around 800 within Japan). As of January 2012, the rate of sufficiency regarding disaster-preparedness systems, in reference to the Cabinet Office’s “Table of Self-evaluation Items,” averaged 41% among all offices. Because of instituting concrete measures, however, the Group has, since fiscal 2015, reached a point where it has been able to maintain an average rate of over 90%. Governance 110 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report The Operating of the Crisis-management System In preparation for emergency situations, Sekisui Chemical Group implements Companywide response measures for emergencies as provided for in the Crisis Management Guidelines and the Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual. Through training and providing the Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual to all employees, including temporary and other staff, who carry this manual at all times, we ensure that all employees can take the appropriate action in the event of an emergency. In 2018 we also prepared an English version of our Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual, which has been provided to those employees that require English. Moreover, in fiscal 2019 we implemented a safety confirmation system for all Group employees that allows us to rapidly confirm the safety of our employees, even during emergency situations. Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual (April 2020 revised edition) Japanese edition English edition Initial Response Procedures in the Event of a Large-scale Earthquake Goal time for establishing (1) Large earthquake of seismic a mini head office intensity 6.0 or greater Time from earthquake During working within 1 hour hours During daytime (2) Establishing a mini head office on a holiday within 3 hours for information gathering Late night or by 9 a.m. early morning the next day (3) Information gathering Offices subject to Safety of employees safety confirmation Risk Management Status of damages to facilities Draft a list and transmit it Group and equipment Communication status Status of damages to surrounding infrastructure Disaster information Each location Public transportation status Unclear Minor conditions (4) damages (5) (6) Mini head Information Observation of progress and office aggregation Determination of closed conditions Major or wide area down damages Safety confirmation Company-wide complete assistance required Handling measures (9) Release of outside the company required information on (7) the company Proposal to establish a NO intranet company-wide crisis Notification of the center establishment of a YES company-wide crisis center (8) Establishing a company-wide crisis center Governance 111 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Emergency Response Headquarters Functions HQ General Manager Secretariat Situation Information Resource General Affairs Control Strategy Management and Financing Contact the Company/headquarters from the site immediately after the emergency occurs Immediately after taking action to secure safety When and implement emergency measures For business sites affiliated For business sites not affiliated with the Company with the Company Emergency Emergency Event Event Where Receiving department Receiving department at the Company at the headquarters Related departments President (Secretarial Group) Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Basic Philosophy Toward BCP BCP is the very essence of business strategy. Therefore, Sekisui Chemical Group, whose adoption of a Company system has made the range of the business in which it engages broad, has decided on a basic posture of having those in charge of each line of business (the heads of business units, the presidents of business companies, etc.) determine the necessity of BCP individually, based on the particulars of the business in which they are engaged. Because of this, the Group has created a support system, such as by establishing “Guidelines for Formulating BCP (BCM)” and drawing up a checklist for performing this formulation. Each person in charge of a line of business is recommended to formulate business-continuity plans and to implement business continuity management (BCM) based on these guidelines and on ISO 22301, a standard for methods of implementing BCM. Governance 112 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Crisis Management Systems Overseas A Support System Centered on Overseas Crisis-management Organizations Based on its corporate “Overseas Safety Management Regulations,” Sekisui Chemical Group supports employees traveling abroad, those stationed abroad, and locally based employees in a variety of ways. This includes classifying global activities into nine regions, sharing crisis management-related information spearheaded mainly by the Overseas Crisis-management Office, calling for caution and attention to important matters in a timely manner, instructing employees about travel restrictions, and implementing other emergency-response measures. As the number of Group locations increases with each passing year, and given the growing importance of overseas business activity, we established Regional Headquarters in each of the four main regions and appointed the person responsible for the Regional Headquarters as the Regional Head. During an overseas crisis, the Overseas Management Group within the Headquarters Business Strategy Department and the Global Crisis Management Office (HR Risk Management Group*) cooperate and lead the response to the crisis. Regarding risks particular to overseas sites, including civil unrest, terrorism, and infectious diseases, the Group has organized a support system based on signing contracts with crisis-management companies, such as those that provide security assistance and medical assistance. Additionally, the Group conducts training sessions for employees seconded overseas before they are dispatched abroad, provides pre-trip e-learning for employees sent on business trips, and explains its overseas crisis management system to its employees; it also issues warnings about risks overseas. In recent years, in particular, business trips and secondments to frontier regions have become more common, and thus the Group has stepped up its partnerships with Japanese diplomatic missions abroad and has created and distributed region-specific crisis management handbooks detailing the types of risks and levels of danger for each region, 20 in total. * The Risk Management Group within the ESG Management Department since April 2020. Europe Korea North America China Overseas Crisis-management Office Taiwan Southeast Asia・Australia Global Crisis Management Guidelines Japanese edition English edition Chinese edition Korean edition Governance 113 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Improving the Effectiveness of Risk Management Activities Introducing the Digital Dashboard With the introduction of the Digital Dashboard, a database covering the implementation status of risk management activities, we have substantially improved the efficiency by halving the preparation work for feedback to each organization. In addition, we have used the search function, which has made it easier to horizontally deploy management measures and identify risks at each organization. Moreover, in fiscal 2019 we added a function for the purpose of collaboration with the different types of audits and are now able to closely examine risk without fail. Enriching e-Learning We enriched the contents of our intranet-based e-Learning programs for those on overseas business travel. We also prepared quiz-format content that incorporates the circumstances, customs, and other aspects of each country and region. By including detailed explanations for answers, etc., we are working to provide those on overseas business travel with an insight into the types of acceptable behavior at each local site and to increase awareness toward safety. In fiscal 2019, we also deployed a practical program for regions that are often traveled to on business, and provided opportunities to study the content in greater detail. Conducting Risk Management Training Sessions for Risk Managers In fiscal 2019, risk management training was provided to 24 newly appointed risk managers. Sekisui Chemical’s Response to Preventing the Spread of the Novel Coronavirus Since January 2020, as concern over the spread of infection by the novel coronavirus began to emerge, we have implemented various measures designed to prevent infection in order to manage the health of our employees and address our social responsibility as a company. In particular, we have taken the following actions (as of March 31, 2020) 1. Broadcast information and protective measures to be taken by individuals 2. Voluntarily cancel functions and events organized by Sekisui Chemical 3. Change working hours 4. Encourage meetings over the internet and working from home 5. Prohibit travel to affected regions Moreover, we shipped masks and disinfectants as support for China and our affiliates in China. In the event a state of emergency is declared or infections are discovered within the Group, we will prioritize the safety of employees and further strengthen our response, including establishing a Group-wide Emergency Response Headquarters. Governance 114 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Data on the Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-management Activities Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-management Activities Number of organizations 180 175 175 174 165 148 120 123 92 Number of 72 organizations 60 42 27 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Forecast) Data Relating to the Sufficiency Rate for Disaster-preparedness Systems Disaster-preparedness Sufficiency Rate (Average for Japanese Business Sites) Over Time （％） 100 91 92 93 94 94 88 80 74 60 63 40 41 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Governance 115 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Safety Targeting Zero Occupational Injuries Through Risk Reduction by All Personnel, from Top Management to the Plant-floor Frontlines Management Approach Basic Concept Each and Every Employee Has the Ability to Identify Dangerous Situations At the core of safety, it is important that each and every employee has the ability to identify dangerous situations and take appropriate steps to protect themselves and fellow employees. Even if equipment can be made completely safe, it is necessary to recognize that work and actions taken by individuals can have hidden risks. For this reason, we are making concerted efforts at safety education and raising sensitivity to risks, while following rules and creating a protective corporate culture. At the same time, constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is our responsibility as a company and we consider it to be one of the most important priorities for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety activities (i.e. zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leave) based on five themes*. * Five themes: (1) Intrinsic safety of equipment; (2) safety management using OHSMS; (3) safety education of employees; (4) risk prevention through risk detection activities and other initiatives; and (5) auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Governance 116 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Activity Policy and Promotion System We Thoroughly Implement a Safety Policy That Includes Partner Companies (contractors) Outside the Group In the case of the various efforts related to occupational health and safety, an activity policy is formulated by the Safety Subcommittee established under the CSR Committee. These actual activities are promoted by the Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Center Safety & Environment Group. We have formulated the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy, which forms our basic philosophy on occupational safety and is shared by all employees within the Group. In addition to collecting a range of occupational health and safety data such as incident frequency rates, we also collect data from partner companies (contractors) outside the Group including those that occur during production and construction operations as well as any incidence of occupational health and safety issues during research activities. In fiscal 2019, two meetings of the Safety Subcommittee were held in September and March. In event of an actual occupational injury, information including the form of employment of the injured party is collected. Improvements as required are also sought when there is a problem with the management of a business site. While Sekisui Chemical does not undergo such external certifications as ISO 45001, the Company does promote activities based on international standards at business sites. This includes reflecting ISO and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) requirements in audit evaluation items. Safety-promotion System (to FY2019) Safety-promotion System (from FY2020) Board of Directors Board of Directors CSR Committee Sustainability Committee* Safety Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson : Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Safety Sub-committee Total Manufacturing Management Center Sub-committee : Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Manufacturing Chairperson Infrastructure Enhancement Center Sub-committee Members : Managing executive officers and Executive Sub-committee : Executive Officers at each Divisional Company, officers at each Divisional Company, Directors, Members Directors, Managing Executive Officers at headquarters Managing executive officers at headquarters Office: Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Office : Total Manufacturing Management Center, Center, Safety & Environment Group Safety & Environment Group Divisional Company Divisional Company Safety sections at each Divisional Company Safety sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Sections in charge of safety Production sites Sections in charge of safety Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Headquarters Headquarters Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety and Environment Group Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Center, Safety & Environment Group * The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Governance 117 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Occupational Safety Committee Held Management and Labor Work Together to Assess, Research and Propose Solutions for Occupational Safety The Occupational Safety Committee at each business site of Sekisui Chemical Group holds a meeting every month, as mandated by law. In addition, the Central Occupational Safety Committee, consisting of members from corporate headquarters and labor unions, meets once a year. The Central Occupational Safety Committee was created on the basis of collective labor agreements to conduct disaster-related investigations and make strategic proposals related to occupational health and safety. Every employee can potentially become a member of the Central Occupational Safety Committee. Based on the outcome of the Occupational Safety Committee’s deliberations, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to strictly comply with laws and regulations, including the Industrial Safety and Health Act, ensure the safety and health of employees at work, and create a comfortable workplace environment. The Central Occupational Safety Committee and the Occupational Safety Committees at each business site assess workplace environments, draw up and implement solutions to workplace problems, and decide rules with regard to various topics related to occupational safety and health. Example in Safety Activities Leaders from Each Division Declared Their Commitment to Safe Business Practices Based on the recognition that it is of the utmost importance for the top managers at business sites to exercise leadership and take the initiative in safety activities, leaders from each division, including the president, declare their commitment to safe business practices each fiscal year, and their personally written declarations are published on the intranet. A safety declaration posted on the intranet Governance 118 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Safety Audits Conducting Audits based on Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) Audit Evaluation Reports Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (OHSMS) audit evaluation reports are drafted and used in self-assessments and corporate audits at each business site. Evaluation items are revised annually, which include incorporating ISO 45001 requirements published in March 2018. Taking into consideration the status of safety management activities and the incidence of natural disasters, corporate audits were conducted at 20 business sites in Japan, a smaller number than in previous years, in fiscal 2019. Occupational Safety Assessments Implementation of Preliminary Safety Assessments When Launching a New Business Article 14 of the Group’s Safety Management Rules stipulates that a comprehensive preliminary occupational safety assessment must be undertaken by the business general manager concerned when launching a new business. Based on this stipulation, the relevant divisional company that is looking to launch a new business implements an assessment. Governance 119 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Development of Human Resources to Take the Initiative in Safety Activities Encouraging the Gaining of Qualifications to Become Key Persons in Charge of Safety Activities In fiscal 2019, 38 employees (68 in total since fiscal 2017) were certified under the “safety leader” qualification to serve as personnel who take the initiative in safety activities. Safety leaders are tasked with identifying and mitigating risks at their respective workplaces, holding workshops with other safety leaders Group-wide, and promoting the standardization of safety training curriculum. In addition, we encourage employees to obtain the qualification called “safety sub-assessor,” holders of which play a role in promoting intrinsic safety in equipment. Since fiscal 2017, 140 employees in total have been certified as safety sub-assessors. We have deployed safety sub-assessors in Group-wide projects extending over several business sites, where they promote improved safety in areas such as elevated opening/closing fences, pinch rollers, and handcarts commonly used at these locations. Review of Equipment Safety Standards Reviewing Equipment Safety Standards in Conjunction with Providing Explanations to Equipment Manufacturers In fiscal 2017, we issued Equipment Design Safety Guidelines, which summarize the safety design standards necessary for production equipment used by Sekisui Chemical Group. Steps are taken to monitor the status of compliance on an ongoing basis. Safety specification checklists must be attached to equipment manufacturer estimates. Corporate audits are conducted to verify that equipment safety standards are actually being adhered to at workplaces and intrinsic safety is being promoted. Early Detection of Risks Training to Improve the Ability to Identify Risks We conduct practical risk assessment-improvement training in order to develop personnel able to identify and mitigate risks at their workplaces. In fiscal 2019, training sessions were conducted at Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. Shiga Plant and Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. The identification of risks by personnel, who have undergone training, and improvements made at their workplaces are monitored. Since fiscal 2016, this training program has been held at a total of 10 workplaces, with the number of participants reaching 239 to date. In addition, the training program has resulted in over 1,900 risk items being identified and unacceptable risks being mitigated. Governance 120 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Measures to Prevent Fires and Explosions Initiated Emergency Audits, to Which Outside Experts Are Invited To prevent fires and explosions that, once they occur, have a major impact on the surrounding environment and on business continuity, in addition to the safety audits performed thus far, we implement emergency response audits, to which we invite outside disaster experts. We verify items such as the storage and handling status of hazardous materials as well as the recovery systems used following a disaster, including natural disasters, and promote the quick identification of disaster risks and the subsequent implementation of preventative measures. Of the 147 measures implemented to prevent a reoccurrence of the 20 fires (including small fires) between fiscal 2104 and fiscal 2017, we confirmed that 139 were still in place. We recommended further measures for strengthening the remaining eight measures and confirmed that these improvements had been made. Building on the accident prevention handbook issued in 2017, we published a second edition in 2019. Based on this handbook, steps are being taken to identify fire and explosion risks at 48 business sites nationwide. By fiscal 2019, 4,072 risks were identified, and 1,858 (90%) of 2,069 risks requiring improvement were mitigated as of the end of fiscal 2019. Type of audit Target / aim of audit ・Document review Checking of conditions relating to health and safety management activities ・On-site inspections Confirmation of the safety of people’s work, their working environments, the surfaces on which they walk, and so forth ・Essential safety measure compliance status Safety audit Includes accident-prevention measures at the facility design and installation stages ・Process examinations of facility management departments Facility installation management, construction management, maintenance management Note: At business sites that themselves implement safety audits only, auditing is performed nearly identically as previously, including “disaster-preparedness audits,” as outlined below. Primarily consists of audits for accident-prevention measures relating to business continuity Disaster-preparedness ・Checking of storage and handling conditions of dangerous articles and designated audit flammable materials ・Checking of fire-fighting equipment maintenance status ・Measures for responding to earthquakes and other natural disasters Governance 121 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Emergency Response Measures For the Purpose of Fine-tuning Unexpected Situation Response Skills in the Event of a Disaster We have established getting caught or entangled in machinery at a production facility, falling off equipment or falling over at a business site, and a fire or explosion in a chemical process as high-risk scenarios on which Sekisui Chemical Group should place a particular focus on preventing. The Company conducts “Heads-up Training” where chemical processes are integral to production. At Sekisui Chemical Group, we conduct “Heads-up training” to fortify the decision-making abilities of all our employees in the event that they encounter an emergency situation. More specifically, supervisors with years of experience will ask trainees what they would do if equipment designed to prevent danger fails and the trainees will be tasked with providing responses off the top of their heads. This training improves the skills needed to respond to unexpected situations in the event of a disaster by passing down to younger employees the on-site safety knowhow accumulated over many years by senior employees. Through this training, we were able to improve equipment countermeasures and revise operating procedures. In addition to teaching trainees how to handle potential problems, the training has been applied on various occasions, including evacuation drills and disaster prevention drills. Deployment of Basic Safety Principles Preparation of Basic Safety Principles Poster We are working to prevent occupational injuries caused by machines and equipment by making the equipment itself intrinsically safer while also preventing occupational accidents caused by worker operations. Based on the lessons learned from past occupational accidents that actually occurred on Group business sites, the “Six Basic Safety Principles,” which summarize compliance matters and matters prohibited during operations for each operational process, were established in fiscal 2017. In order to promptly disseminate these principles within the Company, we created and distributed to each workplace a poster that showed them in an easy to understand, illustrated format. We confirmed that these posters are being utilized at each business site through corporate audit inspection tours conducted in fiscal 2019. In addition, similar details have been processed into a simple animation format. A mechanism is now in place to view this animation on personal smartphones and replayed on workplace monitors. Governance 122 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Overseas Business Site Safety Audits Visualizing the Status of Safety Management Activities at Overseas Business Sites At our overseas production sites, which operate under the varying laws and regulations as well as differing cultural awareness of safety issues in each region, Sekisui Chemical Group has, since fiscal 2013, been deploying safety global standards to raise the level of safety activities. Having commenced safety audits based on these global standards in earnest in fiscal 2014, we implemented audits at seven business sites in fiscal 2019. We are also holding regional safety brainstorming sessions in North America and China to share regional issues and discuss countermeasures. Planning and implementation, which had been previously spearheaded in Japan, have been shifted to regional head office staff. The program is undertaken each fiscal year based on such themes as policy development, sharing workplace initiatives, lectures by experts, and methods to investigate the causes of accidents. Safety & Environment Conference and Safety Awards Presidential Award Given to the Business Site with the Best Safety Record for the Fiscal Year Sekisui Chemical Group Safety & Environment Conference is usually held to coincide with National Safety Week in July of each year. In fiscal 2019, the president was among the total of 250 people, who also included other directors, business heads from domestic production business sites and laboratories, construction companies as well as those in charge of safety, etc. who attended the conference on July 12, 2019. The fiscal 2018 presidential award was given to the business site with the best safety record for the fiscal year at the conference. Safety Management Along Supply Chains Sharing Safety Policies While Providing Training Opportunities Based on the idea of securing the safety of employees from partner companies (contractors) involved in the on-site construction of housing, the Housing Company organizes the Sekisui Heim Cooperation Association with its partner companies (contractors) and holds periodic meetings while utilizing other methods to share the Group’s safety policy. We also provide a variety of training opportunities related to occupational safety, such as safety education sessions. Governance 123 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Safety Performance Japan Aggregate scope: 48 production sites and 5 research institutes in Japan Number of Occupational Accidents Number of Facility Accidents (Accidents) (Accidents) 60 4 48 3 40 42 38 36 32 2 20 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of incidents of Number of accidents (both those resulting in lost malfunctioning (fires, leaks, etc.) at occupational time and those not) occurring during facilities that fulfill at least one of the accidents a given fiscal year (April through the following criteria (Sekisui Chemical following March) Group criteria), from (1) to (3), Number occurring during a given fiscal year of Facility (April through the following March) Accidents (1) Human harm: An accident causing at least 30 days’ lost work (2) Material harm: 10,000,000 yen or greater (3) Opportunity loss: 20,000,000 yen or greater Governance 124 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Number of Long-term Sick Leave Number of Commuting Accidents (Accidents) (Accidents) 100 160 156 90 91 80 76 120 125 125 74 116 104 60 60 80 40 40 20 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Describes leave of 30 days or more The number of accidents occurring consecutively for sickness or injury during commutes to Japanese occurring in a Japanese production production sites and research institutes Number of site or research institute during the during a given fiscal year (April to the commuting Number of given fiscal year (April to the following following March); counting injury to accidents Cases of March), and which is newly-occurring. others, injury to the commuter, selfLong-Term Recurrences within 6 months of the inflicted damage and accidents; includes Sick Leave start of work attendance are not accidents while walking counted. However, leave attributable to an occupational injury is counted as an occupational accident and not classified as long-term sick leave Governance 125 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Frequency Rate Over Time Severity Rate Over Time 1.5 0.2 1.20 1.20 1.15 1.06 1.02 1.0 Average of domestic Average of domestic manufacturing industry* manufacturing industry* 0.1 0.10 0.10 0.5 0.50 0.48 0.42 0.08 0.34 0.07 0.28 0.06 Sekisui Chemical Group 0.012 0.014 0.013 0.014 0.014 Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 *Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour *Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Survey on Occupational Accidents and Welfare, Survey on Occupational Accidents Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The total number of injuries, illness The total number of days of work and fatalities in occupational accidents lost per 1,000 hours of total time with lost time per 1,000,000 hours worked during a given fiscal year (April of total time worked during a given Severity rate through the following March) fiscal year (April through the following Formula for calculation: (Number of Frequency March) days of work lost / total number of rate Formula for calculation: (Number man-hours worked) × 1,000 of injuries, illness and fatalities in occupational accidents with lost time / total number of man-hours worked) × 1,000,000 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) 1.20 Company employees 1.20 Company employees Partner companies(contractors) Partner companies(contractors) 1.00 0.95 1.00 0.80 0.80 0.61 0.62 0.60 0.60 0.48 0.40 0.38 0.40 0.36 0.42 0.36 0.20 0.16 0.20 0.15 0.25 0.08 0 0.06 0.06 0.00 0.12 0.00 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Lost Time (Occupational illnesses / total number (Number of accidents causing sick Injury of man-hours worked) x 1,000,000 leave / total number of man-hours Occupational Frequency Occupational illnesses as defined worked) × 1,000,000 Illness Rate by the Ministry of Health, Labour Frequency and Welfare, including heat stroke, Rate lower back pain, and intoxication by chemical substances Governance 126 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Safety Performance In the Housing Company’s Safety Performance with Respect to Construction Sites Construction Sites in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 29 10 Number of occupational accidents without lost time in the New Construction 8 8 22 sector 20 21 15 7 20 17 Number of occupational 6 10 16 8 accidents without lost time 5 Occupational 15 in the FamiS sector 10 14 13 4 accidents 4 4 4 without lost 6 Number of occupational time 10 11 12 10 1 6 accidents with lost time in 3 10 the New Construction sector 2 14 10 12 13 6 2 2 Occupational 9 Number of occupational accidents 7 3 3 3 with 4 5 5 4 accidents with lost time 2 0 in the FamiS sector 1 lost time 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of occupational Safety accidents (both those resulting accidents (both those resulting in Safety Performance in lost time and those not) lost time and those not) occurring performance with Respect to occurring on construction sites on construction sites under on the Housing Construction under the jurisdiction of the the jurisdiction of the Urban Company’s Sites in the Urban Housing Company during a Infrastructure & Environmental construction sites Infrastructure & given fiscal year (April through Products Company or the Sekisui Environmental the following March) Chemical company headquarters Products during a given fiscal year (April Company through the following March) Governance 127 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Overseas Aggregate scope: 46 production sites and 1 research institute overseas Number of Occupational Accidents (Accidents) 80 47 2 45 40 4 33 38 18 13 China 2 27 8 10 3 11 Asia/Oceania 10 13 6 7 8 Europe 10 17 14 15 8 11 North America 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Occurrence of The number of occupational occupational accidents (both requiring and not accidents requiring time off from work) at overseas occurring at overseas production production sites sites and research institutes during and research a given fiscal year (April through institutes the following March) Japan and Overseas Aggregate scope: 48 production sites , 5 research institutes and 34 constraction offices in Japan 46 production sites and 1 research institute overseas Occurrence of fatalities due to occupational accidents (Number of people) FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Overseas 0 0 0 0 0 Partner Companies (contractors) 1 0 0 0 0 Japan 1 0 0 0 0 Overseas 0 0 0 0 0 Total 1 0 0 0 0 Governance 128 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs Aggregate Scope: 48 Domestic Japanese Production Sites and 5 Research Institutes, Headquarters, Back Offices of Division Companies Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs (Millions of yen) Item Sekisui Chemical Group Classification Details Expense amount Investment amount 1) Costs within business site areas Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, health 954 2,974 management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,829 − 3) Other Safety awards, etc. 3 − Total 2,786 2,974 Costs and Investments Over Time Loss Costs Over Time (Billions of yen) 17.8 Rate (%) 15.0 (Millions of yen) 6 Proportion of 15 800 health, safety and accident prevention investments to 600 4 the total 10 10.1 3.79 9.0 9.2 investment 478.3 468.9 468.6 amount 3.15 2.97 400 2.81 393.7 375.1 2.59 2.77 2.68 2.79 2.29 2.32 2 5 Investment amount 200 Expense amount 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Costs associated with health and The costs of responding to, and safety as well as accident prevention the labor costs incurred due to, Costs activities during a given fiscal year occupational accidents, facility (April through the following March) Loss costs accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term sick leave due to illness The amount invested in health occurring within a given fiscal year and safety as well as and accident Investment (April through the following March) prevention-related measures amounts authorized during a given fiscal year (April through the following March) Governance 129 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report CS & Quality Pursuing the Quality Always Specified by Customers by Maximizing “Quality of People,” “Quality of Systems,” and “Quality of Products.” Management Approach Our Philosophy Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has practiced customer satisfaction (CS) management. In 2004, we coined the new phrase CS & Quality in the belief that customer satisfaction and quality are inseparable. We began CS & Quality Management to consistently deliver value to our customers so that they will always choose our products and services. As we consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing activities, we are actively honing the Quality of Our People, the Quality of Our Systems, and the Quality of Products and Services. In this manner, the Group is working in unison to consistently deliver the quality that is always specified by customers. Sekisui Chemical Group’s CS & Quality Management Circulation Diagram Governance 130 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report CS & Quality Management Promotion System Establishing the CS & Quality Subcommittee That Reports to the CSR Committee Sekisui Chemical Group deliberates on and determines all financial and non-financial initiatives and policies through its Board of Directors. Sekisui Chemical maintains a CS & Quality Subcommittee, which reports to the Company’s CSR Committee. Both the CSR Committee and CS & Quality Subcommittee meet twice a year to deliberate on non-financial CS & Quality issues. In fiscal 2019, meetings of the CS & Quality Subcommittee were held in September and March. CS & Quality Management Promotion System (to FY2019) Board of Directors CSR Committee CSR & Quality Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson:Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Total ManufacturingManagement Center Sub-committee Members:Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, General managers of CS & Quality Management Section at each Divisional Company, Directors, Executive officers at headquarters Office: Total Manufacturing Management Center, CS Quality Group Divisional Company CS & Quality sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Quality management sections Sales companies Technology Department Customer Consultation Office After-sales service sections Customer Consultation Office Headquarters Total Manufacturing Management Center's CS & Quality Group Customer Consultation Office CS & Quality Management Promotion System (from FY2020) Board of Directors Sustainability Committee CSR & Quality Sub-committee Sub-committee : Hitoshi Kobayashi, Executive Officer, Head of Chairperson Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Center Sub-committee : Executive Officers at each Divisional Company, General Members Managers of CS & Quality Management Section at each Divisional Company, Executive Officers at headquarters Office : Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Center, CS & Quality Management Group Divisional companies CS & Quality sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Quality management sections Sales companies Production sites Technology Department After-sales service sections Customer Consultation Office Headquarters Manufacturing Infrastructure Enhancement Center, CS & Quality Management Group Customer Consultation Office Note: The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Governance 131 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Creating Customer-oriented Products About the Follow-up Activities for the Self-declaration for Customer-oriented Management Sekisui Chemical is in favor of the Consumer Affairs Agency’s initiates for bringing about “Customer-oriented Management” and made a “Self-declaration for Customer-oriented Management*,” expressing Sekisui Chemical philosophy and plans for initiatives, in January 2017. * Companies declare to engage in consumer-oriented management, take action based on their declarations and disclose the outcomes of their initiatives. ⇒ See the Consumer Affairs Agency’s website for details of“Customer-oriented Management.” https://www.caa.go.jp/en/policy/consumer_research/pdf/consumer-oriented.pdf Mindful that customer opinions are a valuable resource for management, our CS & Quality Management is based on the motto “customer feedback is the beginning of our manufacturing activities” and is focused on aggressively pursuing innovations in the “Quality of Our People”, the “Quality of Our Systems”, and the “Quality of Our Products.” We aim to contribute to the realization of a worry-free and abundant society by continuing to provide new value to our customers and society. Below are five activities undertaken in fiscal 2019 based on our “Self-declaration for Customer-Oriented Management.” 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities Group companies in Japan and overseas are developing and promoting Group KAIZEN Activities, in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics, including improvements in quality and productivity, increasing operational efficiency, and policy and management issues. Sekisui Chemical Group is also focused on establishing a common language in quality and employs a QC Certification system to measure the level of quality knowledge in its employees. Governance 132 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 2. Creating Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group conducts the CS & Quality Seminar: Attractive Qualities Edition with the goal of bolstering attractive qualities of employees. In fiscal 2019, the main theme of the seminar was how to create attractive qualities during a period of volatile change. With the goal of accelerating the creation of attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted an Attractive Qualities Screening Program to select attractive Group products. Participants in the program included outside experts and in-house management. Launched in 2008, the fifth program was conducted in fiscal 2019. Eight products were entered with four receiving awards. As part of our effort to build a corporate culture that creates attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group has established a study group in fiscal 2013 where employees steer their own study groups in order to focus on how to best improve CS culture, with the ultimate goal of promoting communication on the topic across organizational boundaries. The methodology of this study group is used each year in the training of newly appointed managers, and with the goal of creating a corporate culture that fosters the creation of attractive qualities, participants have declared through dialogue their commitment toward determining their own CS & Quality activities. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities We are holding a variety of seminars to learn effective and efficient preventative measures in order to avoid the occurrence of quality issues when developing new products. We are also effectively utilizing our quality management systems (QMS) in the implementation of attractive qualities process approach. For internal audits in particular, we are promoting activities aimed at increasing the use of the SPMC (Sekisui Process Management Chart), an in-house assessment tool. We believe the ability to respond effectively to our customers is a key attractive quality and have accordingly established a Telephone Service Training program to improve the ability of our employees to provide phone-based service to our customers. 4. Enhancing Communications Sekisui Chemical Group believes a customer-oriented business requires a developer to effectively understand the needs of its customers, through communication with individuals from both inside and outside the Company. To this end we are focused on creating a variety of communication opportunities. Our efforts to take into account the voices and values of those outside the Company include our CS & Quality Seminar, which invites external experts to speak, the Attractive Qualities Screening System, which involves product quality assessments provided by third-party experts, and customer satisfaction surveys in the housing company business. In addition, and separate from this survey, each year we publish and distribute to all Group companies the VOICE booklet summarizing customer inquiries and feedback gathered by the Customer Consultation Office. With the goal of improving communication among employees, Sekisui Chemical Group engages in a variety of measures. This includes workshops aimed at promoting employee discussions on CS & Quality systems and activities. Governance 133 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education Sekisui Chemical Group conducts CS & Quality training each year for new recruits and employees newly appointed to managerial positions. Training for new recruits looks at the Group’s approach toward CS & Quality management as well as daily operating behavior that is conducive to customer satisfaction. For employees newly appointed to managerial positions, training is conducted in groups using practical case studies. These group workshops encourage employees newly appointed to managerial positions to think about how to realize CS & Quality. We see activities 1~4,which cover such wide-ranging fields as CS & Quality Seminars, the Attractive Qualities Screening Program, VOICE, and Employee CS & Quality Assessments as measures that facilitate the education of employees. Governance 134 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Medium-term Plan Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place a CS & Quality Policy Under Its Medium-term Management Plan Management Approach Medium-term Plan Implementation Initiatives Under the CS & Quality Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Roadmap for CS & Quality Control Initiatives Note: SPMC (short for Sekisui Process Management Chart) Major Initiatives Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Progress Decrease in External Failure Costs Compared with Fiscal 2016 In fiscal 2019, the final fiscal year in the CS & Quality Medium-term Plan, there was one incidence of a major quality issue*1. Meanwhile, there has been no major quality issue relating to new products*2 in the current fiscal year. In addition, external failure costs*3 decreased compared with fiscal 2016. To achieve zero major quality issues in the future, we will promote quality management activities across the entire supply chain based on the Development Guidelines and Everyday Management Guidelines. In addition, we will aim to decrease external loss costs by rolling out across the entire Group a more robust quality assurance system, management of changes and alterations to this system, and quality risk-reduction activities based on the prevention of defects. *1 Major quality issues: Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. *2 New product: A challenging product selected by divisional companies through the development of new fields and technologies. *3 External failure costs: Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. Governance 135 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Enhance Basic Manufacturing Capabilities Rebuilding of the Quality Management Systems Strengthening process approach activities is essential to promoting certification under the 2015 edition of the ISO 9001 standard. Here, we developed an original sheet, which we dubbed the SEKISUI Process Management Chart (SPMC), for Group-wide use. The SPMC provides an overview of the management flows of those processes that make up the Quality Management System at a glance. Moreover, the SPMC is an effective tool in monitoring daily management, promoting corrective action as well as internal audits, and other activities including quality education. In fiscal 2019, steps were taken to put in place criteria that would help ascertain the level of operations and to initiate evaluations at each production site. Based on the results, every effort will be made to promote the understanding and penetration of the SPMC and to continuously pursue activities aimed at improving operating levels. Improve Attractive Qualities Holding the Attractive Qualities Screening System In accordance with the “CS & Quality Management Activity Roadmap,” Sekisui Chemical held the 5th Attractive Qualities Screening System in fiscal 2019. In addition to modifying the existing evaluation criteria, steps were taken to also review the System’s operations. Eight products were entered in the Attractive Qualities Screening System in fiscal 2019 with four products receiving awards. Note: Details regarding Creating Attractive Products and Services to be provided later. Governance 136 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Data Concerning Major Quality Issues Number of Major Quality Issues (Incidents) 3 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method These refer to product and service quality issues determined by Headquarters or the divisional company presidents, based on evaluations and judgments by the quality assurance manager, which could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group and lead to the loss of society’s trust in the Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis including: 1) Problems that could have a serious impact on (or cause severe damage to) Major Quality Issues society, such as product recalls 2) All serious problems involving human safety and those acknowledged by the Divisional Company to be serious problems involving the safety of property 3) Compliance-related problems concerning the quality of products or services (e.g., those involving compliance with relevant laws and regulations) 4) Problems that could inflict serious financial damage on customers Data Concerning External Failure Costs External Failure Costs （FY2016 : 100） 120 108.9 100 102.4 98.6 100 95.0 80 60 40 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method External failure costs Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints Governance 137 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Creating Attractive Products and Services Advancing the Development of Human Resources, Systems, and a Culture Enabling the Creation of Attractive Qualities Management Approach Basic Concept Building a Customer-oriented, Free, and Open-minded Organizational Culture Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building a customer-oriented, free and open-minded organizational culture to create Attractive Qualities that customers will continue to ask for by name. Customer-oriented,free and open-minded organizational culture The quality always specified Creating a space for communication through dialog Study Groups for CS Culture Check on and improve the customer-oriented organizational culture Employee CS & Quality Assessments Outstanding Customers Provide awards for and publicize successful efforts Outstanding human products and Attractive Qualities Screening System resources services Think more deeply based on case studies and systems from other companies CS & Quality Seminars Value customer feedback Telephone service training Governance 138 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Measures to Create Attractive Qualities Providing Products and Services While Enhancing CS Sensitivity To continue creating Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve the CS sensitivity of individual employees and to build an organizational culture focused on CS. Study Groups for CS Culture Study Groups for CS Culture began as a measure to improve awareness of CS when we realized there was not enough communication across organizational borders in the Employee CS & Quality Assessments that were conducted in fiscal 2012. Formed so that employees themselves could drive improvements in CS culture, the Study Groups were initially referred to as Wakuwaku Chaya Study Groups. Study groups were launched in fiscal 2013. Since fiscal 2014, an organization has been in place to set up and maintain a facilitator within the organization, and activities have continued in each department within the Group up to the present day. The educational program for newly appointed managers held each year applies the methodology used in these study groups, with each participant in the program engaging in active dialog and declaring their commitment to determining their own CS & Quality activities. We are currently focused on creating a space where participants can engage in dialogue with each other free from theme or event format limitations. More specifically, we are exploring through dialogue with participants the following initiatives, taking into account our priority policies as well as data acquired from customer surveys and CS & Quality assessments. Governance 139 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report CS & Quality Seminars (Attractive Qualities Themes) For CS & Quality Seminars we invite experts from a variety of fields outside the Company to give lectures with the intention of improving awareness of CS & Quality. Held several times a year, the lectures are split into Attractive Qualities themes about creating attractive quality and Basic Qualities themes to strengthen core quality. A total of 56 seminars have been held from the first event in 2001 through to the end of fiscal 2019. Under the Attractive Qualities themes, we hold various lectures not only on excellent case studies of the planning and development of hit and long-selling products, but also on matters related to hospitality and employee motivation to achieve customer satisfaction. From fiscal 2016, we held video conferences on case study videos from other companies similar to the lecture themes to coincide with the days on which CS & Quality seminars were held. From fiscal 2018 we also set up a forum for employees to share their thoughts with their peers after trial meetings while working to enhance communications. In fiscal 2019, a total of 181 people participated in the two seminars held at Sekisui Chemical's Tokyo Headquarters on how to create attractive quality in a time of rapid change. We initially expected to hold three seminars, as is usually the case in normal years, but we cancelled the third seminar, which had been scheduled for March 2020, in line with our efforts to prevent the further spread of COVID-19. . ●June 14, 2019 ●August 24, 2019 “Rebalancing Art and Science in “Designing Services based on the Idea Business” of Future Customers” Shu Yamaguchi Hironori Iwasaki Independent researcher, author, public MIRAI BUSINESS DIVISION speaker Hakuhodo Incorporated Governance 140 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Telephone Service Training As part of efforts to improve customer satisfaction, the Customer Consultation Office has been conducting telephone service training since fiscal 2008 to horizontally deploy the customer telephone service skills that are cultivated in business operations in each division company. Having implemented Telephone Service Training since fiscal 2008, back office staff from the Customer Consultation Office serve as instructors and visit each office, thereby providing employees with opportunities to improve Sekisui Chemical Group’s telephone service skills. Initially, Telephone Service Training was only conducted at the Housing Company, which handles many general inquiries from individual customers, but from fiscal 2011 we also deployed the training at the Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Products Company, the High Performance Plastics Company, Headquarters and each subsidiary company that focus on corporate customers. From fiscal 2016 onwards, Telephone Service Training has been introduced in the Urban Infrastructure and Environmental Products Company’s educational programs for new employees. We designed a new e-learning-based training program in fiscal 2019 and launched it in nine locations. The “All-Japan Telephone Service Contest,” in which Sekisui Heim sales company call center employees from across the country pit their telephone service skills against each other, has been held every year from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2017. Applying a new method, we held the contest again in fiscal 2019. Unique Brain Lab + S In promoting the creation of products and services that inspire our customers and society, we believe it important to not only share our stories of success, but also to focus on the generation of the boundary-breaking ideas, approaches, and concepts that contribute to these successes. Our “Unique Brain Lab + S” study groups were created to improve creativity and generate these kinds of unique ideas and ways of thinking. Following a trial run in fiscal 2018, 30 people were selected from among the many applicants to participate in the program in fiscal 2019. We aim to further improve creativity moving forward by continually conducting e-learning exercises on a regular basis. Governance 141 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Systems That Confirm Attractive Qualities from the Viewpoint of Society Attractive Qualities Screening System for Evaluating by Outside Experts In order to accelerate the creation of attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group has since fiscal 2008 implemented an Attractive Qualities Screening System, under which outside experts evaluate the company’s Attractive Quality products. The evaluations focus not only on sales and profits, but also on the development process and a product’s ability to provide value to customers and society. A total of 13 products have been selected for awards, including four in fiscal 2008, three in fiscal 2011, four in fiscal 2014, and two in fiscal 2017. We revised the assessment criteria and reviewed the operational aspects of the Attractive Qualities Screening System in fiscal 2019. While presentations and screening previously took place in private, we made a portion of the screenings public and solicited votes from employees as part of our effort to broaden employee awareness of and participation in the system. These initiatives further contributed to the selection of attractive quality products. Four new products received awards in fiscal 2019. We identified the target of upgrading and expanding the nine new attractive quality products under the Medium-term Plan (2017-2019). Despite undertaking various initiatives as previously mentioned, the cumulative total of new products came to six over the medium term. Fifth (Fiscal 2019) / Four Products ●Attractive Quality Award ・The first stage of the SEKISUI Safe & Sound Project Asaka Leadtown ●Attractive Quality Gold Award ・ SPR-SE method ・ SMART HEIM targeting reduction of disaster impact (preventing and mitigating disasters) by enhancing resilience ●Attractive Quality Special Award ・ Sekisui Tatami (MIGUSA), offering floor tatami mats, system tatami mats, and heated floor tatami mats Governance 142 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Systems to Measure the Degree to Which CS & Quality Management Has Spread Surveying Awareness of and Behavior Regarding CS & Quality Management by Employee CS & Quality Assessments Since fiscal 2012, Sekisui Chemical Group has been utilizing e-learning to conduct a CS & Quality Assessment (survey) program once every two years for employees in Japan, the aim being to ascertain the degree to which CS & Quality Management has spread throughout the organization, identify any related issues by measuring employees’ awareness of CS & Quality and related activities, and reflect this information in the code of conduct. More specifically, the survey identifies issues for creating the groundwork for CS & Quality culture, such as by measuring the degree that management’s philosophy and policies have spread throughout the organization, and communications up and down the ranks, across organizations and among members. Thereafter, based on the final report, new action objectives are set for each organizational unit with the aim of gradually fostering a culture of CS & Quality within Sekisui Chemical Group. Since fiscal 2015, we have worked to expand overseas by conducting employee CS & Quality assessments in China as well. We conducted CS & Quality assessments in China for the fourth time in fiscal 2019. With the addition of five new locations, we conducted assessments for 986 individuals at a total of 11 locations. We also held workshops at some locations in China based on workshop-related feedback obtained through dialogue in Japan in fiscal 2018. Systems That Use Customer Feedback to Increase CS & Quality Improve the Responsiveness of Customer Consultation Office The staff of the Customer Consultation Office responds to questions, concerns, opinions, requests, and other inquiries from customers. With the goal of avoiding the forwarding of those calls to the departments responsible and taking action that does not leave the customer waiting, all employees of the Customer Consultation Office learn about our products and technologies and strive to offer, as much as possible, responses to inquiries at a one-stop shop. Our one-stop response rate is improving with each passing year, and we intend to keep working to improve the ability of our Customer Consultation Office employees in order to further enhance our trustworthiness to these same customers. Governance 143 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Systems for Employees to Share Customer Feedback Publication of VOICE and VOICE PLUS That Summarize Customer Feedback Sekisui Chemical Group’s Customer Consultation Office receives over 10,000 inquiries and comments every year. Sekisui Chemical Group directly answers each inquiry and analyzes the factors that motivated the customer to make the inquiry in the first place, in order to discover the hidden needs of customers. Many of these customer inquiries contain requests and ideas for making improvements, such as changing product specifications and increasing the range of variations. By feeding back these customer opinions to the divisions of each internal company, we are able to improve CS & Quality by revising specifications and enhancing catalog markups from the users’ perspective. As a new initiative starting in fiscal 2015, the Group has published VOICE, which is a summary of the inquiries received by Customer Consultation Office. This booklet is published with the aim of reflecting customer feedback in management activities, cultivating and instilling a culture of CS & Quality in all employees, and promoting understanding of these issues in Group-wide businesses in a manner that transcends particular operational areas. Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve three qualities (people, systems, products and services) based on feedback from customers. Following the publication of the first issue in fiscal 2015, the fourth issue was published in fiscal 2019. The Sekisui Chemical Group has published this booklet with the aim of improving CS & Quality and highlighting measures aimed at putting the concerns of customers at the forefront of workplace activities. In fiscal 2018 we prepared and posted on the Company’s intranet the second VOICE + issue, which focused on emotionally moving stories stemming from the comments of customers. Governance 144 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Systems to Confirm Customer Satisfaction Conducting a Customer CS Survey Sekisui Chemical Group’s Housing Company conducts CS surveys of customers for whom it has built Sekisui Heim homes. The feedback from the customers who kindly respond to the surveys is broadly shared throughout the Company and used in product development and in improvements in the quality of the Group’s services for its customers. Details of any customer dissatisfaction are closely assessed, and steps then taken to change dissatisfaction into satisfaction. In fiscal 2019, customers who had responded that they were “very satisfied” reached 73%. System to Convey CS & Quality Activities to Employees STAR 55 Bulletin Highlights Good Examples of CS & Quality for Group Employees In 2002, its 55th anniversary, Sekisui Chemical Group implemented STAR 55 as a program to promote CS throughout the Company and declared CS to be positioned as the foundation of management for all employees. So that the STAR 55 activities did not lose momentum, in 2006 we also issued the first STAR 55 Bulletin, a newsletter compilation of excellent case studies for CS & Quality for Group employees. We have continued to publish STAR 55 Bulletin since fiscal 2006. The name STAR 55 embodies Sekisui, Trust, Action and Revolution, meaning that each and every employee of Sekisui Chemical Group promises action to gain the trust of customers and will attempt to bring about a revolution in the Group’s spirit and culture while the Company allows each to take a leading role and become a STAR. STAR 55 Bulletin No.’s 40, 41, and 42 Note: Origin of the name: STAR 55 Bulletin S = Sekisui, T = Trust, A = Action, R = Revolution, STAR = Leader, 55 = 55th anniversary since founding. Governance 145 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Attractive Qualities Screening System Results Number of Award-winning Award-winning Products Products • Attractive Quality Award SPR method and materials • Attractive Quality Gold Award ・ S-LEC (sound and heat insulation, sound and heat insulation First (Fiscal 2008) Four Products interlayer film) ・ SMART HEIM (advancing energy self-sufficient house) • Special Recognition Award Lineup of Eslo Hyper products (earthquakeresistant, high-performance polyethylene water pipes) • Attractive Quality Award Comfortable Air System • Attractive Quality Gold Award Second (Fiscal 2011) Three Products ・ NORUDIA N ・ CALMMOON • Attractive Quality Award Rapid-Tester™ RSV-Adeno • Attractive Quality Gold Award Third (Fiscal 2014) Four Products ・ Fire-resistant VP Pipe Piping System ・ Liquid crystal UV sealant ・ Smart Power Station • Attractive Quality Gold Award ・ Energy self-sufficient housing Smart Power Station “100% Edition” Fourth (Fiscal 2017) Two Products ・ “Kucho Hyper CH” high-performance polyethylene tube for air conditioner piping Note: Attractive Quality Award not applicable • Attractive Quality Award ・ SEKISUI Safe & Sound Project No. 1 Asaka Leadtown • Attractive Quality Gold Award ・ SPR-SE method Fifth (Fiscal 2019) Four Products ・ SMART HEIM targeting reduction of disaster impact (preventing and mitigating disasters) by enhancing resilience • Attractive Quality Special Award ・ Sekisui Tatami (MIGUSA), offering floor tatami mats, system tatami mats, and heated floor tatami mats Indicator Calculation Method Attractive quality products Products selected under the Attractive Qualities Screening System Governance 146 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Data Related to Support Improvement at the Customer Consultation Office Number of Incoming Calls, etc., from Customers (Cases) 12,000 10,000 10,205 10,240 10,067 756 761 9,806 702 734 8,902 8,000 627 Housing Company 6,000 6,333 6,436 6,498 6,272 5,493 Urban Infrastructure and Environmental 4,000 Products Company High Performance Plastics Company 2,000 1,980 2,116 1,598 1,852 1,914 Other 0 971 1,030 980 983 1,193 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation Method Number of incoming calls, etc. Number of inquiries by telephone, email, letters, faxes, and other means Breakdown of incoming calls (Sekisui Chemical) Needs/Expectations 81cases (1%) Complaints and Compliments dissatisfactions 3 cases (0%) 237 cases (3%) FY2019 8,902 cases General inquiries 8,581 cases (96%) Indicator Calculation Method The subjects of incoming calls are recorded on “Insider Net” and categorized as follows: • General inquiries: questions about Sekisui Chemical Group product specifications, how to use products, construction methods, stores selling the products, and services such as repairs • Complaints and dissatisfactions: Incidents during which customers expressed their dissatisfaction or lodged rebukes concerning Sekisui Chemical Group products or services Breakdown of • Compliments: Calls during which praise was received for satisfaction with the Sekisui Chemical incoming calls Group's products or services • Needs and expectations: What customers require of Sekisui Chemical Group products and services (product improvements and new products, etc.), and inquiries relating to business activities, or comments on what is expected of Sekisui Chemical Group Note: “Insider Net”: A Sekisui Chemical Group intranet site on which details of incoming calls to the Customer Consultation Office are released in real-time. Governance 147 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Data Relating to Employee CS & Quality Assessments Data Relating to Employee CS & Quality Assessments in China Implementation Count Total Number of Responses (Companies) FY2016 405 3 FY2017 552 5 FY2018 604 6 FY2019 986 11 Data Relating to Customer Surveys CS Questionnaire 7-Step Evaluation (Housing Company) Other (Somewhat dissatisfied, Very dissatisfied, (%) Extremely dissatisfied) 100 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 2.6 2.6 2.1 2.0 1.8 7.1 5.8 5.4 5.1 5.9 Neither 80 18.3 15.0 15.2 16.6 18.4 Somewhat satisfied Satisfied 60 Extremely satisfied 40 75.9 76.6 75.6 73.3 71.1 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Governance 148 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Improving Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” in Accidents, Waste and Complaints Management Approach Basic Concept On-site Manufacturing Supports Quality Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that support quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased waste, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of accidents, waste, and complaints. Governance 149 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Quality Management Systems in Each Section Reflect Business Characteristics Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality control systems covering every process from production to product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality assurance system, and in each process, we promote standards-based controls on a daily basis. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. Sekisui Chemical is also rolling out this particular scheme to all Group companies in the form of Group Quality Control Rules. Formulating Three Quality Guidelines Maintaining Uniform Quality Control from Development to Sales Undertaking uniform quality control throughout the value chain—from development, manufacturing, and sales—Sekisui Chemical Group is working to improve the level of its quality control by formulating and issuing three guidelines: Development Guidelines for Strengthening Quality Assurance, Guidelines for Daily Management Activities, and Contract / Specification Guidelines. Development Guidelines for Strengthening Quality Assurance are aimed at preventing Basic Quality-related problems from occurring by predicting quality risks that can arise after commercialization. Guidelines for Daily Management Activities are a collection of basic guides to management on a daily basis that must be undertaken in manufacturing and post-development processes. Contract / Specification Guidelines were formulated and published with the aim of reducing expanded compensation* risks related to product sales. * Expanded compensation: Customers compensation in the case of product defects that extend beyond returns and exchanges to include compensation for processing / construction / items made with these products, and other related damage. Governance 150 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Preventing Quality Fraud Implementing In-house Quality Control Investigations In light of the frequent occurrence of quality control related fraud from 2017 to 2018 in Japan, Sekisui Chemical implemented an in-house investigation to confirm that its quality data is not fraudulent and that inspections, etc., have not been conducted by uncertified personnel for all products throughout the Group in order to ensure that the Company does not put the lessons learned by others to waste. As a result, we have confirmed that there are no cases of deficiencies regarding certification of auditors, official certification, and quality that hold the risk of violation or fraud. Sekisui Chemical Group took steps to put in place a structure, systems, and framework to prevent further data falsification in fiscal 2019. This initiative is to coincide with the start of the new CS & Quality Medium-term Plan from fiscal 2020. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. also received quality certification from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the first time in fiscal 2019. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to ensure that the specifications agreed upon with our customers are observed and that the group re-instill an awareness of compliance for the purpose of enhancing its quality assurance capability. At the same time, by ensuring the reliability and transparency of inspections, we will continue to implement inhouse quality control investigations that extinguish any potential for fraud. Product Safety Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules for Product Safety When a legal violation related to product safety becomes known internally or is pointed out from external sources, Sekisui Chemical Group rapidly discloses information about the incident and moves quickly to discover the cause and prevent a reoccurrence. This is also true if internal rules and standards for product safety have not been followed. In fiscal 2019, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to product safety. Products Information Disclosure and Labeling Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules Relating to Product Information Disclosure Sekisui Chemical Group complies strictly with laws and internal rules relating to the disclosure of product quality and safety. Sekisui Chemical Group complies with laws relating to development while setting and confirming product information disclosure checklist items. In fiscal 2019, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to the disclosure of product quality and safety. Governance 151 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Design and Development Seminars Development Risk Prevention Seminar and DR* Reviewer Training Seminar Continuing from fiscal 2013, we held the Development Risk Prevention Seminar aimed at acquiring effective, efficient prevention methods as well as the DR Reviewer Training Seminar to improve the skills of people who conduct DRs. Both seminars are based on the topic of preventing quality problems before they arise. In fiscal 2019, we held case study meetings for ongoing development themes with the Musashi Plant and Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. We reconfirmed the importance of predicting and identifying risks to quality by focusing on points of change with existing products. We plan to hold these seminars again in fiscal 2020. * DR: Design Review Development Prevention Seminar DR Reviewer Training Seminar QC Certification Acquisition of QC Certification* Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC Certification effectively to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of the end of fiscal 2019, over 4,600 members of the Company had attained QC Certification. * A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers and certified by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. * Figures show the total number of employees who have acquired QC Certification levels 1 through 3 Governance 152 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Group KAIZEN Activities on a Global Scale Holding the Group KAIZEN Activities Award / Presentation Meeting Annually Group KAIZEN Activities* are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics such as improvements in quality and productivity and increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various subjects through policy management. These activities have a track record of more than 50 years. They are underway at numerous business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. Once a year in January, presentations are made by the representative group in each area Japan, North America / Mexico, China, Europe, and Asia / Oceania to share information and foster mutual improvement. In the 54th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting held in January 2020, a total of 14 groups (10 from Japan and four from other countries) made presentations. 18 business sites made requests in advance to view the proceedings of Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting in real-time, and the event was broadcast to their offices as requested. Participants in the event commented “as a forum that provided an easy-to-understand overview of the background and logic behind efforts to secure improvements by the entire Group, the meeting was an opportunity for people without specialized knowledge to concentrate and listen” and “there was a lot to learn and incorporate even as a small organization.” Based on the many thoughts and impressions received, the meeting was an important initiative that helped deepen understanding of KAIZEN activities. Award name Site Group Gold Prize Taga Plant, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. KFC Silver Prize Sekisui Famis Kinki Co., Ltd. CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Bronze Prize Iwate Plant, SEKISUI MEDICAL CO., LTD. Yamaneko * Group KAIZEN Activities: Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. Representatives who Participated in the KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting Governance 153 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Business Sites That Have Received Third-party Certification for Their Quality Management Systems Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Housing Company (integrated certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Development Department Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Technology & CS Division Okayama Plant NIPPON INSIEK CO., LTD. Administrative Management & Control Division Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Eslon B.V. Information Systems Department East Japan Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. SEKISUI PIPE RENEWAL B.V. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Hanyu Site Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Tokyo Site Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Plant Technology Co., Ltd. Kanto Site Engineering Division Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Chubu Site Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Water Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Kinki Site Supply & Drainage Division Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Bloomsburg Plant Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Polymer Innovations, LLC. Sekisui Heim Supply Co., Ltd. Technology Department Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Holland Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Plant Headquarters High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. New Business Development Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Department LB Business Group Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant SEKISUI LB TEC K.K. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Pilon Plastics Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. (Headquarters) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. (integrated Sekisui High Performance Packaging Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego certification) (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Shiga Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Calvert City Plant Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Osaka Office Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Tokyo Office Pasadena Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Tochigi Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Plant Dallas HQ Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Plant Tarragona Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals(Thailand) Co., Sekisui Material Solutions Co., Ltd. Ltd. Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Sand L Specialty Polymers Co., LTD Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd. PT. SEKISUI TECHNO MOLDING INDONESIA Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Site / SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Chennai IM Project SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Gr. Noida Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. SEKISUI DLJM Molding Pvt. Ltd Tapukara Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. SEKISUI Polymatech (Thailand) Co., LTD. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. PT. SEKISUI Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui S-Lec B.V. SEKISUI Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., LTD. Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Alveo B.S Sekisui Alveo G.m.b.H Sekisui Alveo S.r.L Sekisui Alveo S.A. Sekisui Alveo A.G. Sekisui Alveo (Benelux) B.V. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Governance 154 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Other Data FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of participants in the Development Risk 302 418 502 555 Prevention Seminar (cumulative total) Number of participants in the DR Reviewer Training 166 259 283 296 Seminar (cumulative total) Number of participants in employee grade-based training system for managers in production departments 2,252 2,768 3,174 3,348 (cumulative total) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of people with QC Certification 4,103 4,228 4,337 4,626 Governance 155 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Compliance Strengthening Compliance Management on a Global Scale Compliance Management Approach Our Approach to Compliance Management Compliance Management Depends on the Good Intentions of Each Employee In Sekisui Chemical Group, we established our “Compliance Declaration” in 2003 based on principles such as “contributing to society,” “being a trusted company,” and “adherence to the letter and spirit of the law.” In keeping with the spirit of the Group Principles and our Corporate Code of Ethics, we defined our stance for the acquisition of high social trust through compliance. In April 2019, under the leadership of President Koge ( Chairman of the Board and Representative Director as of March 1, 2020), the declaration was made that compliance is management itself for Sekisui Chemical Group, and that each and every employee will work together to act in accordance with compliance regulations. In order to ensure Sekisui Chemical Group will be widely trusted by society, we will continue to carry out initiatives for improving compliance awareness. Prevent Compliance Issues Prevent Major Compliance Issues In the CSR Medium-term Plan (FY2017 to FY2019), we carried over “zero incidents of major compliance issues” as a target from the previous medium-term plan. From fiscal 2015 onward, Sekisui Chemical has continually achieved zero incidents of corruption and fraud. In fiscal 2019 as well, no cases of major compliance issues arose. In the CSR Medium-term Plan, which we will start to implement in fiscal 2020, we will carry over “zero incidents of major compliance issues” as a target, and will continue strengthening our management of compliance and work to prevent compliance issues before they occur. Governance 156 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Growing Awareness Toward Compliance Compliance Manuals and Compliance Cards Distributed Sekisui Chemical Group has created and distributed the Compliance Manual, in which are described the matters with which each Group employee should comply, and also created a pocket version called the Compliance Card in order to instill awareness of compliance in each and every employee. The Compliance Manual includes information on topics such as the prohibitions on corruption and bribery, respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination, data management and protection, compliance with antitrust legislation, prohibitions on insider trading, conservation of the global environment and compliance with labor-related laws and regulations, and the internal whistleblowing system; it publicizes, and promotes thorough adherence with, these requirements among all employees. In addition to the existing Compliance Manual, we have created a Global Compliance Manual covering regulations around the world. To allow all overseas Group employees to understand this manual, we have created English, Chinese, Thai, Indonesian, German, and Korean editions, and are proceeding with translating the manual into more local languages. In fiscal 2019, we translated the Compliance Declaration released under President Koge (currently Chairman of the Board and Representative Director) into each language, and included this declaration in the Global Compliance Manuals published in the above listed languages. The Company’s The Company’s The conveniently sized Compliance Card Compliance Manual Compliance Manual (English) Governance 157 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice Building an Effective Compliance Promotion System We are building a realistic and effective compliance promotion system to ensure that compliance management is fully put into practice. In addition to having established a Compliance Subcommittee—which reports to the CSR Committee and is chaired by the executive officer who heads the Legal Department—as an organization to oversee Group compliance and to put forward policies and implementation measures, we are also establishing compliance promotion subcommittees at headquarters and at each divisional company, appointing persons responsible for putting compliance promotion into practice and implementing and deploying each measure. In the unlikely event that a major compliance issue arises, we will hold a Compliance Advisory Board meeting to address any problems that have actually occurred and examine measures to prevent a recurrence. The Compliance Subcommittee met twice in fiscal 2019, in September 2019 and March 2020. Compliance Promotion System (to FY2019) Compliance Promotion System (from FY2020) Board of Directors Board of Directors CSR Committee Development of countermeasures for Sustainability Committee* Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group's basic policies on individual compliance issues, Development of countermeasures Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group's basic policies for individual compliance issues, compliance and formulation of measures to be implemented consideration of measures to on compliance and formulation of measures to be in areas such as education and training prevent their reoccurrence, etc. consideration of measures to implemented in areas such as education and training prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Compliance Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson: Hiroyuki Taketomo,Director, Compliance Sub-committee Managing Executive Officer, Compliance Sub-committee : Hiroyuki Taketomo, Director, Managing Responsible for Legal Advisory Chairperson Executive Officer, Responsible for Legal Reporting Department, Head of Human Resources Department Board Department, Head of Human Reporting Compliance Resources Department Advisory Board Sub-committee Members: Managing Executive Officers and (to address Executive Officers at each problems that Sub-committee : Executive officers at each Divisional (to address problems that Divisional Company, General have actually Members Company and headquarters, General have actually occurred) Managers of Compliance Section occurred) managers of Compliance Section at at each Divisional Company, Heads each Divisional Company, Heads of of Corporate Audit Department Corporate Audit Department Office: Legal Department Office: Legal Department Promotion of policies and Instruction measuresdiscussed in the Promotion of policies and Reporting Instruction and Reporting Sub-committee and other matters measures discussed in the and Sub-committee and other matters communication Headquarters/ communication Divisional Company Headquarters/Divisional Company Promotion and Promotion and Compliance Promotion development of Compliance developmentof measures measures Promotion Manager Manager Compliance Promotion Committee Compliance Promotion Committee (person responsible (person responsible Reporting for promotion) Reporting for promotion) * The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Compliance Training Ongoing Provision of Opportunities to Learn About Compliance As part of our efforts associated with putting compliance management into practice, we also focus on employee compliance education. We continuously provide opportunities for all Group employees to learn about the importance of compliance, such as by conducting e-learning sessions specific to compliance quarterly. These e-learning programs include information about compliance as training for new employees and as rank-specific training. In order to provide the same learning opportunities for those employees without access to an environment from which they can individually view the intranet, such as those working on production plant floors, we have enabled employees to participate in paper-based learning programs at those Group companies and business sites that have requested such since fiscal 2019. Governance 158 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Upgrade of the Whistle-blowing Program We Are Promoting Knowledge of S.C.A.N.'s Existence and Its Effective Operation In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed the Sekisui Compliance Assist Network (S.C.A.N.) intra-company whistle-blowing system, which is the mechanism that has been made available for use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employees and its business partners. Operated under the supervision of the executive officer in charge of the legal department, S.C.A.N. enables direct reporting not only to the Legal Department but also to an outside law firm. In addition to serving as a reporting system, S.C.A.N. also plays a role as a point of contact for consultations, such as whether a specific act would be classed as a compliance violation. In order to create an organizational culture that maintains full awareness of compliance, the system also prescribes the protection of the whistleblower and stipulates that information on the person who provided the information be kept secret from everyone other than at the point of contact and the prohibition of any prejudicial treatment toward that person. Regarding the report content, interviews are held to investigate the claims of both the informer and the informee, and eyewitnesses are interviewed as well when necessary. The truthfulness of these reports is confirmed in this way, ensuring intra-organizational issues are handled in a fair manner. Responses to External Notifications We reconfigured the intra-company whistle-blowing system in fiscal 2015 as part of the strengthening of governance functions at each Sekisui Chemical Group company and put in place points of contact for consultations from, and whistleblowing by, suppliers. This consultation / notification point of contact is intended for use by the executive officers and employees of business partners in Japan who are continuously conducting business transactions with Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We occasionally accept requests for consultations and receive reports via a form made available on Group company websites and, while conducting consultations with business partners, proceed to confirm the facts and take corrective action concerning any alleged “law-violating conduct.” The content of consultations and reports is shared only among the minimum number of people necessary to resolve the “law-violating conduct concerned, and all parties that need to be involved are obliged to keep that content confidential. Prevention of Bribery and Corruption Guidelines in Place, Educational Programs Conducted for High-risk Divisions A signatory to and an approver of the UN Global Compact, which stipulates anti-corruption efforts under its voluntary action principles, Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting efforts to prevent acts of bribery and corruption in that spirit. As part of our internal regulations, we have put in place rules to prevent bribery and corruption and are promoting their introduction at all Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We have also formulated anti-bribery guidelines, which summarize matters concerning bribery and corruption, that employees should observe when doing business in Japan, the United States and China. We have worked to make these regulations and guidelines known via the intranet, so that Group employees can check them at any time. Governance 159 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Main Measures Relating to Bribery and Corruption In our efforts to prevent the breaking of any laws, we identify high risk cases regarding corruption and bribery, and put countermeasures in place. For example, when a government official is to be entertained or presented with a gift, a form must be submitted in advance to obtain approval from management. In the event that we appoint an agent or consultant in connection with business transactions, including those involving public officials from other countries, we stipulate that this can only be undertaken once we have confirmed that payments of remuneration to that agent or consultant could not be classed as bribes, that there are no reasonable grounds to suspect that payments could constitute bribes and only after a predetermined settlement procedure has been followed. Identification of High-risk Divisions and Employee Training In the sales and purchasing departments, which are especially at risk for bribery and corruption, we encourage them to learn about regulations and guidelines, such as by conducting training specific to countering graft and corruption, and to make full use of the relevant forms, among other measures. In fiscal 2019, in connection with the “Compliance Reinforcement Month,” held yearly throughout the Sekisui Chemical Group in October, we conducted bribery prevention training at each Group company in China. We also called attention to bribery prevention during overseas assignment pretraining for those employees being assigned overseas for the first time. We also disseminated our policies regarding bribery prevention in the Compliance Manual for domestic use and the Global Compliance Manual for overseas Group companies. We translated the Global Compliance Manual into English, Chinese, Thai, Indonesian, German, and Korean, and have enabled Group employees to freely check these from the intranet. Cases of Violations in Fiscal 2019 No cases of major violations of the laws governing bribery and corruption occurred in fiscal 2019. Tax Compliance Initiatives Contribute to the Economic Development of Each Countries and Regions Through Proper Tax Payments Sekisui Chemical Group considers paying taxes as one of the fundamental and important social responsibilities of a company. We comply with the tax laws of each of the countries and regions in which our business activities are conducted and properly pay taxes. We do not use tax havens for tax avoidance purposes, and pay taxes appropriately in the countries and regions where we operate, thereby contributing to the economic development of those countries and regions. In regard to transfer pricing risks, our transactions are conducted in accordance with arm's length prices based on local laws and OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) guidelines. We use APA (Advance Pricing Arrangement) as necessary to eliminate unstable tax positions. Governance 160 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Compliance Reinforcement Month Conducting Educational Programs in the Two Areas of Corporate Scandals and Labor Management In fiscal 2014, the Sekisui Chemical Group decided that October of each year would be Compliance Reinforcement Month, to give all employees the opportunity to reflect on their compliance awareness and actions. In fiscal 2019, we conducted educational programs in Japan covering the two areas of corporate scandals (fraudulent accounting, data breaches) and labor management. In order to provide learning opportunities for those of our employees who are unable to participate in these educational programs, we began offering new online educational programs. Initiatives Taken During Compliance Reinforcement Month in Japan (Fiscal 2019) 1. Thorough dissemination of the Compliance Declaration (2019.4) to all Group employees 2. Implemented all types of compliance training / Held an open-style legal seminar in which employees participated of their own accord (8 locations, 11 times in total) 3. Introduced the Compliance Reinforcement Month activities in Group newsletters and provided class information on educational video programs in Group newsletters 4. Conducted e-learning / Implemented e-learning on the Company intranet (questions centered on misconduct and labor management) 5. Compliance Implementation Report by frontier leaders 6. Initiatives in North America, China, Southeast Asia, and Europe (September to March) ＜ Other compliance training ＞ 1.Implemented education programs conducted by visiting staff at business sites where there had been several compliance issues 2.Provided educational opportunities at business sites in Japan where the opportunities were deemed insufficient Governance 161 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Upgrade of Legal Affairs Structure Reinforcement of Global Legal Affairs Structure Sekisui Chemical Group has been reinforcing its legal affairs structure by developing and deploying legal personnel, strengthening collaboration among legal departments and enhancing legal functions. In fiscal 2017, employees responsible for legal affairs at Sekisui Europe B.V. and Sekisui Southeast Asia Co., Ltd., our regional headquarters in Europe and Thailand, respectively, took up new posts. In fiscal 2017, we also began implementing those initiatives that have been undertaken during the Compliance Reinforcement Month in Japan in North America and China. Since fiscal 2018, we have deployed these initiatives horizontally on a global scale, for example by extending them to and implementing them each year in the Southeast Asian and European regions. The themes taken up during the Compliance Reinforcement Month are selected with a focus on those issues that are judged by each of the regional headquarters to be of high risk to the region. Fiscal 2019 Compliance Reinforcement Month Initiative Themes by Region North America: Initiatives selected upon advanced discussion with North American Group companies (contract fundamentals, intra-company whistle-blowing systems, etc.) China: Bribery prevention, business secrets protection, workplace sexual harassment prevention, addressing site inspections by administrative bodies ASEAN: Sekisui Chemical Group rules, fraud prevention (accounting) Europe: Cyber security countermeasures Marketing Communications Legal Compliance with Regard to Advertising and Labeling When conducting business activities, Sekisui Chemical Group strictly adheres to laws and regulations while engaging in good-faith marketing activities. In fiscal 2019, there were no cases of serious violations of laws, regulations or internal rules to report within the context of marketing communications related to advertising and product labeling. Handling Measures for Antitrust Laws At Sekisui Chemical Group, we have been operating a business organization membership payment system, a pre-application and follow-up report system for competitor contact, and a price revision committee system since 2007 as a compliance program for antitrust laws. The implementation status of these systems is audited yearly, and the program is revised as needed. We are currently working to expand these systems to Group companies, and the introduction of the program was completed at domestic business companies with high cartel risk in fiscal 2018. There were no cases of major violations of antitrust laws in fiscal 2019. Governance 162 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time (Number of participants) 25,000 21,922 20,210 20,450 20,934 18,649 20,618 20,896 20,000 20,450 19,617 17,209 15,175 15,000 10,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Average values for four sessions conducted in each year. However, the third and fourth sessions were underway during fiscal year 2019 when this chart was created, so the average value for sessions one and two is provided for that year. * With the exception of overseas local hires, all Sekisui Chemical and Sekisui Chemical Group employees are required to take part in e-learning programs. List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Fiscal 2019 List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Trainees Trainees Training Training content Group companies Attendance Training Training content Group companies Attendance Sekisui Chemical Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Training for new Act against Delay in 〇 〇 107 Regular employees Payment of Subcontract 〇 〇 516 training Proceed, etc. to Training for new 〇 〇 268 Subcontractors training managers Training in Act against Training for beginner 〇 3 Unjustifiable Premiums employees 〇 39 and Misleading Newly appointed senior Representations 〇 87 management training Personal information 〇 19 Training for newly Area-specific protection training appointed intermediate 〇 29 training Information employees 〇 28 management training Newly appointed 〇 6 Accounting training 〇 4 executive officer training Training for executives at Finance training 〇 43 〇 77 Training affiliated companies Contract fundamentals for specific 〇 〇 59 Training for new auditors training employee 〇 6 at affiliated companies ranks Information security 〇 479 Training for those training responsible for 〇 〇 81 Training for prior to management Global 〇 〇 21 overseas transfers Training for those training Compliance training 〇 6 responsible for 〇 〇 31 compliance Domestic training 〇 〇 926 Training for compliance Compliance North America training 〇 795 promotion committee 〇 〇 34 Reinforcement members China training 〇 451 Month Training for compliance 〇 9 Southeast Asia training 〇 263 committee members Compliance training 〇 〇 742 Area-specific Harassment preventing 〇 〇 867 training training Export controls training 〇 〇 86 Governance 163 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Fiscal 2019 Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Reports/consultations Number of cases Power harassment 41 Working conditions 20 Sexual harassment 3 Workplace environmental concerns 2 Misuse of expenses 2 Sales methods related 1 Misrepresentation of work performance 3 Incidents with business partners 0 Others 21 Total number of complaints 93 Donations Relating to Governmental Policies Donations (made by Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) to industry bodies and political groups for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2019 are as follows: (Thousands of yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 18,936 19,050 22,909 23,596 25,448 Governance 164 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Cyber Security Maintaining an Effective Management System to Address Various Information-related Risks Management Approach Formulation of Cyber Security Policy Our operations are based on the principle of formulating a Companywide cyber security policy, and sharing it internally and externally. This will work to strengthen our cyber security efforts throughout Sekisui Chemical Group. Principles We, Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that cyber assets—such as personal information of our customers, information received from our suppliers, confidential corporate information, and systems for managing this information—are an increasingly important management resource and a source of our competitiveness. We believe that the preparation against cyber-attacks threatening these cyber assets are an important management responsibility, and strive to continually undertake cyber security measures as defined in the basic policy, to ensure a stable management foundation. Cyber Management System Installing CSIRT*, and building a system that posts information system administrators at each business site, Headed by the Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by the president, we have established a cyber security subcommittee as a policy-making body for the cyber security area. The subcommittee is led by the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and it deliberates and sets policy with regard to Companywide cyber security measures or significant security incidents. To advance measures based on subcommittee decisions we have established the Cyber Security Promotion Committee, and have also created the Cyber Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) as a lower-branch task force. Having posted at least one cyber system administrator on site at each business, we have established a comprehensive Group-wide cyber management system. Even in the case of organizational changes or cyber system administrator reassignments, the Company is constantly aware of the presence or absence of the cyber system administrators at each of its business sites through its registry management system. * Computer Security Incident Response Team, or CSIRT, is the title given to specialized teams that receive reports, conduct surveys and enact response measures related to computer security incidents at companies and other organizations. Governance 165 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Cyber Security Organizational Chart Sekisui Chemical Group Cyber Security Structure Sustainability Committee* President and Representative Director Appointment Determination of policy Cyber Security Sub-committee CISO Futoshi Kamiwaki, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for ESG Management Department, Digital Transformation Department and New Business Development Department, Head of Business Strategy Department Strengthening governance Delegation Handling incidents of authority Divisional Company Sekisui Chemical CSIRT Cyber Security Promotion Head of Corporate Cooperation Committee SOC Finance & Accounting Department CSIRT general manager MSS operator* Head of Technology & CS Promotion Headquarters Information Department System Group Cooperation Security vendor Division Manager CSIRT chairman *Managed Security Service Data center Each department Each plant and location System System Information Information Information Information owner owner System System System System Administrator Administrator Administrator Administrator *The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks Implementing Every Measure Possible from Both System and Human Aspects The Company takes every measure possible, from both system and human aspects, in order to maintain the security of customer (including personal) and internal (including confidential) information. To combat external treats, the Company has positioned its Security Operation Center (SOC)* as its primary entity to consistently identify new threats, such as newly reported cases of viral infections or targeted e-mail attacks, while Sekisui Chemical’s CSIRT swiftly takes action to implement appropriate countermeasures. We are also taking preventive measures such as employee education based on e-learning courses and by conducting audits. CSIRT operations are executed based on regularly held Cyber Security Promotion Committee meetings and assessments of risk countermeasures. It also makes activity reports on cyber security at every meeting. * The Security Operation Center, or SOC, is a specialized entity devoted to monitoring and analyzing threats to information systems. It works to detect threats as soon as possible, and plays a role in supporting CSIRT with its response and recovery efforts. Governance 166 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Key System-related (Tangible) Measures (1) Establish firewalls to completely separate external networks from internal intranet and control networks (2) Monitor and record data through the Security Operation Center (3) Next-generation virus protection, as well as log collection and analysis for all servers and PCs. (4) Enhance BEC (business email compromise) countermeasures through the use of multiple e-mail filters and prohibit the use of personal devices in business (excluding emergency situations) Key Human-related (Intangible) Measures (1) Conduct security audits as needed at business sites in Japan and overseas (2) Adopt entry / exit ID authentication and secondary (photographic, etc.) verification when entering major domestic offices (3) Conduct regular e-learning programs (those who do not attain a pass grade will be unable to access the Internet → Japan only) Measures to Address Natural Disaster-related Risks Duplication and Dispersing of Systems, as well as Earthquake Resistance and Seismic Isolation Measures We have confirmed that measures are in place for earthquake resistance, seismic isolation and to counter other problems encountered by contracted data centers so that business operations can be continued even in the event that backbone systems are damaged by a major earthquake or other disaster. In addition, by dispersing data centers among multiple locations, we have established a system that will not cause work to be disrupted even if a particular data center becomes unavailable. By taking steps to completely duplicate mission-critical systems, the Company is working to shorten the lead-time needed up to the completion of repairs and recovery of business operations. Protecting Personal Information Sekisui Chemical has formulated its Personal Information Policy, which is available on the Company’s website. Based on this policy, the Company complies with legal regulations and norms regarding personal information, and by voluntarily putting in place rules and systems, strives to appropriately protect such information. We have also formulated “Guidelines for Web Server Construction and Management,” and endeavor to protect servers managed at each company and each work site. The creation of a CSIRT led by an executive officer We have launched a CSIRT entity with the executive officer of the Information Systems Group as general manager. The establishment of a CSIRT entity will allow us to provide accountability in our cyber security operations to our stakeholders and clarify the promotion of cyber security measures in line with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s revised Cybersecurity Management Guidelines (Ver. 2). Together with entrenching operations in Japan, going forward we are advancing the development of CSIRT at Group companies overseas. Governance 167 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report DX Sekisui Chemical Group will push forward corporate activities grounded in digital transformation in order to support the basis of LIFE and to continue to create “peace of mind for the future” in order to realize a sustainable society. Our Philosophy Sekisui Chemical Group’s digital transformation (DX) mission is to accelerate and support the growth strategies and structural reforms necessary to realize its long-term vision. To achieve sustainable growth in an increasingly uncertain business environment, we will take another look at conventional governance as well as business and operating processes, while undergoing a transformation from the perspectives of “visualization and standardization,” “productivity increase” and “sophistication”*1. We hope to remain a company that continues to provide value to society by raising productivity, shifting “people” to value-based operations, and challenging our employees to meet their full potential. Under the medium-term management plan, we will help resolve current issues*2 in an effort to strengthen the promotion structure while supporting growth strategies and structural reforms and undertake the necessary preparations for long-term growth*3. *1 Visualization and standardization: Standardize operations, introduce ERP, renew infrastructure and network Increase productivity: Automation / unmanned shifts, improve operational efficiency through the use of digital technology, ICT and AI Sophistication: Increase the sophistication of operational control, governance and the supply chain *2 Promote sophistication in an effort to standardize and enhance the competitiveness of the business management, R&D, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and purchasing domains. *3 Strengthen the IT base: Security, network, data collection/analysis platform, etc. DX 168 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environment In order to support the basis of LIFE and continuously create “peace of mind for the future” in a bid to realize a sustainable society, Sekisui Chemical Group will work to address environmental issues that need to be resolved from a long-term perspective. Management Approach Our Philosophy Sekisui Chemical Group aims for a planet in which the air, water and land provide a healthy living environment for its inhabitants and fosters robust biodiversity. Our daily lives and economic activities make use of the natural capital* provided by our planet to ensure sustainable growth. Sekisui Chemical Group envisions a planet and society like this. We are engaged in our daily business activities with the aims of halting the deterioration of natural capital, such as by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, promoting the use of recycled use of resources, and decreasing impacts on ecosystems; contributing to making returns to natural capital through such means as expanding sales of products to enhance sustainability; and achieving a world in which biodiversity is preserved. * Natural capital: A term that refers to physical capital, such as soil, air, water, minerals, flora and fauna, as well as biological capital, human capital and social capital. Environment 169 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promotion System Setting Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets Using Vision-based Backcasting and the Promotion System Structure In aiming for the aspirations raised in the Group Vision as our direction over the mediumto long-term, in 2019 Sekisui Chemical Group formulated our Vision Statement looking to 2030 for the purpose of more clearly illustrating our management strategies. From fiscal 2020, we will deploy strategies based on this Statement. Under the slogan “Innovation for the Earth,” and in order to realize a sustainable society, we support the basis of LIFE and will continue to create “peace of mind for the future” <Social value> while aiming to double the Group’s business (sales of ¥2 trillion, operating income ratio of 10% or higher) by 2030 by expanding contributions to resolving social issues through business growth, reform and creation, centered on ESG management. In order to support the basis of LIFE and continuously create “peace of mind for the future” while engaging in corporate management aimed at realizing a sustainable society, we must maintain a longer-term viewpoint as we deploy and implement the required approaches to the various global environmental problems. To date, Sekisui Chemical Group has considered its approach and illustrated a direction to environmental problems with an eye toward 2030. In 2019, we undertook a review of the various events and social demands that have reemerged and formulated the Sekisui Long-term Environmental Vision 2050 in regard to the direction of our environmental initiatives for 2050. Backcasting from this Vision, we have re-defined the milestones that must be reached within the Group-wide management strategies in regard to specific environmental problems. In order to achieve these milestones, we established concrete target values in the three-year Medium-term Plan that launches in fiscal 2020. The Promotion System itself, however, remains the same. Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 formulated in 2019 aims for the same goals as the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Vision 2030 formulated in 2013. We recognize that conducting our corporate activities relies on valuable natural capital from the Earth and beneficial social capital from society, and thus declare we will contribute to making returns on this capital. Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (Fiscal 2017-2019) and New Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate Ⅱ (Fiscal 2020-2022) From fiscal 2017 to 2019, we undertook initiatives based on the Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (Fiscal 2017-2019). From fiscal 2020, we will deploy initiatives based on the Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Accelerate Ⅱ , which spans the three years from fiscal 2020 to 2022. Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index and Its Evolution The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index is a single indicator of the level of impact on the environment by the corporate activities of Sekisui Chemical Group (i.e. use of natural capital) and the degree of contribution back to the environment (i.e. return of natural capital). We have gradually expanded the target scope of this index to encompass our impact on natural capital and social capital, as well as our returns to this capital, and have expanded awareness of the index. From fiscal 2020, we intend to refocus on natural capital and social capital as the capital from the Earth and society on which our corporate activities have an impact and to which they contribute, and to assess the impacts and outcomes. Environment 170 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Management System Sekisui Chemical Group has thus far promoted environmental activities through an environment management system based on ISO 14001 at each of the production sites operated by our locations. Although we will shift the long-term viewpoint of the direction for these activities from 2030 to 2050, the environmental problems on which we focus and the initiatives we deploy for solutions will remain the same. In order to solve these problems, we feel we must bring the entire supply chain into our sights as we undertake initiatives, and that doing so will accelerate problem-solving. From fiscal 2020, we intend to work towards cooperative problem-solving by making a greater effort to approach the supply chain than in the past. Through our existing CSR Procurement Guidelines and Green Procurement Guidelines, we have confirmed the environmental management status of and have worked to encourage system building within our raw materials supply chain. In our long-term management strategies up to 2030, we also intend to enhance similar initiatives targeted at the broadening supply chains required for business expansion. Environmental Education Over the three years from 2017 to 2019, Sekisui Chemical Group put in place an environmental education structure and systems and established environmental training programs with the aim of fostering the ideal Environmental Human Resources required to achieve the Long-term Environmental Management Vision 2030. From 2020, we will work to foster the personnel required to expand contributions to resolving social issues through business growth, reform and creation, centered on ESG management. These programs will also enhance the ability of employees to contribute to the solutions for various environmental problems, one of the groundings of ESG personnel. Environmental Accounting Sekisui Chemical Group assessed and disclosed the Group-wide environmental accounting details in order to confirm its investments in the environment and the cost value thereof, and to verify the cost effectiveness of the results, such as reductions in environmental impacts up to 2019. Within the Medium-term Plan that will launch in 2020, we will employ environmental accounting because the investments and costs applied to the environment are defined as capital costs within the Group-wide management strategies, and because we recognize that restraining these costs and improving productivity improves ROIC. Environment 171 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050,” formulated in 2019, has the same goals as “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030,” which was set forth in 2013. Through its corporate activities, products its corporate activities generate, and business, Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to the resolution of a host of issues that confront the natural and social environments as it works toward the realization of earth with maintained biodiversity. We remain conscious that the business activities we carry out incorporate natural capital, which derives its value from Earth, as well as meaningful social capital which originates from society. We are therefore committed to returning such capital back to the environment and society. Working toward the realization of earth with maintained biodiversity entails the same stance required to achieve the SDGs set for 2030. This is because without society, it will be impossible to find solutions to the challenging array of the Earth’s natural and social problems. As activities that contribute to solving issues, we place importance on the following three items. (1) Expand and create markets for products to enhance sustainability (contributing to global and social sustainability) (2) Reduce environmental impact (3) Conserve the natural and social environments We seek to invigorate these activities and accelerate solutions to problems. This means that while each and every employee should be conscious of the range of environmental issues, we need to do more than just have a talented group of personnel with considerable ability to contribute to solving issues; it will be necessary, we believe, to partner with all types of stakeholders and collaborate to move forward on activities. al and social cap t il iz e natur ital U Expa nd and ucts create market for prod to enhanc e sustainability A talented group with Reduce t environmental impac high problem-solving ability Conse t rve the environmen Earth with maintained Con l Partnership with tribute ial capita biodiversity to returns for natural and so c stakeholders* *Stakeholders : customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, local communities and the environment Environment 172 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets From fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019, we set targets and launched initiatives for the following crucial items within the Environmental Medium-term Plan, “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” ・“Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index”: A rate of return on natural capital of 90% or more ・Increasing Environment-contributing Products Sales ratio: 60% or more ・Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions: 6% or more (vs. FY2013) ・Preservation of water resources : Water intake volume 3% or more reduction (vs. FY2016) COD total quantity 3% or more reduction (vs. FY2016) ・“SEKISUI Environment Week”: Participation at all business sites and by all employees Focused on Establishing Targets and Implementing Measures for the Following Crucial Items within the new Environmental Medium-term Plan, “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: AccelerateⅡ” Improving Natural and Social Capital Return Rates Monitoring of progress in respect to integrated index “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index”: Maintaining rate of return to natural capital of 100% or more Using Products to Improve Global and Social Sustainability Sales of products to enhance sustainability: 800 billion yen (growth rate equivalent of 22% (vs FY2019) Initiatives aimed at addressing climate change [Decarbonization] Renewable Energy as a Percentage of Purchased Power: 20% Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions: 9% or more (vs. FY2013) Initiatives aimed at addressing the issue of resource depletion [Promoting Recycling] Implementing initiatives to promote the recycling of waste Initiatives aimed at addressing water risks [Preservation of water resources] Water intake volume at production sites using a large amount of water: 10% reduction (vs. FY2016) Total volume of COD discharged into rivers by production sites where discharge is substantial: 10% reduction (vs. FY2016) [Minimizing water risk] Understanding water risks specific to watershed areas and implementing related initiatives Improving the ability of employees to contribute to problem solving Promoting activities that contribute to problem solving Environment 173 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Goals Working toward realizing a planet where biodiversity is preserved AccelerateⅡ Accelerate Contribute to returns Contribute to for natural and social problem-solving for capital Expand contribution to Earth and society and Expand and create problem-solving for improve sustainability market for products Earth and society to enhance sustainability* Accelerate initiatives for Zero GHG emissions reducing GHG emissions, Solve local water problems Sharply reduce GHG mitigating water risks, and emissions, promote Achieve a circular economy solving resource circulation Improve the ability to contribute to problem-solving thorough water resources problems in preparation for Reduce management, chemical environmental decarbonization substance management impact Awareness of problem-solving Firmly establish awareness is taking hold and environmental Firmly establish and practice of problem conservation is being carried Environment Week and solving through activity out through initiatives in commitment to participation collaboration with stakeholders. Conserve biodiversity the environment Convert to ESG information Problem-solving can be Take steps to visualize the data platforms promoted according to the status of environmental management at all business site circumstances. production sites worldwide Understand progress through Enhance the sustainable index environmental Track progress using promotion integrated index systems Each individual employee has awareness of problem solving Increased numbers of ESG and activities are independently Increase human resources with the personnel who have implemented in coordination ability to promote environmental excellent problem-solving with stakeholders. improvements, enhance abilities with a sense of challenge Cultivate contribution to the environment ESG personnel (bolster overseas educational efforts) Previous medium-term plan New medium-term plan 2050 (2017–2019) (2020–2022) Note: Environment-contributing Products evolve into products to enhance sustainability from fiscal 2020. For more details, please refer to “Products to Enhance Sustainability” on page 254. Environment 174 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promoting an Environmental Medium-term Plan Based on Backcasting from Our Long-term Vision We established and implemented a three-year Environmental Medium-term Plan for fiscal 2017 through fiscal 2019. The Environmental Medium-term Plan, “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” accelerated various initiatives, established milestones for each medium-term plan, and used backcasting to achieve the goals were have set for 2030 in our long-term environmental vision, “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030.” Initiatives of particular focus included reducing greenhouse gases and expanding Environment-contributing Products. In the Paris Accords, adopted at the COP 21* meeting held in 2015, each country has promised to achieve countrylevel CO2 emissions reductions targets; Japan has set a target of reductions of 26%, compared to fiscal 2013, by 2030. To fulfill its responsibilities as a Japanese company, Sekisui Chemical Group has actively worked to achieve reduction targets that are equal to or greater than the targets adopted by the national government. In regard to greenhouse gas reductions, the 2017–2019 environmental medium-term plan established a target and launched initiatives aimed at reducing the total amount of CO2 emissions released during business activities by 6%, even as the Group aims to expand its business further. To ensure that this target is reached, the Group created the Environment-contributing Investments Framework in order to promote aggressive investment in facilities on the scale of 12 billion yen, equivalent to 0.3% of revenue. In regard to Environment-contributing Products, the Group in fiscal 2017 announced that it would increase the degree of contribution by expanding the criteria of recognition from natural environments to a framework which includes contributions to the social environment, encompassing human capital and social capital from the current environmental medium-term plan. Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve the lives of the people and the Earth's environment. In terms of improving the lives of the people, we believe it is essential to resolve the issues noted in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN in 2015, including “promoting welfare and health,” “improving the global environment,” and “securing robust infrastructure” by “mitigating and adapting to climate change.” We reaffirm our commitment toward addressing and resolving issues in these areas. * COP 21: The 21st meeting of the parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Environment 175 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report While looking toward the cause of long-term environmental issues and providing science-based solutions for their resolution, we revised in fiscal 2019 our long-term environmental vision for 2050, and created “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050.” In line with backcasting based on this environmental vision, we established milestones and launched from fiscal 2020 the three-year environmental medium-term plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate Ⅱ.” The environmental medium-term plan beginning in fiscal 2020 identifies important environmental issues for action, such as climate change, water risk, and resource recycling, and we have established specific initiatives with the aim of accelerating resolution of these issues. We believe that all of the efforts to resolve ecosystem degradation are tied to preserving biodiversity. Moreover, we believe we can further accelerate the solving of these issues by working as one throughout the supply chain. With this in mind, we are developing initiatives and engage in activities with a greater focus on supply chain management over the life cycle of the product. In terms of issues related to climate change, we have established the goal of zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and moving to a system in which all purchased power comes from renewable energy by 2030. In regard to issues related to water risk, not only are we focused on reducing the amount of water the company uses as a whole and promoting the recycling of water, but we are also working to improve the quality, based on COD indicators, of water discharged into watershed areas. In addition, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to better understand water risks specific to a given area and is committed to formulating and implementing measures for high risk businesses to reduce water risk in each of their respective operating regions. In regard to the recycling of resources, not only are we focused on reducing the amount of waste generated even as we aim to double our business by 2030, but we are also considering initiatives emphasizing recycling with the aim of realizing a circular economy and a recycling-based society. Moreover, in line with our corporate responsibility as a plastic molding manufacturer, we focus on carbon cycle technologies that recycle carbon derived from crude oil as a raw material and aim to accelerate the establishment and social implementation of technologies such as BR technologies that can produce use microorganisms to produce ethanol from waste. Under the product assessment system that focuses on sustainability, Environment-contributing Products have evolved into products to enhance sustainability. In addition to expanding our contribution to improving global and social sustainability, i.e., resolving existing issues related to the natural and social environments, we are implementing assessments in regard to profitability, customer satisfaction, processes, and supply chains in order to further improve the sustainability of both the Company and our products. We are also establishing a premium framework, as well as measures for its future expansion, as part of our strategy to drive growth in these products to enhance sustainability. Environment 176 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Fiscal 2019 Results and Fiscal 2020 Targets Expanding and Creating Environment-Contributing Products Number of new registrations: Fiscal 2019 target of Sales ratio: Fiscal 2019 target of 60% 10 registrations (30 registrations in three years) of revenue or more Five new registrations in fiscal 2019 (47 Target not achieved, with 58.3% registrations in three years) ＜Factor Analysis＞ The number of new registrations came to 47, which surpassed the target of 30 registration from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019 under the Medium-term Plan. Despite renovation menu expansion including storage batteries that help secure utilities in the event of a disaster in Japan as well as growth in the Diagnostics business, which is expanding globally, and the electronic materials and other markets, Sekisui Chemical Group did not achieve its sale ratio target. ＜Trends in the Product Assessment System to Promote the Expansion of Products That Contribute to the Resolution of Issues＞ Sekisui Chemical Group established and has promoted a certification system since fiscal 2006 to expand products that contribute to the resolution of issues. Changes up to fiscal 2016 ・ Added the viewpoint of contributing to energy creation and the protection of biodiversity to the standards ・ Introduction of the concept of area contributions ・ Consideration of expanding the scope of evaluation to include contributions to resolving issues relating to matters such as disaster preparedness and damage mitigation Fiscal 2017 changes ・ We included Environment-Contributing Products as products that contribute to the natural environment under the current framework, and newly expanded the definition of products that work to resolve issues related to the social environment as Social Environment-contributing Products. Note: For details see SDGs Initiatives on page 55 Changes from fiscal 2020 Renamed as products to enhance sustainability and activities commenced. Evolved as product assessment under the following two perspectives. ・ Consider registration based on internal standards in recognition of the significant contribution to resolving issues ・ Undertake a confirmation assessment taking into consideration a variety of factors including governance, processes, the supply chain, and customer satisfaction to ensure that the significant contribution of registered products to resolving issues is sustainable Plans are in place to undertake a detailed design of the confirmation assessment criteria as well as operating and other systems and to initiate system operations during fiscal 2020. Environment 177 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ＜Quantification of the Contribution Effect on Resolving Issues through Products＞ To visualize the degree of contribution on resolving issues through products, we calculate by using “LIME2,” a method that indicates environmental value of products and businesses (the return to natural capital and degrees of contribution) through LCIA evaluations. In fiscal 2019, we identified environmental value from products equivalent to 70% of Environment-contributing Products sales. More than just the natural environment, the Group considered as contributions to natural capital those based on resolving issues relating to human and social capital and other aspects of the social environment, and promoted a greater range of products that can contribute to the return to natural capital up to fiscal 2019. From fiscal 2020, we will visualize the degree of contribution of products to enhance sustainability on the resolution of issues in order to once again increase our contribution to returns on natural and social capital. Furthermore, the Group will leverage the environmental and social value (degree of contribution on resolving issues) of visualized products and lines of business, releasing information and raising awareness in society, and will also step up its activities that allow it receive feedback about its business. Reducing Environmental Impact GHG emissions: Fiscal 2019 target of reductions of 6% or more (relative to a fiscal 2013 benchmark) Target achieved, with reductions of 6.1% Energy savings: Fiscal 2019 target of reductions of 3% of energy consumption per unit of output (based on a benchmark of fiscal 2016) Target achieved, with reductions of 7.6% (8.9% reduction in Japan and 4.7% reduction in overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ The Group aims for reductions secured through the realization of energy-saving activities and environment-contribution investment, including upgrades to aging facilities and the deployment of self-consumption-type solar power-generation facilities, to exceed increases due to factors such as M&A or an expansion in production. For the period covered by the next medium-term plan, we will focus on shifting electric power consumption to power derived from renewable resources and accelerate the reduction in greenhouse gas emission volume. Environment 178 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Amount of Waste Generated: Fiscal 2019 target of reductions of 3% from per unit of output (relative to a fiscal 2016 benchmark) Target not achieved, with an increase of 0.3% (3.6% reduction in Japan, 6.7% increase overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Japan: Reduce the amount of waste by allowing the re-use of scrap metal generated as part of the production process for high-performance resin products. ・Overseas: Increase in high-functionality products of the overseas operating sites of the High Performance Plastics Company Going forward, we will not only reduce the amount of waste generated in the production process, but also work to advance the recycling of waste and products, while simultaneously promoting the use of recycled resources in order to achieve a truly circular economy. Conserving the Natural Environment SEKISUI Environment Week Fiscal 2019 target for participation rate among employees of 100% Target not achieved, with participation rate among employees of 89.7% ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Insufficient promotion of individual action Although we did not achieve the target of 100% employee participation, by fiscal 2019, the rate of implementation of the SEKISUI Environmental Week at business sites and employee participation reached nearly 90% globally. Through participation in these activities, the driving force of environmental activities has improved. From fiscal 2020, we will promote environmental protection activities as an educational activity to develop human resources capable of recognizing issues while thinking about and implementing contributions to their resolution in accordance with the various environments in which they operate, including regions, businesses and operations. Environment 179 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (2017-2019) Target Domestic offices Overseas offices Production sites Overseas Mediu Laboratories Efforts Indicators Tar in Japan production sites (FY2017 Other Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index Rate Manage process utilizing the integrated index ü ü ü ü ü ü of return to natural capital 90% Number of new Environment-contributing Expand and create Create Environment-contributing Products ü ü ü Products registrations 30 pr markets for Environment-contributing Products Environment-contributing Products sales ratio Increase sales of Environment-contributing Products ü ü ü ü (consolidated) 60% -6% o Reducing GHG emissions attributable to Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ü ü ü ü ü ü business activities (compared 2013 -3% o Energy reduction ü ü Energy consumption for unit of output (compared 2016 Reduce the amount of waste -3% o generated per unit of production ü ü Waste generated per unit of output (compared volume 2016 -3% o Reduce the amount of resources Waste reduction used in offices ü ü ü Copier Paper use per unit of output (compared 2016 Reduce environmental impact -10% Reduce the amount of waste generated at new construction sites ü Waste generated per building (compared 2016 -3% o ü ü Water intake volume at production sites (compared 2016 Maintain water resources -3% o Total volume of COD discharged into rivers by ü production sites (compared 2016 -3% o Reduce the impact of chemical substances ü ü VOC emissions (compared 2016 SEKISUI Environment Week ü ü ü ü ü Employee participation rate 10 +5 ü ü JBIB Land Use Score Card® points (compared 2016 Improve the quality of the green spaces at business sites Number of business sites in harmony with their Conserving ü ü local environments 5 busin the natural environment Number of sales companies undertaking Forest preservation activities at Housing Sales companies ü activities 7 sales c ü ü Ratio of applicable business sites in Japan 50% Self-guided activities in partnership with local communities ü ü Number of overseas activities 5 ac +20 Environmental education Environmental education ü ü ü ü ü Human resources index average (compared 2017 r Environment 180 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ü : Medium-term targets achieved. △ : Medium-term targets not achieved but initiatives were promoted. × : Medium-term targets not achieved and further promotion of initiatives is needed in the future. Results Medium-term Targets SelfReference FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 evaluation page (FY2017-FY2019) ty Index Rate 90% or more 86.2% *1 95.8％ *1 104.5％ *1 ü P 184 24 products 18 products 5 products *Environment-Contributing *Environment-Contributing Products: 3 *Environment-Contributing Products: 1 ntributing 30 products Products: 4 registered registered registered ü P 257 Social Environment-Contributing Social Environment-Contributing Social Environment-Contributing Products: 20 registered Products: 15 registered Products: 4 registered △ cts sales ratio 60% or more 50.2% (555.9 billion yen) 56.3% (643.8 billion yen) 58.3% (658.3 billion yen) P 257 -6% or more table to (compared with fiscal year -1.5% -2.3% -6.1% ü P 216 2013 results) -3% or more -1.2% -3.7% -7.6% utput (compared with fiscal year (Japan: -4.1%, (Japan: -8.2%, (Japan: -8.9%, ü P 216 2016 results) Overseas: +2.0%) Overseas: +2.4%) Overseas: -4.7%) -3% or more +0.4% +3.3% +0.3% put (compared with fiscal year (Japan: -0.6%, (Japan: +1.9%, (Japan: -3.6%, ü P 229 2016 results) Overseas: +3.1%) Overseas: +8.0%) Overseas: +6.7%) -3% or more +0.3% -16.7% ut (compared with fiscal year (Japan: +0.5%, +1.4% (Japan: -17.1%, ü P 229 2016 results) Overseas: -14.2%) Overseas: +23.7%) -10% or more (compared with fiscal year +0.0% +1.7% -1.2% × P 231 2016 results) -3% or more +3.1% +3.0% +0.1% on sites (compared with fiscal year (Japan: +1.9%, (Japan: -1.1%, (Japan: -8.1%, △ P 240 2016 results) Overseas: +6.6%) Overseas: +15.1%) Overseas: +24.0%) -3% or more into rivers by (compared with fiscal year +28.2% +20.7% +5.1% × P 243 2016 results) -3% or more +12.1% (compared with fiscal year (only domestic goals achieved) +7.1% +3.9% × P 247 2016 results) 100% 84.9% 88.1% 89.7% △ P 265 +5 points (compared with fiscal year +2.6 points +4.3 points +5.3 points ü P 265 2016 results) Business site evaluation trial run ony with their Consideration of evaluation 5 business sites standards in accordance with the proposed 5 business sites ü P 262 evaluation standards ertaking 7 sales companies 7 sales companies 7 sales companies 7 sales companies ü P 262 in Japan 50% or more 57.4% 55.3% 57.4% ü P 262 5 activities 5 activities 7 activities 5 activities ü P 262 +20 points Japan: +5 points (44 points) Japan: +4 points (43 points) (compared with fiscal year Japan: 39 points Overseas: US benchmark achieved Overseas: China benchmark × P 195 2017 results)* (50 points) achieved (60 points) *1: For products which are signifi cant contributors with a major impact, rather than calculating performance using sales fi gures, reconfi rm using a quantity base, apply this retroactively to past values, and correct the calculation results. *2: Human resources index operations started in FY2017, which is set as the base year. Environment 181 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report New Environmental Medium-term Plan “Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate Ⅱ” Goal setting Base Item Aim Indicator year FY2020 FY202 FY2022 Rate of return on Achieving “Earth with Sekisui Environment natural resource maintained biodiversity” Sustainability Index ー Maintain 100% or more and social capital through corporate activities Rate of return to natural capital Sales of products to enhance 800 billion yen, 710 billion yen, 750 billion yen, sustainability ー 22% growth rate p Products to 8% growth rate 14% growth rate (compared to 2019), (growth rate (compared with 2019)) (compared to 2019) (compared to 2019) Improve 63% sales ratio Maximize value economic (social and economic) value enhance sustainability Number of new registered products ー 6 per year 6 per year 6 per year Renewable energy ratio of ー 5% 10% 20% purchased electricity Decarbonization: GHG Zero GHG emissions GHG emissions FY2013 -7％ -8％ -9% Reduce Improve energy efficiency energy Energy consumption and reduce energy expenses FY2019 -１％ -２％ -３％ usage for unit of output during production volume Waste per unit of output down 1% Waste generated per unit of output FY2019 over a 3-year period Reduce environmental impact Resource Promotion of Copier Paper use per unit of output FY2019 -１％ -２％ -３％ circulation resource reuse Waste generated per building FY2019 -２％ -４％ -６％ Water intake volume at production sites which FY2016 -10％ -10％ -10％ use large quantities of water Water risks Maintain water resources Total COD volume of river discharge water at production sites FY2016 -10％ -10％ -10％ with large COD emission volumes Reduce the Reduced chemical impact of emission and VOC emissions (Japan) FY2019 -１％ -２％ -３％ chemical transport volumes substances Promote e Ecosystem impact: at all busin Ecosystem Minimize risks of JBIB Land Use Score Card® points FY2019 +3 points over a 3-year period *Ecosystem ecosystem deterioration Increased q Implement education and human resource Education and Education Improve employees’ index checking to develop the skills needed of ESG ability to contribute to Level up as ESG human resources index FY2020 by human resources with excellent problem-solving human solving social problems with excell development abilities (ESG human resources). resources (employee education) Achieve FY2020 benchmarks and set goal values. Environment 182 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Goal setting Target Production Overseas Domestic Overseas FY2022 FY2030 FY2050 sites Laboratories production Other offices offices in Japan sites Maintain 100% or more ü ü ü ü ü ü 00 billion yen, Expand sales of 22% growth rate problem-solving products ompared to 2019), (maintain 60% ratio) Drive sustainable corporate growth ü ü ü ü ü ü 63% sales ratio through products and services which improve environmental and social sustainability 6 per year 6 per year ü ü ü 20% 100% Maintain 100% ü ü ü ü ü ü -9% -26% -100% ü ü ü ü ü ü -３％ -10％ ー ü ü ー ü ü -３％ ー Achieve a circular economy ü ü ü -６％ ー ü -10％ ー ー ü -10％ ー ー ü -３％ ー ー ü ü Promote ecosystem consideration* at all business sites Maintain ecosystem consideratio *Ecosystem consideration: n at all business sites ü ü Increased quantitative evaluation of biodiversity Take a leading role in society Level up as human resources olving as human resources with excellent with excellent problem-solving ability problem-solving ability ü ü ü ü ü es. Environment 183 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index What is the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index? The Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index represents the impact on the environment of the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group companies (the use of natural capital) and their degree of contribution to the environment (returns to natural capital) as a single indicator. The major items for implementation in the Environmental Medium-term Plan—reducing various impacts on the environment, conserving the natural environment, and so forth—were integrated into this indicator; the Group began trial calculations in fiscal 2014. Starting in fiscal 2017, we began using the “rate of return to natural capital” as an index to monitor the overall progress of Group companies’ environmental management. The Group has been aiming to achieve 90% over the three-year period of the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-19) and achieved a result of 104.5% in fiscal 2019, the final year of the Plan. A new three-year Environmental Medium-term Plan starts from fiscal 2020. Under the new Plan, for its SEKISUI Environmental Sustainable Index, the Group will evaluate its impact on and contribution to not only the natural environment but also the social environment. We are declaring our intention to contribute to the return of natural and social capital. In 2050, even as we expand our business, we will promote ESG management while maintaining a return of 100% or higher for both natural capital as well as social capital. Environment 184 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Results of Calculation The results of calculating the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index, utilizing results from fiscal 2019, are provided in the chart below. Setting the use of natural capital (the impact on the environment) at 100, the return of natural capital (contributions to the environment) was 104.5%. One of the factors in this achievement was to increase the contribution to reducing environmental impact from products by, for example, expanding the sales of Environment-contributing Products, including the remodeling menus for smarter homes, which promote conversion to renewable energy and boost energy savings, and the materials used for electronic products as well as associated reduction in SCOPE 3 greenhouse gas emissions during product use. Going forward, we will sustain the rate of return to natural capital and social capital at 100% or higher while growing as a company and expanding our business. By 2050, we aim to realize the sustainable use of the earth’s natural capital and the social capital generated by human society. In this index, boosting problem solving by means of products will contribute to improving the sustainability of the earth and society. At the same time, we believe that bringing about improvements in the returns to natural and social capital are also linked to improvements in the sustainability of the Sekisui Chemical Group and its products. Results of Fiscal 2019 Calculation Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index (2019) Environmental impact = Use of natural capital Raw materials 53.8 Production 21.5 Other 24.7 100 Conservation of the natural environment 0.9 Environmental contribution = Return of natural capital Contribution from products 102.1 104.5 Impact reduction 1.5 After compiling the raw data in (1), above, the damage calculation-based impact assessment method “LIME2,” developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University, was employed for the calculations in stages (2) and (3). Environment 185 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index: Overall volume of returns of natural capital by the Group / Overall volume of usage of natural capital by the Group Calculating the usage and return volumes of natural capital Employing LIME2 (a damage calculation-based impact assessment method developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University) and covering all the criteria for conservation defined by LIME2, the impacts on each of “human health (including the effects of global warming),” “societal assets (including the effects of global warming),” “the effects on plants (reducing interference on growth),” and “the effects on life (restricting the extinction of living species)” were evaluated and then made into a single indicator The amount of return to natural capital was calculated as the reduction in the risk of harm to natural capital because of the whole Group’s various initiatives that contribute to the Sekisui environment, relative to if these initiatives had not been implemented. Environmental Sustainability ・Items included in the calculation of the amount of natural capital used Index Direct usage: Use of land, greenhouse gases, amounts of emissions into the air of PRTR substances and air pollutants, the COD volume of discharges into bodies of water Indirect usage: Purchased raw materials*1, energy use, water intake volume, amount of waste material emitted, amount of GHGs emitted indirectly in supply chains (Scope 3) ・Items included in the calculation of returns to natural capital Amount of contributions to reducing usage of natural capital through Environment-contributing Products, the amount of contribution from environmental conservation activities, environmentrelated donations, mega-solar power generation output *1 Until fiscal 2017, the Group gained an understanding of environmental impact, including the volume of greenhouse gasses emitted, by making calculations using “MiLCA,” the database furnished by the Japan Environmental Management Association For Industry. However, from fiscal 2018, the Group is reflecting the actual GHG emissions of its raw material suppliers with regard to four principal resins (PP, PE, PVC and PVA). Environment 186 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method Scope of Calculation / Listing by category of calculation: Trial calculations were conducted using the following assumed conditions: ・Raw materials: Purchased raw materials covered; estimates incorporated into calculations Concerning housing, the calculation includes the constituent raw materials for one structure multiplied by the number of structures manufactured ・Manufacturing / Emissions of harmful chemical substances:〈Japan〉emissions of 1 t per year or more of substances covered under PRTR are included in the calculation. 〈Overseas〉Not included ・Manufacturing / Land maintenance: Domestic plants and research facilities were incorporated into the calculation using the area of the premises, generally considered in terms of the land used for buildings*2. The areas of the premises of overseas plants were estimated. The effects of land usage are included in the calculation based on the 30-year period after the purchase of the land Sekisui *2 Concerning land usage, starting with the current Medium-term Plan (2017-19), improvements Environmental to soil quality in the “JBIB Land Use Score Card®” were deemed as reductions of the impact of Sustainability land usage, weighted accordingly, and included in the calculation. Index ・Others: Capital goods in supply chains, other fueland energy-related activities, transport and shipping, waste, business trips, commuting by employees, leased assets (downstream), processing/use/disposal of sold products Business trips and commuting by employees: Covers consolidated numbers of employees and includes some estimation Use of sold products: Covers housing sold during the fiscal year, and included in the calculation with assumed energy usage for 60 years into the future Until fiscal 2017, the Group calculated the amount of greenhouse gas reduction achieved through solar power generation as the amount of reduced environmental impact. From fiscal 2018, however, we are also calculating the effect of reduction in energy used in residences built to zero energy house (ZEH) specifications. Processing of sold products: Energy usage by customers while processing products anticipated to consume large amounts of energy was estimated and included in the calculation Disposal of sold products: Major raw materials for each fiscal year were covered and included in the calculation based on the assumption that they would be made into products and disposed of during that fiscal year Environment 187 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method ・Product contributions: (1) The differences in contribution to the environment between the relevant products and previous technologies were evaluated qualitatively for each criterion, based on the contribution to the natural and social environments for each life-cycle (the five stages of procurement of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, usage/maintenance, disposal, and recycling) in terms of CO 2 reductions and energy savings, reductions in waste materials, resource savings, water-savings and the water cycle, preventing pollution, direct preservation of biodiversity, QOL improvements, and other factors. For factors for which a significant difference was estimated, data per product unit was investigated. (2) Based on the results of these investigations, a coefficient for calculating the impact on the environment for each series of data was multiplied by the data, yielding a calculation of the degree of contribution to the environment of each product unit. (3) The sales results for products in each fiscal year were multiplied by the results found in (2) to calculate the degree of contribution to the environment for each product, and the results were included in the calculation. Trial calculation performed on the effects of products equivalent to around 72% of Environment-contributing Products. ・Direct contribution / Contribution from activities reducing environmental impacts: Sekisui The effects on the environment relating to production for each fiscal Environmental year were compared to “the effects on the environment relating to Sustainability manufacturing in fiscal 2016 × (revenue in that fiscal year / revenue in Index fiscal 2016),” and the difference was included in the calculation. There was a proportional relationship between revenue and the effects on the environment relating to manufacturing, based on the idea that the difference was the result of efforts undertaken in the group's activities. ・Direct contribution / Conservation of the natural environment: The Group keeps track of the number of participants and the amount of time spent on each activity. In the case of planting cedar trees, a fixed amount of CO2 (1.1 t-CO2/person-hour) was multiplied by the number of people and the amount of time spent and incorporated into the calculation. Because, starting with the current medium-term plan (201719), improving the sustainability of activities through local cooperation and by making them stand on their own (autonomous) were made a target, the Group’s ability to work toward this target was weighted against the growth axis and included in the calculation ・Direct contributions / donations: The amount intended to be paid for conservation was deemed equal to the amount of money calculated for damage caused and included in the calculation. ・Direct contribution / Mega-solar: Amount of electricity generated included in the calculation as generated energy converted to a CO2 basis Environment 188 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Management System Promotion of Environmental Management System Based on ISO 14001 Management Approach Environmental Management System Establishment and Operations of Environmental Committee In regard to the “environmental” aspect of non-financial matters, up to and including 2019 Sekisui Chemical held twice-yearly meetings of its CSR Committee—headed by the Group president and including Group directors and employee representatives—based on its Environmental Management Policy that is common to all companies. A subcommittee under the CSR Committee, the Environmental Committee of Sekisui Chemical Group is positioned to specialize in and discuss environment-related issues and has been meeting twice a year. The major CSR-related initiatives and activity policies discussed by the CSR Committee are reported to and approved by the Board of Directors and reflected in management. The formulation of specific action plans has been carried out through meetings of environmental managers from headquarters and each division company. In fiscal 2019, the CSR Committee met twice, in October and February, and the Environmental Subcommittee met twice, in September and March. In the first half of the fiscal year, they discussed the confirmation of KPI progress and the effectiveness of measures, such as GHGand water resource-related efforts and measures aimed at reducing waste. Meetings in the second half of the year covered progress confirmation and implementation considerations, and there were also discussions of the Long-term Environmental Management Vision and the setting of mediumand long-term specific targets. In addition to the ongoing regular management system mentioned above, with regard to matters that require deliberation over longer periods of time, such as those to accelerate the deployment of measures and KPI planning, pertinent deliberations are also conducted at management meetings (held once a month) chaired by the head of the Business Strategy Department and the person in charge of the ESG Management Promotion Department, following which reports are submitted to the Board of Directors. Keeping Companywide sustainability firmly in mind, from fiscal 2020 we will instigate a system whereby what was the CSR Committee is now newly named the Sustainability Committee and serves as the forum for discussing direction and policy. Environment 189 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Management Promotion System (to fiscal 2019) Board of Directors CSR Committee Environmental Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson: Keita Kato, Representative Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for ESG Management Department, Head of Business Strategy Department Sub-committee Members: Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, Executive officers at headquarters Office: ESG Management Department Divisional companies Environmental sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Environmental sections Sales companies Environmental sections Environment Environment officers' meeting brainstorming sessions Headquarters ESG and environment promotion organizations Note: Keita Kato was appointed President and Representative Director on March 1, 2020. Environmental Management Promotion System (from fiscal 2020) Board of Directors Sustainability Committee* Environmental Sub-committee Sub-committee : Futoshi Kamiwaki, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for Chairperson ESG Management Department, Digital Transformation Department, and New Business Development Department, Head of Business Strategy Department Sub-committee : Executive officers at each Divisional Company, Members Executive officers at headquarters Office : ESG Management Department Divisional companies Environmental sections at each Divisional Company Production sites Environmental sections Sales companies Environmental sections Environment Environment officers' meeting brainstorming sessions Headquarters ESG and environment promotion organizations Note: The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Environment 190 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Management across the Supply Chain Assessing the greenhouse gas emissions of each top supplier that purchases raw materials in large volumes We ask our suppliers to establish an environmental management system in conformity with ISO 14001 and to reduce their environmental impact when starting or continuing business dealings. With regard to important environmental issues such as climate change, we are confirming whether reduction targets have been set and efforts are under way. The raw materials used in manufacturing are used as a material balance to assess the volume used and also in assessing the environmental impact. Recognizing that climate change is the most important environmental issue in the case of the raw materials we use, we are stepping up efforts particularly with regard to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Of the raw materials, for the four major resins that are purchased in large volumes and have high levels of greenhouse gas emissions, we are requesting the presentation of greenhouse gas emissions data during raw material manufacture from more than 10 manufacturing companies, while promoting efforts to reduce greenhouse gases under Scope 3 for the future. Utilizing EMS in Office Eco-activities Promoting Group EMS-Aligned Environmental Activities in Offices Sekisui Chemical Group encourages environmental activities in its offices that are in line with its Environmental Management System (EMS). At our offices located throughout Japan, we refer to the EMS for guidance on environmental activities, such as turning off lights during lunch breaks and other steps to conserve energy and reducing the use of paper. Complying with Environmental Laws and Regulations Working to Prevent Risks before They Occur by Setting Self-management Targets That Are Tougher than Regulations Sekisui Chemical Group has set its own environmental management targets, such as for reducing emissions into the atmosphere and water environments, which are tougher than legal regulations. Each business site strictly follows these internal targets. We aim to prevent environmental accidents before they occur by conducting internal environmental audits to unveil latent environmental risks. The latest regulatory trends and case studies of accidents at other companies are shared within the Group as a part of comprehensive environmental activities. In fiscal 2019, Sekisui Chemical Group had zero environmental accidents, and zero incidents involving administrative guidance from the government. Sekisui Chemical Group makes every effort to comply with laws and regulations. Environment 191 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Expansion of EMS Overseas Promoting ISO Certification and Zero Waste Emissions At our overseas bases, we are also expanding the implementation of environmental management systems (EMS) with similar policies to Japan. We are putting in place systems for obtaining environmental impact data and taking initiatives to reduce environmental impact based on this data. As of the end of March 2020, 51 business sites in Japan and 37 business sites overseas had acquired ISO 14001 or other certifications. The proportion of Sekisui Chemical Group production sites and research facilities which have acquired these certifications is now 90%. Additionally, the Group aims to achieve ISO 14001 certification and zero emissions at all production sites. Note: With regard to the attainment of the zero waste emissions standard and certification system, please refer to “Efficient Use of Resources” on page 228. Response in Emergencies Training to Respond to Unforeseen Events That Impact the Environment To prevent and mitigate environmental pollution during an emergency, our employees at each business site are trained at least once a year in emergency procedures and communications for a variety of scenarios unique to each business site. The implementation results from the main training held in fiscal 2019 are set out below. Training for Measures and Notices to be Carried Out in Emergencies Simulated emergency situation Number of times drills performed Leakage and outflow training 44 Fire training 29 Earthquake training 7 Water damage training 3 Report training 9 Comprehensive disaster drills 36 Other disaster training 8 Environment 192 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Scope of Tabulation for Environmental Performance Data Note: All of Sekisui Chemical's (consolidated) offices (100% of produced sales amounts) are subject to environmental reporting. Japan Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company R&D institute One company and one business site R&D institutes Two companies and two business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. R&D Division Production plants Seven companies and 10 business sites Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Tohoku Sekisui Heim Production plants 12 companies and 15 business sites Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Chushikoku Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant, Shiga-Minakuchi Plant and Taga Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Kyusyu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Plant / Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Board Co., Ltd., etc. Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. / Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. / Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd., etc. Sales and construction 26 companies and 141 companies business sites 12 companies and 17 business sites in total Sekisui Heim sales companies Construction and service companies Headquarters 34 companies and 152 business sites in total R&D institutes Two companies and two business sites Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Advanced Technology R&D Center Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Drug Development Solutions Center R&D institutes One company and one business site Production plants and Three companies and six Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories headquarters business sites Production plants Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka headquarters and Tokyo headquarters 23 companies and 20 business sites Sekisui LB Tec Co., Ltd. Chubu Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant and Gunma Plant / Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant, Tsukuba Plant and Ami Site Higashinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. /Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Five companies and eight business sites in total Co., Ltd. / Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Nara Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. / Total: 69 companies and 208 business sites Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd., etc. Sales One company and 10 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sales Headquarters, Higashinihon Sales Headquarters, Chubu Sales Headquarters, Nishinihon Sales Headquarters, Kyushu Sales Headquarters, etc. 23 companies and 31 business sites in total Note: The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Environment 193 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Overseas Housing Company Headquarters Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. One business site Sekisui Xenotech, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui KYDEX, LLC. Bloomsburg-North Campus Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui KYDEX, LLC. Bloomsburg-South Campus Five business sites in total Sekisui KYDEX, LLC. Holland Plant Sekisui Eslon B.V. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Eight business sites in total High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe S.L. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC, Lawrence Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC, Coldwater Plant Sekisui-Alveo B.V. Sekisui Alveo BS G.m.b.H. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. Youngbo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Greater Noida Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Tapukara Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Chennai Plant PT. Sekisui Techno Molding Indonesia Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Total: 27 business sites Environment 194 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Business Sites that Have Received Third-party Certification for Their Environment Management Systems Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site* Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories [Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. Shiga Plant] Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Kanto Site Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Tochigi Plant Tokyo Site Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Chubu Site Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Kinki Site Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nara Sekisui Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Higashinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hanyu Site Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant [Higashinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Watari Site] Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. [Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. Iwaki Plant, Atsugi Plant, SCG-Sekisui Sales Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Akashi Plant and R&D Division] Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant Sekisui-Alveo B.V. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Alveo BS G.m.b.H. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Votek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Votek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Bloomsburg Plant Pasadena Plant Sekisui Polymer Innovations, LLC. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Holland Plant Calvert City Plant Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui Eslon B.V. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Great Noida Plant Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. Headquarters Youngbo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. R&D Center* Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Drug Development Solutions Center☆ Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Sekisui LB Tec Co., Ltd. Chubu Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant and Ami Site Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC, San Diego Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. [ ]: Organizations in square parentheses are included in the scope of certification. Some sites not shown above may include related sections that have attained ISO 14001 certification. ☆ Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 * The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and Development Center share a single certification Environment 195 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method Number of business sites that have received external EMS certification Number of EMS-certified business sites External EMS certification: ISO 14001, Eco-Action 21, etc. The proportion of all EMS-certified business sites within Sekisui The proportion of all production sites and Chemical Group = The number of all production sites and research research facilities within Sekisui Chemical facilities that have received external EMS certification / The number Group that have received external EMS of all production sites and research facilities within Sekisui Chemical certification Group Environment-related Accidents, Complaints, etc. Content Response Noise from reworking operations Noise Moved reworking location heard outside Complaints Lights from patrols dazzling along Other Ceased patrols road In fiscal 2019, there were two environment-related complaints. In each case in turn, we implemented measures to prevent any reoccurrence. Environment 196 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ESG Education Fostering Human Resources Who Can Think and Act on Their Own to Solve Issues Management Approach Educational Plans and System Enhancing Educational Content to Transition from Environmental Education to ESG Education While Following the Policies of Our Long-term Vision Sekisui Chemical Group has created an education system to enable it to achieve the “ideal model of environmental human resources” in respect to employees, as drawn up as a means of achieving the group’s Vision. We conducted environmental education based on this system from 2014 to fiscal 2019. From fiscal 2020, ESG education will be at the foundation of our human resources, as all employees should think proactively about what they can do to contribute to solutions to environmental and social issues, and then take action. This is how business activities will work to achieve the Group’s vision. Environment 197 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promoting Education Concept for Promoting ESG Education over the Long Term Our environmental education program, concluded in fiscal 2019, put a strong emphasis on the process for instilling “interest, excitement, and gratitude.” With the goal of raising awareness of environmental issues (creating “interest”), driving action (generating “excitement”), and producing results (fostering “gratitude”), we conducted a variety of educational activities suited to each situation, with a focus on the most effective teaching methods and targets for each job and area of responsibility. ESG education, commencing from fiscal 2020, is based on the wide dissemination of elements that pertain to governance, while also being positioned as input that works to achieve “awareness, understanding, action and producing outcomes for each issue.” Items to prioritize for ESG education Confirmation of improved ESG human resources for all employees About education for the cultivation of ESG human resources Promote open innovation ESG education has thorough awareness of governance elements Fusion Create and expand the market for as its base and is positioned as an input for achieving awareness, products to enhance sustainability Set management indicators for major action items understanding, action, and result creation for various problems. Change to a challenging corporate culture Putting projects that fulfill environment and social needs into practice Managing risks Evolution toward active Creating results for the environment and society ・Not allowing actualization employee participation Human resources Promote work style reform Enhance ESG human resource capabilities Actions and results creation for problems (Businesses, operations, and activities) and promote them at applicable organizations Visualization and standardization Understanding problems DX Increase productivity (Latest trends and problem awareness) Sophistication Interest in problems (Awareness and participation) Adapt to and mitigate climate change Governance elements: Promises to society Environment Promote a circular economy (Safety, accounting, regulations, information, and quality) Reduction of water risks Overview of ESG management Reducing serious incidents (safety, quality, accounting, legal/ (Fundamental ideals, policies, vision, and focus areas) ethical, information management) Strengthen governance Risk management, crisis management, BCP Environment 198 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Medium-term Plan Philosophy for Environmental Education in the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), and Stance on ESG Education from Fiscal 2020 1) A program to assist the transformation to “hands-on” action In the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), the Group created tools to allow it to monitor individual-level levels of knowledge and degrees of participation so that studies of individual employees could serve as indicators, and created mechanisms that allowed employees to engage in activities “hands-on.” The period from fiscal 2020 is envisioned to be consist of staged development, firstly to recognize respective social and environmental issues, then ultimately leading to the generation of outcomes will be participation in planning, obtaining awareness and understanding, consideration and taking action, while putting in place the input that will go into realizing “awareness, understanding, action and producing outcomes for each social issue.” Through these stages, we will nurture the human resources that generate results and contribute to social and environmental solutions through our business and corporate activities. 2) The ongoing implementation of effective programs While undertaking a detailed review, Sekisui Chemical Group continued to implement the programs that proved effective among the various education programs instituted as part of the Environmental Medium-term Plan up to fiscal 2016 under the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019). From fiscal 2020, we will utilize the results of human resource indices and other data to determine the degree of progress toward personnel development with regard to each social and environmental issue. We will systematically apply these results to educational programs, thus implementing effective ESG personnel training. Environment 199 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Human Resource Environmental Awareness Indicator Ascertaining the Level of Environmental Awareness in Human Resources by Indicator From fiscal 2017 to 2019, using a human resource environmental awareness indicator we created, we worked to ascertain individual progress on the status of employees’ knowledge and behavior concerning the environment, and encouraged individuals to engage in self-study. By utilizing an online “Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check” we were able to visualize the details of an individual’s behavior and any changes in awareness. The Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check focuses on items which Sekisui Chemical Group expects its employees to know about and take action on, including natural capital, SDGs, and environmental policies, and asks the employees in survey form if they know the meaning and purpose of the key terms, and what specific actions the employees may have taken to contribute to solutions to environmental problems. The results were then scored, and feedback was given in regard to each employee’s current level and areas for potential improvement. In addition, having the employees periodically take the “Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check” allowed us to measure the strength of an employee’s environmental activity promotional efforts, and through this, his or her knowledge and willingness to act. In 2017, the first year in the Environmental Medium-term Plan, we used this benchmark for the human resource environmental awareness indicator, and the Group targeted a 20-point improvement from that benchmark level by fiscal 2019. The domestic benchmark is 39 points, and the fiscal 2019 score was 43. While this latter figure represents a fourpoint improvement, it was still below our target. However, with regard to SDGs which had their lowest scores when the benchmarks had been recorded, thanks to having focused on conducting multiple educational initiatives we were able to confirm our greatest growth over a three-year period. Continuing on from fiscal 2018, we believe that among the reasons we did not achieve our target are that a system for undertaking self-study was not yet in place and that the educational opportunities offered were rather limited. Another point was that not all employees were able to attend educational programs. In aiming to expand attendance, we will work on further horizontal development. We utilize the human resource environmental awareness indicator overseas as well, and in fiscal 2019, we identified the benchmark in China (60 points). Subsequently, employees utilized environmental education materials for selfstudy, and then again conducted the “Human Resource Environmental Awareness Check.” Due to the impact of the new pneumonia virus, and despite extending the implementation period while taking longer to compile the results, we plan to provide each business site with feedback on growth from the benchmark, as well as strengths and weaknesses. In fiscal 2020, we are set to create the indices that will measure the necessary knowledge and behavioral capabilities in order to develop the ESG personnel ideally suited to find solutions to the issues that are considered important for ESG management (such as strengthening governance and the environment) and plan to periodically ascertain the ESG capabilities of our employees. Environment 200 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Details of environment education implemented under the Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Category of Categories covered Program name education Japan Overseas Job responsibilities,types, etc. Booklet for Publicizing environmental 1 ①②③ △ All employees (China) vision and initiatives 2 Environment e-learning 1 ②③⑤ P Management 3 Environment e-learning 2 ②③ P All employees 4 CSR Training 1 ①② P New company employees Newly appointed people in 5 CSR Training 2 ②③ P management positions Pamphlets on Environment-contributing 6 ①②③ P △ All employees Products 7 EMS Content Distribution (DVD) ①④⑤ △ All employees (China) People in charge of environmental 8 Workshop Meeting ④⑤ P affairs Training for Fostering Internal Domestic production sites, research 9 ④⑤ P Environmental Auditors facilities Environmental Human 10 ①⑤ P △ All employees (Japan, China) Resources Check △…Conducted in a limited area Environment 201 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 1) Environmental e-learning for management From fiscal 2013, we have regularly conveyed to management the environmental topics thought to be necessary to supporting corporate operations. In fiscal 2019, we implemented an environmental e-learning program focusing on smart cities around the world and circular economies with the goal of solving environmental problems. We maintained an ongoing attendance rate of 90 percent. These efforts are an opportunity to share reference information that will help management to think about sustainable management. Beyond fiscal 2020, we plan to create opportunities for learning about business chances that arise from not only environmental topics, but also pertaining to human rights, safety, and other socially relevant issues. (Reference) About the Circular Economy If the mass-production, mass-consumption, mass-waste business model continues as is, waste volume will be 2x 2010 levels by 2050, and problems such as resource depletion, environmental pollution, and landfill site shortages will become more serious. In response to this, people are beginning to take notice of ideas called the circular economy which further expand on the 3Rs (reuse, reduce, and recycle). The main differences between circular economy and the 3Rs are “a thorough dedication to complete elimination of waste” and “creation of economic value.” Recirculating society Circular economy Redefining reduce (creating economic value while reducing distribution volume) Conversion of products to services Shifting from possession to sharing (Expansion of leasing and pay-as-you-go S systems based on payment for used (Sharing assets such as cars and homes, portions only) effective utilization of unused resources) (Source) https://www.env.go.jp/recycle/3r/initiative/index.html With just the 3Rs, global waste (per day) will double Assigning economic Shifting from possession to sharing (Expansion of maintenance and by 2050 and triply by 2100. value to reuse update services) Trends in daily global waste output (up to 2012) and future predictions (for 2013 and beyond). Advancement of recycling Advancement of recycling Recirculation of raw materials Collection and recycling Maintaining quality and (Use of 100% recycled materials) achieving high added value (Source) Nature “Environment: Waste production must peak this (Source) https://newspicks.com/news/1724474/body/ century” October 30, 2013 Important points The idea of a circular economy can be applied to the creation of new business opportunities (creating profit) and used as a reference for the development of new products and business models in the future. 1 Environmental e-learning for management (Educational material example) Environment 202 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Learning about SDGs through Next-generation Training Up until now environmental training was geared toward employees, and covered SDGs, the sustainable development goals espoused by the United Nations. However, in consideration that education should also take into account the next generation as we pursue the realization of a sustainable society, we are also focusing educational efforts on the up-and-coming generation, going beyond the framework of employee training to also cover elementary and junior high school students. From fiscal 2018, we collaborated with a textbook maker to establish a website where students, from elementary school to junior high school, could learn about SDGs, and distributed materials electronically. With this, card-type educational materials that considered the links between various products and SDGs gave children the chance to think about SDGs in terms of manufacturing, and a site for learning about the Company’s urban development efforts and factory home building. It offers contents for learning about sustainable communities and housing. In fiscal 2019, these kinds of educational materials were used in a workshop for children, which provided an opportunity to enjoy learning, in a game format, about the products and technologies necessary for sustainable communities. From fiscal 2020, we will even further deepen connections with NPOs and other entities, and plan to provide the support that will enable the next generation of children to think about “What can we on our own do for a sustainable society?” Environment 203 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Significant expansion of environmental communication from inside to outside the Company Major customers Local area who are well known Future Employees business partners customers Employees’ families ■ SEKISUI Environment Week ■ Global Children’ Children’ss Eco Summit ■ Most Environmentally ■ Activities linking production sites ■ Existing visiting lectures Conscious Person Award and their local areas ■ Forest Preservation Activities ■ Next-generation by our Housing Company education Relevant areas and initiatives for environmental education Top page of the SDGs educational site, “Virtual Learning for Urban Development” provides “EduTownSDGs” 360-degree views of community development Workshop in which to search for items (products) that can contribute to “sustainable communities” with little waste and that stand up well to disasters Environment 204 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Accounting We are working to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities while identifying the effects of costs incurred and investments undertaken. Management Approach Compilation Method Sekisui Chemical Group Refers to Public Guidelines and Adds Its Own Concepts From an ESG management perspectives, and in order to fulfill our reporting responsibilities as a company and promote efficient environmental activities, we are working to reduce our environmental impact while employing environmental accounting in a bid to identify the effects of costs incurred and investments undertaken to contribute to the environment. Calculation is conducted by referring to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own concepts, such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). We will utilize this in our Medium-term Plan, which begins in fiscal 2020. Under the Medium-term Plan, which begins in fiscal 2020, and from a Group-wide management strategy perspective, environmental investments and expenses are positioned as a capital cost. We will use this to raise awareness that the restraint of capital costs and efforts to improve productivity will help boost ROIC. Performance Data 【Scope of Environmental Accounting】 (1) Summation period: April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (2) Scope of tabulation: 45 production sites + 6 research facilities + various headquarter departments + indirect Company divisions + 15 housing sales companies Note: In fiscal year 2017, the scope of tabulation consisted of 42 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies. Addition: Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Tohoku Office, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Ami Office The business sites deleted from and added to the scope of tabulation in 2018 are as follows: Deleted: Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Office (plant closure) Addition: Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Tochigi Office, Sekisui SoflanWiz Co., Ltd. Iwaki Office, Atsugi Office, Akashi Office The business sites deleted from and added to the scope of tabulation in 2019 are as follows: Addition: SoflanWiz Technology Development Division Environment 205 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report (3) Approach toward summation ・Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. ・Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. ・Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. ・From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 206~208) Despite an increase in costs associated with measures to prevent global warming (energy conservation), management activity as well as R&D costs decreased in fiscal 2019. As a result, total costs amounted to less than in the previous fiscal year. In addition, there was increased investment in pollution prevention as well as global warming prevention (energy conservation) measures. However, due to the decrease in R&D investment, the total amount of investment was less than in the previous fiscal year. In terms of economic effects, profit on the sale of valuables increased, while profits from the sale of mega-solar electricity were essentially unchanged from the previous year. Additionally, the amount saved on costs from energy-saving activities increased, while the cost-savings from waste material reduction activities and other efforts decreased. The external economic effects from housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and so forth are growing steadily. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Millions of yen) Items FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,697 99 1,358 168 1,247 372 1） Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 427 1,312 400 870 1,440 3,143 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,967 2,030 5,099 542 4,650 249 Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods involving reduced 2） Upstream/downstream costs environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 218 0 98 7 146 0 Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action 3） Administrative costs organization, information disclosure, etc. 2,072 0 2,220 13 1,904 6 4） Research & development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 7,932 1,477 5,983 4,826 3,937 185 5） Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 277 0 271 0 349 190 6） Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 29 32 27 0 32 0 Total 17,618 4,951 15,456 6,426 13,705 4,145 Total amount of R&D costs* or investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 36,974 18,838 38,838 30,551 37,147 33,907 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total amount of R&D costs or Investment (%) 21.5 26.3 15.4 21.0 10.6 12.2 * R&D costs are the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental conservation benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfDescription of effects Item Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Effect (19-18) Item Unit FY2018 FY2019 evaluation (1) Electricity TJ 1,116 1,085 1,023 -62 Effects on invested Amount of energy usage (1) Energy usage per unit of output GJ/ton 1.00 1.00 ✓ resources (2) Fuel TJ 2,488 2,507 2,549 41 (electricity + fuel) Thousand 317.4 306.7 295.5 -11.2 (3) CO2 emissions tons − − − − ✓ Effects within business areas Effects on (4) Volume of environmental pollutants discharged *1 Tons 649.5 637.6 582.2 -55.4 − − − − ✓ environmental Thousand 38.3 40.5 37.4 -3.1 (2) Waste generated per unit of output impact and waste (5) Waste generated *2 tons kg/ton 43.4 40.4 ✓ Thousand 0.08 (3) Outsourced disposal per unit of (6) Outsourced disposal *3 tons 0.31 0.55 0.63 output kg/ton 0.59 0.68 × Upstream/ Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power generation, Thousand downstream products/services etc. (cumulative) tons 452 481 508 27 − − − − ✓ effects New acquisitions Sites 2 10 0 Total number Business sites attaining ISO 14001 Business sites attaining ISO 14001 and of and other certifications other certifications *5 business 112 112 ✓ Other Renewals Sites 19 14 17 sites benefits to Others *6 environmental Total number conservation Number of business sites achieving zero emissions *4 Sites 0 0 1 Number of business sites achieving zero of emissions *6 business 162 163 ✓ sites Thousand CO2 reduction from use of megasolar facilities tons 4.96 4.57 4.15 -0.42 ー ー − − − *1 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *2 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. *3 Simple incineration + Landfill. *4 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. *5 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors, such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. *6 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Environment 206 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Millions of yen) Description of effects FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Remarks (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 291 159 318 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity 384 363 360 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 4 0 0 Cost savings (4) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 654 595 772 (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 677 1,595 578 Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 2,010 2,712 2,028 (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *1 7,737 11,017 10, 501 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites *2 (7) External economic effect 34,982 35,754 36,754 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Subtotal (estimated effects) 42,719 46,771 47,255 Total 44,728 49,483 49,284 *1 Excluding housing sales companies *2 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} Environmental Conservation Costs (by Company) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company *1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Chemical Group *2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,074 20 42 22 131 329 1,247 372 1) Costs within Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 119 294 260 689 118 108 1,440 3,143 business areas Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,956 1 273 29 199 131 4,650 249 2) Upstream/ Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods downstream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 113 0 7 0 18 0 146 0 3) Administrative costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 527 0 330 0 513 3 1,904 6 4) Research & development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 208 172 1,817 0 576 13 3,937 185 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 261 139 37 3 15 0 349 190 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 0 0 0 0 28 0 32 0 Total 6,258 626 2,768 744 1,597 584 13,705 4,145 Total amount of R&D costs *3 or investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 3,887 5,314 6,229 9,672 15,329 12,233 37,147 33,907 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total amount of R&D costs or Investment (%) 5.4 11.8 29.2 7.7 3.8 4.8 10.6 12.2 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. *3 R&D costs are the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Costs (by Environmental Conservation Measure) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company *1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Chemical Group *2 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 112 294 250 661 114 101 1,418 3,108 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of chlorof luorocarbon emissions, etc. 4 0 14 27 14 0 32 27 3. Conservation of air quality Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting substances 286 9 30 5 26 3 342 18 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration pollution 4 0 7 7 6 1 17 8 5. Conservation of water environment, soil environment, ground quality Preservation of water quality, prevention of subsidence 211 11 19 10 119 311 356 333 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 4,049 1 279 29 234 131 4,791 249 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 548 0 2 0 2 0 552 0 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature conservation, etc. 68 0 128 3 25 3 259 9 9. Others Others 976 312 2,038 2 1,057 32 5,936 393 Total 6,258 626 2,768 744 1,597 584 13,705 4,145 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. Environment 207 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Company) Environmental conservation benefits Housing Company*1 Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group*2 Environmental Products Company FY2018 FY2019 Effect FY2018 FY2019 Effect FY2018 FY2019 Effect FY2018 FY2019 Effect Description of effects Items Unit (19-18) (19-18) (19-18) (19-18) Effects on Amount of energy (1) Electricity TJ 152 150 -2 547 527 -19 377 287 -90 1,085 1,023 -62 invested Effects within business areas usage resources (2) Fuel TJ 128 136 8 90 77 -13 2,282 2,256 -26 2,507 2,549 41 Thousand (3) CO2 emissions tons 27.3 27.3 0.0 81.3 73.2 -8.1 196.4 184.9 -11.5 306.7 295.5 -11.2 Effects on (4) Volume of environmental environmental pollutants discharged *3 Tons 1.4 1.2 -0.1 46.3 32.3 -14.0 589.9 498.0 -91.9 637.6 582.2 -55.4 impact and Thousand waste (5) Waste generated *4 tons 11.1 10.0 -1.1 7.8 7.6 -0.2 21.4 17.4 -4.0 40.5 37.4 -3.1 Thousand (6) Outsourced disposal *5 tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.38 0.57 0.19 0.55 0.63 0.08 Upstream/ Effects related downstream to products/ CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power generation, etc. Thousand tons 481 508 27 － － － － － － 481 508 27 effects service Business sites New acquisitions Sites 0 0 － 0 0 － 10 0 － 10 0 － attaining ISO Other benefits to 14001 and other certifications Renewals Sites 5 6 － 4 6 － 4 5 － 14 17 － environmental Others *6 － － － Number of business sites achieving Sites 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 － conservation zero emissions *7 CO2 reduction from use of Thousand megasolar facilities tons 2.91 2.71 -0.20 0.67 0.59 -0.09 0.98 0.85 -0.13 4.57 4.15 -0.42 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters.*3 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises *5 Simple incineration + Landfill *6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites *7 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (by Company) (Millions of yen) Urban Infrastructure High Performance Sekisui Description of effects Housing Company*1 & Environmental Remarks Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Products Company 318 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 20 32 264 segregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity 227 55 78 360 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 0 0 0 0 Cost savings (4) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 5 70 651 772 (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 39 16 523 578 Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 291 173 1,516 2,028 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *3 4,704 2,005 2,419 10,501 value at business sites *4 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation (7) External economic effect 26,623 10,131 － 36,754 systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 31,327 12,136 2,419 47,255 Total 31,618 12,310 3,935 49,284 *1 Including 43 business sites of housing sales companies *2 Total of three division companies and departments of headquarters. *3 Excluding housing sales companies *4 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} Indicator Calculation Method Calculation based on referring to the Ministry of the Environment's “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition” and adding Sekisui's own concepts, such as external economic effects (estimated effects) Environmental Among the economic effects attendant with environmental conservation measures, the Accounting external economic effect consist of the effects of energy-savings from sales of housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and the effects of non-digging renovation methods for sewers, and so forth, converted to a monetary value Environment 208 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Usage of Natural Capital Initiatives by Sekisui Chemical Group to Reduce its Impact on the Environment Sekisui Chemical Group is involved in business that utilizes fossil fuels, lumber, and other resources of the earth (natural capital). To balance the irreplaceable global environment with sustainable business, Sekisui's initiatives for “reducing the impact on the environment” are explained here. Up to fiscal 2019, we have worked diligently to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities, including production, sales, and construction. From fiscal 2020, however, we will expand the scope of our efforts to include the supply chain and strengthen our lifecycle management, including the supply chain, with the aim of resolving environmental issues. Climate Change Sekisui Chemical Group is engaged in reducing GHG emissions across the entire supply chain. This includes the procurement of raw materials through research and development to manufacturing as well as the transport and use of products. Up to fiscal 2019, we have worked to reduce total GHG emissions across our business activities, which has allowed us to grow our business and reduce our total GHG emissions. From fiscal 2020, we will formulate a long-term vision with a focus on expanding the use of renewable energy, more clearly communicate our policy of contributing to global warming countermeasures through our business activities, and improve effectiveness. Efficient Use of Resources Sekisui Chemical Group strives to thoroughly implement the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout entire lifecycles and to achieve zero emissions from its business sites. In addition to continuing these activities going forward, we will promote recycling, including the use of recycled materials and the development and social implementation of waste recycling technologies, in a bid to realize a circular economy and a recycling-oriented society in 2050. Conservation of Water Resources Water resources are natural capital that is indispensable to the continuation of business, and at the same time are also natural capital shared by the community. Up to fiscal 2019, the entire Group has focused on reducing water intake volume and the environmental impact attributable to water drainage. However, the situation and challenges of water resources are highly localized and contradictory to working toward a uniform global goal. Understanding the risk that our ongoing business will have on the water resources located in close proximity to our business sites, we are conscious of the need to engage in business activities that utilizes water in a sustainable manner as a shared regional resource. Environment 209 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Chemical Substance Management We believe that properly managing chemical substances while taking into consideration product safety, occupational safety and health, as well as environmental impact is an important responsibility of any company. Sekisui Chemical Group has set its own targets for reducing the emission and transfer of chemical substances and is working to comply with global laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Environmental Impact Assessment We continuously runs systems that evaluate the environmental effects of our products in all stages from product planning, development, mass prototyping, market release, and initial distribution in a bid to identify and minimize the impact of our products and services on the global and social environment. Material Balance Sekisui Chemical Group releases information on the resources and energy used in its business activities (inputs) and on the impact on the environment of those activities (outputs). Environment 210 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Climate Change Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Management Approach Basic Concept Reducing Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Sekisui Chemical Group has formulated a medium-term greenhouse gas emission reduction plan in line with targets established at COP21 (the Paris Agreement). We are identifying and disclosing the effects in terms of “risks and opportunities” that climate will have on business continuity based on science-based scenarios aimed at the achievement of the ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement, which are based on Science Based Targets (SBT). Moreover, we reflect these factors into our business plans and emission reduction targets. Concerning emissions, Sekisui Chemical is engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions at every stage, from the procurement of raw materials to development, manufacturing, transport, and use. We monitor these emissions throughout the supply chain, including not just our own business sites but also raw material suppliers and the use of our products after being sold, and publish our findings. Note: Environment-contributing Products evolve into products to enhance sustainability from fiscal 2020. For more details, please refer to the “Products to Enhance Sustainability” on page 254. Combating Climate Change Targeting Zero GHG Emissions Due to Business Operations by 2050 Sekisui Chemical Group believes that it is important to earnestly confront all the risks of climate change and make every effort to keep the temperature rise to less than 1.5°C. Under the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 that was formulated in 2019 we are trying to contribute to solving environmental issues by reducing the environmental impact through our business activities. We have set a target of zero GHG emissions due to our business activities by 2050. Moreover, we are advancing the introduction of solar power equipment to generate electricity for use at the plant or facility in which it was installed, increasing our utilization ratio for renewable energy from electricity purchased from outside and have set a new target value of 100% by 2030. At the same time, we started specific actions to achieve a 26% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030, to which we committed ourselves under the SBT initiative. Environment 211 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Climate Change and Our Business Risks and Opportunities Presented by Climate Change for Our Businesses Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that global warming and other forms of climate change are a global problem. The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 created in fiscal 2019 aims to realize “a planet where biodiversity is preserved.” Our concept of “a planet where biodiversity is preserved” is a vision where the earth has achieved a state of having solved global-scale issues, such as climate change, resource depletion and ecosystem degradation. We also strive to understand the risks and opportunities that climate change presents to the operations of Sekisui Chemical Group, in terms of their magnitude, scope of impact and other matters. For identified risks, Sekisui Chemical Group examines measures to mitigate the risks, and for identified opportunities, it considers the creation of new businesses by developing products and services. Through this kind of management, we believe it is possible to remain a company that meets the demands of society through sustainable business development. Higher Costs to Address Climate Change Can Be Met with Reductions in Environmental Impact As an initiative to reduce environmental impact, the Sekisui Chemical Group introduced the ECO-JIT Program* for the purpose of greatly increasing energy efficiency in production processes while working on the visualization of its energy usage and reducing the volume used. We also created a system where employees can select an eco-car from the list of company-owned vehicles and conduct environmental impact assessments and energy conservation assessments when installing new equipment in our plants. Through these and other efforts, the Sekisui Chemical Group has put in place a structure that allows it to meet new environmental regulations around the world at minimal cost. * ECO-JIT Program: A program to reduce energy costs by thorough detection of energy losses in production processes and thorough innovation Strategy through a Product Assessment System That Responds to Changing Market Needs and Growing Demand for Products That Resolve Environmental Issues We manage risks that arise from climate change and other global social issues by continuing to develop products that make a significant contribution to resolving issues in the natural and social environment, and disclosing and distributing detailed data on outcomes. At the same time, we have always believed that this would help precisely identify opportunities arising from strengthening demand. In particular, we believe it is possible to magnify the impact of the products and services we create by quantifying as much as possible the size of the contribution Group products make to solving social issues, which leads to opportunities to create and transform markets in ways that help solve global issues and change the awareness of consumers. From fiscal 2020, we intend to strengthen our partnerships with stakeholders and engage in activities to increase our contribution to resolving issues through co-innovation (fusion) and accelerate solutions through early dissemination. Environment 212 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Deterioration in Operating and Working Conditions Can Be Addressed on a Case-byCase Basis If climate change becomes a grave problem and significantly increases the highest and lowest temperatures, it is possible that people in manufacturing and construction would be unable to work as much. Since climates vary by region, it may be possible to minimize the effects of climate change by proposing to do construction work and projects during the more favorable seasons in the region. Each company division and Group company has formulated its own BCP based on their unique situation as a means of avoiding as much as possible the risk of loss in operations and work availability due to natural disasters. Environment 213 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Acquisition of SBT Certification Acquisition of Certification under the SBT* Initiative (a World-First in the Chemistry Industry) Relating to Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets To commit before society its stance of actively engaging in corporate efforts to resolve issues of climate change, Sekisui Chemical Group publicly releases CSR reports and other materials relating to its targets. Additionally, in fiscal 2017, the Group applied for certification under the SBT Initiative to demonstrate that the mediumto long-term targets announced for its overall business and for its supply chains reach a scientifically grounded, ambitious level aimed at achieving the COP21 (Paris Agreement) targets. The Group then became the first in the chemical industry worldwide to receive this certification. ＜Certified targets＞ SCOPE 1+2: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26%, relative to fiscal 2013, by 2030 SCOPE 3: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 27%, relative to fiscal 2016, by 2030 ＜Progress in Fiscal 2019＞ SCOPE 1+2: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5.1%, relative to fiscal 2013 SCOPE 3: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 16.1%, relative to fiscal 2016 The Group will continue to affirm its growing responsibility to play its role as an industry leader and will strive to engage in activities leading and imploring society as a whole to work on measures to combat climate change. * SBT: SBT (short for Science-Based Targets). Called for by joint initiatives, including the UN Global Compact, in response to the adoption of the Paris Agreement. Through the SBT Initiative, greenhouse gas reduction targets established by companies are certified as science-based targets (SBT) that contribute to long-term measures combating climate change. Environment-contributing Investments Environment-contributing Investment Framework Newly Created to Advance Measures for Combating Global Warming The Group is already implementing extremely high-level initiatives for reducing emissions at its production sites. To achieve its targets of wide-ranging reductions, the Group believes that bold capital expenditures, in addition to mere changes to its operations in production sites, will be essential. To promote capital expenditures that contribute to energy savings, the Group has set a new Environment-contributing Investment Framework, and has established internal systems that support production sites upgrade or replace equipment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The effects of initiatives, such as the undertaking of capital investment that had previously been considered not economically viable and had thus been postponed, have become apparent. By investment projects that have included manufacturing equipment upgrades, the introduction of solar power equipment to generate electricity for in-house use, energy conversion boilers, and a switch to LED lighting, more than 37,000 metric tons were invested. (Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan the target GHG emissions reduction from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019 was 40,000 metric tons.) From fiscal 2020, we will continue to contribute making Environment-contributing Investments with the specific target of promoting the use of renewable energy, such as solar power equipment to generate electricity for use at the plant or facility in which it was installed. Environment 214 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Supply Chain (SCOPE 3) Reducing Greenhouse Gases at Supply Chain Stage In the case of Sekisui Chemical Group we were able to determine that greenhouse gas emissions falling under SCOPE 3 are highest at the raw materials procurement and product usage stages. The reason that emissions are high in the raw materials procurement stage is understood to be due to the characteristics of our business as a chemicals manufacturer. Meanwhile, the emissions from the product-usage stage arise from the large volumes of greenhouse gases emitted as the result of energy consumed in the houses that we sell. Concerning raw materials, going forward, we will revise our selection criteria for new materials at the time of their adoption and reduce the use of four resins known to be raw materials that result in high levels of emissions to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases that are emitted. Thus, we will act to include the entire supply chain, achieving reductions of 20%, relative to fiscal 2016. In terms of emissions at the stage of product usage, we will contribute to energy usage reductions from occupied housing by increasing the proportion of net-zero energy houses (ZEH) among the housing units that we sell, achieving 50% reductions, relative to fiscal 2016, by fiscal 2030. Environment 215 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Renewable Energy Use The Installation of Solar Power Equipment Generating Electricity for In-house Use Sekisui Chemical has been promoting the use of renewable energy by installing solar power generators at our domestic and overseas production sites. In fiscal 2019, solar-derived energy usage amounted to 2,500 MWh, which is equivalent to 0.3% of our total energy usage, including purchased electricity. This equates to a 0.15 of a percentage point improvement compared with fiscal 2018. This shows the effects of having installed, in fiscal 2018, the first large-scale solar power equipment to generate electricity for use at a plant at SEKISUI S-LEC AMERICA, LLC in North America and, in the following fiscal year 2018, having installed the equipment for the first time in Japan at Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2019, we installed and started operations with this type of equipment at three new housing plants and one Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. plant. Sekisui Chemical will continue to monitor the proportion of renewable energy out of its total amount of electricity consumed, including purchased electricity, and to strive to increase that proportion to help achieve its Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050 targets. SEKISUI S-LEC AMERICA , LLC. Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Environment 216 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Energy Savings from Newly Constructed Building ZEB Ready*-certificated MINASE INNOVATION CENTER Completed In April 2020, our new research facility was built in Shimamoto-cho, Osaka Prefecture. This facility has been designed with complex building shapes, such as the utilization of a skip floor configuration and the installation of a central atrium, to make the entire building a “space for people to interact.” Having focused on energy saving from the design stage, the building is shielded from solar radiation by the adoption of eaves and external handrails. In addition, highly heat-insulating materials have been used for the outer walls and roof, the windows are of highly insulated glass, and human and brightness detection control technologies have been adopted for the lighting. We also received ZEB Ready certification by having adopted the most advanced energy-saving technologies. During full-scale operations, we will promote further energy conservation activities of the research institute, which utilizes, for example, equipment selected by the Top Runner Approach. * ZEB (Net Zero Energy Building): Buildings that are aimed to reduce annual primary energy consumption balance to zero. ZEB Ready: As advanced buildings in anticipation of ZEB certification, buildings with high thermal insulation and highly efficient energy-saving equipment (From the Ministry of the Environment web page [Japanese language only]: http://www.env.go.jp/earth/ zeb/terms/index.html?id=term_01) MINASE INNOVATION CENTER Primary energy consumption (MJ/m2 per year) 1,123 Air conditioning 55% reduction Ventilation 499 Air Lighting conditioning Ventilation Lighting Elevators Hot water Hot water Elevators Standard Design values value Environment 217 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Note: Starting with the current Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) we have revised the CO2 emissions coefficient and amount of heat generated per unit of output, resulting in revisions to figures for previous fiscal years. Note: From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 218~226) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions That Arise from Business Activities Emissions Comparative level of emissions (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) 1400 120 100.0 97.8 98.5 98.9 97.7 94.0 1200 94.7 93.9 100 1000 942 (Target) 922 892 928 932 921 884 36 38 43 35 37 33 31 80 48 Offices 886 800 39 37 37 37 36 36 12 12 11 10 10 11 Shipping 60 600 10 Research 40 400 847 829 808 842 851 843 Facilities 802 Manufacturing 200 20 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Target Note: Past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) during / Japan Manufacturing / Japan Comparative level of emissions Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) Usage (TJ) (Target) (FY2016: 100) 120 5000 100.0 99.0 98.0 100 800 97.0 89.9 91.5 93.0 100.0 95.8 91.1 94.5 100 91.8 90.6 88.4 87.8 88.0 4000 3,820 80 600 85.1 82.2 3,592 3,463 3,539 3,604 3,592 3,572 280 254 (Target) 80 244 268 282 280 286 3000 806 Housing Company 60 Greenhouse gases 744 687 664 667 636 605 400 from non-energy 60 372 consumption sources Urban Infrastructure 9 351 9 337 9 9 329 10 326 316 327 2000 and Environmental 40 31 28 27 9 10 306 Housing Company 40 Products Company 113 104 97 28 27 Urban Infrastructure 200 92 89 28 81 27 73 and Environmental 2,734 2,594 2,532 2,599 2,640 2,660 2,544 Products Company 20 1000 High Performance 20 Plastics Company 218 210 203 198 199 196 185 High Performance Plastics Company 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 10 Headquarters 0 0 0 0 0 8 14 16 138 Headquarters 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target * Energy consumption per unit of production weight Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) during / Overseas Manufacturing / Overseas Comparative level of emissions Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2013: 100) Usage (TJ) (FY2016: 100) 800 120 111.2 120 108.0 110.5 110.9 104.6 100.0 100.6 102.3 107.2 107.1 100.0 102.0 102.4 95.3 99.3 100 100 (Target) 8000 600 99.0 98.0 97.0 (Target) Greenhouse gases 4 513 4 525 3 527 from non-energy 80 6,391 6,559 6,454 6,225 80 0.4 32 0.5 32 4 497 consumption sources 486 6000 5,983 475 478 472 0.4 32 0.5 29 5,956 5,881 3 3 3 3 Housing Company 30 29 4 29 238 232 232 228 400 Housing Company 60 206 202 205 Urban Infrastructure 60 4000 and Environmental Urban Infrastructure Products Company 40 and Environmental 40 476 489 491 6,150 6,324 6,219 200 445 449 438 457 Products Company 5,777 5,754 5,676 5,907 High Performance 2000 Plastics Company High Performance 20 20 Plastics Company Headquarters Headquarters 0 7 0 0 88 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target * Energy consumption per unit of production weight Environment 218 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Breakdown of Energy Usage during Manufacturing Manufacturing / Japan / Japan Other forms CO2 from non-energy of energy 2% consumption sources 3% Heavy oil A 2% Other 4% Heavy oil A 2% Purchased Purchased steam 8% steam 11% Purchased electricity FY2019 FY2019 28% 306thousand 3,572TJ tons-CO2 Purchased City gas City gas electricity 35% 58% 47% Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions during Breakdown of Energy Usage during Manufacturing Manufacturing / Overseas / Overseas Heavy oil A 0% CO2 from non-energy consumption sources 1% Heavy oil A 0% Other 1% Other forms of energy 1% Purchased electricity 22% 2019 497 thousand FY2019 tons-CO2 Purchased 6,225TJ City gas Purchased 12% steam electricity Purchased 50% 41% steam 65% City gas 7% Electricity Consumption Volume for Research Facilities In-House Use Solar Power Generation Volume for Research and Manufacturing / Japan and Overseas Facilities and Manufacturing / Japan and Overseas Amount of electric power (GWh) Electricity generation volume (MWh) 1000 2500 2,495 800 809 814 825 802 2000 790 764 776 1,058 Overseas solar power 600 314 321 314 340 378 395 386 1500 generation Overseas electricity 1,268 consumption Domestic solar 400 1000 power generation 540 Domestic electricity 1,437 200 495 469 450 consumption 500 429 452 410 397 436 436 430 416 317 0 0 20 16 728 0 317 429 452 390 380 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Environment 219 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report GHG Emissions at Research Facilities Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Research Facilities Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) Usage (TJ) (FY2016: 100) 25 300 120 115.1 (Target) 109.3 101.6 100.0 99.0 98.0 97.0 20 250 100 200 93.9 80 15 89.5 11.9 11.8 11.3 150 80.6 60 0.2 0.2 10.6 10.3 10.2 10.8 10 0.2 0.1 10.1 0.1 0.0 106 110 110 110 0.0 Other GHGs 100 100 98 97 40 CO2 from energy 5 11.7 11.6 10.4 11.2 10.2 consumption 10.2 10.0 sources 50 Amount of 20 energy used 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target * Energy consumption per employee GHG Emissions at Offices Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Offices Per unit of output index (1,000 tons-CO2) (FY2016: 100) 50 600 120 112.3 112.6 101.7 104.1 Overseas (Target) 100.9 100 101.8 40 38.1 37.3 112.1 97 36.0 0.88 34.5 36.0 36.1 0.90 0.88 33.1 0.84 0.85 102.4 0.89 31.0 99.0 100 Energy usage (TJ) Overseas 0.86 500 93.8 80 30 0.86 91.4 83.3 Japan Overseas 4.59 4.34 4.60 20 4.72 4.46 35.1 37.2 36.4 35.2 35.3 400 4.64 40 33.6 32.3 4.48 Japan 30.2 10 Japan 442 4.45 429 435 416 393 416 382 365 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target *Amount of energy used per unit of exclusive-use area Note: For Japan, electricity and fuel for company cars are tabulated, while only electricity is tabulated for overseas. Environment 220 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method GHG emissions = Σ[fuel usage, purchased electricity, purchased steam × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption = CO2 emissions not arising from energy consumption* + Σ[emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases × global warming coefficient] *Includes CO2 emissions from the burning of non-fuel matter based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, both inside Japan and overseas [CO2 Emissions Coefficient] Purchased Electricity: In Japan, the coefficient provided in notices pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures is applied to the latest data at the start of each fiscal year. In cases where the Company Greenhouse purchases power with the emission coefficient set by menu, the adjusted Gas emission coefficient applies. Emissions For overseas data, the latest coefficient data as of the start of each fiscal year acquired from suppliers is applied. When no data is available, the data is complied with the GHG Protocol and EPA eGRID 2014 for determinations. City Gas and Purchased Steam: Coefficients obtained from suppliers are applied to the latest data at the start of each fiscal year If a coefficient cannot be obtained in this manner, it is based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Fuel Other than the Above: Based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Global warming coefficient: An emissions coefficient determined based on a system of greenhouse gas emission calculations, reports, and official disclosures Energy usage = Σ[amount of fuel used, amount of electricity purchased, amount of steam purchased × amount of heat generated per unit] Energy Usage [Amount of Heat Generated per Unit] Purchased Electricity: 3.60 MJ/kWh Fuel, Purchased Steam: Based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Environment 221 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Transportation Volumes and Energy per Unit of Output* CO2 Emissions during the Transport Stage / Japan (Index) during Transportation / Japan Per unit of output index Transportation volume (10,000 ton-km) (FY2016: 100) 50,000 100 100.0 99.8 99.2 98.8 High Performance Housing 99.4 40,000 80 Plastics Company Company 22% 21% 30,000 60 FY2019 26,677 25,499 25,398 25,353 24,596 Housing Company 36 thousand 7,182 20,000 7,165 7,248 7,632 7,472 Urban Infrastructure and Environmental 40 tons-CO2 9,742 Products Company 10,000 11,630 11,431 11,059 10,959 20 5,119 High Performance Urban Infrastructure Plastics Company 0 Headquarters 4,633 6,704 6,719 6,662 6,165 0 and Environmental 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Products Company 57% * Both transportation volume and Energy per unit of output (index) have been revised from fiscal 2016 due to improvements in precision. Indicator Calculation Method The calculation is the CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing units, etc.) CO2 CO2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount transported (metric tons) Emissions × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit of output × CO2 emissions coefficient] during the Transport Fuel usage per unit of output is the value used in the reporting system for specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Domestic distribution (shipment of products) is covered Emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases (global production, laboratories) （t-CO2e） 2,000 1,500 1,358 163 1,000 1,017 74 CF4 704 SF6 1,195 70 500 492 943 634 30 235 213 462 235 160 98 48 0 0 53 50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Environment 222 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout Supply Chain (SCOPE 3) Estimated emissions (1,000 tons-CO2) Category FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Purchased goods and services 1,521 1,455 2,180 2,336 2,457 2,352 Capital goods 31 17 37 171 123 96 Fuel-and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 121 119 127 131 129 127 Upstream Transportation and distribution (upstream) 24 24 37 46 48 48 Waste generated in operations 45 45 46 42 44 44 Business travel 30 29 26 30 27 24 Employee commuting 5 5 5 6 6 6 Transportation and distribution (downstream) 59 53 45 45 50 47 Processing of sold products 42 41 43 46 48 45 Downstream Use of sold products 1,353 1,528 1,542 1,554 940 772 End-of-life treatment of sold products 227 216 310 529 560 558 Leased assets(downstream) 1 1 1 1 1 2 Total(upstream/downstream) 3,461 3,531 4,400 4,937 4,433 4,119 Note: Since fiscal 2016, the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded; this resulted in the emissions increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year following review of the values for fiscal 2016. After including the effects of reducing energy consumption, emission volumes related to the “use of sold products” declined, and SCOPE3 decreased compared to the previous fiscal year for ZEH specification housing from fiscal 2018. 2 1,000 tons-CO2 ■ Purchased goods and services ■ Capital goods ■ Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 558 ■ Transportation and distribution (upstream) ■ Waste generated in operations ■ Business travel 772 2,352 ■ Employee commuting ■ Transportation and distribution (downstream) ■ Processing of sold products 45 ■ Use of sold products 47 6 ■ End-of-life treatment of sold products 24 ■ Leased assets (downstream) 96 127 48 44 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout Supply Chain as a Whole (Classified by SCOPE) (1,000 tons-CO2) 8000 7000 6000 5,831 5,272 5,317 5000 4,968 4,340 4,384 4000 3000 4,937 SCOPE3 4,400 4,433 4,119 3,461 3,531 2000 1000 698 680 686 706 694 654 SCOPE2 0 181 174 187 189 190 195 SCOPE1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: Since fiscal 2016, transport energy accuracy has improved and the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded in relation to SCOPE3; this resulted in the emissions known increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year. After including the effects of reducing energy consumption, emission volumes related to the “use of sold products” declined, and SCOPE3 decreased compared to the previous fiscal year for ZEH specification housing from fiscal 2018. Environment 223 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of major raw materials used as listed in Material Balance section of this report + estimated values for other raw materials) × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.2 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Purchased Management Association for Industry))] goods and Up to and including fiscal 2017, the Group gained an understanding of environservices mental impact, including the volume of greenhouse gases emitted, by making calculations using “MiLCA,” the database furnished by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry. However, from fiscal 2018, the Group is reflecting the actual emissions of its raw material suppliers with regard to four principal resins (PP, PE, PVC and PVA). CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of spending on capital expenditures authorized for the given fiscal year for buildings, structures, mechanical equipment, and transport Capital goods vehicles) × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] CO2 emissions = ∑[(fuel usage, amount of purchased electricity, and amount of purchased steam) × emissions coefficient] Fuel-and The emissions coefficients used are as follows. For fuel, IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions energy related Greenhouse database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology activities not Gas and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry); for purchased Emissions included in electricity and steam, per unit emission database for calculating greenhouse gas throughout Scope 1 and Supply Chain emissions by organizations, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Scope 2 Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry). Applicable to production sites, laboratories, and offices both inside Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of major raw materials used as listed in the Material Transportation Balance section of this report × transport distance × emission coefficient (IDEA v and 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial distribution Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for (upstream) Industry))] (Calculated assuming that the uniform transport distance was 200 km) CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of waste materials generated (by type) × emission Waste coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute generated in of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental operations Management Association for Industry))] Covers major production sites and research facilities in Japan and overseas CO 2 emissions = Σ[transportation costs by method of transport × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Business travel and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] (Includes estimates of transportation costs for group companies) Covers group companies in Japan and overseas Environment 224 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = Σ[amount spent on commuting assistance × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Employee and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] commuting (Calculated based on the assumption that all commuting is done by passenger train) (Group company commuting costs include estimates) Group companies in Japan and overseas all covered The calculation is the total amount of CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing unit, etc.) Transportation CO 2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount and transported (metric tons) × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit distribution of output × CO2 emissions coefficient (value used in the reporting system for (downstream) specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy)] (Estimates used for overseas) Covers shipments of products by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[production volume of relevant products × emission coefficient Greenhouse at the time of processing the relevant products (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions Gas Processing of database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Emissions throughout sold products and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Supply Chain Covers products for the automotive industry by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[number of structures sold as housing during the relevant fiscal year × amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year × 60 years × electricity-based emissions coefficient] The amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year is based on the Electricity Income and Expenditure Home Survey of Houses with Built-In Solar Power Generation Systems (2018). The electricity-based emissions coefficient employed is the emissions coefficient from the fiscal 2020 Use of sold report produced by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures products reporting system (alternate value), equal to 0.488 metric tons-CO 2 /MWh. The calculation is performed under the assumption that housing will be used for 60 years. Housing sold within Japan for the fiscal year relevant to the calculation is covered. Up to and including fiscal 2017, the Group calculated the amount of greenhouse gas reduction achieved through solar power generation as the amount of reduced environmental impact. From fiscal 2018, however, we are also calculating the effect of reduction in energy used in residences built to zero energy house (ZEH) specifications. Environment 225 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = Σ[amount of major raw materials used in the products sold during the relevant fiscal year × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG End-of-life emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and treatment of Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] sold products Greenhouse The calculation assumes that products sold during a given fiscal year are disposed Gas of during the same fiscal year Emissions throughout Calculated to cover construction related to the installation of machinery leased by Supply Chain Sekisui Leased assets CO2 emissions = Σ[relevant installation units × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a (downstream) GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Environment 226 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Efficient Use of Resources Working to Reduce Waste and Increase Recycling Throughout Product Life Cycles Management Approach Basic Concept Pursuing the Three R's (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) Throughout Product Life Cycles Sekisui Chemical Group strives to thoroughly implement the “3 Rs” (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout its manufacturing life cycles. We also engage in Zero Waste Emissions Activities with the intention of reusing as resources all the waste we generate from our business activities. Along with continuing these Zero Waste Emissions Activities at our production sites, from 2020 we will work to promote recycling, including initiatives for using recycled materials, developing waste recycling technologies, and implementing these in the real-world, in aims of realizing a circular economy and a recycling-based society in 2050. Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets and Directions for the Future New Waste Reduction Initiatives Under its Environmental Medium-term Plan covering the three years from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019, Sekisui Chemical Group raised and worked towards a target for reducing the amount of waste generated per unit of output by 1% every year compared with the fiscal 2016 level. In addition to reducing waste by improving production efficiency, we changed our perspective and undertook initiatives to shift our emphasis from simply selling waste materials as valuable materials to generating additional value by applying the resin processing technologies we have developed to date. Along with continuing the Zero Waste Emissions Activities that we have long deployed at our production sites, we have also promoted these overseas and have deployed these at the business sites that have joined Sekisui Chemical Group as we have expanded business. From fiscal 2020, we will investigate and advance initiatives that promote recycling in aims of realizing a circular economy and a recycling-based society. Environment 227 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Zero Emissions Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group Sekisui Chemical Group defines and advances Zero Waste Emissions Activities in the following manner: (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization (thermal recycling), or landfill outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: 100%) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be identified, and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Recycling Construction Materials Promoting the Effective Use of Construction Materials to Fulfill Our Responsibilities as a Housing Manufacturer Sekisui Chemical pursues the industry-wide recycling of construction waste produced when houses are demolished— regardless of whether such houses were built by itself or by a competitor—as part of initiatives under the Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers Association’s environmental action plan “Eco-Action 2020” Environment 228 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Social Responsibility Regarding Waste Addressing the Issue of Plastic Pollution in Marine Environments With regard to the waste generated by its production businesses, the Sekisui Chemical Group exchanges manifests with operators and confirms that disposal is undertaken in a sound and proper manner. While the impact of microplastics on our oceans and marine pollution have emerged as issues of recent concern, Sekisui Chemical Group does not engage in the manufacture and sale of primary microplastics where use presupposes dissolution. However, it cannot be denied that the possibility of deterioration in the natural environment and microreduction does exist in the event of the improper disposal of plastic processed products being discarded or of the plastic materials that go into the manufacture of the Group’s products either during or after use. As the responsibility of a company engaged in the business of fabricating plastics, we are undertaking the following activities in order to workout fundamental solutions to this problem. 1. Employee education In both the products we produce and our manufacturing processes, we must correctly recognize these types of issues, and develop human resources who are capable of finding a resolution. To this end, we engage in employee education while promoting environmental and social contribution activities. 2. Contributing to transformation within society by providing education and raising awareness To ensure the proper treatment of waste, Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the important need to build social systems while promoting a shift in the awareness of each individual and undertaking education and training. The Group is taking initial steps to consider collaboration between industry, government, and academia with a view to the early resolution of issues. Currently, Sekisui Chemical Group is a member of the Clean Ocean Materials Alliance (CLOMA) and a participant in the Japan Initiative for Marine Environment (JaIME). Every effort is being made to promote international collaboration, consider methods for resolving issues, and engage in a variety of activities, for example in the dissemination of educational information. 3. Creating and expanding the use of products, technologies, and services that contribute to the realization of a recycling-based society and a circular economy Sekisui Chemical Group gas developed a technology that converts combustible waste, including marine plastics, into gas and then converts that gas into ethanol as a raw material for plastic using a microbial catalyst. We are considering the establishment of a test plant in the town of Yorii, Saitama Prefecture, and are working to identify issues with a view to scaling up operations toward social implementation. Currently, verification is underway at a pilot plant in Kuji City, Iwate Prefecture. This plant will process one tenth of the volume of municipal solid waste at a standard-scale waste disposal facility. In addition, we are also working with Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. to develop plastics made from ethanol made from waste materials. We will contribute to the realization of a recycling-oriented society and circular economy by establishing and disseminating chemical recycling technologies to produce new plastics from waste. Environment 229 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Reducing Packaging Materials Using Less Product Packaging Sekisui Chemical Group has long been an environmentally conscious company, and we are reducing packaging volumes, introducing reusable boxes, and eliminating packaging wherever possible, among other initiatives. Our proactive efforts to reduce packaging since the early 2000s have enabled us to achieve results. We will continue these efforts in the future, taking further steps to reduce packaging waste. As one initiative aimed at using less product packaging, we sell foldable shipping cartons and a range of plastic containers that help facilitate the implementation of returnable box systems.Major Initiatives Major Initiatives Initiative for converting product scraps into raw material Using the scraps left after processing external walls as raw materials for products The Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma and Mizukuchi business sites, which produce Sekisui Heim external walls, are moving forward with in-house material recycling using the scraps generated during the production process. The scraps generated during the production of products from the completed external walls are crushed and classified, after which the extracted wood chips and cement are used as recycled raw materials. We are advancing development of a technology to increase the additive weight of recycled cement, and successfully increased the total recycled cement weight at these two sites in fiscal 2019 by 215 tons compared with the previous year. Reduction of Waste Generated at Construction Sites Switching to Factory Production to Reduce Materials That End Up Unused on Site Modular houses are the main pillar of our housing business, and by doing as much as possible at the factory when prefabricating the modules, we are reducing the amount of construction work that has to be done on site. We are also enhancing collaboration between the manufacturing and construction sites, and implementing support activities to optimize the shipped components and to ensure proper use of the components at the construction sites. Environment 230 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Waste Generated by Production Sites Note: Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Note: From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 187~190) Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Output (Index) / Japan Output (Index) / Overseas Per unit of output index Per unit of output index Waste generated (1,000 tons) (FY2016: 100) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (FY2016: 100) 60 120 60 120 111.6 104.1 107.2 106.7 100.0 99.96 96.4 100.0 101.9 83.7 99.0 98.0 97.0 (Target) 99 98 40 40.5 80 97 (Target) 36.8 38.3 37.5 40 80 31.7 11.1 32.8 Housing 11.2 10.0 Housing Company 30.5 32.3 10.9 30.1 Company 5.6 26.3 0.7 0.7 Urban Urban Infrastructure 0.1 8.1 0.2 9.5 9.7 7.9 7.8 7.6 and Environmental 40 10.3 Infrastructure 20 6.8 7.8 20 7.2 and Environmental 40 Products Company Products Company High Performance High Performance 17.5 18.1 19.0 21.4 17.4 19.1 21.9 20.0 22.6 21.1 Plastics Company Plastics Company Headquarters 0 1.9 0.0 0.2 0.2 2.4 Headquarters 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.8 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Production Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions / Japan and Overseas (unit: tons) Total Waste Recycled Waste Unrecycled Waste FY2015 58,053 55,181 2,872 FY2016 66,940 62,113 4,827 FY2017 68,777 63,654 5,123 FY2018 72,631 67,332 5,298 FY2019 69,767 63,844 5,922 Fiscal 2019 Annual Production Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions / Japan and Overseas Reused within the premises 16,296 tons On-site incineration (reduction) 1,545 tons (increased by 4.9%) (2.3%) Total amount of Valuable materials sold 36,546 tons (decreased by 9.8%) [52.4%] materials recycling 55,843 tons (decreased by 5.9%) Total amount of generated [80.0%] waste 69,767 tons Materials recycling Amount of discharged Outsourcing of recycling (decreased by 4.8%) [100%] 19,297 tons waste 31,675 tons resources 27,298 tons (increased by 0.4%) [46.2%] (decreased by 0.7%) [39.8%] (increased by 2.5%) [28.1%] Use of incineration heat 8,001 tons (decreased by 7.6%) Simple incineration 1,012 tons [11.7%] Outsourced disposal 4,377 tons (increased by 3.0%) [1.5%] (increased by 7.2%) [6.4%] Landfill 3,366 tons (increased by 8.5%) [4.9%] Note: Change over previous year is in ( ) and proportion of total waste generation is in [ ]. Environment 231 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Breakdown of Waste Generated at Breakdown of Waste Generated at Production Sites / Japan Production Sites / Overseas Burnt residue 0.3% Wood chips Metal scrap 1.2% Other 4.0% 1.1% Plasterboard 2.5% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 13.3% Other 19.2% Oil waste 1.2% Metal scrap 7.0% FY2019 FY2019 Wastepaper 1.6% Wood chips 4.0% 37 thousand Glass and 32 thousand tons ceramics tons Wastepaper 5.0% Plastics waste scrap 1.1% 41.6% Sludge 8.7% Sludge 3.8% Plastics waste 70.8% Glass and ceramics scrap 13.6% Index Calculation method Amount of waste generated = Amount of waste disposal outsourced + Amount recycled (use of incineration heat + materials recycling + sold at a price) + Amount incinerated in the Company; Generated the items below are excluded: waste amount waste generated by demolition of old houses of the clients, left-over materials at construction sites, disposal of facilities, OA equipment, etc., infectious waste generated during medical consultations / medical practices Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing Amount of Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing (per Building) / Japan (Tons) 3 2.41 2.41 2.45 2.38 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.31 2 Assembly plant 1.73 0.66 0.58 0.23 0.71 0.70 Exterior wall plant 0.16 1 1.39 1.40 1.46 1.50 1.34 New house construction site 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Because of changes to the waste materials data collection method used by the Housing Company, we are revising the fiscal 2016 benchmark Index Calculation method Amount Amount of waste generated on construction sites of new housing = Amount of waste generated of waste during construction of outer walls (at factory) + Amount of waste generated during assembly (at generated factory) + Amount of waste generated at construction site of new housing on construction Amount of waste generated per building during construction of new housing = Amount of waste sites of new generated during construction of new housing / Number of buildings sold housing Target: housing business in Japan Environment 232 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Waste Related to Office Work Amount of Copy Paper Used at Offices per Unit of Output (Index) Per unit of output index (FY2016: 100) 30 150 Overseas 123.7 114.5 120.1 Pages Used(1,000 pages/person) 100 100.5 (Target) 20 100 100 100 94.1 Japan 85.8 82.9 Japan Overseas 10.4 10 8.7 9.6 9.2 8.4 9.3 7.2 9.3 10.1 50 7.7 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Attainment of Zero Waste Emissions Activity Targets 42 plants in Japan and 11 plants overseas, including those of affiliated Production sites companies, achieved the target (of these, 1 plant in japan and 5 plants overseas achieved the target in fiscal 2015) Research institutes All research institutes achieved the target by fiscal 2012 Construction of new housing All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2003 Remodeling work All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2004 Corporate headquarters buildings Achieved the target by fiscal 2005 in Osaka/Tokyo Specified construction materials for fiscal 2018 Demolition work Recycling rate (of concrete, wood offcuts, etc.): 99% Indicator Calculation Method Number of production sites that Number of production sites that achieved zero emissions in that year achieved zero emissions Environment 233 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Conservation of Water Resources Working to Preserve Water Resources in a Shared Basin as a Precious Natural Resource Management Approach Basic Concept Contributing to the resolution of local and supply chain water issues and the minimization of water risks We formulated “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050” in 2019 in line with our belief that the maintenance and development of our business requires us to maintain a healthy environment in the areas in which we conduct our corporate activities. We have established the following two goals in line with our vision of ensuring that societies in all the areas in which we and our supply chains operate have abundant access to clean water. ＜Goals＞ 1. Minimizing Water Risk at Sekisui Chemical Group With the goal on maintaining sustainable operations, Sekisui Chemical Group will seek to minimize risks related to received water. We will also focus on minimizing risk related to water discharged from the Group in order to better preserve biodiversity. 2. Contributing to the resolution of water-related issues in local communities Not only will we work to minimize water risks, but with the goal of contributing to a positive return to natural capital we will contribute to the resolution of water-related issues in local communities through the provision of environment-contribution products and collaboration with leaders in the watershed area. Environment 234 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Roadmap Targeting the realization of societies with abundant access to healthy water by 2050 SEKISUI Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 includes the goal of realizing societies with abundant access to clean and healthy water by 2050. Backcasting from this goal, we have established specific measures and milestones as part of our continued work toward achieving this goal. More specifically, we will implement the following measures with an aim of minimizing water risks. ● We will evaluate the water risks in a given region as well as the business impact, and focus not only on locations and suppliers where the business impact is large, but also on locations in areas where water risks are substantial. ● For locations where the business impact is substantial, we will minimize risks by 2023. ● For suppliers where the business impact is substantial, we will minimize risk by 2030, including through a review of suppliers. ● For regions where water risks are substantial, we will minimize the environmental impact by 2030. ● Finally, we will create monitoring guidelines and oversee all locations to assess both business impact and environmental impact moving forward. In order to accelerate returns to natural capital, including the conservation of water resources, we will continue to promote the development of products that contribute to sustainability in order to minimize the environmental impact from supply chain operations and help resolve local water issues. Moreover, as an initiative being undertaken at locations around the world, we will continue to focus on contributing to the resolution of local water issues by establishing a collaborative system with those living in watershed areas between 2030 and 2050. Roadmap 2021 Short-term Medium-term Long-term milestones milestones milestones 2020 2023 2030 2050 Minimization Returns Minimizing Minimization of impact for sites Minimizing environmental load at sites Solving local issues through water risks Understanding Business sites collaboration with people in all regions water risk and with large-scale business impact with significant water risks in the region where business sites business impact involved with the river basin are located for all sites Maintaining sound conditions at all sites by monitoring the water usage status and regional water risks Realization of Minimization healthy water in the supply chain of Understanding water risk and Minimization of supplier business impact Minimization of all areas where Suppliers supply risks Supply business impact for suppliers Sekisui Chemical chain Maintaining sound conditions at suppliers by monitoring the water Group is active usage status and regional water risks Supply chain Understanding the environmental burden of the supply chain Minimization of supply chain environmental burden Product development for the reduction of environmental burdens Regional Development of Returns water problems EnvironmentContribution to Contributing Products Contribution to solving regional water problems through Environment-Contributing Products problem-solving Environment 235 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Assessment of Water-related Risks Conducting Water Risk Surveys at All Production Sites and Research Institutes Water resource conditions in the regions in which we operate vary by area, making it important to accurately understand the type and magnitude of risks by location, and to devise and implement strategies on an individual basis. Sekisui Chemical Group has conducted water risk surveys at all of its production sites and research institutes since fiscal 2013 using a mapping tool for water-related risks (Aqueduct: Aqueduct Overall Water Risk map)* and proprietary surveys. These proprietary surveys focus on items that could identify risks to business continuity, including factors related to water intake, such as future increases in water intake, as well as whether there are water outages, and if so how frequently, as well as water quality fluctuation issues. They also focus on water discharge factors, including those related to usage conditions downstream from where wastewater is discharged and water quality regulation trends. Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan covering fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2022, we will gain a clear understanding of business impact and water risks through an investigation of water use conditions in areas in which we operate. We will also conduct surveys in regard to extending the scope of procurement risks for raw materials used in mainstay products. Based on the results of these surveys, we aim to finalize by 2023 strategies for business sites where business impact is deemed substantial. * A global map showing water-related risks / information tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Region Risks of direct water use Water discharge risks Location risks (Number of Water Direct water Increased Groundwater Waste water Discharge to Strengthening Increased Regional water Future water Flooding supply supply locations) pollution restrictions costs pumping processing water source regulations costs pollution uncertainty Drought Domestic 2.0 4.0 4.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 % % % 24.0 % % % % % (50) 38.0 % 32.0 % % Central and NorthAmerica 0.0 0.0 7.1 7.1 57.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 % % % 14.3 % % % % % % % % (14) Europe 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.3 8.3 50.0 0.0 8.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 (12) % % % % % % % % % % % Asia and Australia 16.7 8.3 0.0 % 25.0 16.7 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % % % % 33.3 (12) % % China 0.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 0.0 % 20.0 % (10) % % 30.0 % % % % % % % Results of water risk surveys conducted to date (ratio of production sites and research institutes judged to have risks) Environment 236 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Impact of Water-related Risks on Business Direct Impact on Operations As production sites in Japan manufacturing synthetic resins drain their wastewater directly into rivers or the sea / ocean, even though the water quality of the wastewater complies with the present control levels, we understand that if any changes to, reinforcements of, etc. of the laws and regulations regarding water quality of drainage are implemented in the future, it may cause major impact on the continuity of our business activities. For that reason, we check on a continuous basis the future trends in regulations at every area our business bases are located in, and, at the same time, to improve the water quality of drainage, implement Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) tests assessing the effect of drainage on the ecological system. If any negative impact is identified with the WET tests, we investigate the causes and strive to eliminate them using the PDCA cycle to reduce the impact of water-related risks as much as possible. Note: See page 265 “conserving the environment ~ Biodiversity ~” for details regarding the assessment of the impact of wastewater on aquatic life. Risks Identified, Their Potential Impact on Operations, and Strategies for Mitigation Impact on Supply Chain Manufacturers of steel materials used in the Housing Business and manufacturers of synthetic resins used in the Plastics Business are suppliers of primary materials of Sekisui Chemical Group that consume large quantities of fresh water during manufacture. Although we do not directly encourage such suppliers to conform to environmental standards, with our Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index we calculate as 'use of natural capital' the environmental impact of the pollutants contained in drainage generated during manufacture of primary materials and monitor it on a continual basis. We focus on reductions in the impact on water environments as a result of our business activities as well as the degree of our contribution to the environment from an expansion in products and services making a positive contribution to water environments as returns to natural capital. From fiscal 2020 we will strive to better understand water risks in the supply chain creating products, as well as the returns to natural and social capital as a result of on product-based water risk reductions. Environment 237 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Contribution to Reduction of Water-related Risks Through Operations Sekisui Chemical Group develops a range of businesses related to water infrastructure, such as supply, storage, and drainage of water, contributing to the society not only by technologies and products that help to improve the quality of drainage, such as water treatment systems and drain pipes, but also by creating strong water infrastructure made to withstand natural disasters. For example, one of our products being marketed in Japan, India, China, Taiwan, and other ASEAN areas, the “Cross Wave*” rainwater collection system, is used for the prevention of chronic water shortages and to achieve both greening of urban areas and disaster prevention. Since 2010, we have been continually working to reduce water-related disaster risks such as flooding through this product. In fiscal 2019, Cross Wave was adopted in large-scale housing construction operations in Indonesia, contributing to the growth of green infrastructure projects in that country. We have also worked to establish a cooperative system with the local water resources departments. We are also promoting the development of towns through the use of products with the ability to lower water risks. As an example, Asaka Leadtown in Asaka City, Saitama Prefecture solves a number of issues, starting by the lowering of water risks. We believe this to be a first step in the building of a town planning business that makes full use of Sekisui Chemical Group technologies and products to ensure safe, secure, and comfortable lives. With the goal of not only reducing damage from the ever increasing number of disasters brought on by climate change, but also promoting disaster mitigation in support of recovery efforts after a disaster, we are expanding the peace of mind we can offer to our housing customers by recommending, for example, the installation of a drinking water storage system that makes good use of water system infrastructure piping. * Cross Wave: Rainwater storage system. This molded product made from recycled plastic creates an underground space which is used to store rainwater. It regulates the rain volume flowing into sewer systems and rivers during torrential rains and makes reuse of rainwater possible. Activity Policy and Reduction Targets We are promoting reductions through specialized efforts at business sites with high water intake volumes and discharge rates Sekisui Chemical Group draws the water it needs to use in its business activities from public water systems, water systems for industrial use, underground reservoirs, and surrounding rivers. With the understanding that water is a precious natural resource shared by everyone in the community, we do our best to reduce the amount of water used, such as by reusing cooling water. We have to date established targets and enacted measures for reducing water intake volume and discharged water chemical oxygen demand (COD) volume at each of our production and research facilities. However, based on local water risk conditions and the state of water consumption, we are focused in particular on promoting a reduction in business activities at locations where the business impact is particularly large. Environment 238 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Reduce the Amount of Water Intake Volume, and Discharged Water Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Volume Water Intake Volume Increased by 0.1%, Compared to the Base Fiscal Year, With Discharged Water COD Volume Rising on the Same Basis by 5.1% Water intake volume at production sites in fiscal 2019 increased by 0.1%, relative to results in the base fiscal year of 2016, while discharged water COD volume increased on the same basis by 5.1%. In fiscal 2019, we studied reduction measures targeting the four Sekisui Chemical Group production facilities with the highest discharged wastewater COD volumes and the highest water intake, and invested in improvements using the environmental contribution investment framework. We expect reductions to become apparent following the completion of equipment installations moving forward. Examples of environment-based capex in fiscal 2019 Site Reduction strategy Result Introduction of filtration equipment allowing the reuse of recycled wastewater as a coolant. Reduction of Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Strengthened management and 9% Reduction in water promoted visualization of water use at intake the facility. 10% reduction through automation Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Reduction of of industrial water intake adjustment Iwate Plant 10% system Reduction in Improve treatment capacity by Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Reduction of wastewater COD upgrading wastewater treatment volume Co., Ltd. 25% facilities Environment 239 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Ongoing Monitoring of Water Risks Continuously Assess Water Extracted from Production Sites and Wastewater Risk In fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we surveyed 98 production sites and R&D laboratories around the world to gain a fi rm understanding of our sources of water, destinations for wastewater, the current and future prospects of continuing to acquire water, and related matters. As a result, we now understand there are major differences in water supply volume and water quality by region, although the in-depth survey did not identify any water supply risks, such as potential increases in costs or restrictions on water sources that would be severe enough to adversely impact production activities. We also found out that there are many business sites that rely on ground water as their main water source. Of particular significance, 18 business sites, accounting for 35% of all business sites in Japan, use ground water or spring water (including industrial water in some cases), and 44% of the total amount of water intake for all domestic business sites depends on ground water or spring water. Although ground water is a cheap and very effective source of water, due to unforeseen factors it may become impossible to use it in the future, and we perceive it as a risk to our business continuity. In fiscal 2017, we created a tool for the assessment of ground water risks. The assessment tool allows us to apprise the risks from three viewpoints, namely, susceptibility, concerns in the area, and future changes. The tool uses five evaluation criteria of abundance of ground water, amount of water used by the business site, environmental changes in the surrounding area, restrictions by laws and regulations, and changes of amounts used / precipitation; it consists of 12 assessment indices. Using the evaluation tool we created, we implemented from fiscal 2018 risk assessment at all business sites that use ground water in Japan, extracted the three sites with the greatest risks, and also added the sites with the largest comparative volume of water intake to our considerations. For these five production sites, we analyzed hypothetical scenarios resulting from climate change due to global warming and estimated future ground water replenishment. In fiscal 2019, we selected six business sites from those the preliminary assessments identified as having high risk, high groundwater intake levels, or a substantial change in how the land within a given water area was used. We estimated for these sites potential sharp changes in rainfall, including as a result of torrential rains or drought, as well as the effects on groundwater supply. The impact assessment also focused on business site intake volume and its effect on groundwater supply. The assessments allowed us to understand that the business sites faced substantial risks related to water intake moving forward, with three seeing a potential sharp drop in the supply of ground water and one where the intake of water is excessive in comparison to the groundwater supply in the region. We will be promoting water intake reductions at these business sites with the aim of lowering the environmental impact on the area and reducing water intake to a level in line with the groundwater depletion rate. Regarding wastewater risks, we have been using assessment of the effects of wastewater on biodiversity in the surrounding area as a means for wastewater WET tests of production sites since fiscal 2013. We have also continued investigations into causes at sites where effects on biodiversity were recently discovered. We discovered the substances causing the effects and were able to reduce these substances in fiscal 2019 through the substitution of production materials. Note: See page 265 “conserving the environment ~ Biodiversity ~” for details regarding the assessment of the impact of wastewater on aquatic life. Environment 240 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Water Recycling Recycling Cooling Water Used for Plastic Moldings Sekisui Chemical Group promotes the reuse of water in its production processes in order to reduce the amount of water it draws from water sources. At the production plants of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company and High Performance Plastics Company, large volumes of cooling water is recycled and reused in manufacturing processes. In fiscal 2019, at production sites in Japan and overseas, we used 107 million cubic meters of recycled water. This is equivalent to 5 times the water intake volume from all other sources. The main water supply for Kurohama Lake*—which has been designated as a natural conservation area in Saitama Prefecture—is wastewater from the Musashi Plant (located in Hasuda City) that has been purified in accordance with environmental standards. * For more information about Kurohama Lake, see the page below. https://www.sekisui.co.jp/musashi/eco/ Environment 241 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Note: Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Note: From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 242~245) Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Japan Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Overseas (thousands of m3) (thousands of m3) 20,000 8,000 15,557 15,386 15,679 15,218 6,522 Housing Company 261 286 306 305 14,146 6,000 6,032 15,000 283 Housing Company 5,261 5,607 22 Urban Infrastructure 2,483 2,330 2,473 2,543 20 and Environmental 2,363 13 64 Products Company 16 78 Urban Infrastructure 4,238 95 10,000 and Environmental 4,000 106 Products Company 21 7,428 100 5,934 6,383 12,814 12,897 12,367 5,139 5,449 High Performance 12,768 High Performance Plastics Company 5,000 Plastics Company 2,000 4,117 4,072 Headquarters 53 Headquarters 0 0 1 3 4 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Wastewater Volume at Production Sites / Japan Wastewater Volume at Production Sites / Overseas (thousands of m3) (thousands of m3) 20,000 6,000 5,160 Housing 4,999 22 Company 4,487 4,626 20 Urban Infrastructure 15,000 14,811 14,689 14,730 14,251 16 13 29 and Environmental 224 237 256 13,392 3,977 77 Products Company 227 2,238 2,083 2,225 237 Housing Company 72 2,286 4,000 21 91 2,150 High Performance Urban Infrastructure Plastics Company 10,000 and Environmental 91 Products Company 5,062 4,902 6,951 4,380 4,540 12,346 12,380 12,265 High Performance 11,706 3,864 Plastics Company 2,000 5,000 Headquarters 4,053 0 0 1 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 47 Headquarters 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: We have been improving the accuracy of our wastewater volume from fiscal 2019. Water Consumption at Production Sites / Japan Water Consumption at Production Sites / Overseas (thousands of m3) (thousands of m3) 1200 1,500 1,361 35 Urban Infrastructure 949 967 and Environmental 49 Products Company 69 754 1,033 747 257 Housing Company 981 1 248 45 1,000 23 800 34 697 62 High Performance Urban Infrastructure 773 Plastics Company 245 213 and Environmental 15 Products Company 1,320 247 1,032 958 400 661 High Performance 500 632 758 467 477 Plastics Company 260 388 8 252 0 19 Headquarters 0 0 0 0 0 6 Headquarters 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: Water consumption increased to improve the accuracy of wastewater volumes in 2019. Environment 242 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Water Intake Volume at Production Sites by Water Source Type (thousands of m3) All areas Areas with water stress Water source Area of base 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Japan 951 696 1,086 197 726 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Surface water Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Total 951 696 1,086 197 727 0 0 1 0 1 Japan 3,033 2,604 2,624 2,632 2,517 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 140 103 120 144 111 62 25 26 35 16 Ground water Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 3 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 3,175 2,710 2,745 2,776 2,628 62 25 26 35 16 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Seawater Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 11,574 12,086 11,969 12,389 10,903 0 0 0 0 0 China 245 273 298 324 265 210 236 288 311 256 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 150 896 1,097 966 1,093 27 18 46 72 80 Third-party water* Europe 1,843 1,943 1,883 1,866 1,960 1,760 1,857 1,799 1,805 1,887 North and Central America 1,857 2,042 2,209 2,732 3,092 10 10 81 156 141 Total 15,669 17,241 17,456 18,278 17,313 2,007 2,121 2,213 2,344 2,365 Japan 15,557 15,386 15,679 15,218 14,146 0 0 0 0 0 China 245 273 298 324 265 210 236 288 311 256 The Rest of Asia Total volume and Oceania 290 999 1,217 1,110 1,204 89 44 72 107 97 of water withdrawn Europe 1,843 1,943 1,883 1,866 1,960 1,760 1,857 1,799 1,805 1,887 North and Central America 1,859 2,046 2,209 2,732 3,092 10 10 81 156 141 Total 19,795 20,646 21,286 21,250 20,668 2,070 2,146 2,239 2,379 2,382 * Third-party water: Water withdrawn from local government water suppliers (public water systems, water systems for industrial use) Environment 243 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Wastewater Volume at Production Sites by Discharge Destination (thousands of m3) Discharge All areas Areas with water stress Area of base destination 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Japan 11,579 11,219 11,627 11,353 10,680 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 0 22 26 20 43 0 2 2 0 22 Surface water Europe 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 11,583 11,241 11,653 11,372 10,722 0 2 2 0 22 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ground water Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 2,741 2,892 2,503 2,277 2,160 0 0 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Seawater Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 North and Central America 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 2,741 2,892 2,503 2,277 2,160 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 491 577 600 621 552 0 0 0 0 0 China 244 272 287 308 255 209 235 277 296 246 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 230 679 867 830 860 87 26 55 103 60 Third-party water* Europe 1,832 1,930 1,874 1,860 1,944 1,760 1,857 1,799 1,805 1,875 North and Central America 1,668 1,585 1,571 1,981 2,060 8 9 62 79 81 Total 4,464 5,043 5,200 5,601 5,670 2,064 2,127 2,193 2,283 2,262 Japan 14,811 14,689 14,730 14,251 13,392 0 0 0 0 0 China 244 272 287 308 255 209 235 277 296 246 The Rest of Asia Total volume and Oceania 230 701 893 850 902 87 29 57 103 83 of water withdrawn Europe 1,835 1,930 1,874 1,860 1,944 1,760 1,857 1,799 1,805 1,875 North and Central America 1,668 1,585 1,571 1,981 2,060 8 9 62 79 81 Total 18,788 19,176 19,356 19,250 18,552 2,064 2,129 2,195 2,283 2,285 * Third-party water: Wastewater (sewer systems) discharged to wastewater treatment facilities of local governments, etc. Environment 244 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Water Consumption at Production Sites (thousands of m3) All areas Areas with water stress Area of base 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Japan 747 697 949 967 754 0 0 0 0 0 China 1 1 11 16 10 1 1 11 16 10 The Rest of Asia and Oceania 60 298 324 260 302 2 15 15 4 15 Europe 8 13 9 6 17 0 0 0 0 13 North and Central America 192 461 638 751 1,032 2 1 19 77 60 Total 1,007 1,470 1,930 2,000 2,116 5 17 45 97 98 Indicator Calculation Method Water intake volume = Total water intake volume = (The sum of water intake from Water intake volume surface water, ground water, seawater, and third-party water) Wastewater volume = Total wastewater volume = (The sum of wastewater from surface Wastewater volume water, ground water, seawater, and third-party water) Water consumption Water consumption = Water intake volume wastewater Areas where baseline water stress is ranked as high or extremely high under the WRI Areas with water stress Aqueduct TM Water Risk Atlas (Aqueduct 3.0) evaluation system COD Emission Volume / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 150 150 128.2 120.7 105.1 100.0 100 93.0 100 90.2 84.9 Housing Company 1.7 2.3 70.3 6.3 73.9 Urban Infrastructure 65.4 1.9 6.9 1.4 and Environmental 1.4 5.7 50 7.1 5.2 Products Company 50 82 82.1 76 75.6 76 54.3 76 High Performance 63 56.8 63.3 Plastics Company Headquarters 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Index Calculation Method Emission volume = Σ[COD concentration (annual average of measured value) x DrainCOD emission volume age volume] Environment 245 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Chemical Substance Management Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances Management Approach Basic Concept Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances While chemical substances make people's lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets for reducing emissions and the transfer of chemical substances in addition to implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact*1 and the Green Procurement System*2. Periodically we also review chemical substances, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. From fiscal 2020, we will continue to engage in thoroughgoing chemical substance management activities with a view toward minimizing their impact. *1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact: A system for assessment of the environmental impact of product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport and all other stages. *2 Green Procurement System: A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. Environment 246 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Controlling VOC Emissions VOC Emissions Increased by 3.9% Compared with the Fiscal 2016 Level Sekisui Chemical maintains the medium-term target of reducing VOC emissions by more than 3% compared with the fiscal 2016 level. In fiscal 2019, VOC emissions in Japan increased by 3.9% compared with fiscal 2016. The reason for the greater emissions was a higher volume of production by the Adhesive Tape Manufacturing Department, which uses solvents, as well as the Medical Business. Preventing Air and Water Pollution Managing Gas Emissions and Wastewater in Accordance with Regulations Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in connection with exhaust gases and water drainage. We also strive to control the discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance and management, including periodic inspections. Soil Contamination Countermeasures Continue Management at All Production Facilities based on Legal Regulations Sekisui Chemical Group conducted a self-assessment of soil contamination at all of its production sites. The Group has cleaned up and taken steps to prevent spread at all locations where contamination was found as well as has completed its report to the government. In addition, the Group continuously monitors groundwater, taking ongoing steps to verify that no pollution leakage has occurred. Moreover, the Group takes legally mandated decontamination measures when selling land on which production facilities have been closed. In fiscal 2019, conditions did not require any new measures to be taken. Disposal and Storage of Devices Containing PCBs and Management of Equipment That Uses Fluorocarbons Properly Storing and Disposing of Devices Containing PCBs in Line with Regulations Transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, where PCB treatment facilities are available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Steps are being taken to enhance awareness toward mandatory requirements regarding equipment that use fluorocarbons in accordance with Japan’s Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons (Freon Emission Control Act) and to ensure thoroughgoing management including periodic inspection. Note: Environment-contributing Products evolve into products to enhance sustainability from fiscal 2020. For more details, please refer to “Products to Enhance Sustainability” on page 254. Environment 247 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data ・From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 248~250) Aggregated Results Based on the PRTR Law (Substances Handled at the Business Sites Subject to Assessment with Volume of Handling of 1 Ton or More Are Aggregated) (Tons) Govt. Emission volume Transfer volume ordinance Emission Transfer in Transfer in Detoxification Substance notification Public In-house Sewage volume Atmospheric water waste waste no. areas In-house soil landfill system disposal recycling Ethyl acrylate [3] 1.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.12 1.1 n-Butyl acrylate [7] 222.2 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 1.7 219 Acrylonitrile [9] 489.3 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0080 485 Acetaldehyde [12] 190.9 0.14 0 0 0 0 0 0 191 Acetonitrile [13] 187.1 15 0 0 0 0 0 172 0 2,2’-Azobisisobutyronitrile [16] 5.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.6 Antimony and its compounds [31] 12.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 93.2 0.58 0 0 0 0 0 0 93 2-Ethylhexanoic acid [51] 6,440.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.5 6,427 Ethylbenzene [53] 1.8 1.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ε-Caprolactam [76] 40.9 0 0.013 0 0 0 0 0 41 Xylene [80] 29.7 1.9 0 0 0 0 0 0.037 28 Hexavalent chromium compounds [Special 88] 2.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Vinyl chloride [Special 94] 124,073.4 4.4 0.12 0 0 0 0 0 124,069 Chloroform [127] 5.0 0.27 0 0 0 0 0 2.8 0.53 Vinyl acetate [134] 57.8 4.4 0 0 0 0 0 3.7 50 Inorganic cyanide compounds 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 34 [144] 33.9 (not including complex salts and cyanate) Cyclohexylamine [154] 2.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.2 Methylene chloride [186] 230.3 3.0 0 0 0 0 0 0.21 227 Divinylbenzene [202] 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.4 2,6-di-t-butyl-4-cresol [207] 9.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9.7 N,N-dimethylacetamide [213] 2.7 0 0 0 0 1.3 0 1.4 0 N,N-dimethylformamide [232] 8.7 0.70 0 0 0 0 0 8.0 0 Organic tin compounds [239] 128.0 0 0 0 0 0 0.064 0.69 0 Styrene [240] 1,208.8 27 0 0 0 0 0 0 612 Terephthalic acid [270] 81.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 81 1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene [296] 1.2 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tolylene Diisocyanate [298] 23.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 23 Toluene [300] 763.2 284 0 0 0 0 0 103 375 Lead compounds [Special 305] 608.6 0 0.0021 0 0 0 0 3.5 62 Nickel compound [Special 309] 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.39 0 Bis-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 4.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.4 0 n-Hexane [392] 286.4 218 0 0 0 0 0 11 57 Boron and its compounds [405] 32.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Poly (oxyethylene) = alkyl = ether 3.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 [407] 0 0 (C = 12-15 and other blends) Manganese and its compounds [412] 1.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.9 0 Methacrylate [415] 235.8 1.3 0 0 0 0 0 0.0060 234 Methyl methacrylate [420] 164.3 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 163 Methylnaphthalene [438] 3.7 0.018 0 0 0 0 0 0 3.7 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) [448] 1,738.9 0 0 0 0 0 9.0 8.1 1,709 = diisocyanate 138,428.4 572 0.14 0 0 1.3 9.1 328 135,205 Environment 248 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Index Calculation Method Volume of chemical Volume of handling of substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law substances handled Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Volume of Volume of emission / transfer of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law emissions / Volume of emissions = Volume of emissions into the air + Volume of emissions into public transfer of waters + Volume of emissions into the soil on-site + Volume disposed by burial on-site chemical Transfer volume = Volume transferred to sewers + Volume transferred as waste material substances Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Volume of Volume of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law subjected to chemical detoxication substances Amount detoxified = Amount consumed in reaction + Amount consumed through subjected to combustion, etc. detoxication Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Chemical Substance Emission and Transfer Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into Volumes (PRTR Law) / Japan the Atmosphere / Japan (Tons) (Tons) 800 2,000 649 Other 3 28 638 Methylene 600 567 3 37 582 534 2 30 3 31 2 33 3 47 chloride 1,262 0 30 Xylene 12 1,174 1,142 1,108 7 38 2 27 73 1,066 8 6 7 36 228 226 Styrene 12 67 6 Housing Company 400 1,000 71 57 112 189 218 78 Urban Infrastructure N-Hexane and Environmental Products Company 1,173 1,095 1,064 744 200 975 347 305 357 337 High Performance 284 Plastics Company Toluene 4 1 4 1 302 Headquarters 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method Volume of emission / transfer of Volume of emission into the chemical substances subject to atmosphere of volatile organic regulation by the PRTR Law VOC compounds (VOC) among the Volume of emission = Volume of emissions substances subject to regulation by emission into the atmosphere + the PRTR Law and Japan Chemical Volume of Volume of emission into the public Industry Association emission / waters + Volume of emission into transfer of the soil on site + Volume disposed chemical of as landfill; Volume of transfer substances = Volume discharged into sewage systems + Volume discharged as waste elsewhere Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Environment 249 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report NOx Emissions / Japan SOx Emissions / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 400 140 25 141.8 150 113.8 119.3 107.7 120 20 120 300 100.0 99.5 100 100.0 Housing Company 15 14.7 82.4 90 200 199 80 69.1 190 167 166 180 31 38 10 10.4 57.0 3 23 25 3 41 38 Urban Infrastructure 60 8.6 60 2 2 2 and Environmental 11.1 High Performance Urban Infrastructure 7.2 100 Products Company 40 6.1 Plastics Company 5.9 156 158 5 6.7 and Environmental Housing Company 30 141 139 136 20 0.5 Products Company 7.0 High Performance 0.4 0.5 5.8 0 Plastics Company 0 0 3.2 3.8 1.4 0.2 0 0.1 0 10 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method NOx emissions =Σ(Amount of SOx SOx emissions =Σ(amount of SOx NOx emissions exhaust gas airflow per year x NOx per year x 64/22.4) emissions concentration x 46/22.4) Soot and Dust Emissions / Japan Emissions Comparative emission levels (Tons) (FY2016: 100) 25 100.0 94.7 95.5 100 94.9 89.0 100 20 17.1 18.1 17.1 17.2 16.1 15 1.4 2.0 1.5 1.7 1.9 Housing Company 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 50 10 Urban High Performance Infrastructure 15.8 15.4and 15.6 15.5 14.2 Plastics Company 5 Environmental Products 0 Company 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Index Calculation Method Soot and Dust emissions =Σ Soot and Dust (amount of exhaust gas airflow per emissions year x soot concentration) Environment 250 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Impact Assessment Understanding the Impact of Our Products and Services on the Global Environment Management Approach Basic Concept Results of Environmental Impact Assessments for Each Product Reflected in Measures Sekisui Chemical Group assesses environmental impact at every stage of a product's lifecycle when product processes are developed or changed. Assessment of environmental impact of products Range: all stages of product life cycle Targets: products and processes Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment ● Laws and ● Self-regulation ● Requirements of ● Laws and ● Prohibited ● Restricted regulations industries, etc. regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly ● Invested resources ● Environmental impact ● Capital investments ● Environmental impact ● Invested resources, energy ● Raw materials, Means of transportation ● Invested resources, energy Means of transportation ● Secondary resources used composition, and structure Packaging materials ● Secondary resources used Load-efficient design ● Environmental impact ● Information disclosure ● Green procurement ● Environmental impact ● Information disclosure Atmosphere, water, waste, ● Environment-Contributing (suppliers, raw materials) Atmosphere, water, waste, chemical substances, etc. Products standards chemical substances, etc. ● LCCO2 evaluation Use Disposal ● Invested resources, energy ● Composition and structure ● Secondary resources used ● Recyclability ● Environmental impact ● Environmental impact Atmosphere, water, waste, Transportation, disposal, chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater contamination Note: Environment-contributing Products evolve into products to enhance sustainability from fiscal 2020. For more details, please refer to “Products to Enhance Sustainability” on page 254. Environment 251 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Material Balance Performance data Shows resources and energy used in business activities (input) and substances that constitute environmental impact (output) generated in connection with business activities. Material balance Fiscal 2019 Results Main Raw Materials (Total amount used) Into the Atmosphere ● Metals*1 126 thousand tons ● CO2 from energy consumption 789 thousand tons-CO2 ● Wood, wooden building materials*1 60 thousand tons ● Cement for exterior walls *1 92 thousand tons ● Nox*1 180 tons ● Concrete for foundations *1 454 thousand tons ● Sox*1 6 tons ● PVC*2 156 thousand tons ● Soot and Dust*1 16 tons ● Polyethylene*2 91 thousand tons ● Polypropylene*2 34 thousand tons ● PRTR-designated substances*1 572 tons ● Kraft paper*2 32 thousand tons ● PRTR-designated substances*1 137 thousand tons Sekisui ● Other resins/chemicals*2 411 thousand tons ● Other inorganic/composite materials*2 29 thousand tons INPUT Chemical OUTPUT Group Into Water ● Water discharged 18,552 thousand m3 ● COD 74 tons Energy 9,797TJ ● PRTR-designated substances 0.1 tons ● Purchased electricity 666,933MWh ● Heavy oil A 2,000kL ● City gas 65,752 thousand m3 Waste Industrial water 20,668 thousand m3 ● Total generated waste 70 thousand tons *1 The scope of tabulation for environmental performance data in Japan has been set as only those domestic business sites listed as falling within that scope. *2 The following overseas business sites have been excluded from the scope of tabulation for environmental performance data. Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. S and L Specialty Polymers Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Youngbo HPP (Langtang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Xenotech, LLC. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. San Diego Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Greater Noida Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Tapukara Plant Sekisui DLJM Molding Private Ltd. Chennai Plant PT. Adyawinsa Sekisui Techno Molding Sekisui Polymatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. PT. Polymatech Indonesia Sekisui Polymatech (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Environment 252 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Contributing to Return of Natural Capital Co-existing with the Global Environment Through Business Activities and Environment-contributing Products Toward the realization of earth with maintained biodiversity in 2030, Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to returning more natural capital back to the planet than it uses through three initiatives that it pursued until fiscal 2019: expand and create Environment-contributing Products, reduce environmental impact*, and conserve the natural environment. From fiscal 2020, Sekisui Chemical Group will address issues in the natural and social environments aimed at improving sustainability of the world and society from a longer-term perspective. The Group’s vision for 2050 remains unchanged: realization of earth with maintained biodiversity. The Group is committed to and will pursue activities that help return more natural and social capital back to the planet than it uses through three initiatives: expand and create products to enhance sustainability, reduce environmental impact*, and conserve the natural environment. * See page 209 Usage of Natural Capital for more information. Promoting solutions for natural and social environmental issues while establishing a product evaluation system to increase the sustainability of the world and society Between fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2019, the Group internally certified as Environment-contributing Products those products that demonstrated a high level of environmental contribution when used by customers. The Group also committed to and promoted further expansion of Environment-contributing Product certification. From fiscal 2020, the Group will further evolve its sustainability-based product evaluation system as products to enhance sustainability. The premise for products to enhance sustainability remains the same: products that have demonstrated a high level of environmental contribution toward solving natural and social environmental issues when used by customers. We believe contributions that improve the sustainability of the world and society specifically help solve issues facing the natural and social environments. In addition, corporate sustainability and product sustainability that enables ongoing product manufacturing is important for Sekisui Chemical Group in order to continuously create and provide products that help solve issues in the external environment. Based on this, Sekisui Chemical Group will launch measures under the products to enhance sustainability banner via a product evaluation system to promote greater global, social, corporate, and product sustainability. In addition, our three-year Medium-term Plan from fiscal 2020 will pursue measures to improve sustainability underpinned by our products to enhance sustainability by strategically selecting growth products within our premium framework. Conservation of Natural Environment As part of its efforts to contribute to Conservation of Natural Environment, Sekisui Chemical Group undertook measures through fiscal 2019 that included improving the quality of green spaces on its business sites in order to coexist in harmony with the local environment in Japan and conducting assessments of impact of wastewater on aquatic life to prevent negative effects on and improve the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows. We believe that these actions have directly protected biodiversity. From fiscal 2020, Sekisui Chemical Group will expand initially to Europe measures that improve the quality of green spaces on its business sites in order to coexist in harmony with local environments worldwide. Environment 253 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Products to Enhance Sustainability Create and Expand Markets for Products That Are Highly Effective in Solving Issues During Customer Use and Contribute Toward Improving Global and Social Sustainability on an Ongoing Basis Management Approach A Product Evaluation System That Promotes Problem Solving Certifications Based on Proprietary Criteria, and Third-party Evaluations of Validity Sekisui Chemical Group has used its product evaluation system since fiscal 2006 in order to further accelerate the resolution of issues related to the natural environment and the social environment. Certification is based on the criteria established by the internal committee, with advice on the criteria, the stance they are based on, and the validity of results accepted from outside advisors. Through the end of fiscal 2019 we promoted the creation of “Environment-contributing Products” and the expansion of the market as part of a system supporting and advancing products that contribute to the solving of issues related to the natural environment and the social environment. With problem solving contributing more than ever to the improved sustainability of the earth and society, we reaffirmed that it essential to improve the sustainability of the company and its products if we are to continue to assist in solving problems. Accordingly, we will initiate efforts under the label of “product to enhance sustainability” to promote greater global, social, corporate, and product sustainability from fiscal 2020. Environment 254 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Evolution of a Product Evaluation System to Promote the Resolution of Issues A product system aimed at not only on improving the sustainability of the earth and society, but also on improving the sustainability of the company and its products. Focusing on products that contribute to resolving natural environment issues, we launched the product evaluation system as the “Environment-Contributing Products” system in fiscal 2006, and have continued to promote the creation and expansion of such products. In fiscal 2017, we committed to creating and supplying problem-solving products, expanding the scope of the system to include to not only products that contribute to solving natural environment issues, but also those that focus on the social environment. Sekisui Chemical Group has reaffirmed its goal of meeting the SDGs for 2030 outlined by the United Nations. Beginning in fiscal year 2020 and under our long-term 2050 environmental vision, we are evolving and launching our product evaluation system under the “products to enhance sustainability” label. We believe the promotion of products that expand the contribution to solving not only natural environment issues, but social environment issues will work to enhance both global and social sustainability. Of course, we also believe that in order to continue making these products, and expanding their contribution, it is vital to ensure corporate and product sustainability as well. In order to do this, we are adding to the process of certifying products that are highly effective in contributing to the resolution of conventional issues a function that evaluates corporate and product sustainability. Using assessments based on profitability, process evaluations, and supply chain evaluations, we are building and operating an evaluation system that not only confirms sustainability, but promotes the implementation of activities bolstering that sustainability. Strengthen the Group’s management ability to sustain business to continue contributing to the natural environment and society Customer In what ways do quality or service appeal to the customers satisfaction who use company products, how satisfied are they, and what kind of requests do they have? Governance Is there a business plan or framework in place for handling accidents or disasters which have serious business impacts that also considers issues such as safety, the environment, quality, compliance, and human rights? Corporate and product sustainability Profitability How much room to grow and potential does the business have? Supply chain Are there structures or frameworks in place to management prevent accidents or disasters which have serious business impacts on both this company and the product-related supply chain? 2006 2017 2020 Environment-Contributing Product With a focus on sustainability of problem-solving system established based on Sekisui’s Expand problem-solving areas in the corporations and products as well, the name has proprietary evaluations and natural and social environments been changed to “products to enhance Sekisui products certifications sustainability.” Evaluation perspectives Sustainability for the Earth Sustainability for society and the Earth Sustainability for society and the Earth Expansion of problem scope Expansion of problem scope Expansion of problem scope Certifying products that Profitability =Focus on customer satisfaction Newly-added evaluation perspectives contribute greatly to Corporate and product sustainability problem-solving and Premium framing are effective at Environment customer facilities -Contributing Products Products which have consideration for the environment and Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Products to enhance contribute to solving problems Products Products sustainability Environment 255 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environment-Contributing Products PR External Promotional Activities In fiscal 2019, Sekisui Chemical participated in the Eco Products 2019 exhibition, introducing and providing information to visitors to Sekisui Chemical Group’s approach to environmental issues and examples of how its products contribute to the resolution of these issues. Our focus in particular is on adapting to and mitigating climate change. In order to mitigate water risks, the increase in disasters that is already apparent, and the warming trend brought on by climate change, we believe it essential to shift to renewable energy and use technology to reduce greenhouse gas emission volumes. We believe that if we are unable to adapt and respond to the environmental changes already apparent, we will be unable to ensure peace of mind and stability moving forward. To that end, the contribution of products and technologies is indeed vital. Sekisui Chemical Group is working to mitigate these conditions through the development of not only solar cells and storage batteries, homes equipped with Home Energy Management Systems (HEMS), as well as homes with solar power panels, but also intermediate materials contributing to reduced energy consumption in electronic devices, as well as heat and sound insulation materials used in automotive applications that contribute to reduced fuel consumption. Our materials at the exhibition focused mainly on housing-related technologies. One area of attention is housing that it built in a resilient manner that contributes to it being adaptable to changing conditions. Housing that is factory produced and composed of rooms constructed at a plant are produced to be resilient, and the sustainability of houses built in this manner has been greatly improved over the years. We introduced resin pipes that prevent lifeline disruptions as a result of disasters such as typhoons or torrential downpours, which are increasing in frequency, as well as housing equipment such as drinking water storage systems, and rainwater storage systems that help prevent flooding at the floor level and riverbank collapses. Finally, we introduced Asaka Leadtown, a town development project that uses the comprehensive strengths of Sekisui Chemical Group to contribute to enhanced adaption and mitigation. Exhibition at Eco Products 2019 Environment 256 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Discussion with External Advisors Considering the Opinions of External Stakeholders Related to Environmental Contributions of Products Since fiscal 2012, we have held an External Advisory Board as an opportunity to receive opinions and advice from renowned authorities from outside the Company, with regard to the standards and registration of Environment-Contributing Products, positions to take in the future, and other comments. The External Advisory Board meetings are sponsored by the supervising director of the organization in charge of environmental issues and CSR, and the members of the internal certification screening committee for Environment-contributing Products, including staff such as executive officer representatives from each division company who unify the technical side, organization heads carrying out management project work with a grasp for business conditions as a whole, participate in this board. We also ask others from outside the Company coming from various backgrounds in industry, government, and academia who are currently engaged in CSR-related work, including related to the environment, to take part as external experts. We currently request participation from representatives of a public corporation which serves as a consulting service providing advice to consumers, an NPO engaged in forestry preservation and education for the next generation, the representative of an office which has released numerous publications related to natural resources and the environment, a corporation which is an auxiliary organization for a government administrative office, and individuals active in media-related capacities for other companies. While we asked for individual opinions in regard to the evolution of our vision and product evaluation system in fiscal 2019, we refrained from holding the External Advisory Board meeting planned for the end of the fiscal term due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Beginning in fiscal 2020, we will engage in dialogue with outside advisors in regard to the drafting of detailed plans for the evolving “products to enhance sustainability” product evaluation system, and will operate the system with the aim of not only improving sustainability of the earth and society, but also our company and its products. In conducting in-house certification of “products to enhance sustainability,” we follow the same assessment guidelines for improving sustainability for the earth and society as for “Environment-contributing Products,” with the evaluation standards also being shifted with the aim of making a strong contribution to the resolution of issues related to the natural environment and the social environment. On the other hand, we believe continuing to solve problems over the long term through the provision of problem-solving products requires us to improve not only the sustainability of our products, but the company that produces those products as well. In order to confirm and improve this sustainability, we will conduct verification and assessment operations focusing on profitability, process evaluations, and supply chains. We will formulate items and operational formats for these verification and assessment activities in fiscal 2020, with promotion of the same in our medium-term plans from the same year. We have also established a “Premium Framework” as part of our aim to strategically expand “products to enhance sustainability.” Over the three years covered by the Medium-term Plan, we will focus on developing promotional measures with the aim of accelerating global and social sustainability improvements while driving growth at Sekisui Chemical Group. We will discuss the detailed design of such a system at the internal certification screening committee meeting, though we will also update as appropriate the design and operation of the system in line with the advice and opinions of members of the External Advisory Board. Note: Internal certification screening committee The chairman of this committee is the supervisor of the ESG Management Department, and corporate and company technology and business supervisors participate in the committee’s meetings as members. These meetings are held for screening related to certification of Environment-Contributing Products. Held regularly twice per year. Environment 257 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Visualization of Environmental Contributions Environmental Impact Assessment and Quantification of Products To clarify the amount of return to natural capital, Sekisui Chemical Group in fiscal 2019 worked to visualize the environmental contribution for each Environment-contributing Product. We calculated and quantified into a single indicator (damage costs) the various contribution vectors in the life cycle of Environment-contributing Products. We multiplied the market impact, based on sales, by the environment contribution of each product to arrive at a quantifiable contribution by product, reflected in the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index. In calculating the impact on the environment for each Environment-contributing Product until fiscal 2016, we broadly classified environmental issues into three areas that should be resolved in our aim to help realize a planet where biodiversity is preserved. However, since broadening the scope of Environment-contributing Products in fiscal 2017, we have since taken steps to integrate contributions across four areas adding the area of human health / social assets. Beginning in fiscal 2020, we will conduct environmental impact assessments based on the contribution to resolving issues in the natural environment and the social environment of products to enhance sustainability throughout their respective lifecycles, with these contributions to natural and social capital reflected in the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index. How to Visualize Environmental Contribution (1) Determine technologies and products to be compared. (2) Gather quantifiable data related to environmental impact of each stage of a product's lifecycle (from raw materials to production, transport, use and disposal). (3) Apply a coefficient* to calculate environmental impact for each factor affecting the environmental impact data obtained and consolidate the results. (4) Environmental contribution is the difference between the coefficient-derived value in (3) above and the original value. * Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of MiLCA, a system developed by Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry using LIME2, an environmental impact assessment method created by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City University. Environment 258 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Note: From fiscal 2019, Medical Business results are collated and presented with Headquarters results following its separation from the High Performance Plastics Company as an independent entity. (P 259) Net Sales / Proportion of Environment-Contributing Products (Billions of yen) Sales ratio (%) 1,000 58.3 60 56.3 50.2 800 44.3 45.2 643.8 658.3 40 600 555.9 128 136.8 Products that Contribute to 84.3 the Social 400 Environment 20 521.5 Products that 200 485.8 481.2 471.6 515.7 Contribute to the Natural Environment 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue from Products That Contribute to the Environment Over Time (Unit: Billions of yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Housing Company 280.6 290.9 317.6 364.3 374.0 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental 103.5 90.3 93.7 97.7 101.5 Products Company High Performance Plastics Company 99.8 99.4 142.2 178.9 110.0 Headquarters 1.8 0.6 2.4 2.8 72.7 Company-wide total 485.8 481.2 555.9 643.8 658.3 Index Calculation Method Net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Consolidated sales across Sekisui Net sales of Chemical Group of products internally certified as Environment-contributing Products EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing Note: See pages P254~255 of the CSR Report 2020 for a definition of EnvironmentProducts contributing Products and the way of thinking behind them. Proportion in Proportion in net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Net sales of Environmentnet sales of contributing Products / Consolidated sales EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing Note: See pages P254~255 of the CSR Report 2020 for a definition of EnvironmentProducts contributing Products and the way of thinking behind them. Number of Environment-Contributing Products Newly Registered Number of registrations FY2017-FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 as of the end of March FY2020 47 24 18 5 162 Environment 259 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Conserving the Environment ~ Biodiversity ~ Continuing to Provide Prominent Value Toward the Realization of a Planet Where Biodiversity Is Preserved Management Approach Basic Concept Lessening the Impact of Business Activities on Biodiversity While the business activities of Sekisui Chemical Group receive blessings of nature coming from biodiversity, they also negatively impact the ecosystem. In April 2008, the Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated biodiversity-related items into its Environmental Management Policy. Following this, the Group has been making efforts to reduce the environmental impact of, for example, greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of resources and energy that are more limited than ever. Having established a set of guidelines on biodiversity in 2011, the Group strives to conserve biodiversity, including the natural environment, through both environmentally conscious business activities and actions to preserve the environment undertaken around the world. Long-term Environmental Management Vision Toward the Realization of a Planet Where Biodiversity Is Preserved To contribute to the realization of a planet where biodiversity is preserved, up until fiscal 2019 Sekisui Chemical Group aimed to return more natural capital to the planet than it uses by 2030, through three initiatives: expand and create Environment-contributing Products, reduce environmental impact, and conserve the natural environment. While engaging in environmental activities with a long-term view to 2050 from 2020, we will maintain our ideal vision of a planet where biodiversity is preserved. As stated in the SDGs, natural and social environment issues are connected. In order to solve a single issue, we must remain conscious of multiple issues while working to find solutions. Looking ahead, we intend to strengthen our partnerships with stakeholders and evolve activities conscious of the need to solve not only issues relating to the natural and social environments, but also contribute to realizing a return to social capital as well as natural capital. Note: See page 172 for details of the Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050. Note: See page 184 for details of Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index. Environment 260 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives SEKISUI Environment Week Held to Help Develop Human Resources with Excellent Environmental Activity Promotional Skills At the Seventh SEKISUI Environment Week, held in fiscal 2019, a total of 27,868 employees participated in activities. The activities were creatively devised to match each business site and included beautification around the areas, tree planting, energy-conservation in the offices and much more. Procurement of Sustainable Raw Materials Usage of Sustainable Timber and Assurance of Traceability To contribute to the elimination of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, at Sekisui Chemical Group every effort is made to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements, such as FSC-certified wood. In addition, the Group conducts investigations into commercial distribution with regard to the logging area, tree species and quantity of timber materials to ensure traceability. For recycled materials, we use timberand wood-based materials that are already used in markets, as well as unused thinnings and branches. Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality at All Domestic Production Sites and Laboratories We are moving forward with efforts to improve green space quality at business sites with the aim of maintaining flora and fauna habitats, building ecosystem networks that connect regions and business sites and invigorate regional partnerships. Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), we aimed to improve our score on the JBIB Land Use Score Card® by five points compared with fiscal 2016. Under the guidance of the environmental consulting company Regional Environmental Planning, Inc., in fiscal 2019 we improved our average score 5.3 points compared with fiscal 2016 as a result of planting native shrub species in green spaces and of ceasing the use of herbicide (chemical agent) sprays. Under the New Environmental Medium-term Plan (2020-2022), we aim to improve our score by three points compared with fiscal 2019. Environment 261 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Corporate Alliance-based Biodiversity Conservation Activity Case Studies Biodiversity Biwako Network “100 Dragonflies Initiative – Save Shiga’s Dragonflies!” As home to Lake Biwa, Shiga Prefecture is a hot spot of biodiversity in which roughly 100 species of dragonflies, half the number of species confirmed in Japan, have been found. Together with seven companies that operate business sites in Shiga Prefecture, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant and Sekisui Taga Kako Co., Ltd. participate in the Biodiversity Biwako Network (BBN), a project that goes beyond the framework of corporations to promote biodiversity conservation in Shiga, and conduct firefly conservation activities. The BBN periodically studies firefly habitats and has currently confirmed 75 species. Under the counsel of experts, the awareness gained through these studies is deployed in protecting habitats within the plant grounds, as well as in creating and maintaining habitats. These actions have seen a certain degree of success in protecting the rapidly declining habitats of the scarlet dwarf dragonfly (Nannophya pygmaea). The Taga Plant conducts biological studies in the area around the town of Taga twice a year, and is currently partnering with the Taga Town Museum to confirm the biodiversity of the region. Moreover, the Taga Plant has installed container biotopes that attract dragonflies to the plant grounds, thereby creating an environment in which dragonfly nymphs can be bred. The Taga Plant also actively holds and participates in events, including natural environment field trips. An exhibit at the Lake Biwa Museum has attracted roughly 26,500 visitors and has served as an opportunity to raise interest in biodiversity among local residents. These BBN activities have also been recognized by society and received the Judges’ Award during the 2019 Biodiversity Action Award Japan, organized by the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. The Taga Plant also acquired the highest three-star rating under the Shiga Biodiversity Action Certification Program. Although the deterioration of dragonfly habitats is currently progressing, through dragonflies the Taga Plant intends to continue contributing to the conservation of biodiversity and towards the realization of a sustainable society. Note: Participating companies: Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Jyuko Corp., Daifuku Co., Ltd., Daihatsu Motor Co., Ltd., OMRON Corporation, Sekisui Jushi Corporation, and YANMAR HOLDINGS CO., LTD. (alphabetical order) View of the Dragonfly Study Scarlet Dwarf dragonfly Container Biotopes on the Plant (an important species in Shiga PreGrounds fecture and elsewhere) Environment 262 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promoting Biodiversity in the Housing Business Town Development That Takes Natural Environments and Ecosystem Preservation into Consideration The Sekisui Heim Group is working to create sustainable town schemes by maintaining and improving the property value of the towns in its residential housing business. In Smart Heim City Asaka, the lots of which Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. commenced selling in the spring of 2019, approximately 25% of the development area was set aside as green space,*1 and town development was carried out in consideration of the surrounding natural environment and ecosystem preservation. We established a park with an open grassed space in Neighbors Circle*2 , which will become a town landmark, and the road leading from there to the area where the lots are being sold is being developed as a lush, dedicated road for pedestrians and cyclists. In addition, Fitness Park , which consists of a park with fitness equipment and a promenade along the Kurome River, is a healthcare area zone where people can exercise while communing with Nature. As a result of its greening policy with a sense of unity and continuity, Smart Heim City Asaka acquired Ikimono Symbiotic Coexistence Enterprise Certification, awarded by ABINC*3, in fiscal 2018. *1 Refers to the green coverage ratio that shows the proportion of green space etc. with regard to the ABINC*3 application site. *2 Neighbors Circle is the name of a plaza that includes Neighbors Store, a childcare facility, clubhouse and Miyadai Park (managed by Asaka City). *3 The Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) is a system that certifies the results of biodiversity conservation efforts to encourage businesses to coexist with nature and people. Artist’s impression of the Neighbors Fitness Park Circle meet-up area upon completion Full area diagram of Smart Heim City Asaka Environment 263 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities Expanding Initiatives at Domestic Production Sites and Housing Companies Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting measures aimed at protecting the natural environment in collaboration with local communities at domestic products sites and laboratories. Working in partnership with NPOs, elementary schools, and local government authorities, we pushed forward various initiatives in such areas as woodland conservation and environmental education at 27 business sites in fiscal 2019. This was an implementation rate of 57.4%. At seven* of its mainstay housing companies, Sekisui Chemical Group has also been engaging in forest and woodland conservation activities since fiscal 2013. In addition to gaining an insight into the importance of the multifaceted functions of forests, steps are being taken to improve communication with local communities through increased collaboration. All seven housing companies implemented activities in fiscal 2019. For an example of our initiatives, please see Social Contribution Activities on page 57 * The seven companies are: Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group, Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group, Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group, Sekisui Heim Chubu Group, Sekisui Heim Kinki Group, Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Group, and Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group Collaboration with University Collaboration with NPOs/Woodland Students/Lake Biwako Area Cleaning Conservation Activities Activities (Sekisui Taga Kako) (Sekisui Heim Kinki Group) Environment 264 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Wastewater WET Investigation of Causes at Business Sites Where Impact Had Been Confirmed by Previous Surveys Sekisui Chemical Group strictly adheres to wastewater standards regulated by laws and ordinances and has set even tougher standards for the management of wastewater from its production sites. To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows, the Group has conducted whole effluent toxicity (WET) assessments of wastewater and surveys of the habitat conditions in the rivers where wastewater is released since fiscal 2013. Looking at past surveys, 96% of the water emitted into public water areas by Sekisui Chemical Group production sites has been checked. Although the Company has continued to conduct investigations into methods of reducing emissions of causative agents at business sites where past surveys have revealed an impact on living organisms, in fiscal 2019 we also succeeded in reducing these causative agents by changing the production lineup. We continuously monitor whether we satisfy the wastewater standards regulated by the Water Pollution Control Law and ordinances. General view of a river Examples of living creatures used in ecosystem survey WET assessments (zebra fish) Environment 265 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Cooperation with External Organizations Dialogue and Partnership with Stakeholders An Association Aiming for and Taking Action in Biodiversity Conservation In 2013, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. became a member of JBIB (Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity), which is a group of Japanese corporations committed to biodiversity conservation. In order to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity in and outside Japan, we promote diverse activities, such as conducting research regarding biodiversity together with various companies. Activities to Conserve Green Spaces We work together with an environmental consulting firm on environmental conservation activities and development of local environment, such as research on ecosystems at production sites and laboratories, conservation of biodiversity, and extermination of non-native species. Social Contribution Activities To develop personnel who contribute to the environment, we engage in natural environment conservation activities in various regions around the world, through cooperating with local governments, academic institutions, schools, NPOs and NGOs. Note: More details of Social Contribution Activities can be found from page 57 Environment 266 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Results from the JBIB Land Use Score Card® FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 JBIB Land Use Score Increase by 2.6 points Increased by 4.3 points Increased by 5.3 points Card® Index Calculation method JBIB Land Use Score Card® is a tool promoted by JBIB, which evaluates the level of effort to preserve biodiversity with respect to the land owned by the Company. It is a sheet for evaluation of every business site regarding the size and quality of its green Points of JBIB Land Use space, management system, etc. on a scale from 0 to 100. Score Card® We implement assessments of every business site for the fiscal year using the JBIB Land Use Score Card® and calculate the increase from the number of points it had in fiscal 2016. The index is the average value of the points increase of all business sites. SEKISUI Environment Week Participation Rate FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Participation rate in the SEKISUI Environment 84.9% 88.1% 89.7% Week initiative Index Calculation method Proportion of participants Total number of participants in the SEKISUI Environment Week initiative / total in the SEKISUI Environment number of employees in the business sites participating in the initiative x100 Week initiative Environment 267 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Human Resources Taking into consideration diversity and the workplace environment, Sekisui Chemical Group will develop human resources who actively take on challenges as a part of efforts to support the basis of LIFE and to continue to create “peace of mind for the future” in order to realize a sustainable society. Management Approach Our Philosophy Based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” we, Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their “unique skills” while achieving personal growth. We also firmly believe that we have a responsibility towards the society to uphold human rights of every individual, respect employees' diversity, personality, and individuality, create diverse work places meeting the needs of the countries and regions we operate in, and allow diverse ways for people to work and be at ease at their work place. This fundamental way of thinking regarding human resources is shared throughout the entire Group, and we are striving to ensure that our work places enable diverse personnel to play an active role, fulfilling for each and every person. Human Resources 268 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Diversity Management Fostering a Corporate Culture Where Diverse Human Resources Can Work with Enthusiasm and Make Unique Contributions Formulated a Diversity Management Policy In November 2015, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its Diversity Management Policy following deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors and Policy Committee. Not only perceiving diversity by differences understood from outward appearance such as gender, age and, nationality, Sekisui Chemical Group will also focus on differences that include careers, values and, personality while understanding, recognizing, and utilizing the differences between each and every employee as strengths. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced work environment to support growth. Created a Statement of Work Style Reform Moreover, we put in place an organizational culture in which all employees can work dynamically in 2017. We then positioned fiscal 2018 as the inaugural year for promoting work style reform in order to remain the preferred choice of stakeholders. As one step in our efforts to push forward Group-wide endeavors, we also created the Statement of Work Style Reform. Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal “characteristics,” and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Distributed the President’s Top Message to Employees We disseminate a message from the president to employees outlining our approach to as well as the background and philosophy behind diversity management. At the time the Diversity Management Policy was formulated in 2015 and again when we created the Statement of Work Style Reform in 2017, we posted the president’s message on the D-Book and D-Book 2 for employees and distributed each to all employees. See page 402 of the reference materials for the message from president Kato, who assumed office in March 2020. Human Resources 269 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Building a Diverse Organizational Structure Every Effort Is Being Made to Build an Organizational Culture in Which All Employees Are Able to Work Dynamically and Make the Most of Their Unique Characteristics and Talents Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives Promoting the Entrenchment of Diversity Management Sekisui Chemical’s organizational culture is based on actively taking advantage of each and every employee’s orientation and their distinctive characteristics. To this end, activities are divided into two categories: “promotion” and “implementation.” We launched our “promotion” efforts in fiscal 2015 and moved on to “application” in fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2018, we focused on entrenching diversity management so that we could achieve an organizational culture that makes best use of each person’s orientation and distinctive characteristics by fiscal 2019, the last year in our current CSR Medium-term Plan. Human Resources 270 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Implementation period Purpose Major ini tiatives Targets 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Spreading Implementation Established knowledge practice Diversity All Policy Management Policy members expansion Spreading knowledge FL and Leader Spread and penetration Frontier Leader (FL) Workshop of Diversity Workshop Superiors Explanatory Leader Workshop meetings at each Management Policies department Building a corporate culture Creation and distribution of tools for spreading All D-Book Poster D-Book 2 Diversity Management members drafting creation drafting Policy knowledge Making use of the Implementation individual strengths of Educational programs Implementation Implementation follow-up training 2 Implementation each individual member to on diversity management Superiors training follow-up training (multifaceted follow-up achieve results implementation observation) training 3 for the organization Bottom-up improvement Project to develop a Start with the theme of activities for achieving workplace in which Organization Launch diversity promotion and diversity management all employees can excel add work style reforms as an at each organization essential theme in 2018 Facing your own goals Activities and individual strengths All starting with Implementation and making your own Career plan training Sekisui Chemical Expansion to group companies decisions about your members career for the future alone New female hire Achieving established assignment support Promotion of practice and active Activities starting seminar Expansion to group companies and from Hiring of disabled participation among Superiors with Sekisui new female employees only to all employees young female employees Female subordinate Chemical alone management seminar Female women's activities Fostering women’s Career Development candidates for Activities starting management with Sekisui candidacy for Expansion to group companies Program for Women positions people management positions Chemical alone Superiors Maintaining an environment that's Promotion of easy for disabled people to work in Organization Expansion to group companies disabled hiring Brainstorming session on employment of people with disabilities Understanding the Monitoring current status of employee job Employee opinion polls All Implementation Implementation satisfaction and (engagement surveys) members contributing factors Human Resources 271 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Diversity Management Promotional Structure We are Putting in Place a Structure That Promotes Diversity Management Across the Entire Group. CSR Committee, Human Resources Committee The CSR Committee deliberates on CSR measures generally. This includes matters relating to diversity management. Chaired by the president, the CSR Committee is comprised of such senior executives as the presidents of division companies as well as employee representatives including female employees and the head of the Labor Union. Matters that require resolution are also reported to the Board of Directors. In addition to deliberating on Group-wide diversity management issues, the Human Resources Committee puts in place and monitors measures aimed at securing and developing the personnel necessary for diversity management. Chaired by the managing executive officer and head of the Human Resources Department, the Human Resources Committee is comprised of executive officers and the heads of human resources departments selected from each division company. The Human Resources Committee met twice in fiscal 2019, once in September and once in March. Human Resource / Promotional Structure (to FY2019) Human Resource / Promotional Structure (from FY2020) Board of Directors Board of Directors CSR Committee Sustainability Committee* Human Resources Sub-committee Human Resources Sub-committee Sub-committee Chairperson: Hiroyuki Taketomo, Director, Managing Executive Officer, Sub-committee : Hiroyuki Taketomo, Director, Managing Executive Responsible for Legal Department, Chairperson Officer, Responsible for Legal Department, Head Head of Human Resources Departmen of Human Resources Department Sub-committee Members: Managing executive officers and Executive officers at each Divisional Company, General managers of HumanResources Sub-committee : Managing executive officers and Executive Section at each Divisional Company Members officers at each Divisional Company, General Office: Human Resources Department managers of Human Resources Section at each Divisional Company Office : Human Resources Department HR at Divisional Company /Headquarters HR at Divisional Company/ HR sections at each Divisional Company Each Labor-management Headquarters Committee HR sections at each Divisional Company Each HR sections at production sites, laboratories, Labor-management sales facilities, affiliates, etc. Committee HR sections at production sites, laboratories, sales facilities, affiliates, etc. HR section HR section * The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. * The name of the CSR Committee was changed to the Sustainability Committee on April 1, 2020. Human Resources 272 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report The Ongoing Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel Separate from the CSR Committee and the Human Resources Committee, the Group in its goal of creating a system that allows diversity promotion strategies to reach each of its employees has established the Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel. Sekisui Chemical Group has appointed those responsible for and those in charge of the promotion of this project at each of its 81 domestic bases. Each manager is working to ensure the smooth implementation of diversity management measures at each location. Promotion Awareness and Entrenchment of Diversity Management Policies In November 2015, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its Diversity Management Policy following deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors and Policy Committee. Ongoing communicative efforts from management since 2015 have contributed to an improved understanding regarding Sekisui Chemical Group’s goal of focusing not only on a person’s attributes, such as gender or disability, but rather on making best use of each person’s orientation and defining characteristics. Distributed the “D-Book” As a means for promoting diversity management, Sekisui Chemical drafted the “D-Book” in fiscal 2015 and “D-Book 2” in fiscal 2017, both of which have been distributed to all domestic Group employees.Kicking off our diversity management policies, D-Book features an overview of management’s commitment, stance, and details on initiatives. D-Book 2 showcases initiatives and case studies undertaken since fiscal 2015 and describes work-style reforms that will commence in earnest starting in fiscal 2018. The Group has used D-Book 2 to further educate employees as part of diversity-related training. Using material from the section covering the discovery of distinctive characteristics and the worksheet, some employees are applying their understanding of diversity to their own lives. Human Resources 273 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Conducts Frontier Leader Workshops & Leadership Workshops Sekisui Chemical conducted top-down-based explanations with the aim of promoting its Diversity Management Policy. To begin, the Company president provided explanations of the meaning behind diversity management promotion through Frontier Leader Workshops targeting 200 senior managers (Frontier Leaders) in December 2015. Subsequently, we held workshops to raise awareness of the meaning behind diversity management promotion for 1,800 department managers, who in turn conveyed this information to employees at each department. Understanding and Awareness of Our Diversity Management Initiatives With the aim of fostering understanding and awareness of our diversity management initiatives, we created a slogan and logo that puts a face to our Sekisui Chemical Group’s Diversity Management Policy. After promotion managers and supervisors decided on a logo and slogan “Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel,” both of these were featured in a poster that was distributed to every workplace for use in deepening the understanding of this initiative. Slogan: Diverse Colors, Diverse Strengths Logo: Featuring the capital letter S for Sekisui, the logo features intersecting lines with varying colors and widths to express the coordination of diversity as well as illustrates forward-looking activities that will enable all employees to shine. Human Resources 274 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Implementation Initiatives to Build an Organizational Culture Implementing Initiatives from Three Perspectives: Organization-wide, Department Managers, All Employees Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel The Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel began in December 2016 as improvement activities implemented at each department.The purpose of the Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel is to create ideal workplaces where diversity management is realized. Targeting 159 domestic Group organizations, the project involves assigning a promotion manager and supervisor at each department, recognizing that each department has different issues. Improvement activities are carried out spearheaded by these promotion managers and supervisors. Kicking off project activities in fiscal 2016, we created ideal images for each department along with formulating proposals to analyze the status quo, identify issues, and set improvement plans. From fiscal 2017, the project focused on the implementation of measures to help solve issues at each department, while efforts were made to identify issues at 152 organizations within the Group. In fiscal 2018 we sought to make the changes achieved through our efforts more visible, and enacted a variety of measures, including those aimed at the building of a system in which activities are based not only on the efforts of the promotion managers and supervisors, but also the organizational representatives and employees. In fiscal 2019, we relocated the organizations engaged in activities to the Human Resources Department and condensed these into 81 organizations. We launched an information sharing site for the exclusive use of responsible officers while openly disclosing and working to promote the initiatives of each organization. Moreover, we held workshops to utilize the results of the employee awareness survey (engagement survey) conducted during fiscal 2019 so that each location can now analyze and utilize the results, as well as plan measures. As a result, we have seen an increase in the number of initiative themes and the implementation of more feasible themes and are able to produce the results of improvements. Human Resources 275 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ● How Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel Works Examples of visible changes (comments from employees) ● By recognizing differences in each person, including understanding whose performance can improve through praise, whose performance can improve through strict guidance, and who can improve their performance on their own, work is now assigned with consideration given to the distinctive attributes of the individual worker. ● I have noticed a completely new level of growth and clear sense of purpose gained as a result of carefully listening to what a person was saying and deriving what they really meant. ● We were able to complete work at the regularly scheduled time by shifting factory operations previously accomplished by one man doing overtime work to two women working on a shift schedule. It appears misconceptions about women, including the idea that factory work is a man’s job, have all but disappeared. Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation In working toward the realization of diversity management, since it is important for department managers, who play a key role, to understand, recognize and utilize the fact that attitudes to work and life and distinctive characteristics differ from one team member to another, we have since 2016 been implementing educational programs on diversity management that are geared toward the managers of all groups and sections from domestic Group companies. With the goal of acquiring management methods that would allow us to make better use of each employee’s orientation and special characteristics, we focused our efforts through fiscal 2017 on managers understanding and organizing the special characteristics of employees, and learning how to effectively leverage these to produce organizational results. In fiscal 2018, we confirmed through multiple checks the degree to which leaders were using diversity management to make best use of the distinctive characteristics of their employees. In fiscal 2019, along with applying the awareness achieved through these multiple checks in management, we confirmed diversity management using a handbook that formalized the management method PDCA and continued to implement training to bolster the quality of our activities in practice. Human Resources 276 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of participants in programs 1,168 1,723 1,736 1,482 Career Plan Training by Age FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of participants at career plan training 1,276 1,429 1,745 1,759 Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of organizations engaged in activities 159 organizations 178 organizations 81 organizations Organizations: Organizations linked to management at Sekisui Chemical subsidiary companies in Japan Human Resources 277 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Depending on the Individual Career Orientation) Management Approach Basic Concept Providing Opportunities for Personnel Training According to Individual Career Orientation As an overall company activity, we strive to ensure that the Group can move forward on the two pillars of business leaders, who will someday shoulder management, and efficient staff that can maintain our manufacturing processes. Major Initiatives Developing Business Leaders 1) Developing Business Leaders from an Early Stage We have developed a consistent training system covering all stages from new hires to management positions, in order to systematically train business leaders to power Sekisui Chemical Group into the future. Based on the concept that the foundations of growth are the experience gained through everyday business activities and learning from such experience, we have developed a training system that links these two elements together. Through this system we will enhance each individual's mastery of the skills required of business leaders, by running through the cycle of growth through experience, from when a new hire joins the Company through to management. 2) Developing Employees to Fill Senior Management Position Going Forward With an eye toward management positions throughout the Group, Sekisui Chemical has established the Saijuku School. This internal training and development tool is designed to help enhance the scope and depth of future business leaders going forward. Employees participating in the Saijuku School review a wide range of case studies while attending lectures. In addition to the skills required to put forward management strategies, the Saijuku School provides details of important business theories and philosophies. This in turn provides participants with the broad perspective necessary to engage in global business development and to further hone the abilities to think and act. Working to instill a broad mindset that encompasses the Group as a whole, employees are encouraged to take the initiative in their own development and to establish action plans geared toward reform. Human Resources 278 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 3) Innovation School (Fostering of Business Leaders by Newly Appointed Operating Officers) The Innovation School has been held since fiscal 2003 to “change the Company and change each individual’s behavior” and with the aim of having operating officers themselves directly train Sekisui Chemical Group’s next-generation business leader candidates. Up to and including fiscal 2016, a total of 981 next-generation business leader candidates had taken part. In fiscal 2019, with operating officers up to their second year in office acting as headmasters, we again trained young, highly motivated employees, irrespective of their Group company or business domain, as candidates to become next-generation business leaders across the whole Group. In addition to talking directly with senior management and learning as potential business leaders while engaging in discussions at great length, the Innovation School offers an excellent opportunity for the candidates to broaden their horizons through interaction with parties from both inside and outside the Company. Training Human Resources to Support the Workplace The human resources who will support the foundations of management in practical terms in the workplace must undergo self-growth as highly capable practitioners accumulating experience over the long term and acquiring highly specialized knowledge and skills. Based on this concept, Sekisui Chemical Group hires human resources who will support the workplace as permanent, full-time employees, creates an environment in which they can demonstrate their abilities with peace of mind over the long term, and deploys the Meister System to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. In the future as well, we will promote measures to strengthen training abilities in the workplace on a Group-wide basis. Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Hires With the aim of, for example, acquiring knowledge from outside the Company and enhancing its business potential, Sekisui Chemical is increasingly active in mid-career appointments (the hiring of experienced personnel). After having joined the Company, however, there are more than a few examples of a lack of understanding with regard to the workplace culture or inhouse systems on the part of the mid-career hires themselves proving to be an obstacle to the process of having them display their skills at an early stage. Providing new, mid-career employees (those hired based on their previous experience) with the opportunity to learn the basic knowledge (including the Company’s unique history, culture, policies and systems), Sekisui Chemical Group draws on the high levels of competence and specialized skills they have accumulated up until their previous positions and implements follow-up training for new, mid-career hires as an environment improvement so they demonstrate those attributes and participate actively at an early stage. Group Internal Job Posting Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees’ willingness to take on challenges and gives assistance to realize career plans by internally posting of job openings and providing opportunities to thrive within the Group. Through Group internal job postings, any qualified employee can apply for a job posted to the intranet, without the approval of their superiors. Human Resources 279 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Support System for Diverse Career Paths The Company has in place a system that enables partner employees who—after having reviewed their careers and written self-assessments—are involved in the career planning-based course conversion system or are working in pre-specified workplaces or areas of business operations, can choose to switch to becoming permanent, full-time employees. Performance Data Results from Main Recruitment-type Training Programs Numbers of Numbers of Numbers of Numbers of Numbers of Name of Training Program Attendees Attendees Attendees Attendees Attendees in FY2015 in FY2016 in FY2017 in FY2018 in FY2019 Not The Saijuku School 34 33 37 27 implemented Innovation School 70 72 58 86 69 Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Employees FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of training participants 45 87 60 43 Results of Intra-Group Job Postings Cumulative FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total since FY2000 Number of recruitment cases 44 49 44 45 355 Number of employees recruited 149 130 140 62 1,280 Number of applicants 83 99 115 135 1,088 Number of employees transferred 12 19 26 28 205 Human Resources 280 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Career Path Support System (Number of people) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Men 14 9 10 Course conversion system Women 2 2 1 Permanent, full-time employee Men 5 3 2 conversion system Women 11 7 11 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Gender) Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives Stepping up: adding the promotion of workstyle reforms to the empowering of women in their careers The CSR Medium-term Plan launched in fiscal 2017 sets specific targets in line with the Company’s goal of becoming “an organization where women can truly thrive.” As a first step, we launched measures aimed at the hiring and retention of women, as well as initiatives targeting their training as managers. With the goal of moving on to the next step from fiscal 2018, we have designated 2018 as the inaugural year for promoting workstyle reforms throughout Sekisui Chemical Group, and are developing a variety of initiatives in line with three workstyle-reform targets. In fiscal 2019, one woman was appointed as an outside director, an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member and an executive officer, respectively. ■ CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Targets Ratio of women to total hires: 35% Number of women in management positions: 200 (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated: 50; Consolidated Group companies in Japan: 150), Ratio of women in management positions: 4.4% Ratio of permanent, full-time female employees: 15% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) ■ Results as of the end of fiscal 2019 Ratio of women to total hires: 31.4% Number of women in management positions: 185 (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated: 56; Consolidated Group companies in Japan: 129) Ratio of women in management positions: 4.1% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) Ratio of permanent, full-time female employees: 15.6% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) Human Resources 281 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Recognition of Sexual Minorities, Including LGBT In its Personnel and human rights policies, Sekisui Chemical Group states that all forms of discrimination are prohibited. The Company’s diversity management policy recognizes that the orientations and strengths of each employee are different, and aims to make the most of these differences though the implementation of initiatives based on a broad definition of diversity, rather than one based solely on gender. Major Initiatives Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminars Sekisui Chemical Group up through fiscal 2017 conducted New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminars for those who were charged with the management of new female recruits before and after the new female hires were assigned. The seminars were devised to get new female hires established and thriving at an early stage by increasing awareness from the point of view of those attending the seminars. From fiscal 2018 the focus of the seminars has been expanded to include not only new female hires, but all new personnel targeted for training, with initiatives being developed also at each Sekisui Chemical Group companies. These efforts have contributed to the enhanced realization by managers regarding the importance of communication that is based on an understanding that different people can hold differing values and enacted in a manner that takes into account each person’s individual characteristics. Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees Female Subordinate Management Seminar Geared toward those in management positions overseeing female staff members who are up to their fourth year since joining the Company, this training program has provided opportunities to learn about day-to-day guidance and training methods to all relevant personnel participating in the program through fiscal 2017. Beginning in fiscal 2018, the program has been expanded to include managers overseeing not only women, but younger workers in general, and now includes new content alongside diversity management training. Thanks to this training, there has been an increase in the number of managers focused less on the conventional method of guidance and more on listening to the thoughts of their employees and offering career formation guidance in line with the aspirations of those individuals. Fostering Women’s Candidacy for Management Positions Career Development Program for Women Targeting women employees who hope to be appointed to management positions and their direct supervisors, the Company is conducting a Career Development Program for Women. This educational program has been put in place with the aim of fostering awareness and gaining the achievements appropriate for management positions. We have been continually conducting this program as essential training across the entire Group since fiscal 2016. It would appear that attitudes of the female employees themselves are changing, with comments from those participating in the training including, “I’d like to change the organization so that women can participate more in decision making” and “I am no longer worried about becoming a manager.” Human Resources 282 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Balanced Support for Child Rearing and Nursing Care Supporting Flexible Workstyles in Tune with Life Events Sekisui Chemical Group introduces a variety of systems designed to enable employees to work flexibly in tune with life events and lifestyles. In addition to system upgrades that go beyond those stipulated under law, the childcare support system is covered in a guidebook, which summarizes the necessary information to support a flexible workstyle, including from pregnancy to childcare leave, and working mother know-how is posted on the Company intranet. To encourage male employees to participate in childcare, the first five working days of childcare leave are paid, and we are advancing the use of a system for male employees whose children have just been born and their superiors. As an initiative for nursing care support, in fiscal 2019 we conducted two sessions of nursing care training with a total of 24 employees having participated. Performance Data Number of Women in Management Positions and Ratio of Women to Total Hires Number of Women Directors and Managers Women Directors (Sekisui Chemical) Audit and Supervisory Board Directors Members (Outside Executive Officer (Outside Audit Directors) and Supervisory Board Members) FY2019 Number of Women Directors 1 1 1 (Sekisui Chemical) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of women directors 2 2 2 (Sekisui Chemical Group) Number of women in management positions 138 156 185 (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Human Resources 283 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Ratio of Women to Total Hiresn (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Note: Includes certain affiliates accounted for by the equity method and non-consolidated subsidiaries. Entered Entered Entered Entered Entered in FY2015 in FY2016 in FY2017 in FY2018 in FY2019 Ratio of women to total hires (%) 26.5 31.3 29.8 29.7 31.4 Career Development Program for Women FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of program Women 90 58 35 39 attendees Superiors 77 44 31 24 Human Resources 284 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Main Systems Allowing Various Workstyles and Their Use (Number of people) Name of Main content FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 system Can be taken until the end Women 18 22 30 32 45 of the month in which the child reaches three years Childcare leave Men 12 14 20 28 44 of age. (The statutory end date is until the child reaches two years of age.) Total 30 36 50 60 89 Can be taken up to the Women 30 30 34 41 55 Shortened child enters junior high working hours school. (The statutory Men 0 0 0 2 2 for childcare end date is until the child reaches three years of age.) Total 30 30 34 43 57 Times of starting and Women 3 6 8 9 10 finishing work may be Use of flexible moved earlier or later by Men 0 1 6 4 7 working hours up to 60 minutes until the child reaches junior high school age. Total 3 7 14 13 17 Up to a total of 93 days for Women 1 0 1 0 1 each individual eligible for Nursing care care Men 0 2 3 4 4 leave (Up to a maximum of one year for the first individual eligible for care) Total 1 2 4 4 5 Two days per week or Women 0 0 0 0 0 Shortened 4.5 hours per day for a working hours maximum of three years for Men 0 1 2 2 4 for nursing care each individual eligible for care Total 0 1 2 2 4 Women 40 43 48 62 62 Three days of special care leave per year granted until Family leave Men 73 77 101 146 193 the child or grandchild starts high school. Total 113 120 149 208 255 Human Resources 285 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Women 16 21 20 Employees with newly born babies Men 101 111 101 Total 117 132 121 Women 13 14 19 Employees with newly born babies who took childcare Men 17 25 39 leave Total 30 39 58 Ratio of those who took childcare leave (excludes those Women 100 100 100 who are taking maternity leave) (%) Men 16.8 22.5 39 Average number of childcare leave acquisition days Women 165.5 167.4 259.2 (days) Men 9.9 14.2 24.7 Women 12 15 22 Employees who returned to work after childcare leave Men 19 26 39 Total 31 41 61 Ratio of those who returned to work after childcare Women 92.3 100 100 leave Men 100 100 100 Retention rate after one year of those who returned to Women 100 100 100 work after having taken childcare leave (%) Men 100 94.7 96.2 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (People with Disabilities) Management Approach Efforts to Employ People with Disabilities Putting in Place an Invigorating and Comfortable Workplace Environment That Is Conducive to the Hiring and Retention of Employees We believe it important not only to hire people with disabilities, but to create an environment where those with disabilities can easily work. Maintaining an environment in which people with disabilities can work easily at the same time leads to an environment in which all employees find it easy to work. To help maintain that environment, we have been conducting joint brainstorming sessions that involve the personnel departments of the entire Group and conduct study sessions with experts for employees in departments where people with disabilities work. Moreover, we have personnel staff and experts offer regular counseling to people with disabilities after they have entered a Group company so that they will be able to set their own steady course for personal career development. Human Resources 286 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Creating an environment receptive to workers with disabilities Going beyond providing support to individual Group companies and raising awareness, we also conduct activities that lead to actual hiring. In the brainstorming sessions on employment of workers with disabilities that have taken place from fiscal 2016, we implement training divided into three segments—employment planning, establishing worker responsibilities, and actual hiring methods—and have worked to improve performance of human resources throughout the Group. In addition, from fiscal 2019, we have partnered with relevant institutions in each region and endeavored to create opportunities that lead to actual hiring by undertaking activities throughout the Group, including conducting hiring briefings that cover hiring issues by Group companies, internships, company study tours and other events. In fiscal 2019, we accepted 11 interns at our Osaka Headquarters, two of whom were selected for tentative job offers at a Group company. In Tokyo, we also held a joint corporate briefing comprised of Sekisui Group companies, two of which gave four people tentative job offers. Together with continuing on with these activities in fiscal 2020, we will collaborate with other companies that are aggressively hiring people with disabilities and consider the areas and businesses that, more than just offering positions at our own companies, will enable a diverse range of people to play an active role. A workshop held as part of the employment General view of people with disabilities working planning program for people with disabilities together at their workplace. Human Resources 287 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities (Sekisui Chemical) Note: Including Special Provision Subsidiary (as of March 2020) （%） 3.0 2.81 2.84 2.40 2.29 2.29 2.21 2.0 Legally stipulated ratio 1.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Including Special Provision Subsidiary (as of March 2020) Indicator Calculation method Employment ratio of (Number of regular workers who have physical or people with disabilities mental disabilities ÷ Number of regular workers) ×100 Brainstorming Sessions on Employment of People with Disabilities (Number of Participating Companies) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Action plan seminar for hiring people Not 23 27 14 with disabilities implemented Workplace improvement and Not ー 42 11 operational review program implemented Short-term intensive program on hiring Not ー ー 12 people with disabilities implemented Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Age) Management Approach Retaining and Utilizing Young Employees Training Manager (Brother/Sister) Program Sekisui Chemical has established a training manager (brother/sister) program aimed at enabling new employees to smoothly adapt to their assigned workplaces and quickly hit the ground running. The role of training managers goes beyond job-related instruction to play a role in providing guidance on how adult members of society should conduct themselves while following up on new employees’ state of mind. The program also encourages training managers to leverage their experience guiding junior employees to gain a new perspective and thereby grow themselves. Human Resources 288 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Promote the Active Participation of Seniors Enhance Initiatives Aimed at Enabling Active Roles for Employees Aged 65 In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical introduced a reemployment system for employees who had reached mandatory retirement age. Since fiscal 2006 this program has been expanded to Group companies as well. A new program of training for employees aged 57 was introduced as an opportunity to think about their careers after retirement. This was the start of a new effort to enable motivated employees to remain in active employment through age 65. In October 2015, Sekisui Chemical revised its Senior Expert System, a system for reemploying elderly retirees in order to foster greater employee motivation. We have finished putting in place systems for employees to continue working through to the age of 65 at all Group companies, ensuring that 100% of the employees that elect to do so can remain employed or be reemployed. Major Initiatives Career Plan Training by Age (Sekisui Chemical Group) All employees are called to take it upon themselves to proactively display their distinctive characteristics, learn, and grow in order to realize diversity management. To this end, faced with their orientation to work and life and distinctive characteristics, the Company is conducting career plan training by age (young employees and employees aged in their 30s, 40s, and 50s) to give employees an opportunity to consider their future careers for themselves. From fiscal 2016, career plan training is being extended to cover all domestic Group employees. We are conducting training to draft career plans. Performance Data Number of Elderly Employees Reemployed and Reemployment Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of elderly employees reemployed 104 65 21 49 46 Reemployment rate (%) 82.5 83.3 63.6 76.6 85.2 Note: The reemployment rate for applicants is 100%. Indicator Calculation method (Number of reemployed elderly employees ÷ number who have reached mandatory retirement age) × 100 Reemployment of elderly employees (Number who have reached mandatory retirement age includes those who do not wish to be reemployed) Human Resources 289 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Career Plan Training by Age Total Young In Their 40s 50s 57 Number of Employees 30s Participants Number of participants 107 311 360 535 116 1,429 in FY2017 Number of participants 117 321 383 609 315 1,745 in FY2018 Number of participants 145 423 362 502 327 1,759 in FY2019 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Global) Management Approach Basic Concept Fostering Personnel Based on Conditions in Each Area In the Medium-term Management Plan (SHIFT 2019-Fusion-), HR (Human Resources) is listed as one of the basic strategies to achieve a “new phase of growth.” Amid accelerating global business development, it is essential to make active use of diverse human resources supporting each business and to revitalize the organization in order for each company of Sekisui Chemical Group to maintain autonomous growth. To adapt to the different business characteristics, history, management styles, lifestyle habits, as well as the various laws and regulations of each country and region, Sekisui Chemical Group is focusing on training human resources capable of demonstrating their abilities in their respective countries and regions. Human Resources 290 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Developing Personnel Who Can Succeed on the Global Stage Fostering Personnel Based on Conditions in Each Area with International Experience to Ensure Sustainable Growth As our business categories expand, the proportion of foreign sales and overseas personnel are increasing year by year. We believe that to develop as a Group, we need each and every employee of the Group working in various countries across the globe to develop themselves through their work, to learn to create and provide products and services matching the needs of each country. This way of thinking lies at the base of our efforts to develop training programs for our human resources, programs that are firmly rooted in each area we operate in, enabling every employee to maximize his or her distinctive capabilities at their place of work. In fiscal 2019 , we positioned regional headquarters in four areas (U.S., Europe, China and ASEAN) as key points for personnel matters so that their HR functions would work to drive the implementation of workshops based on employee awareness surveys (engagement surveys) conducted in each region. In addition, we have held personnel meetings between each of these regional headquarters and Japan Headquarters to even further strengthen a framework in which we can foster the human talent across the entire Sekisui Chemical Group that will play an active role on the world stage. Integration and Training of Personnel across Regional Boundaries In fiscal 2019, to reinforce the ties of cooperation across regions regarding human resource development tasks and solutions, we held a meeting in which HR managers from our four regional headquarters, namely the U.S., Europe, China and ASEAN, gathered together at one location. This occasion was witness to a vigorous discussion about nurturing global leaders and local staff, a framework for collaboration between Japan and each of the regions, and other topics for bringing about “OneSEKISUI.” We will reflect the thoughts received on a number of future personnel policies that shall pave the way for further growth, including those supporting better understanding of management philosophies of the Group in overseas subsidiaries and increasing educational opportunities across regions. Hiring Foreign Nationals Sekisui Chemical Group is actively hiring foreign nationals for the purpose of further globalizing the Group’s businesses. In addition to hiring students who have been studying in Japan, the Company launched overseas recruitment activities in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2019, the Company carried out the hiring of engineers in India and of personnel for office-based positions in the UK and the Netherlands. We will allow our diverse human resources to further excel and accelerate globalization by recruiting new human talent that are even more suited to our global strategy, which is in addition to their global perspective, with an eye toward achieving our vision for the future. Human Resources 291 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Global Talent Employee System Developing Personnel to Be Immediately Effective Overseas The Group has established a Global Talent Employee System dedicated to nurturing of global human resources that can succeed on the global stage, and about 1,700 employees of the Group working in Japan have registered with it. The participants are provided with cultural training programs and professional education necessary for working overseas, and we are currently promoting measures to create opportunities for them to actually go to other countries and gain work experience there. From fiscal 2020 we will enhance the systematic introduction of programs that nurture global human resources and further accelerate globalization. Global Trainee Program Providing Opportunities to Succeed Overseas The Group offers a Global Trainee Program that enables employees to gain work experience overseas. Employees working in sales, accounting, product development, and some other areas with a certain achievement level are eligible to participate in the program allowing them to apply for posts at the overseas companies affiliated with the Group. In fiscal 2019, we organized our Overseas Engineers Dispatch Program aiming at training engineers with globally competitive high-level expertise as well as the Short-term Overseas Dispatch Training Program that teaches the participants to cultivate their own abilities and behavioral patterns that are required to succeed in global business. The Group shall continue expanding the programs allowing more and more employees working in various countries to gain experience in business overseas. Performance Data Breakdown of Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Number of people) Number of employees 27,003 Breakdown by region Japan 19,727 The Americas 1,970 Europe 977 Asia/Pacific 4,329 Human Resources 292 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Number of Japanese Global Talent Employees (Number of people) 400 329 341 340 326 335 300 200 100 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Indicator Calculation method Japanese employees with overseas Global talent employees assignment experience Number of Participants in the Global Trainee Program FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of participants 10 21 15 Human Resources 293 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Basis for Fostering Personnel Management Approach Basic Concept Improving Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve sustainable growth, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. Medium-term Plan Specific Targets Set, Various Measures Being Enacted Under the CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), through even further advancements for diversity and the promotion of initiatives for work style innovation, we worked to build an organizational culture in which all employees can work dynamically. Human Resources 294 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ü・ ・・Medium-term targets achieved △・ ・・Medium-term targets not achieved despite efforts to push forward initiatives Human Resources ×・ ・・Medium-term targets not achieved; need to further push forward initiatives in the future Medium-term Medium-term FY2019 Key Measures (2017-2019) (2017-2019) Results Targets Self-evaluation ① Secure a ratio of women ① Secured a ratio of women △ to total hires of 35% to total hires of 31.4% 1)Empower women ② Number of women in ② Number of women in Promote △ management positions: 200 management positions: 185 diversity Number of participants in Number of participants in 2)Develop global the Global Trainee Program: the Global Trainee Program: × talent employees 20 15 Pledge to Society Medium-term Medium-term Key Measures (2017-2019) FY2019 Results (2017-2019) Targets Self-evaluation 1. Manage Reduce the number of Reduced the number of and control subsidiary companies where subsidiary companies where prolonged employees work more than employees work more than working hours △ 2,000 hours on an annual 2,000 hours on an annual (in excess of basis by 30% basis by 19%* 2,000 hours (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) annually) Workplace Environment Raise the number of Group Raised the number of companies certified as Group companies certified an Excellent Enterprise of as an Excellent Enterprise 2. Promote health Health and Productivity of Health and Productivity management ü Management Management management White 500 by Japan’s White 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to 21 and Industry to 28 * Based on estimated as of March 2020 Human Resources 295 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Training Systems to Support Our Businesses Promoting the Growth of Each Employee Sekisui Chemical Group is operating a training system with various programs tailor-made to match various career plans with stages differentiated by level and skill. As our business categories are extensive and we employ a divisional company system whereby each department is given substantial authority to make its own decisions, the Group operates its system of development of human resources at the level of each company and subsidiary of the Group, based on the philosophy and programs that serve as the fundament. At the same time, some programs such as initial training of new employees, level-specific training by qualification grade, career planning training, or business leaders’ training are developed across the Group to promote improvements in power of human resources in the Group as a whole. Consolidation of Labor Conditions Measures to Improve Compensation and Labor Conditions With the aim of securing and developing personnel throughout Sekisui Chemical Group that goes beyond company and individual Group company frameworks, we will continually work to upgrade various systems and improve labor conditions based on the results of our analysis of labor conditions at domestic Group companies. We also conduct investigations of not only compensation levels but also the working hours, use of paid leave, and flexible work stylesaspects that are linked to reform of the very way we work with the intent of optimizing conditions across the entire Group. Labor-management Relations Labor-management Cooperation and Communication Sekisui Chemical strives to understand and respects the positions of labor unions. We believe that through close communications between labor and management we can resolve our common problems based on a shared objective of advancing the Company. In Japan, there were 15 independent labor unions with 5,294 employees in the AllSekisui Chemical Labor Union Federation, while Sekisui Chemical Labor Union, which is the core organization in the Federation, had 2,435 members (as the Group employs a union shop system, the membership rate of employees eligible to become union members is 100%) in fiscal 2019. Benefits Providing Adequate Benefits Regardless of Gender, and Welfare Benefits to Non-full-time Employees, Including Health Insurance and Childcare Leave At Sekisui Chemical, base salaries are the same for each gender, and proper benefits are provided regardless of gender. Sekisui Chemical also has systems in place that provide welfare benefits to contracted employees, such as contract employees, including healthcare (i.e., health checkups), compensation for disabilities and illnesses that arise at work, and childcare leave. Only indefinite-term employees are eligible to join the Company’s life insurance, defined-benefit retirement plans, and shareholding programs. Human Resources 296 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Periodic Evaluation of Individual Performance and Career Development At Sekisui Chemical, we are working to build a system for human resources that enables people to thrive, regardless of age or attributes. Our source of growth is found in those tasks we perform on an everyday basis. Indicating the specific actions an employee needs to take and the abilities needed to execute tasks in order to achieve a sustained level of consistently optimal results, there is the Sekisui Self-accountability & Competency Sheet (SSAC Sheet). Sekisui Chemical Group bases all of its business activities on its corporate philosophy called the “3S Principles” aiming to achieve satisfaction of its stakeholders. Based on these 3S Principles, the SSAC Sheet lists the roles and responsibilities of our employees in execution of their business duties as well as concrete behavior required by the Group from employees in each course, at each qualification level. Under the Group's evaluation system, employees are assessed not only by their business results but also by the process that led them to the results and the personal growth they achieved through accomplishment of the tasks (increase of task-execution abilities). The SSAC Sheet serves as a standard for this evaluation. Superiors and subordinates are provided with regular opportunities to discuss the individual goal setting and assessment. Permanent, full-time employees in all positions and levels are target to this initiative. Employee Awareness Surveys (Engagement) Sekisui Chemical Group periodically conducts an employee awareness survey (engagement survey) targeting all employees every three years. The purpose of this survey is to identify the degree to which employees feel fulfilled at work, uncover areas for improvement, and implement improvement measures by organization. Meanwhile, the survey measures the feelings of individual employees involved in engagement that they are the key players, the pride and enthusiasm they feel regarding their work, and the determination to do one's best and not give up until the results surpass everyone's expectations. In other words, the willingness to contribute to the organization and sense of fulfillment. The engagement score declined marginally under the survey conducted in fiscal 2019 compared with 2016. Based on activities that drew on previous survey results, Group-wide efforts increase slightly in such areas as diversity and work-life balance. Looking ahead, we will implement a variety of measures aimed at building an organization across the Group as a whole that allows each and every employee to take a leading role and to work in a dynamic and vibrant manner. Human Resources 297 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Average Hours per FTE of Training and Development (Sekisui Chemical) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average hours per FTE of training and development 9.9 9.4 9.4 (hours) Note: Educational programs held at Sekisui Chemical’s Human Resources Department at Headquarters Training Programs Common to Entire Company to Improve Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities (Number of people) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 New employee induction training 223 251 243 Training for newly appointed managers 245 210 252 Number of New-graduate Hires / Ratio of Women among New-Graduate Hires (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Note: Includes certain 2.21 affiliates accounted for by the equity method and non-consolidated subsidiaries. （人） 744 (Number of people) (%) 2,000 40 31.3 29.8 29.7 31.4 1,500 26.5 30 1,000 953 20 804 825 678 744 500 10 500 0 0 Entered in FY2016 Entered in FY2017 Entered in FY2018 Entered in FY2019 Entered in FY2019 Employee Turnover Rate in First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Entered Entered Entered Entered Entered in FY2013 in FY2014 in FY2015 in FY2016 in FY2017 Employee turnover rate in first three years 10.7 7.4 8.0 1.8 9.4 of employment (%) Indicator Calculation method Employee turnover rate in first three years Employee turnover rate in first three years of employment for each of employment (%) fiscal year Human Resources 298 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Data on Employees Performance Data Sekisui Chemical FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Men (number of people) 3,233 3,239 3,290 3,331 3,327 Employees*1 Women (number of people) 445 490 533 587 629 Ratio of women (%) 12.1 13.1 13.9 15.0 15.9 Men (number of people) 2,991 2,955 3,005 3,072 3,073 Permanent, full-time Women (number of people) 403 441 483 532 570 employees*2 Ratio of women (%) 11.9 13.0 13.8 14.8 15.6 Average years of Men (number of people) 19.9 18.1 17.7 17.3 16.4 continuous employment*2 Women (number of people) 15.4 14.3 13.7 13.2 11.8 Men (number of people) 74 77 90 114 96 New graduates hired*3 Women (number of people) 39 35 39 39 35 Ratio of women (%) 34.5 31.3 30.2 25.5 26.7 Men (number of people) 40 39 70 44 29 Employees hired midWomen (number of people) 3 5 6 9 4 career*3 Ratio of women (%) 7.0 11.4 7.9 17.0 12.1 Men (number of people) 697 696 689 685 678 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 21 24 27 30 41 (managers) Ratio of women (%) 2.9 3.3 3.8 4.2 5.7 Managerial positions Men (number of people) 602 597 612 637 642 (department managers and Women (number of people) 11 11 14 14 15 general managers) Ratio of women (%) 1.8 1.8 2.2 2.2 2.3 Men (number of people) 1,299 1,293 1,301 1,322 1,320 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 32 35 41 44 56 Ratio of women (%) 2.4 2.6 3.1 3.2 4.1 Employees newly Men (number of people) 46 46 53 63 68 appointed to managerial Women (number of people) 5 1 6 3 14 positions Ratio of women (%) 9.8 2.1 10.2 4.5 17.1 *1 Workers with direct employment relationships with the Group (including permanent, full-time employees and non-regular employees as well as workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *2 Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *3 Number of employees, who joined the Group from April to March of the following year (Employees with no determined period of employment) Human Resources 299 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report All Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Men (number of people) 15,619 15,684 16,136 16,362 Employees Women (number of people) 4,313 4,394 4,702 5,048 Ratio of women (%) 21.6 21.9 22.6 23.6 Men (number of people) 453 395 486 572 New graduates hired Women (number of people) 176 145 211 251 Ratio of women (%) 28.0 26.9 30.3 30.5 Men (number of people) 2,763 2,843 2,922 2,926 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 84 92 118 130 (managers) Ratio of women (%) 3.0 3.1 3.9 4.3 Managerial positions Men (number of people) 1,512 1,520 1,534 1,588 (department managers and Women (number of people) 18 23 22 26 general managers) Ratio of women (%) 1.2 1.5 1.4 1.4 Men (number of people) 4,275 4,363 4,456 4,514 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 102 115 140 185 Ratio of women (%) 2.3 2.6 3.0 3.3 Men (number of people) 204 167 167 204 Management personnel Women (number of people) 1 4 5 5 (frontier leaders) Ratio of women (%) 0.5 2.3 2.9 3.3 Men (number of people) 160 180 215 211 Employees newly appointed Women (number of people) 15 7 29 20 to managerial positions Ratio of women (%) 8.6 3.7 11.9 8.7 Note: The above table was prepared based on the results of the survey conducted in July Note: Data for fiscal 2019 is calculated based on current statistics as of June 2020. Human Resources 300 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Age Composition of Permanent, Full-time Employees* in Fiscal 2019 (Sekisui Chemical) Less than 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 to 59 60 and 30 years old years old years old years old above Number of permanent, Men 463 544 940 1,107 19 full-time employees by age Women 178 113 142 134 3 Note: Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Employee turnover (Sekisui Chemical) Men Women Total Employee turnover (number of people) 42 13 55 FY2018 Employee turnover rate (%) 1.4 2.4 1.5 Employee turnover (number of people) 63 10 73 FY2019 Employee turnover rate (%) 2.0 1.7 2.0 Indicator Calculation method (Annual employee turnover (number of people) /Number of Employee turnover rate employees as of April of the subject year) x 100 Note: Excluding those who retired after reaching the mandatory retirement age and those who moved to another company of the Group Note: Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Human Resources 301 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Working Environment Management Approach Work Style Reforms In order to accelerate the pace of diversity management, Sekisui Chemical Group has positioned 2018 as its inaugural year of promoting work style reforms. After first putting in place a “Statement of Work Style Reforms,” the Group has initiated three reform activities, and it is steadily making improvements. It continues its efforts to address long working hours by improving productivity, and energies are being directed toward the creation of an invigorating and rewarding workplace. Statement of Work Style Reforms We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal characteristics, and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unifies managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom Companywide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote workers’ diverse activities by returning the success of reforms to them. Three Reforms Improving productivity is essential to maximizing results in a limited time. With this in mind, Sekisui Chemical Group will push forward three reforms, specifically relating to “Business,” “HR system,” and the “Work environment.” Both management and employees will take up the challenge of promoting reform in line with the specific issues of each business. ＜ Three Reforms ＞ Business reforms: Identify the environment to be changed regardless of existing customs, and reform the work structure HR system reforms: Reform the HR system to improve the growth and performance of each and every employee, and expand employment support Work environment reforms: Reform the work environment by investing so that diverse employees can work in the optimal environment Human Resources 302 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Work Style Reforms Achievement Targets With endeavors to achieve work style reforms, we are setting targets through to fiscal 2020. Throughout Sekisui Chemical Group, we are taking up the challenge of building an organizational culture that (1) realizes total hours worked per year to be less than 2,000 hours; (2) allows employees to take at least 120 days off; and (3) maintains a paid leave take-up rate of at least 50%. Investment in Work Style Reforms Substantial capital investment and the introduction of systems are essential to continuously realizing the effects of business and work environment reforms. With this in mind, Sekisui Chemical Group has decided to invest 10 billion yen over the three years from 2018 to 2020 in an effort to reduce working hours Group-wide. Over the two-year period from 2018 to 2019, the cumulative total of investments made came to approximately 6.5 billion yen on a Group-wide basis (including an amount implemented in fiscal 2020). By undertaking investments, we are working to promote the reduction of working hours from which we will not backtrack. Among our many investments, we are rebuilding housing assembly lines while introducing automated production lines, pushing forward sales innovation through the Sekisui Heim Museum, and adopting production management systems as well as video conferencing, remote work, and other systems. Regulation of Long Working Hours Work Hour Shortening Committee In order to promote the take-up of paid leave in fiscal 2019, we launched a planned annual leave system during the previous fiscal year on a trial basis. As a result, we were able to secure considerable improvements in the paid vacation day utilization rate. Assuming increased use of flexible working arrangements and working remotely from the home, trials were initiated in each department in a bid to further promote flexible work styles and to verify the degree of efficacy. Based on the findings of these trials, we plan to expand this initiatives Group-wide in fiscal 2020. We will continue to hold further discussions with regard to easy-to-work and flexible work styles, and are moving toward the creation of work sites that motivate employees. Notifications of Major HR-related Changes Major Changes with Significant Effects on Employees Are Implemented After Labor-management Meetings Based on the proposals submitted to the labor union and feedback received from each of the union branches, Sekisui Chemical has decided to move forward with HR system revisions and large-scale organizational reforms which will entail major changes and have significant effects on employees. The labor agreement specifies that when employees belonging to the labor union are to be seconded or transferred, the labor union is to be notified at least one month prior to the change and the applicable employee’s willingness to accept their new position is confirmed prior to assignment. Human Resources 303 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Putting in Place A Workplace Environment Promoting Remote Work and Paperless Operations Sekisui Chemical recognizes the critical need to put in place a workplace environment where there is little or no distinction between work and communication undertaken within or outside the Company. With this in mind, we place equal importance on realizing flexible work styles that includes working from home as well as remotely. Based on the aforementioned, Sekisui Chemical introduced a remote work system in fiscal 2019 and has taken positive steps toward balancing the need for an easy-to-work style and security. Moreover, every effort is being made to adopt paperless operations Group-wide. These efforts to ensure that all important meetings are conducted on a paperless basis are helping to significantly curtail the duration of meetings while providing additional benefits including reductions in the time require for printing and distribution. Serving as a model, the Company achieved reductions of approximately 80% at its Tokyo Headquarters at the time of its relocation in November 2019. Health Management We Are Moving Forward on Five Initiatives to Promote Our Employees’ Health Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve its employees’ physical and mental health based on the idea that employees are valuable resources entrusted to the Group by society. To further advance these initiatives, in March 2019 Sekisui Chemical formulated a philosophy regarding our goals for health and productivity management in a Declaration of Health, and establishing the Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management. Sekisui Chemical Group positions health as the “Well-being” that is defined in the WHO Charter, aiming for health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. Moreover, in line with this, we have organized our efforts into segments, and have newly formulated mediumand long-term goals in five segments. Note: “Health and Productivity Management” is a registered trademark of the NPO Kenkokeiei. Declaration of Health for SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group has been engaged in health management initiatives for our employees based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society. SEKISUI CHEMICAL endeavors to take these initiatives to the next level by treating the promotion of the health of our employees as a management strategy that is aimed at achieving the physical, mental, and social well-being of all employees. SEKISUI CHEMICAL Group's Basic Policy for Health and Productivity Management Strive to achieve the well-being of all employees, and create workplaces where a diverse personnel can play an active role with vitality. ・Practice a comprehensive health promotion program that encompasses everything from health management (defense) to improving (offense) the fulfillment and rewards of working. ・ Focus on improving productivity by advancing the awareness and behavior of each and every employee. ・ Encourage employees to make a proactive and ongoing effort to strive for well-being now and in the future. ・ Strive to contribute to society by realizing the happiness of employees and their families, and our customers through the well-being of our employees. Human Resources 304 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiative 1. Health Checkups and Measures to Prevent Lifestyle Diseases Sekisui Chemical collaborates with Sekisui Health Insurance Association to facilitate health, and jointly carries out health checkups. In this way health checkups are conducted uniformly throughout the Group, and from October 2018 we have introduced a common Group-wide health management system. In addition, from 2015, we developed the Sekisui Health Network (SHN) that can respond to business sites of less than 50 people, so we are advancing better health among such small-scale work sites as well. As a measure to prevent lifestyle diseases, we commenced seven health habit support programs advocated Dr. Lester Breslow from fiscal 2020. In addition to ensuring that all employees are fully aware of the support programs during fiscal 2020, our target is that 50% of employees will practice at least four of the seven health habits by fiscal 2022. Note: Collaborative health refers to cooperation between companies and insurers including health insurance association and joint efforts to improve the health of workers and their families effectively and efficiently. Initiative 2. Mental Health Sekisui Chemical Group is taking the following initiatives as measures to support mental health. 1. Utilizing Stress Checks Sekisui Chemical Group strives to maximally leverage the stress checks that are provided for in law. Specifically, it undertakes obligatory efforts at population analysis and work environment improvements as an element of its Group-wide stress checks for employees, including those working at business sites with fewer than 50 employees. In fiscal 2019, the Group made it a requirement to conduct population analyses within the Group. With 88% of all business sites having participated in the population analyses, the submission of a report to management was completed. With the support of HR’s welfare and health support group, the Health Promotion Office, workplace environment improvements were made at five sites in five companies in fiscal 2019. (This includes continued support at three companies from fiscal 2018.) 2. Web-based Stress Management Training We are conducting stress management training for newly appointed managerial staff, mid-career hires, and overseas assignees who experience considerable change in their environments. This training is proving effective as stress self-control indicators appeared to rise compared to before the training was implemented. In order to make it easier to undergo training, we changed the medium from a telephoneto a web-based system from fiscal 2020. 3. Enhanced Consultation Centers Where Employees Can Comfortably Seek Advice We have established consultation centers that are available to any employee of Sekisui Chemical Group, regardless of employment format, thus strengthening a safety-net function. Initiative 3. Systems and Workplaces Where People Can Work with Peace of Mind There are a variety of existing factors at workplaces that may hinder health, including chemical substances, work approach, noise and others. To counter these factors, we are undertaking activities across the Group through the utilization of an occupational health and safety management system. In addition, not only for those employees who are healthy, we are also striving to enhance a range of internal systems that take into consideration an environment to work in with peace of mind for those with medical conditions as well. Human Resources 305 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Initiative 4. Group-wide Initiatives Health management promotion is a Group-wide effort at Sekisui Chemical, and for that reason, we are moving forward with Group application of the Health and Productivity Management Organization, in the large enterprise category. Our efforts with this increased the number of subsidiary companies to which this applied to, from five companies in fiscal 2017, to 28 in fiscal 2019. This recognition applies to groups where their companies have conducted a pre-assessment, and undertaken activities to increase the level of health. In cases where the pre-assessment indicates areas that are lacking, the Health Promotion Office provides support by building a framework, or through other measures. Steps were taken to initiate information exchange meetings among applicable companies from fiscal 2019. Each company has established specific health management targets with the Health Promotion Office collating levels of achievement. In addition, we have appointed people responsible for, and others in charge of health management at approximately 300 business sites, covering the entire Group. This represents our efforts to build a structure in which steady measures can be put in place to advance health management. Initiative 5. Increase Motivation and Productivity With the intent to achieve productivity indicators, together with the visualization of productivity increases made through health promotion, we are steadily implementing the four above initiatives with the aim of raising motivation and productivity. Sekisui Chemical began measuring presenteeism*1 and absenteeism*2 from fiscal 2019. *1 Presenteeism: A condition in which performance that should be inherently exerted deteriorates due to a physical or mental disorder *2 Absenteeism: Absence from work due to a variety of factors including illness or poor health Human Resources 306 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Major Initiatives Stress Check Sekisui Chemical Group strives to maximally leverage the stress checks that are provided for in law. Therefore, we are also implementing the following three topics as obligatory efforts. ・Performed for all Sekisui Chemical Group employees, including at those work places with less than 50 employees ・Population analyses ・Improvement of the workplace environment Population analysis was made mandatory at all business sites with 10 employees or more from fiscal 2018. The rate of population analysis implementation stands at 100% thanks to the presentation of Group benchmarks and analyses results by company by the Health Promotion Office. Furthermore, we started to build models to improve workplace environments from fiscal 2016. Steps have also been taken to implement models as essential support in the improvement of workplace environments through the Health Promotion Office at high-risk workplaces with overall health risks of 120 or more since fiscal 2018. No matter what the overall health risk, regarding the creation of better workplaces and the creation of invigorating and rewarding workplaces as “creating vibrant workplaces,” we raise the aspirations of all Group companies and are actively supporting the creation of vibrant workplaces. High-risk workplace support was implemented at a total of five companies in fiscal 2019. This included continued support at three companies from fiscal 2018. In the stress check, the risk level from health problems (health risk) is shown as a value based on the average of the standard population, with 100 as the “overall health risk.” Research findings show that a variety of stress problems often appear in workplaces with a health risk of 120-130 or more. Stress check initiatives at Sekisui Chemical Group are being introduced as part of a section covering case studies (No. 12) on the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s “Kokoro-no-Mimi” portal site. http://kokoro.mhlw.go.jp/case/stresscheck/stresscheck012/ (In Japanese only) Human Resources 307 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Successful case studies of workplace environment improvements Two companies that implemented workplace environment improvements as high-risk workplaces from the second half of fiscal 2018 and over fiscal 2019 had positive results. In addition to a detailed analysis of stress check results, we identified areas for improvement through on-site observations by Headquarters supervising occupational physicians and public health nurses, interviews with employees, advance surveys, and discussions with workplace personnel. Steps were then taken to prioritize these areas and to create a roadmap. By making employees aware of the roadmap and the need to improve the workplace environment, we have been able to implement this initiative through two-way communication. As a result, changes in the perceptions of management and superiors improved in post-surveys and the number of issues raised in the pre-survey decreased. In the open-ended section, superiors are now more inclined to listen to opinions. Among the feedback received, respondents have commented that operations are now easier. Making the most of methods that have worked to date, we plan to develop a package of methods that will facilitate the implementation of workplace environment improvements at more business sites. Successful case studies of workplace environment improvements Business Site Company A Company B Employees Approximately 130 Approximately 45 Type of Manufacturing and sales plant of piping and Rubber and plastic plant Business Site construction materials • Invested in equipment to reduce the heat load (installation of spot coolers, distribution of air conditioning clothes, installation of Improved the outdoor handling of pipes cool boxes, etc.) Details of in coordination with internal workplace • Established and enforced rules for handling Initiatives improvement activities heavy items Implemented → collection, tabulation, and evaluation of • Conducted communication training for surveys post implementation managerial positions → collection, tabulation, and evaluation of surveys post implementation; Final debriefing session Communication training for managerial positions Introducing air-conditioned clothing and cool innerwear Human Resources 308 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Changes in awareness for management ranks Business site A (Management ranks take an interest in the workplace environment for employees) Business site B 30 10 25 8 20 6 15 4 10 5 2 0 0 1. Been this way 2. Recently began to feel this way 3. Not accurate 1. Been this way 2. Recently began to feel this way 3. Not accurate for some time for some time Changes in awareness for bosses Business site A (Direct supervisors show a willingness to listen to employees’ opinions about the workplace environment) Business site B 30 10 25 8 20 6 15 4 10 5 2 0 0 1. Been this way 2. Recently began to feel this way 3. Not accurate 1. Been this way 2. Recently began to feel this way 3. Not accurate for some time for some time 【Comparison before and after surveys】 ・Awareness of workplace environment improvement increased from 30% to 90% ・Requests for “heat countermeasures” decreased from 51 to 6 (36 positive evaluations), requests for “heavy object countermeasures” decreased from 15 to 0 Post-survey results Human Resources 309 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report External Evaluations Certified as a 2020 Health and Productivity Management Organization in the Large Enterprise Category (“White 500”) Sekisui Chemical was recognized for its Companywide efforts to resolve issues relating to the health of its employees and was certified as a Health and Productivity Management Organization in the large enterprise category (“White 500”) by both the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi*2, which operates the Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program*1, for the fourth year in a row. White 500 certification is under the new certification program*3 in this instance. *1 The “Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program” awards large companies, small and medium-sized businesses, and other corporations that practice health management especially well through initiatives tailored to local health issues and initiatives for improving health promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. *2 The Nippon Kenko Kaigi is an operation organized to allow effective action to be taken based on comprehensive support from government for expanding healthy lifespans and offering adequate medical treatment to all people in Japan, undertaken in partnership with private-sector organizations and in a country with a declining birth rate and a rapidly aging population. *3 While all companies certified as Health and Productivity Management Organizations in the large enterprise category were commonly referred to the “White 500,” only the top 500 certified companies identified as a result of health management surveys are now recognized as the “White 500” under the new certification system. Human Resources 310 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Name of company certified together with the Company Companies receiving certification described on the left SEKISUI MEDICAL CO., LTD. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. SEKISUI FAMIS TOHOKU Co., Ltd. Tohoku SEKISUI HEIM Real Estate Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co. Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Famis Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. SEKISUI FAMIS CHUBU Co., Ltd Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Famis Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Sekisui Famis Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Chushikoku SEKISUI HEIM Real Estate Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Sekisui famis kyusyu Co., Ltd. Kyusyu SEKISUI HEIM Real Estate Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nishinihon Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Hinomaru Co., Ltd. SEKISUI MUSASHI KAKO CO., LTD. Sekisui Material Solutions Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. Note: From the list of corporations certified as 2020 Health and Productivity Management Organizations in the Large Enterprises (“White 500”) category Human Resources 311 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Performance Data Amount of Overtime Work* (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Monthly average per employee (hours) 17.5 19.2 19.9 19.9 19.1 * Calculated on the basis of a prescribed number of working hours of 7.5 hours. Paid Vacation Day Utilization Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average per employee (%) 46.4 45.9 51.1 64.0 71.4 (Excluding managers) Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average per employee (days) 8.8 8.7 9.6 12.1 13.6 (Excluding managers) Stress-check Examination Rate FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Examination Rate (%) 72.0 81.9 87.1 92.5 Note: Scope of stress-check implementation: Companies that are members of the Sekisui Health Insurance Association (including some affiliates) Human Resources 312 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Fusion Based on its technology platform, Sekisui Chemical Group is making efforts to fuse together its various internal and external stakeholders and companies while accelerating innovation in to support the foundation of LIFE and continuously create “peace of mind for the future” in a bid to realize a sustainable society. Our Philosophy To date, Sekisui Chemical Group has accelerated a variety of initiatives by fusing together technologies, business opportunities, and management resources. At the same time, we have to created new products and businesses and cultivated new fields, areas, and applications, while promoting business structural reforms aimed at enhancing profitability. Under the previous medium-term management plan, which ended in fiscal 2019, we set the goals of increasing sales through fusion and accelerating the creation of new businesses. As far as results are concerned, we were able to increase sales by approximately 40 billion yen compared with fiscal 2016, promote the Town and Community Development business in earnest as a part of measures aimed at creating new businesses, and take the next step in demonstrating the technology for converting waste into ethanol. From fiscal 2020, we will continue to accelerate internal and external fusion and promote open innovation to create and disseminate innovative products and businesses that contribute to the resolution of social issues, and increase sales volume. Fusion 313 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report External Evaluation Major External Evaluations Conducted During Fiscal 2019 (as of June 30, 2020) ESG Index Earned selection to the “World” category of the DJSI Earned selection to the FTSE4Good Index series Earned selection to the FTSE Blossom Japan Index Earned selection to the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes Earned selection to the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index Earned selection to the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Earned selection to the S&P / JPX Carbon Efficient Index Composite SNAM Sustainability Index https://www.ftserussell.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good THE INCLUSION OF SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO.,LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO.,LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. External Evaluation 314 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report ESG-Related Ranking, Awards CSR in General Earned S&P Global sustainability rating Earned sustainability rating of “Bronze Class” and “SAM Industry Mover” by S&P Global Earned selection as one of the “2020 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World index” ranking 12th Ranked 74st in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking http://www.corporateknights.com/reports/global-100/ External Evaluation 315 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environment Earned selection to the 2019 “CDP Climate Change A-List” Acquired certification from the “SBT (Science-Based Targets) Initiative” (June 2018) Received the Silver (Minister of the Environment Award), ESG Finance Award Japan (Environmentally Sustainable Company category) Received the 29th “Annual Global Environment Awards” Minister of the Environment Award Received the Best Resilience Award from the 2020 Japan Resilience Award Received the “Biodiversity Action Award Japan 2019” Biodiversity Biwako Network Taga Plant Acquired 3-star certification from the 2019 Shiga Biodiversity Initiative Certification System Received the 2019 Minister of the Environment Award for Global Warming Prevention Activities (Technology Development and Commercialization category) External Evaluation 316 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Human Resources Earned selection as a “Nadeshiko Brand” in the first year of the Reiwa Era by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange Certified as a 2020 Health and Productivity Management Organization by both the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi in the large enterprise category (“White 500”) Received the 2nd Grand Prize Platinum Career Award Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd.: Received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s New Diversity Management Selection 100 in fiscal 2016 Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Management Selection 100 for fiscal 2013 External Evaluation 317 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report GRI Context Index The CSR Report 2020 of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. was written following the Core options of the GRI Standards. General Standard Disclosures 1. Organizational Profile Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting 102-1 Name of organization Outline of SEKISUI ・Overview of Sekisui Chemical Group ・Products Activities, brands, products, and services (b. During the period a. A description of the organization’s activities. covered by the 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, report, there were no including an explanation of any products or products or services services that are banned in certain markets. whose sale were banned in specific markets.) 102-3 Location of headquarters ・Outline of SEKISUI Location of operations a. Number of countries where the organization ・Sekisui Chemical 102-4 operates, and the names of countries where Group Worldwide it has significant operations and that are ・Sekisui Worldwide relevant to the topics covered in the report. ・Financial Information 102-5 Ownership and legal form ・Corporate Governance Report Markets served i. Geographical locations where products and ・Outline of SEKISUI 102-6 services are offered. ・Business Introduction ii. Types of industries served. iii. Types of customers and beneficiaries. GRI Content Index 318 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting cale of the organization i. Total number of employees. ・Outline of SEKISUI ii. Total number of operations. ・Overview of Sekisui iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations), Chemical Group 102-7 net revenues (for public sector organizations). ・Securities Report iv. Total capitalization broken down in terms ・Fact Book of debt and equity (for private sector ・Human Resources > organizations). Data on Employees v. Quantity of products or services provided. Information on employees and other workers a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment ・Overview of Sekisui contract (permanent and temporary), by Chemical Group > region. Sekisui Chemical c. Total number of employees by employment Group Worldwide type (full-time and part-time), by gender. ・Human Resources > d. Whether a substantial portion of the Data on Employees organization’s activities are performed (d. Employees are 102-8 by workers who are not employees. If responsible for the applicable, a description of the nature and majority of our scale of work performed by workers who activities.) are not employees. (e. No significant e. Any significant variations in the numbers changes related to reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, employees during the and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in reporting period.) the tourism or agricultural industries). f. Explanations of the methods used to compile data (if any assumptions are made, including those). Supply chain a. A description of the organization’s supply ・Overview of Sekisui 102-9 chains. Including its major components of the Chemical Group supply chains for the organization’s activities, major brands, products, and services. GRI Content Index 319 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant changes to organizations and supply chain i. Changes in the location of the organization or its operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions). ii. Changes in the share capital structure and 102-10 other capital formation, maintenance, and ・Securities Report alteration operations (for private sector organizations). iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Concept ・Promotion System ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019） and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach (2020-2022) ・Respect for Human Rights ・Environment > Promotion System ・Governance > Corporate Governance ・Governance > Risk Management GRI Content Index 320 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・SDGs Initiatives ・Declaration of Support for Initiatives and Organizations in Which Sekisui Chemical Group External initiatives Participates a. A list of externally-developed economic, ■ Environment 102-12 environmental and social charters, principles, ・Usage of Natural or other initiatives to which the organization Capital > Climate subscribes or which it endorses. Change > Acquisition of SBT Certification ・Contributing to Return of Natural Capital > Conserving the Environment ~Biodiversity~ > Cooperation with External Organizations ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability Memberships of associations > Declaration of List of the major memberships of industry or Support for Initiatives 102-13 other associations, and advocacy organizations and Organizations in Japan and overseas. in Which Sekisui Chemical Group Participates GRI Content Index 321 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 2. Strategy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Statement from senior decision-maker a. A statement from the highest-ranking decision-maker of the organization (CEO, 102-14 chairman, or an equivalent top-level ・Top Message executive) concerning the relationship of the organization to sustainability and concerning strategies for working toward sustainability. ・Top Message ・ESG Management ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Concept ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) ・Respect for Human 102-15 Crucial impacts, risks, and opportunities Rights ・SDGs Initiatives ・Governance > Risk Management > Identifying and Assessing Risks ・Environment > Climate Change > Climate Change and our Business ・Information Disclosure based upon the TCFD Statement of Support GRI Content Index 322 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 3. Ethics and Integrity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Top Message ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Concept ・Promotion System ・Basic Policies Organization’s values, principles, standards, and 102-16 ・Identifying Key Issues norms of conduct ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) Systems for advice and concerns regarding ■ Governance > ethics Compliance i. Systems that call for advice concerning ethical ・Upgrade of the behavior, legal behavior, and the integrity of 102-17 Whistle-blowing the organization. Program ii. Systems for reporting unethical behavior ・Responses to External or illegal behavior and concerns about the Notifications integrity of the organization. GRI Content Index 323 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 4. Governance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Governance structure ・Sekisui Chemical a. Governance structure of the organization, Group s Sustainability including committees of the highest > Promotion System 102-18 governance body. ・Governance > b. Committees responsible for decision-making Corporate Governance on economic, environmental and social > Organizational topics. Structure ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > Promotion System ■ Governance ・Corporate Governance > Organizational Structure, Board of Directors ・Safety > Activity Policy and Promotion System ・CS & Quality > CS & Delegating authority Quality Management a. Process for delegating authority for Promotion System 102-19 economic, environmental and social topics ・Compliance > from the highest governance body to senior Putting Compliance executives and other employees. Management Efforts into Practice ・Cyber Security > Cyber Management System ・Environment > System for Promoting Environmental Management ・Human Resources > CSR Committee, Human Resources Committee ・Sekisui Chemical Executive-level position responsibility for Group s Sustainability economic, environmental, and social topics > Promotion System a. Whether the organization has appointed ■ Governance> an executive-level position or positions with 102-20 Corporate responsibility for economic, environmental Governance and social topics. ・Organizational b. Whether post holders report directly to the Structure highest governance body. ・Board of Directors GRI Content Index 324 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Consultations with stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics ・Governance > a. Processes for consultations between Corporate Governance stakeholders and the highest governance > Consultations body on economic, environmental and social 102-21 with Stakeholders topics. on Economic, b. If consultation is delegated, describe to Environmental and whom it is delegated and how the resulting Social Topics feedback is provided to the highest governance body. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees ・Sekisui Chemical i. Executive or non-executive Group s Sustainability ii. Independence > Promotion System iii. Terms of members of governance bodies ■ Governance iv. Number of each individual’s other significant > Corporate positions and commitments, and the nature 102-22 Governance of the commitments ・Organizational v. Gender Structure vi. Membership of under-represented social ・Board of Directors groups ・Corporate Governance vii. Competences relating to economic, Report environmental and social impacts viii. Stakeholder representation Chairs of highest governance bodies a. Whether the chair of the highest governance ・Governance > body is also an executive officer in the Corporate Governance organization. 102-23 > Board of Directors b. If the chair also serves as an executive officer, ・Corporate Governance describe his or her function within the Report organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement. GRI Content Index 325 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Nominating and selecting members of the highest governance body a. Nomination and selection processes of the members of the highest governance body ■ Governance and its committees. > Corporate b. Standards used for nominating and selecting Governance highest governance body members, including ・Board of Directors whether and how: 102-24 Nomination and i. Whether and how stakeholders (including Remuneration shareholders) are involved Advisory Committee ii. Whether and how diversity is considered ・Corporate Governance iii. Whether and how independence is Report considered iv. Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered Conflicts of interest a. Processes conducted by the highest governance body to avoid and handle conflicts of interest. b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to 102-25 stakeholders, including, as a minimum: ― i. Cross-board membership ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders iii. Existence of controlling shareholder iv. Related party disclosures ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability Highest governance body’s role in establishing > Promotion System goals, values, and strategy ■ Governance a. Highest governance body’s and senior > Corporate executives’ roles in developing, approving, 102-26 Governance and updating the organization’s purpose, ・Organizational value or mission statements, strategies, Structure policies, and goals related to economic, ・Board of Directors environmental and social topics. ・Corporate Governance Report GRI Content Index 326 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Governance > Collective knowledge of highest governance Corporate Governance body > Support for and a. Measures taken to develop and enhance 102-27 Collaboration with the highest governance body’s collective Directors and Audit knowledge of economic, environmental, and and Supervisory Board social topics. Members Evaluation of the performance of highest governance body a. Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body in relation to governance of economic, environmental and ・Governance > social topics Corporate Governance b. Whether such evaluation is independent or > Assessment Relating 102-28 not, and its frequency. to the Board s c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Effectiveness d. Measures taken in response to evaluation of ・Corporate Governance the highest governance body’s performance Report with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Identifying and managing impacts on economy, environment, and society a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, environmental and social topics, as well as their impacts, risks, ・Sekisui Chemical and opportunities including its role in the Group s Sustainability 102-29 implementation of due diligence processes. > Identifying Key b. Whether consultations with stakeholders Issues are used to support the identification and management of economic, environmental and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Effectiveness of risk management processes a. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing 102-30 the effectiveness of the organization’s risk ― management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. GRI Content Index 327 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Review of economic, environmental and social ・Sekisui Chemical topics Group s Sustainability a. Frequency of the highest governance body’s 102-31 > Promotion System review of economic, environmental and ・Corporate Governance social topics and their impacts, risks, and Report opportunities. Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting a. The highest-ranking committee or position ・Sekisui Chemical 102-32 that fulfills the functions of conducting formal Group s Sustainability reviews and approves the organization’s > Promotion System sustainability reports and confirming that all material topics have been covered. ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability Communicating critical concerns ・Promotion System a. Processes established for communicating ・Stakeholder 102-33 critical concerns to the highest governance Engagement body. > Promoting Engagement with Stakeholders Nature and total number of communicated critical concerns a. Total number and nature of critical concerns 102-34 that were communicated to the highest ― governance body. b. Mechanisms used to handle and resolve critical concerns. GRI Content Index 328 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Remuneration policies a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based remuneration, equity■ Governance based remuneration, bonuses, and > Corporate deferred or vested shares) Governance ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive ・Nomination and payments Remuneration iii. Termination payments 102-35 Advisory Committee iv. Clawbacks ・Remuneration and v. Retirement benefits, including the Other Compensation difference between benefit schemes for Officers and contribution rates for the highest ・Corporate Governance governance body, senior executives, and all Report other employees b. How performance standards in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’s and corporate officers’ objectives for economic, environmental and social topics. ■ Governance Process for determining remuneration > Corporate a. Process for determining remuneration. Governance b. Whether remuneration consultants are ・Nomination and involved in determining remuneration Remuneration 102-36 and whether they are independent of Advisory Committee management. ・Remuneration and c. Other relationships that exist between Other Compensation remuneration consultants and the for Officers organization. ・Corporate Governance Report ・Governance > Corporate Governance Stakeholder’ involvement in remuneration > Remuneration and a. How stakeholders’ views are sought and Other Compensation 102-37 taken into account regarding remuneration. for Officers b. If applicable, the results of votes on ・Corporate Governance remuneration policies and proposals. Report ・Securities Report ・Notice of Convocation GRI Content Index 329 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Annual total compensation ratio a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual 102-38 in each country of significant operations to ― the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country 102-39 ― of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. GRI Content Index 330 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 5. Stakeholder Engagement Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > Stakeholder Engagement > Main List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 102-40 Responsibilities, organization Communication Channels, and Communication Methods ・Human Resources > Collective bargaining agreements Basis for Fostering 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by Personnel > collective bargaining agreements. Labor-management Relations ・Sekisui Chemical Standards for identifying and selecting the Group s Sustainability 102-42 stakeholders with which the organization > Stakeholder engages Engagement > Basic Concept ・Sekisui Chemical Approach toward stakeholder engagement Group s Sustainability a. The organization’s approach toward > Stakeholder stakeholder engagement, include frequency Engagement > Main 102-43 of engagement by type and by stakeholder Responsibilities, group. Additionally, indicate whether any of Communication the engagement was undertaken specifically Channels, and as part of the report preparation process. Communication Methods ・Sekisui Chemical Critical topics and concerns raised Group s Sustainability i. How the organization has responded to those > Stakeholder critical topics and concerns, including those 102-44 Engagement responded through reporting). > Promoting ii. Stakeholder groups that raised critical topics Engagement with and concerns. Stakeholders GRI Content Index 331 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report 6. Reporting Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Entities included in the consolidated financial ・Environment > statements Environmental a. A list of all entities included in the Management System organization’s consolidated financial ・Scope of the CSR 102-45 statements or equivalent documents. Report 2020 b. Whether any entities included in the ・Securities Report organization’s consolidated financial ・Basic Corporate statements or equivalent documents is not Information covered by the report. ・Editorial Policy Defining report content and topic Boundaries ・Scope of the CSR a. Explanations of the processes for establishing Report 2020 the report content and topic Boundaries. ・Sekisui Chemical 102-46 b. Explanations of how the organization has Group s Sustainability implemented the reporting principles for > Identifying Key defining report content. Issues ・GRI Content Index ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term List of material topics identified in the process 102-47 Plan (2017-2019) for defining the report content and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Repeated descriptions are included when any of the following occur or change. Not applicable for the 102-48 • Mergers and acquisitions fiscal year under review • Changes in the standard year or standard period • Nature of the business • Measuring methods Significant changes from past reporting periods Not applicable for the 102-49 concerning material topics and topic Boundaries fiscal year under review ・Scope of the CSR 102-50 Reporting period for information provided Report 2020 GRI Content Index 332 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting The date of the most recent previous report (if ・Scope of the CSR 102-51 applicable) Report 2020 ・Scope of the CSR 102-52 Reporting cycle Report 2020 Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 ・Back cover report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards a. A claim that indicates that the organization followed the GRI Standards and chose one of 102-54 ・GRI Content Index the following options when writing a report. i. “This report was written based on the Core option of the GRI Standards.” ii. “This report was written based on the Comprehensive option of the GRI Standards.” Content index a. An index of GRI content, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The numbers for the items disclosed (for 102-55 disclosures covered by the GRI Standards) ・GRI Content Index ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the relevant information can be found, included in the report or other published materials iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reasons for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made GRI Content Index 333 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting External assurance a. Explanations of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report ・Editorial Policy accompanying the sustainability report, a ・Scope of the CSR description of what has and what has not Report 2020 102-56 been assured and on what basis, including ・Independent the assurance standards used, the level of Practitioner s assurance obtained, and any limitations of Assurance Report the assurance process ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Management Approach Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Explanations of material item and its boundary a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The boundary for the material topic, including description of: i. Where the impacts arise ・Sekisui Chemical ii. The organization’s involvement in any Group s Sustainability 103-1 impacts. For example, whether the > Identifying Key organization’s involvement with an impact Issues is direct or indirect, or whether the impact became relevant via the organization’s business relationships c. Any specific limitation relating to the topic boundary. GRI Content Index 334 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Concept ・Promotion System ・Sekisui Chemical Group Human Rights Policy ・Basic Policies ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (20202022) ・Respect for Human Management approach and its components Rights a. An explanation of how the organization ・Intellectual Property manages the topic. ・Stakeholder Engagement b. A statement of the purpose of the ・SDGs Initiatives management approach. ・Social Contribution c. A description of the following, if the Activities management approach includes that ・Declaration of Support component: for Initiatives and 103-2 i. Policies Organizations in Which ii. Commitments Sekisui Chemical Group iii. Goals and targets Participates iv. Responsibilities ■ Governance v. Management resources ・Corporate Governance vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms ・Risk Management vii. Specific measures (processes, projects, ・Safety programs, initiatives, etc.) ・CS & Quality ・Medium-term Plan ・Creating Attractive Products and Services ・Improving Quality ・Compliance ・Cyber Security ■ DX ■ Environment ・Promotion System ・Long-term Environmental Management ・Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 GRI Content Index 335 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Past and future goals for the Environmental Medium-term Plan ・Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental ・Sustainability Index ・Environmental Management System ・ESG Education ・Environmental Accounting ・Usage of Natural Capital ・Climate Change Management approach and its components ・Efficient Use of a. An explanation of how the organization Resources manages the topic. ・Conservation of Water b. A statement of the purpose of the Resources management approach. ・Chemical Substance c. A description of the following, if the Management management approach includes that ・Environmental Impact component: 103-2 Assessment i. Policies ・Material Balance ii. Commitments ・Contributing to Return iii. Goals and targets of Natural Capital iv. Responsibilities ・Products to Enhance v. Management resources Sustainability vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms ・Conserving the vii. Specific measures (processes, projects, Environment programs, initiatives, etc.) ~Biodiversity~ ■ Human Resources ・Diversity Management ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel ・Basis for Fostering Personnel ・Data on Employees ・Working Environment ■ Fusion ■ External Evaluation GRI Content Index 336 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Concept ・Promotion System ・Sekisui Chemical Group Human Rights Policy ・Basic Policies ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (20202022) ・Respect for Human Rights ・Intellectual Property ・Stakeholder Engagement Evaluation of management approach ・SDGs Initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization ・Social Contribution evaluates the management approach, Activities including: ・Declaration of Support i. The mechanisms for evaluating the for Initiatives and 103-3 effectiveness of the management approach Organizations in Which ii. The results of the evaluation of the Sekisui Chemical Group management approach Participates iii. Adjustments made in relation to ■ Governance management approach ・Corporate Governance ・Risk Management ・Safety ・CS & Quality ・Medium-term Plan ・Creating Attractive Products and Services ・Improving Quality ・Compliance ・Cyber Security ■ DX ■ Environment ・Promotion System ・Long-term Environmental Management ・Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 GRI Content Index 337 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Past and future goals for the Environmental Medium-term Plan ・Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental ・Sustainability Index ・Environmental Management System ・ESG Education ・Environmental Accounting ・Usage of Natural Capital ・Climate Change ・Efficient Use of Resources ・Conservation of Water Evaluation of management approach Resources a. An explanation of how the organization ・Chemical Substance evaluates the management approach, Management including: ・Environmental Impact i. The mechanisms for evaluating the 103-3 Assessment effectiveness of the management approach ・Material Balance ii. The results of the evaluation of the ・Contributing to Return management approach of Natural Capital iii. Adjustments made in relation to ・Products to Enhance management approach Sustainability ・Conserving the Environment ~Biodiversity~ ■ Human Resources ・Diversity Management ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel ・Basis for Fostering Personnel ・Data on Employees ・Working Environment ■ Fusion ■ External Evaluation GRI Content Index 338 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Economic Performance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Direct economic value generated and distributed a. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and ・Sekisui Chemical report the basic components as listed below: Group s Sustainability i. Direct economic value generated: revenues > Stakeholder 201-1 ii. Economic value distributed: operating Engagement > costs, employee wages and benefits, Distribute Value to payments to capital providers of capital, Stakeholders payments to governments by country, and community investments iii. Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) b. Report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: ・Environment > i. A description of the risk or opportunity Climate Change > and its classification as either physical, Climate Change and 201-2 regulatory, or other Our Business ii. A description of the impact associated with ・Information Disclosure the risk or opportunity based upon the TCFD iii. The financial implications of the risk or Statement of Support opportunity before action is taken iv. The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity v. The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity GRI Content Index 339 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans a. Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. b. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: i. The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them ii. The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at ・Securities Report 201-3 iii. When that estimate was made (Japanese) c. Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s ・Fact Book pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e. Level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). GRI Content Index 340 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Financial assistance received from government a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government during the reporting period, including: i. Tax relief and tax credits ii. Subsidies iii. Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant We regard that there types of grants is a risk that this iv. Awards information could 201-4 − v. Royalty holidays contain business vi. Financial assistance from Export Credit strategies and Agencies (ECAs) confidential content. vii. Financial incentives viii. Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation b. The information in 201-4-a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. GRI Content Index 341 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Presence Within Regional Economies Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage a. When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. b. When a significant proportion of other Because the scope of workers (excluding employees) performing tabulation is vast and the organization’s activities are compensated 202-1 ― complex, we have based on wages subject to minimum wage not disclosed these rules, describe the actions taken to determine figures. whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage. c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community a. Percentage of senior management at Because the scope of significant locations of operation that are tabulation is vast and hired from the local community. 202-2 ― complex, we have b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. not disclosed these c. The organization’s geographical definition of figures. ‘local’. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Content Index 342 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Indirect Economic Impacts Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Infrastructure investments and services supported a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 203-1 b. Current or expected impacts on communities ・Integrated Report and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Significant indirect economic impacts a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, Because the scope of including positive and negative impacts. tabulation is vast and 203-2 b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts − complex, we have in the context of external benchmarks and not disclosed these stakeholder priorities, such as national and figures. international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. Procurement Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Proportion of spending on local suppliers a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is Because the scope of spent on suppliers local to that operation tabulation is vast and (such as percentage of products and services 204-1 ― complex, we have purchased locally). not disclosed these b. The organization’s geographical definition of figures. ‘local’. c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Content Index 343 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Anti-corruption Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Reporting management approach relating and Key Measures DMA to combating corruption using “GRI 103: Concerning ESG (103) Management Approach” Management (20202022) ・Governance > Compliance > Prevention of Bribery and Corruption ■ Governance> Compliance Operations assessed for risks related to ・Prevention of Bribery corruption and Corruption a. Total number and percentage of operations ・Main Measures 205-1 assessed for risks related to corruption. Relating to Bribery and b. Significant risks related to corruption Corruption identified through the risk assessment. ・Identification of Highrisk Divisions and Employee Training GRI Content Index 344 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated ■ Governance > to, broken down by employee category and Compliance region. ・Identification of c. Total number and percentage of High-risk Divisions and 205-2 business partners that the organization’s Employee Training anticorruption policies and procedures have ・List of Results Relating been communicated to, broken down by to Compliance type of business partner and region. Describe Training if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for ・Governance > corruption. Compliance > Cases 205-3 c. Total number of confirmed incidents when of Violations in Fiscal contracts with business partners were 2019 terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. GRI Content Index 345 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Anti-competitive Behavior Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020Reporting management approach relating to 2022) DMA anti-competitive behavior using “GRI 103: ■ Governance > (103) Management Approach” Compliance ・Our Approach to Compliance Management ・Prevent Compliance Issues ・Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period ・Governance > regarding anti-competitive behavior and Compliance > 206-1 violations of anti-trust and monopoly Handling Measures for legislation in which the organization has Antitrust Laws been identified as a participant. b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. GRI Content Index 346 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Tax Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Approach to tax a. A description of the approach to tax, including: i. whether the organization has a tax strategy and, if so, a link to this strategy if publicly available; ・Governance > ii. the governance body or executive-level 207-1 Compliance > Tax position within the organization that Compliance Initiatives formally reviews and approves the tax strategy, and the frequency of this review; iii. the approach to regulatory compliance; iv. how the approach to tax is linked to the business and sustainable development strategies of the organization. Tax governance, control, and risk management a. A description of the tax governance and control framework, including: i. the governance body or executivelevel position within the organization accountable for compliance with the tax strategy; ii. how the approach to tax is embedded within the organization; iii. the approach to tax risks, including ・Governance > how risks are identified, managed, and 207-2 Compliance > Tax monitored; Compliance Initiatives iv. how compliance with the tax governance and control framework is evaluated. b. A description of the mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and the organization’s integrity in relation to tax. c. A description of the assurance process for disclosures on tax and, if applicable, a reference to the assurance report, statement, or opinion. GRI Content Index 347 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax a. A description of the approach to stakeholder engagement and management of stakeholder concerns related to tax, including: ・Governance > i. the approach to engagement with tax 207-3 Compliance > Tax authorities; Compliance Initiatives ii. the approach to public policy advocacy on tax; iii. the processes for collecting and considering the views and concerns of stakeholders, including external stakeholders. Country-by-country reporting a. All tax jurisdictions where the entities included in the organization’s audited consolidated financial statements, or in the financial information filed on public record, are resident for tax purposes. b. For each tax jurisdiction reported in Disclosure 207-4-a: i. Names of the resident entities; ii. Primary activities of the organization; iii. Number of employees, and the basis of calculation of this number; iv. Revenues from third-party sales; ・Sekisui Chemical v. Revenues from intra-group transactions Group s Sustainability 207-4 with other tax jurisdictions; > Distribute Value to vi. Profit/loss before tax; Stakeholders vii. Tangible assets other than cash and cash equivalents; viii. Corporate income tax paid on a cash basis; ix. Corporate income tax accrued on profit/ loss; x. Reasons for the difference between corporate income tax accrued on profit/ loss and the tax due if the statutory tax rate is applied to profit/loss before tax. c. The time period covered by the information reported in Disclosure 207-4. GRI Content Index 348 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Materials Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Reporting management approach relating to DMA Management Vision raw materials using “GRI 103: Management (103) Sekisui Environment Approach” Sustainability Vision 2050 ・Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ・Environmental Management across the Supply Chain ・Efficient Use of Resources > Basic Concept Materials used by weight or volume Because the scope a. Total weight or volume of raw materials used of tabulation is vast to produce and package the organization’s and complex for major products and services during the ・Environment > 301-1 renewable and nonreporting period, in accordance with the Material Balance renewable data, we following classifications: have not disclosed i. Non-renewable raw materials used these figures. ii. Renewable raw materials used GRI Content Index 349 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Environment ・Efficient Use of Resources > Recycling Construction Materials ・Efficient Use Because the scope of Proportion of recycled materials used in the of Resources > tabulation is vast and 301-2 production of the organization’s major products Performance Data complex for ratios, and services ・Conserving the we have not disclosed Environment these figures. ~Biodiversity~ > Procurement of Sustainable Raw Materials ■ Environment ・Efficient Use of Resources > Social Responsibility Regarding Waste ・Efficient Use of Resources > Reducing Because the scope of Recycled products and packaging materials Packaging Materials tabulation is vast and a. Proportion of recycled products and ・Efficient Use of complex for ratios and 301-3 packaging materials by product category. Resources > Efforts to other data, we have b. How the data for this disclosure have been Use Raw Materials for not disclosed these collected. Product Cut Scraps figures. ・Conserving the Environment ~Biodiversity~ > Procurement of Sustainable Raw Materials GRI Content Index 350 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Energy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (20202022) ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Reporting management approach relating Vision SEKISUI DMA to energy using “GRI 103: Management Environment (103) Approach” Sustainability Vision 2050 ・Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ・Environmental Management across the Supply Chain ・Climate Change > Basic Concept ・Climate Change > Combating Climate Change GRI Content Index 351 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Energy consumption within the organization a. Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. b. Total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: i. Electricity consumption ■ Environment Because the scope ii. Heating consumption ・Climate Change > of tabulation is vast iii. Cooling consumption Renewable Energy Use and complex for 302-1 iv. Steam consumption ・Climate Change > some data, we have d. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the Performance Data not disclosed these total: ・Material Balance figures. i. Electricity sold ii. Heating sold iii. Cooling sold iv. Steam sold e. Total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. We regard that Energy consumption outside of the organization monitoring the a. Energy consumed outside of the organization, amount of energy in joules or multiples. used in supply chains 302-2 ― b. Standards, methods, assumptions, and (Scope 3) is an issue calculation tools used. which we must c. Source of the conversion factors used. consider and deal with. Energy intensity a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. ・Environment > 302-3 c. Types of energy included in the intensity Climate Change > ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, Performance Data or all. d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organization, outside of it or both. GRI Content Index 352 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reduction of energy consumption a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption ■ Environment achieved as a direct result of conservation ・Climate Change > and efficiency initiatives, in joules or Combating Climate multiples. Change b. Types of energy included in the reductions: ・Climate Change > 302-4 fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or Energy Savings from all. Newly Constructed c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy Building consumption such as base year or baseline, ・Climate Change > and the rationale for choosing it. Performance Data d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ■ Environment a. Reductions in the energy requirements of ・Combating Climate sold products and services achieved during Change > Greenhouse the reporting period, in joules or multiples. Gases emissions at the 302-5 b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy Supply Chain Stage consumption such as base year or baseline, (SCOPE 3) and the rationale for choosing it. ・Products to Enhance c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and Sustainability calculation tools used. GRI Content Index 353 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Water Resources Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 ・Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ・Environmental Management across Reporting management approach relating to the Supply Chain DMA water resources using “GRI 103: Management ・Conservation of Water (103) Approach” Resources > Basic Concept ・Conservation of Water Resources > Risks Identified, Their Potential Impact on Operations, and Strategies for Mitigation ・Conservation of Water Resources > Roadmap ・Conservation of Water Resources > Assessment of Water-related Risks ・Conservation of Water Resources > Impact on Water-related Risks on Business ・Conservation of Water Resources > Activity Policy and Reduction Targets GRI Content Index 354 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Interactions with water as a shared resource a. A description of how the organization interacts with water, including how and where water is withdrawn, consumed, and discharged, and the water-related impacts caused or contributed to, or directly linked ■ Environment > to the organization’s activities, products Conservation of Water or services by a business relationship (e.g., Resources impacts caused by runoff). ・Risks Identified, Their b. A description of the approach used to Potential Impact identify water-related impacts, including the on Operations, scope of assessments, their timeframe, and and Strategies for 303-1 any tools or methodologies used. Mitigation c. A description of how water-related ・Roadmap impacts are addressed, including how the ・Assessment of organization works with stakeholders to Water-related Risks steward water as a shared resource, and how ・Impact on Waterit engages with suppliers or customers with related Risks on significant water-related impacts. Business d. An explanation of the process for setting any water-related goals and targets that are part of the organization’s management approach, and how they relate to public policy and the local context of each area with water stress. GRI Content Index 355 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Environment ・Conservation of Water Resources > Assessment of Water-related Risks ・Conservation of Water Resources > Impact on Water-related Risks on Business ・Conservation of Water Resources > Management of water discharge-related Risks Identified, Their impacts Potential Impact a. A description of any minimum standards set on Operations, for the quality of effluent discharge, and how and Strategies for these minimum standards were determined, Mitigation including: ・Conservation of Water i. how standards for facilities operating Resources > Activity 303-2 in locations with no local discharge Policy and Reduction requirements were determined; Targets ii. any internally developed water quality ・Conservation of Water standards or guidelines; Resources > Reduce iii. any sector-specific standards considered; the Amount of Water iv. whether the profile of the receiving Intake Volume, and waterbody was considered. Discharged Water Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Volume ・Conservation of Water Resources > Ongoing Monitoring of Water Risks ・Conserving the Environment ~Biodiversity~ > Wastewater WET GRI Content Index 356 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Water withdrawal a. Total water withdrawal from all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following sources, if applicable: i. Surface water; ii. Groundwater; iii. Seawater; iv. Produced water; v. Third-party water. b. Total water withdrawal from all areas with water stress in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following sources, if applicable: i. Surface water; ■ Environment ii. Groundwater; ・Conservation of iii. Seawater; 303-3 Water Resources > iv. Produced water; Performance Data v. Third-party water, and a breakdown of this ・Material Balance total by the withdrawal sources listed in i-iv. c. A breakdown of total water withdrawal from each of the sources listed in Disclosures 303-3-a and 303-3-b in megaliters by the following categories: i. Freshwater (≤ 1,000mg/L Total Dissolved Solids); ii. Other water (> 1,000mg/L Total Dissolved Solids). d. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI Content Index 357 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Water discharge a. Total water discharge to all areas in megaliters, and a breakdown of this total by the following types of destination, if applicable: i. Surface water; ■ Environment ii. Groundwater; ・Conservation of Water iii. Seawater; Resources > Impact on iv. Third-party water, and the volume of this Water-related Risks on total sent for use to other organizations, if Business applicable. ・Conservation of Water b. A breakdown of total water discharge to Resources > Reduce all areas in megaliters by the following the Amount of Water categories: Intake Volume, and i. Freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Discharged Water Solids); Chemical Oxygen ii. Other water (> 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Demand (COD) Solids). Volume c. Total water discharge to all areas with water ・Conservation of Water 303-4 stress in megaliters, and a breakdown of this Resources > Ongoing total by the following categories: Monitoring of Water i. Freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Risks Solids); ・Conservation of Water ii. Other water (> 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Resources > Water Solids). Recycling d. Priority substances of concern for which ・Conservation of discharges are treated, including: Water Resources > i. how priority substances of concern were Performance Data defined, and any international standard, ・Conserving the authoritative list, or criteria used; Environment ii. the approach for setting discharge limits ~Biodiversity~ > for priority substances of concern; Wastewater WET iii. number of incidents of non-compliance ・Material Balance with discharge limits. e. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI Content Index 358 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Water consumption a. Total water consumption from all areas in megaliters. b. Total water consumption from all areas with water stress in megaliters. c. Change in water storage in megaliters, if water storage has been identified as having a ・Environment > significant water-related impact. Conservation of 303-5 d. Any contextual information necessary Water Resources > to understand how the data have Performance Data been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used, including whether the information is calculated, estimated, modeled, or sourced from direct measurements, and the approach taken for this, such as the use of any sectorspecific factors. Biodiversity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision SEKISUI Environment Sustainability Vision Reporting management approach relating to DMA 2050 biodiversity using “GRI 103: Management (103) ・Previous and Future Approach” Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ・Environmental Management across the Supply Chain ・Conserving the Environment ~Biodiversity~ > Basic Concept GRI Content Index 359 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: i. Geographic location ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization iii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or the high 304-1 biodiversity value area outside protected ― areas iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive) v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate) vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) GRI Content Index 360 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity a. Nature of significant direct and indirect ■ Environment impacts on biodiversity with reference to one ・Efficient Use of or more of the following: Resources > Social i. Construction or use of manufacturing Responsibility plants, mines, and transport infrastructure Regarding Waste ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that ・Conservation of Water do not naturally occur in the habitat from Because the scope Resources > Impact on point and non-point sources) is vast for some Water-related Risks on iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and information, we Business pathogens have not disclosed 304-2 ・Conservation of Water iv. Reduction of species all figures. This is Resources > Ongoing v. Habitat conversion an issue we must Monitoring of Water vi. Changes in ecological processes outside consider and deal Risks the natural range of variation (such as with in the future. ・Conserving the salinity or changes in groundwater level) Environment b. Significant direct and indirect positive and ~Biodiversity~ > negative impacts with reference to the Wastewater WET following: ・Environmental Impact i. Species affected Assessment ii. Extent of areas impacted iii. Duration of impacts iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts ■ Environment > Conserving the Habitats protected or restored Environment a. Size and location of all habitat protected ~Biodiversity~ areas or restored areas, and whether the ・Initiatives to Improve success of the restoration measure was Green Space Quality or is approved by independent external ・Examples of Corporate professionals. Collaboration b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties Biodiversity 304-3 to protect or restore habitat areas distinct Preservation Activities from where the organization has overseen ・Promoting Biodiversity and implemented restoration or protection in the Housing measures. Business c. Status of each area based on its condition at ・Preservation Activities the close of the reporting period. Linked to the Local d. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Society ・Cooperation with External Organizations GRI Content Index 361 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations a. List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of 304-4 ― extinction risk: i. Critically endangered IA (CR) ii. Endangered IB (EN) iii. Vulnerable II (VU) iv. Near threatened (NT) v. Least concern GRI Content Index 362 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Emissions Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision SEKISUI Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 ・Previous and Future Environmental Reporting management approach relating to Medium-term Plan DMA emissions into the atmosphere using “GRI 103: Targets (103) Management Approach” ・Environmental Management across the Supply Chain ・Climate Change > Basic Concept ・Climate Change > Combating Climate Change ・Climate Change > Climate Change and our Business ・Chemical Substance Management > Basic Concept GRI Content Index 363 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all) c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: ■ Environment i. The rationale for choosing the base year ・Climate Change > 305-1 ii. Emissions in the base year Performance Data iii. The context for any significant changes in ・Material Balance emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, or operational control). g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Content Index 364 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, ・Environment > including: 305-2 Climate Change > i. The rationale for choosing the base year Performance Data ii. Emissions in the base year iii. The context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Content Index 365 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If available, the gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ■ Environment > d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Change categories and activities included in the ・Greenhouse Gases calculation. 305-3 emissions at the e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, Supply Chain Stage including: (SCOPE 3) i. The rationale for the base year ・Performance Data ii. Emissions in the base year iii. The context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. ・Environment > 305-4 c. Types of GHG emissions included in the Climate Change > intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), Performance Data energy indirect (Scope 2), and / or other indirect (Scope 3). d. Gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GRI Content Index 366 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ■ Environment > b. Gases included in the calculation whether Climate Change CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. ・Acquisition of SBT 305-5 c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale Certification for choosing it. ・Environment-contributing d. Scopes in which reductions took place; Investments whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect ・Performance Data (Scope 2), and / or other indirect (Scope 3). e. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. ■ Environment > Chemical Substance Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Management a. Production, imports, and exports ・Controlling VOC of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 Emissions (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. 305-6 ・Disposal and b. Substances included in the calculation. Storage of Devices c. Source of the emission factors used. Containing PCBs d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and and Management of calculation tools used. Equipment That Uses Fluorocarbons Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide SOx, and other critical atmospheric emissions a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i. NOx ii. SOx ■ Environment iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) ・Chemical Substance 305-7 iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Management > v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Performance Data vi. Particulate matter (PM) ・Material Balance vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b. Source of the emission factors used. c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Content Index 367 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Effluents and Waste Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) ■ Environment ・Long-term Environmental Management Vision SEKISUI Environment Sustainability Vision 2050 ・Previous and Future Environmental Medium-term Plan Targets ・Environmental Management across Reporting management approach relating the Supply Chain DMA to effluents and waste using “GRI 103: ・Efficient Use of Resources (103) Management Approach” > Basic Concept ・Conservation of Water Resources > Basic Concept ・Conservation of Water Resources > Risks Identified, Their Potential Impact on Operations, and Strategies for Mitigation ・Conservation of Water Resources > Roadmap ・Conservation of Water Resources > Assessment of Water-related Risks ・Conservation of Water Resources > Impact on Water-related Risks on Business ・Conservation of Water Resources > Activity Policy and Reduction Targets GRI Content Index 368 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Environment ・Conservation of Water Resources > Ongoing Water discharge by quality and destination Monitoring of Water Risks a. Total volume of planned and unplanned ・Conservation of Water water discharges by: Resources > Water i. Destination Recycling 306-1 ii. Quality of the water, including treatment ・Conservation of method Water Resources > iii. Whether it was reused by another Performance Data organization ・Conserving the b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Environment ~Biodiversity~ > Wastewater WET Waste by type and disposal method a. Total weight of hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: i. Reuse ii. Recycling iii. Composting iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) ■ Environment b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, by the ・Efficient Use following disposal methods: of Resources > i. Reuse Performance Data 306-2 ii. Recycling ・Chemical Substance iii. Composting Management > iv. Recovery, including energy recovery Performance Data v. Incineration (mass burn) ・Material Balance vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor GRI Content Index 369 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant spills a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization’s financial statements: i. Location of spill Not applicable for the 306-3 ii. Volume of spill fiscal year under review iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). c. The impacts of significant spills. Transportation of hazardous waste a. Total weight for each of the following: i. Hazardous waste transported ・Environment > ii. Hazardous waste imported Chemical Substance 306-4 iii. Hazardous waste exported Management > iv. Hazardous waste treated Performance Data b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. c. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Water bodies affected by water discharges and / or runoff a. Water bodies and related habitats that are Because there are significantly affected by water discharges a vast number of and / or runoff, including information on: business sites and 306-5 i. Size of water body and related habitat ― data collection is ii. Whether the water body and related difficult, we have habitat is designated as a protected area not disclosed these (nationally or internationally) figures. iii. Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) GRI Content Index 370 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Environmental Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > Identifying Key Reporting management approach relating Issues DMA to compliance with laws and regulations ・Environment > (103) concerning the environment using “GRI 103: Environmental Management Approach” Management System > Complying with Environmental Laws and Regulations Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Environment > and / or regulations in terms of: Environmental i. Total monetary value of significant fines Management System 307-1 ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions > Complying with iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution Environmental Laws mechanisms and Regulations b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Assessments of Suppliers in Environmental Terms Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > Identifying Key Issues Reporting management approach relating to DMA ・Environment > suppliers’ environmental assessments using (103) Environmental “GRI 103: Management Approach” Management System > Environmental Management across the Supply Chain GRI Content Index 371 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting When selecting new suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group comprehensively evaluates candidate companies from the New suppliers that were screened using perspectives of quality, environmental criteria environmental factors, 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened health and safety, using environmental criteria. and compliance with laws, regulations, and social standards. As a result, all new suppliers now clear every environmental standard required by the Group. Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. Because each c. Significant actual and potential negative Company has environmental impacts identified in the different suppliers supply chain. 308-2 ― and data collection d. Percentage of suppliers identified as is difficult, we have having significant actual and potential not disclosed these negative environmental impacts with which figures. improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Content Index 372 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Employment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (20202022) ■ Human Resources ・Our Philosophy ・Diversity Management > Formulated a Diversity Management Policy Reporting management approach relating to ・Diversity Management DMA employment using “GRI 103: Management > Created a Statement (103) Approach” of Work Style Reform ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure > Organization-wide Initiatives ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure > Diversity Management Promotional Structure ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel > Basic Concept ・Basis for Fostering Personnel New employee hires and employee turnover a. Total number and rate of new employee hires ■ Human Resources during the reporting period, by age group, ・Basis for Fostering 401-1 gender and region. Personnel > b. Total number and rate of employee turnover Performance Data during the reporting period, by age group, ・Data on Employees gender and region. GRI Content Index 373 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees a. Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not ・Human Resources > provided to temporary or part-time employees, Basis for Fostering by significant locations of operation. These Personnel > Benefits include, as a minimum: * Significant locations of 401-2 i. Life insurance operation are defined ii. Healthcare for Sekisui Chemical iii. Disability and invalidity coverage on a non-consolidated iv. Parental leave basis v. Retirement provision vi. Stock ownership vii. Others b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Parental leave a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. ・Human Resources c. Total number of employees who returned to > Allowing Diverse work in the reporting period after parental Human Resources to 401-3 leave ended, by gender. Excel > Main Systems d. Total number of employees who returned to Allowing Various work after parental leave ended who were Workstyles and Their still employed twelve months after their Use return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. GRI Content Index 374 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Labor > Management Relations Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their ・Human Resources representatives prior to the implementation > Workplace of significant operational changes that could 402-1 Environment > substantially affect them. Notifications of Major b. For organizations with collective bargaining HR-related Changes agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. GRI Content Index 375 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Occupational Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020Reporting management approach relating to DMA 2022) Occupational Health and Safety using “GRI (103) ■ Governance > Safety 103: Management Approach” ・Basic Concept ・Activity Policy and Promotion System ・Safety Audits ・Occupational Safety Assessments ・Safety Management Along Supply Chains Occupational Health and Safety Management System a. A statement of whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented, including whether i. the system has been implemented because of legal requirements and, if so, a list of ■ Governance > Safety the requirements; ・Activity Policy and ii. the system has been implemented based 403-1 Promotion System on recognized risk management and/or ・Occupational Safety management system standards/guidelines Committee Held and, if so, a list of the standards/guidelines. b. A description of the scope of workers, activities, and workplaces covered by the occupational health and safety management system, and an explanation of whether and, if so, why any workers, activities, or workplaces are not covered. GRI Content Index 376 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation a. A description of the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis, and to apply the hierarchy of controls in order to eliminate hazards and minimize risks, including: i. how the organization ensures the quality of these processes, including the competency of persons who carry them out; ii. how the results of these processes are ■ Governance > Safety used to evaluate and continually improve ・Occupational Safety the occupational health and safety Assessments management system. ・Review of Equipment b. A description of the processes for workers to 403-2 Safety Standards report work-related hazards and hazardous ・Early Detection of situations, and an explanation of how Risks workers are protected against reprisals. ・Measures to Prevent c. A description of the policies and processes Fires and Explosions for workers to remove themselves from work situations that they believe could cause injury or ill health, and an explanation of how workers are protected against reprisals. d. A description of the processes used to investigate work-related incidents, including the processes to identify hazards and assess risks relating to the incidents, to determine corrective actions using the hierarchy of controls, and to determine improvements needed in the occupational health and safety management system. ■ Governance > Safety ・Example in Safety Occupational health services Activities a. A description of the occupational health ・Review of Equipment services’ functions that contribute to the Safety Standards identification and elimination of hazards and ・Early Detection of 403-3 minimization of risks, and an explanation of Risks how the organization ensures the quality of ・Safety & Environment these services and facilitates workers’ access Conference and Safety to them. Awards ・Measures to Prevent Fires and Explosions GRI Content Index 377 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety a. A description of the processes for worker participation and consultation in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the occupational health and safety management system, and for providing ・Governance > Safety 403-4 access to and communicating relevant > Occupational Safety information on occupational health and Committee Held safety to workers. b. Where formal joint management-worker health and safety committees exist, a description of their responsibilities, meeting frequency, decision-making authority, and whether and, if so, why any workers are not represented by these committees. ■ Governance > Safety Worker training on occupational health and ・Development of safety Human Resources to a. A description of any occupational health and Take the Initiative in 403-5 safety training provided to workers, including Safety Activities generic training as well as training on specific ・Emergency Response work-related hazards, hazardous activities, or Measures hazardous situations. ・Safety Management Along Supply Chains ■ Human Resources Promotion of worker health ・Workplace a. An explanation of how the organization Environment > Health facilitates workers’ access to nonManagement occupational medical and healthcare services, ・Workplace and the scope of access provided. Environment > Stress b. A description of any voluntary health 403-6 Checks promotion services and programs offered to ・Workplace workers to address major non-work-related Environment > health risks, including the specific health Successful case risks addressed, and how the organization studies of workplace facilitates workers’ access to these services environment and programs. improvements GRI Content Index 378 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Governance > Safety Prevention and mitigation of occupational ・Occupational Safety health and safety impacts directly linked by Committee Held business relationships ・Deployment of Basic a. A description of the organization’s Safety Principles approach to preventing or mitigating ・Overseas Business Site 403-7 significant negative occupational health Safety Audits and safety impacts that are directly linked ・Human Resources to its operations, products or services by > Workplace its business relationships, and the related Environment > hazards and risks. Regulation of Long Working Hours Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system a. If the organization has implemented an occupational health and safety management system based on legal requirements and/or recognized standards/guidelines: i. the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are covered by such a system; ii. the number and percentage of all employees and workers who are not ・Governance > Safety employees but whose work and/or > Activity Policy and workplace is controlled by the organization, Promotion System 403-8 who are covered by such a system that has ・Governance > Safety been internally audited; > Occupational Safety iii. the number and percentage of all Committee Held employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization, who are covered by such a system that has been audited or certified by an external party. b. Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. c. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI Content Index 379 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Work-related injuries a. For all employees: i. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; ii. The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); iii. The number and rate of recordable workrelated injuries; iv. The main types of work-related injury; v. The number of hours worked. b. For all workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization: i. The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; ii. The number and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); iii. The number and rate of recordable workrelated injuries; iv. The main types of work-related injury; v. The number of hours worked. ・Governance > Safety 403-9 c. The work-related hazards that pose a risk of > Performance Data high-consequence injury, including: i. how these hazards have been determined; ii. which of these hazards have caused or contributed to high-consequence injuries during the reporting period; iii. actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. d. Any actions taken or underway to eliminate other work-related hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. e. Whether the rates have been calculated based on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours worked. f. Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. g. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI Content Index 380 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Work-related ill health a. For all employees: i. The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; ii. The number of cases of recordable workrelated ill health; iii. The main types of work-related ill health. b. For all workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization: i. The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; ii. The number of cases of recordable workrelated ill health; iii. The main types of work-related ill health. ・Governance > Safety 403-10 c. The work-related hazards that pose a risk of > Performance Data ill health, including: i. how these hazards have been determined; ii. which of these hazards have caused or contributed to cases of ill health during the reporting period; iii. actions taken or underway to eliminate these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls. d. Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure, including the types of worker excluded. e. Any contextual information necessary to understand how the data have been compiled, such as any standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI Content Index 381 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Training and Education Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Reporting management approach relating DMA Concerning ESG to personnel development using “GRI 103: (103) Management (2020Management Approach” 2022) ■ Human Resources > Basis for Fostering Personnel ・Basic Concept ・Medium-term Plan Average hours of training per year per ■ Human Resources > employee Basis for Fostering a. Average hours of training that the Personnel 404-1 organization’s employees have undertaken ・Training Systems during the reporting period, by: to Support Our i. Gender Businesses ii. Employee category ・Performance Data GRI Content Index 382 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Human Resources > Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Depending on the Individual Career Orientation) ・Developing Business Leaders ・Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Employees ・Support System for Diverse Career Paths ・Performance Data ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Gender) Programs for upgrading employee skills and ・New Female Hire transition assistance programs Assignment Support a. Type and scope of programs implemented Seminars and assistance provided to upgrade employee ・Female Subordinate 404-2 skills. Management Seminar b. Transition assistance programs provided to ・Fostering Women s facilitate continued employability and the Candidacy for management of career endings resulting from Management Positions retirement or termination of employment. ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Age) ・Retaining and Utilizing Young Employees ・Promote the Active Participation of Seniors ・Career Plan Training by Age (Sekisui Chemical Group) ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Global) ・Developing Personnel Who Can Succeed on the Global Stage ・Global Talent Employee System ・Global Trainee Program GRI Content Index 383 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Human Resources > Percentage of employees receiving regular Basis for Fostering performance and career development reviews Personnel > Periodic a. Percentage of total employees by gender and 404-3 Evaluation of by employee category who received a regular Individual Performance performance and career development review and Career during the reporting period. Development GRI Content Index 384 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Diversity and Equal Opportunity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) ・Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors ■ Human Resources ・Our Philosophy ・Diversity Management > Formulated a Report management approach relating to Diversity Management DMA diversity and equal opportunity using “GRI 103: Policy (103) Management Approach” ・Diversity Management > Created a Statement of Work Style Reform ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure > Organization-wide Initiatives ・Building a Diverse Organizational Structure > Diversity Management Promotional Structure ・Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel > Basic Concept ・Basis for Fostering Personnel GRI Content Index 385 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Diversity in governance bodies and among employees a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender ・Governance > ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 Corporate Governance years old, over 50 years old > About the Ageiii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant 405-1 group Composition of (such as minority or vulnerable groups) Corporate Officers b. Percentage of employees per employee ・Human Resources > category in each of the following diversity Data on Employees categories: i. Gender ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups) In part because the number of employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of is large and was women to men difficult to collect a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of ・Human Resources > data during this 405-2 women to men for each employee category, Basis for Fostering fiscal year, we have by significant locations of operation. Personnel > Benefits not disclosed figures b. The definition used for ‘significant locations concerning ratios of operation’ for total amounts of compensation. GRI Content Index 386 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Non-discrimination Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: Not applicable for the 406-1 i. Incident reviewed by the organization fiscal year under review ii. Remediation plans being implemented iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ ■ Sekisui Chemical rights to exercise freedom of association or Group s Sustainability collective bargaining may be violated or at > Respect for Human Because it is difficult significant risk either in terms of: Rights to acquire supplier 407-1 i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing ・Identifying Human data, we have not plant) and supplier Rights Risks Within disclosed these ii. Countries or geographic areas with the Group figures. operations and suppliers considered at risk. ・Initiatives Geared b. Measures taken by the organization in the Toward Suppliers reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. GRI Content Index 387 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Child Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor a. Operations and suppliers considered to have ■ Sekisui Chemical significant risk for incidents of: Group s Sustainability i. Child labor > Respect for Human ii. Young workers exposed to hazardous work Rights b. Operations and suppliers considered to have ・Identifying Human significant risk for incidents of child labor Rights Risks Within 408-1 either in terms of: the Group i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing ・Assessing the Human plant) and supplier Rights Situation at Our ii. Countries or geographic areas with Suppliers operations and suppliers considered at risk ・Initiatives Geared c. Measures taken by the organization in the Toward Suppliers reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ■ Sekisui Chemical Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Group s Sustainability incidents of forced or compulsory labor > Respect for Human a. Operations and suppliers considered to have Rights significant risk for incidents of forced or ・Identifying Human compulsory labor either in terms of: Rights Risks Within 409-1 i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing the Group plant) and supplier ・Assessing the Human ii. Countries or geographic areas with Rights Situation at Our operations and suppliers considered at risk Suppliers b. Measures taken by the organization in the ・Initiatives Geared reporting period intended to contribute to Toward Suppliers the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. GRI Content Index 388 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Security Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures a. Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s 410-1 human rights policies or specific procedures ― and their application to security. b. Whether the same training requirements also apply to third-party organizations providing security personnel. Rights of Indigenous Peoples Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples a. Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with Not applicable for the 411-1 reference to the following: fiscal year under review i. Incident reviewed by the organization ii. Remediation plans being implemented iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action GRI Content Index 389 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Human Rights Assessment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・Respect for Human Rights > Basic Concept Reporting management approach relating to DMA ・Respect for Human human rights assessments using “GRI 103: (103) Rights > Human Rights Management Approach” Policy Formulation ・Respect for Human Rights > Actions in regard to the UK Modern Slavery Act Operations that have been subject to human ・Sekisui Chemical rights reviews or impact assessments Group s Sustainability a. Total number and percentage of operations > Respect for Human 412-1 that have been subject to human rights Rights > Identifying reviews or human rights impact assessments, Human Rights Risks by country. Within the Group ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > Respect for Human Because the total Employee training on human rights policies or Rights number of hours procedures ・Engagement with of training and a. Total number of hours in the reporting period External Stakeholders the proportion of devoted to training on human rights policies ・Initiatives Geared employees who have or procedures concerning aspects of human Toward Employees undergone training 412-2 rights that are relevant to operations. ・Governance > are, at the time of this b. Percentage of employees trained during the Compliance > List of writing, difficult to reporting period on human rights policies Results Relating to acquire information or procedures concerning aspects of human Compliance Training regarding, we have rights that are relevant to operations. ・Human Resources > not disclosed anything Basis for Fostering on this matter. Personnel > Performance Data GRI Content Index 390 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening a. Total number and percentage of significant 412-3 investment agreements and contracts ― that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. b. The definition used for ‘significant investment agreements’. Local Communities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Reporting management approach relating DMA and Key Measures to local communities using “GRI 103: (103) Concerning ESG Management Approach” Management (20202022) ・Social Contribution Activities > Our Philosophy GRI Content Index 391 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: i. Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes ii. Environmental impact assessments and We are currently ongoing monitoring considering iii. Public disclosure of results of evaluation 413-1 environmental and social impact ― methods for assessments measuring impacts on iv. Local community development programs local communities. based on local communities’ needs v. Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping vi. Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups vii. Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts viii. Formal local community grievance processes Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities We are currently a. Operations with significant actual and considering potential negative impacts on local evaluation 413-2 ― communities, including: methods for i. The location of the operations measuring impacts on ii. The significant actual and potential local communities. negative impacts of operations GRI Content Index 392 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Basic Policies > Sekisui Chemical Group Reporting management approach relating to Basic Procurement DMA society-focused assessments of suppliers using Policy (103) “GRI 103: Management Approach” ・Respect for Human Rights > Assessing the Human Rights Situation at our Suppliers When selecting new suppliers, Sekisui Chemical Group comprehensively evaluates candidate companies from the New suppliers that were screened using social perspectives of quality, criteria environmental factors, 414-1 a. Percentage of new suppliers that were health and safety, screened using social criteria. and compliance with laws, regulations, and social standards. As a result, all new suppliers now clear every environmental standard required by the Group. GRI Content Index 393 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts. c. Significant actual and potential negative social impacts identified in the supply chain. 414-2 ― d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Public Policy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting We have decided not Reporting management approach relating to disclose information DMA public policy using “GRI 103: Management ― on this topic for (103) Approach” reasons of business strategy. Political contributions a. Total monetary value of financial and inkind ・Governance > political contributions made directly and Compliance > 415-1 indirectly by the organization by country and Donations Relating to recipient / beneficiary. Governmental Policies b. If applicable, how the monetary value of inkind contributions was estimated. GRI Content Index 394 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Customer Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (2020-2022) Reporting management approach relating to ■ Governance > CS & DMA customer health and safety using “GRI 103: Quality (103) Management Approach” ・Our Philosophy ・CS & Quality Management Promotion System ・Creating Customeroriented Products ・Quality Assurance System ・Product Safety Since it is currently difficult to calculate Assessment of the health and safety impacts of values for proportions product and service categories ・Governance > CS & in this area, disclosure 416-1 a. Percentage of significant product and service Quality > Preventing of information will categories for which health and safety Quality Fraud be considered for the impacts are assessed for improvement. following fiscal year and beyond. GRI Content Index 395 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fi ne or penalty ii. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes ■ Governance > CS & b. If the organization has not identified any Quality non-compliance with regulations and 416-2 ・Preventing Quality voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact Fraud is sufficient. ・Product Safety c. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Content Index 396 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Marketing and Labeling Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ・Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability > CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Reporting management approach relating DMA Concerning ESG to marketing using “GRI 103: Management (103) Management (2020Approach” 2022) Governance > CS & Quality > Products Information Disclosure and Labeling Requirements for product and service information and labeling a. Whether each of the following types of Because it is information is required by the organization’s currently difficult procedures for product and service to ascertain various information and labeling: types of information i. The sourcing of components of the product concerning all or service products and ii. Content, particularly with regard to to calculate the 417-1 ― substances that might produce an percentage values for environmental or social impact procedure compliance iii. Safe use of the product or service evaluations, disclosure iv. Disposal of the product and environmental / of information will social impacts be considered for the v. Others (Explain in detail) following fiscal year b. Percentage of significant product or service and beyond. categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. GRI Content Index 397 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with ・Governance > CS & regulations resulting in a fi ne or penalty Quality > Products 417-2 ii. Incidents of non-compliance with Information Disclosure regulations resulting in a warning and Labeling iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: ・Governance i. Incidents of non-compliance with > Compliance 417-3 regulations resulting in a fi ne or penalty > Marketing ii. Incidents of non-compliance with Communications regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI Content Index 398 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Customer Privacy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) Reporting management approach relating to DMA and Key Measures customer privacy using “GRI 103: Management (103) Concerning ESG Approach” Management (2020-2022) ・Governance > Cyber Security > Protecting Personal Information Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: Not applicable for the 418-1 i. Complaints received from outside parties fiscal year under review and substantiated by the organization ii. Complaints from regulatory bodies b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. GRI Content Index 399 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Socioeconomic Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■ Sekisui Chemical Group s Sustainability ・Identifying Key Issues ・CSR Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) and Key Measures Concerning ESG Management (20202022) Reporting management approach relating to DMA ■ Governance > compliance in relation to socioeconomic matters (103) Compliance using “GRI 103: Management Approach” ・Our Approach to Compliance Management ・Growing Awareness Toward Compliance ・Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice ・Compliance Training Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. Total monetary value of significant fines ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions Not applicable for the 419-1 iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution fiscal year under review mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. GRI Content Index 400 Top Message Overview of Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group’s ESG Management Governance DX Chemical Group Sustainability Independent Practitioner’s Environment Human Resource Fusion External Evaluation GRI Content Index Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report 401 References Top Message I became President of Sekisui Chemical Co,. Ltd. in March 2020. Since its foundation in 1947, Sekisui Chemical Group has always taken on the challenge of exploring new businesses and fields. As a result, we have grown by offering various products and services that enrich society. Today, the business environment is undergoing drastic change and exhibiting signs of increasing uncertainty. Leveraging its prominent technology and quality developed over the years as a springboard, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to maximize the use of its management resources to develop each of the “Creation of Housing/Social Infrastructure” and “Chemical Solutions” frontiers in order to create innovations that contribute toward people’s lives around the world and the global environment. To this end, we will focus on the following three areas. SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO., LTD. President and Representative Director Keita Kato Drive for growth I recognize that my mission is to further drive forward those growth strategies that the Group has implemented to date and to reinforce ongoing efforts aimed at improving profitability. In order to showcase the importance of further stepping up a gear, we have given the new Medium-term Management Plan a “Drive” title and theme. Highlighted by the current slump in market conditions, I also recognize the need for further structural reform. With this in mind, we will strengthen the systems necessary to anticipate and respond to rapid change while bolstering our ability to constantly innovate. Despite efforts to reinforce the Group, I am aware that endurance alone cannot guarantee growth. With an eye to the future, we will therefore prepare for growth with a steady resolve and strong sense of courage. In adopting the “Drive” title and theme, we will work to combine preparations for growth with efforts to improve profitability. We will accelerate the pace of growth in line with profits while engaging in balanced management and operations. Creating innovation Since its founding, Sekisui Chemical Group has created many products that help resolve social issues. From this social issue perspective, Japan is recognized as an advanced country, confronting various problems including a declining birthrate and aging population as well as severe disasters. Seeing this as an opportunity, we will continue to create businesses and products that help resolve social issues through innovation in an effort to secure sustainable growth. References 402 My goal is for the Company to be distinguished by its excellence, energy, and enthusiasm. The energetic and enthusiastic company that I have in mind, is one in which employees are fully aware, take enormous pride, and are able to take on specific challenges. In order to utilize the Group’s wide-ranging businesses to improve life for everyone around the world and the global environment, a diverse group of employees with different personalities, experiences, and characteristics must be allowed to demonstrate their individual capabilities, personalities, and characteristics to the greatest extent possible. In 2015, Sekisui Chemical Group drew up the “Diversity Management Policy.” In pushing forward diversity management across the entire Group, steps were then taken to promote female empowerment as a first step. Thanks largely to the duel efforts of promoting women’s empowerment while creating a positive organizational environment, Sekisui Chemical was selected as a Nadeshiko brand among a number of favorable results. Our goal moving forward is to build an organization in which all employees, including women, can actively participate in the business and take on challenges on a daily basis. To this end, Sekisui Chemical Group will work to improve productivity, reform its systems and culture, and enhance governance through such wide-ranging measures as digital transformation, automation of the plant floor, work style reforms that allow diverse human resources to excel, and efforts aimed at expanding opportunities and challenges. Sekisui Chemical Group’s mission is to be acclaimed by stakeholders as a truly excellent company and a corporate group that increasingly contributes to the sustainability of society. It is our hope that all employees will continue to take up each challenge with a strong sense of pride. Let’s refine our ESG management and harness the collective strengths of all Group employees to overcome every challenge and grow. References 403 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ For further information contact: ESG Management Department 2-10-4 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8566 Japan TEL.: +81-3-6748-6455 E-mail: esg@sekisui.com Date of issue: July 2020; 1st printing (Previous report published June 2019/Next report scheduled to be published in July 2021)
