KOMATSU REPORT 2020 Contents Komatsu’s Business Model Resolution of ESG Issues through 01 Management Principle Growth Strategies 02 History of Business Reforms in Response to Changes in 32 Komatsu’s CSR Themes and Mid-Term the Operation Environment Management Plan KPIs 04 Overview of Business 34 Enhancing Quality of Life 06 Special Feature 1: Business Model Characteristics –Initiatives Based on TCFD Framework –Ever-Evolving DANTOTSU Initiatives 40 Developing People –Reman and Rebuild Operations 42 Growing with Society –Flexible Global Production and Procurement Systems –Social Contribution Activities 11 Business Segments 44 Corporate Governance Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile 12 Message from the President 54 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Boad Members 16 Message from CFO 58 11-Year Summary 22 Special Feature 2: Value Creation Story 60 Non-Financial Highlights –SMARTCONSTRUCTION 61 External Evaluations and Index Inclusion –Forestry Machinery Business 62 Corporate Information 28 Mid-Term Management Plan (FY2019–FY2021) 63 About KOMATSU REPORT DANTOTSU Value FORWARD Together for Sustainable Growth Cautionary Notice regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains predictions, plans, forecasts, and other forward-looking statements that have been judged by management to be rational based on the information available at the time of publication. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, changes in economic conditions or product demand in major markets, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, domestic or overseas regulatory revisions, or changes to accounting standards or practices. Reporting Period: April 1, 2019–March 31, 2020 issues through its business. In preparation of • This report also includes information on activities after the reportthis report, we referenced the International ing period in order to provide readers with the latest information. Integrated Reporting Framework released by • “FY2019” refers to the period from April 1, 2019 to March 31, the International Integrated Reporting 2020, unless otherwise noted. Council and the Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Editorial Policy Dialogue for Collaborative Value Creation: KOMATSU REPORT 2020 was published for the purpose of providESG Integration, Non-Financial Information ing clear explanations for all stakeholders on Komatsu’s mediumto Disclosure, and Intangible Assets into Investment released by the long-term business strategies and the virtuous cycle generated as Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. the Company resolves environmental, social, and governance (ESG) Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Komatsu’s Business Model Management Principle The cornerstone of Komatsu’s management principle is to commit ourselves to quality and reliability and maximize the total sum of trust given to us by all stakeholders and society, which it defines as corporate value. Maximizing trust requires corporate activities that are founded on social responsibility along with efforts to strengthen corporate governance and enhance manufacturing competitiveness. With the addition of Komatsu Brand Management into this principle, we are promoting awareness reforms that inspire all Komatsu Group employees to adopt the perspective of the customer from their standpoint in the Company as we move forward with human resource development to become a stronger company. Implementation Enhancing the of management trust placed in us principle by society Contributing to Further growth society Maximizing the trust given to us by our stakeholders Management and society through a commitment to quality Policy and reliability Is management in line with societal needs? Management Strategy Always monitor “DANTOTSU Value – FORWARD Mid-term Management Plan for securing  Together for Sustainable Growth” sustainable growth Mid-Term Management Plan Defines Komatsu’s Values, basic attitudes, and ­patterns of behavior The KOMATSU Way 1. Leadership/Top Management 2. “Monozukuri” for all employees 3. Brand Management 1. Komatsu’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct 2. Policies, standards, and principles 3. Komatsu’s CSR Themes Corporate Citizenship Enhancing Quality of Life/Developing People/Growing with Society Global principles and international standards • The U.N. Global Compact Resolution of Needs • ISO 26000 of Society • Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Charter of Corporate Behavior • The U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) All Stakeholders and Society Society Investors and Distributors Suppliers Employees Customers Shareholders Mass media Communities Analysts 01 Komatsu’s Business Model History of Business Reforms in Response to Changes in the Operation N  et Sales and Demand for 7 Major Products Japan North America Europe Other China Consolidated (Demand, Units) 600,000 1990s Maturity of 450,000 Japanese, U.S., and European Markets 1980s Japan and Western 300,000 Europe Era 1970s United States Era 150,000 0 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Competition with Foreign Companies Expansion of Exports Expansion of Overseas Production Diversification Chapter 1 1960s Chapter 2 1970s Chapter 3 1980s–1990s Era of Competition with Foreign Era of Growing Exports Expansion of Overseas Production Companies in the Domestic Market Improvement of Durability and Reliability, and Diversification Prioritization of Quality, Exhaustive Product Establishment of Sales Systems in European 3G Management Strategy Research on Rival Bulldozers and U.S. Markets In the 1980s, Komatsu accelerated local production in Trade deregulation prompted world-leading manufacoverseas markets in conjunction with the growth of As it began a full-fledged expansion into global marturers of construction equipment, Caterpillar Tractor demand in these markets. However, from the 1990s, kets, it became necessary for Komatsu to bring the Co. to enter into the Japanese market. Komatsu thus demand grew stagnant in the Japanese, European, performance and functionality of its large-sized bullfound itself faced with a pressing need to improve and U.S. markets as these markets matured in the dozers, a mainstay product at the time, up to worldthe quality of its products. The Company therefore latter half of the decade. In preparation for the inevileading levels. To this end, we rolled out campaigns commenced quality control measures and launched table intensification of global competitiveness, to earn greater levels of reliability based on perfora Companywide quality control program. We also Komatsu enacted its 3G (Global, Growth, Groupwide) mance data from the markets we served. These kicked off an exhaustive product research campaign management strategy in which it sought to become campaigns were advanced side-by-side with efforts targeting the bulldozers of our rivals. These efforts a global group with a solid manufacturing base that to improve systems in areas spanning from developculminated in the September 1963 launch of the was resilient to fluctuations in construction equipment to sales and services. The result was improved Model D50A-11 Super Bulldozer. At this time, we ment demand. This strategy led us to diversify our reliability in the European and U.S. markets for major also doubled our warranty period, effectively cutting business by expanding operations in electronics and products and the reinforcement of the foundations of complaints to one-third. other non-construction equipment businesses. our export platforms. Hydraulic Power Excavator 15H-1 Silicon wafers produced by Komatsu Electronic Metals Co., Ltd. Bulldozer D50A-11 02 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Environment net sales (right scale) (Net sales, Billions of yen) Chapter 7 2019~ 2000s (2002~) 3,000 Era of Resource-Rich and Emerging DANTOTSU Value Countries Realization of the safe, highly productive, 2,250 smart, and clean workplaces of the future Digital Transformation of Entire 1,500 Construction Workplaces 750 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Selective Focus and Global Consolidated Management (DANTOTSU Product DANTOTSU Service DANTOTSU Solution) Chapter 4 2001~ Chapter 5 2007~ Chapter 6 2013~ 1st Structural Reforms 2nd Structural Reforms Innovation and Reinforcement of Mining Selective Focus and Introduction of Promotion of Global Cross-Sourcing Equipment Business DANTOTSU Products Introduction of DANTOTSU Solutions Through these reforms, we promoted global crosssourcing to reform our value chain through the optimizaIn its mining equipment business, Komatsu’s Komatsu enacted its 1st structural reforms in tion of the production, sales, and inventory areas of the Autonomous Haulage System (AHS) has received high response to the stagnant construction equipment supply chain. We were thereby able to respond to fluctupraise for its safety and productivity, and more than demand in the maturing Japanese, European, and ations in demand and foreign exchange rate fluctuations 100 AHS units have come to be in operation as mining U.S. markets, the struggling performance of its elecwhile minimizing investment. Furthermore, KOMTRAX businesses have grown. Also, we acquired Joy Global tronics business, and its first operating loss (in (Komatsu Machine Tracking System), which had become Inc. (currently, Komatsu Mining Corp.) in 2017, thereby FY2001), which was incurred as a result of the standard equipment at the beginning of the 2000s, was strengthening our operations in the area of super-large Company’s high-cost, low-profit model that was oriutilized to propose methods of supporting fuel-efficiency surface and underground mining equipment, an area ented toward growth. These reforms were enacted operation and reducing maintenance costs as we accelin which Komatsu previously lacked offerings. based on the policies of separation of costs from erated the bolstering of services powered by information In the construction equipment business, meangrowth, enhancing strengths and improving weakand communication technologies (ICT). while, we were pursuing growth through innovation nesses. Guided by these policies, we pursued fixed via such means as introducing the cost reductions, the strengthening of our position in SMARTCONSTRUCTION ICT workplace solution as a Asia, and the development of DANTOTSU Products. DANTOTSU Solution. Announcement ceremony for MR-2 KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking Komatsu Mining Corp. rope shovel and Series, the first DANTOTSU Product System) Komatsu super-large dump truck 03 Komatsu’s Business Model Overview of Business In the pursuit of sustainable growth, companies are expected to build robust yet flexible earnings structures that respond to changes in the operating environment while addressing the increasingly more important ESG issues. With the strength of the manufacturing platform it has forged over the years, Komatsu will respond to social needs by linking customers, distributors, partners, and communities and all Komatsu workplaces through its DANTOTSU excellence. Major Inputs Research and Development Procurement and Production Business Activities and Strengths (Construction and mining equipment operations) Production / Logistics Komatsu production bases: 85* Parts distribution bases: 45* * As of April 1, 2020 Capital investment ¥86.5 billion Intellectual Properties • In-house development and • Collaboration with suppliers Development bases: production of key components (Midori-kai) enabling the following: Nine mother plants and underpinning product performance P.43 Asia Development Center (engines, hydraulic components, 1. “Monozukuri” (improvement of R&D expenses: ¥74.7 billion power trains, etc.) product quality, reliability, and (3.1% of net sales) • Accelerated technological innovacompetitiveness) Utilization of information: Equipment with KOMTRAX: tion achieved by merging core 2. Stable supply of high-quality Approx. 600,000 units Komatsu technologies with external materials insight (Open innovation) • Linking plants (visualization) • Digital transformation P.22 utilizing ICT Human Resources Number of consolidated employees: • Product development systems • Cross-sourcing: Flexible global 62,823 tailored to global market needs production and procurement systems that are resilient to demand and foreign exchange fluctuations P.10 Partners Machine population over past 10 years: • Mother plants structure enabling: Approx. 580,000 units* Improvement of QCD (Quality, * Estimate of construction equipment operational Cost, Delivery) at customer workplaces based on aggregate 10-year sales volumes • Skill transfer and TQM (Total Sales and service distributors: Quality Management) 210 distributors in 148 countries (construction, mining and utility Climate change impacts—Total CO2 emissions: 22,529,000 tons equipment business) Suppliers: Approx. 2,700 Shareholders: 230,041 Initiatives for Resolving ESG Issues Environment Enhancing Quality of Life Energy use: 8.1 PJ —Providing Products Required by Society— Including renewable energy use: 259 TJ Note: 1 PJ (petajoule) = 1015 J (joules); 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1012 J Water use: 3.6 million m3 Steel (iron) use: 846,000 tons Developing People ¥ Finance Consolidated net sales: ¥2,444.8 billion Operating income: ¥250.7 billion Growing with Society Free cash flow: ¥104.2 billion Total assets: ¥3,653.6 billion Note: Amounts are either for FY2019 or as of March 31, 2020 , unless otherwise noted. Responsible Corporate Behavior 04 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Operations at Customer Workplaces Product Cycles Products Services Solutions • Enhancement of mainte•G lobal supply of • DANTOTSU Construction nance contract services P.7 equipment high-quality used Product • SMARTCONSTRUCTION equipment, etc. Unrivaled prod• Improvement of QCD P.24 •R emanufacturing ucts in terms of (Quality, Cost, Delivery) achieved through close and rebuilding* Targets for environment, Mining equipment safety, ICT alignment of sales forecasts • Autonomous P.9 FY2021 capacities, and and production of spare parts * Systems for selling used Haulage System engines, transmissions, productivity P.6 Construction equipment P.8 and other components • Utilization of information that have been repaired • Full lineup of Accomplishment of acquired through KOMTRAX to be of the same quality construction and as new products targets of mining equipment P.7 •P  roduct creation Mining equipment Mid-Term focused on quality • Utilization of information acquired through Management and reliability KOMTRAX Plus Plan • Detailed support from “DANTOTSU Value – directly owned distributors FORWARD Together for Sustainable Growth” • Global distributor network • Cultivation of distributor personnel • Brand management P.28-P.31 CO2 emissions from product use: 19,236,000 tons (85.4% of total) Building foundations for 100th P.32-P.53 anniversary and beyond The KOMATSU Way P.41 05 Komatsu’s Business Model Special Feature 1: Business Model Characteristics 01 DANTOTSU Product Enhancement and Acceleration of Initiatives Pertaining to Three DANTOTSUs Ever-Evolving DANTOTSU Initiatives Realization of DANTOTSU Value DANTOTSU has been a keyword in Komatsu’s business strategies throughout the 2000s. In Japanese, this word expresses a level of excellence that is a cut above that of rivals, and this word rings with the same degree of strength found in Komatsu’s mainstay construction equipment. At Komatsu, we are accelerating initiatives pertaining to DANTOTSU Product, DANTOTSU Service, and DANTOTSU Solution while enhancing and evolving these initiatives to realize DANTOTSU Value (a positive cycle of resolving ESG issues and improving earnings through the creation of value for customers). DANTOTSU Pursuit of New Heights of Quality and Value Product Komatsu refers to products with features in safety, environmental friendliness, ICT, and productivity to which no competitors can catch up with in the next several years as DANTOTSU products. By taking the technological advantage of in-house development and production of key components and through seamless coordination between development, production, and suppliers in product development, we have been able to introduce the world to numerous industry-leading products. Today, we are developing automation, autonomous, electric, and remote-control technologies to create next-generation DANTOTSU products that contribute to the realization of the safe, highly productive, smart and clean workplaces of the future. Case Examples Environment ICT Hybrid Hydraulic ICT-Intensive Models Excavators (2013) (2008) The world was introduced to Komatsu’s Komatsu launched the first first ICT-intensive model, an ICThybrid hydraulic excavator for intensive bulldozer, in 2013. This was the market sale in 2008. By equipfirst piece of equipment in the world to ping these excavators with profeature automated blade control for proprietarily developed systems, cesses ranging from rough dozing to we have succeeded in achieving reductions in CO2 emissions and fuel finish grading. Meanwhile, our first ICTconsumption of more than 20%. In 2016, we began expanding our intensive hydraulic excavator was launched in 2014. The bucket lineup of 30-ton class models to complement the existing 20-ton class teeth of this excavator are automatically maneuvered along the models. To date, an aggregate of approximately 5,000 Komatsu hybrid target surface to enable the operator to continue excavating withhydraulic excavators have been sold in 40 countries worldwide. out worrying about overcutting. Electric Mini Excavators Environment Human Detection & Collision Safety (2020) Mitigation System Rentals of electric mini excavators (2019) were commenced in April 2020. Our proprietary KomVision These excavators feature excavatHuman Detection & Collision ing capacity equivalent to that of Mitigation System was introengine-powered excavators couduced into the Japanese pled with zero emissions and market in December 2019 as a greatly reduced noise pollution. standard feature on hydraulic Anticipated to be used for indoor excavators, an industry first. and nighttime construction, we will work to popularize and expand When the system detects use of these excavators, which are friendly both toward the environa person while driving or turning, it will stop the equipment to conment and people. tribute to reduced accidents from collisions with people. 06 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies DANTOTSU Solution DANTOTSU Service DANTOTSU Visualization of Operating Status and Service Reduction of Lifecycle Costs Komatsu develops a value chain business in which it pursues reduction of lifecycle costs by means of the visualization of machine operations and multifaceted customer support that begin when new equipment is delivered and continue through to machine maintenance, parts supply, overhauls, and finally trade-ins of used equipment. Case Examples ICT-Powered Lifecycle Support Business Model Encompassing Everything from New Equipment Sales to Trade-Ins of Used Equipment Komatsu installs the KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking System) remote management system on its products as a standard feature. This system tracks information on equipment condition and operating status along with other metrics. By using this information to propose measures for supporting fuel-efficient operation and reducing maintenance costs, we are able to help customers increase the operating ratios and lower the maintenance costs of their equipment. In addition, we are enhancing the extended warranty programs we offer on a global basis. Through these programs, we aim to raise the rate of equipment for which we continue to provide services and offer ongoing support to customers by encouraging them to use genuine parts to keep their equipment in top condition and offering trade-ins that realize high resale prices when they no longer need a piece of equipment. Moreover, we are planning the launch of a next-generation KOMTRAX system. This system will make greater contributions to improvements in customer productivity by enabling them to acquire the data they desire via smartphone applications. Comprehensive Lifecycle Support Leveraging Komatsu Group’s Collective Strength to Enhance Customer Relationships Start of value chain business First-step in process of building long-term relationships New Equipment Sales Used Equipment Service Sale Contracts Realization of high resale Extended warranty prices by maintaining equipprograms for maintaining ment in top condition condition of equipment Repairs / Rental / Lease Maintenance Monitoring of equipment condition data Rental of high-quality equipment through KOMTRAX Operational Support Support for improving customer productivity using KOMTRAX data 07 Komatsu’s Business Model Special Feature 1: Business Model Characteristics DANTOTSU Product DANTOTSU Service DANTOTSU Solution DANTOTSU Workplace Solutions Provided Using ICT Solution Komatsu utilizes cutting-edge ICT to facilitate the visualization of construction by compiling data on all people, equipment, and materials at workplaces. We thereby aim to help improve the safety of customer workplaces, shorten construction periods, minimize costs, and otherwise optimize construction. This is the DANTOTSU Solution Komatsu aspires to deliver. By promoting digital transformations in construction, we aim to create the safe, highly productive, smart and clean workplaces of the future together with customers. Case Examples World-First Autonomous Haulage System Launched in 2008 Safe, Efficient, and Coordinated Operation Achieved through Fleet Management System In FY2019, we worked toward our goal of deploying 41 units of our latest model of super-large dump trucks, which can be retrofitted with the Autonomous Haulage System (AHS) to be operated autonomously, in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. At Northern Brazil’s Carajás iron ore mine, which is one of the largest in the world, in addition to taking steps to deploy 37 of the super-large dump trucks and introduce AHS, we opened Komatsu’s first “AHS Training Center” in the vicinity of the Carajás mine and promoted activities to provide training over a wide area of northern Brazil in relation to AHS operations and maintenance. Since its commercial launch in 2008, a total of 221 AHS-equipped vehicles have been deployed in Australia, North America, and South America (as of March 31, 2020). Acquisition of Mine Operator Training Company Contributions to Safe and Productive Mine Operations In July 2019, the Company acquired Immersive Corporation Pty Ltd, a mine operator training company. Immersive develops, manufactures, and sells mining equipment simulators for training machine operators for surface and underground mines. Immersive also offers educational programs using simulators and provides training solutions by proposing improvements. The inclusion of Immersive’s solutions into our lineup has made us even better poised to contribute to the improvement of safety and productivity and the optimization of operations at customer mines. 08 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies 02 Global Component Recycling Reman and Rebuild Operations Reuse and Recycling Business Made Possible by In-House Development and Production of Key Components Komatsu Group develops global remanufacturing (“Reman”) operations in which it restores the engine and transmission components collected during regular replacements to the same status as if they were new so that these products can once again be sold on the market. Restoring these products entails a process with various steps including disassembly, washing, parts replacement, reassembly, painting, and shipping inspections. The restoration of components through Reman operations has the following benefits for customers. • Guaranteed quality and performance on a level with • Shorter equipment downtimes through supply of new products appropriately stocked Reman components • Lower prices than new products • Resource conservation and waste reduction through component reuse and recycling Reman operations are a strength of Komatsu made possible by in-house development and production of key components. Rebuild operations involve replacing perishable parts inside components with new parts whereas Reman operations involve recycling and reusing perishable parts to contribute to greater resource conservation and waste reduction amounts. Case Examples Two Global Bases To provide customers worldwide with Reman components, Komatsu has established two global bases, one in Indonesia and one in Chile. The base in Indonesia handles engine, transmission, and hydraulic cylinders for large-sized construction equipment while the base in Chile is responsible for components for electric dump trucks. Components that have been collected from around the world and restored are then stocked at the global bases to be shipped to locations across the globe as necessitated by demand. In addition, Komatsu has 13 regional Reman and rebuild bases around the world. Sharing of Reman Techniques through Network to Facilitate Quality Improvements and Development Our Reman bases are linked through a network that allows for information on the necessary Reman techniques to be shared on a global basis. In addition, the restoration history of Reman components is managed via IC tags and 2D-barcode to track information on component durability and allow for important information for developing components with optimal lifespans to be fed back into the development process. 09 Komatsu’s Business Model Special Feature 1: Business Model Characteristics 03 Flexible Global Production and Procurement Systems That Are Resilient to Demand and Foreign Exchange Fluctuations and Responsive to Wide-Ranging Market Changes through Global Cross-Sourcing Characteristic 1: Global Cross-Sourcing Komatsu has positioned assembly factories in the major markets it supplies and produces the same models at multiple factories. This system enables the Company to practice cross-sourcing while manufacturing products in the optimal locations with consideration for demand and foreign exchange fluctuations as well as the need to evenly distribute production load. Komatsu also has global cross-sourcing systems in place for part procurement. In this manner, we have made it possible to maintain supply chains no matter how markets may change. Mid-Sized Hydraulic Excavator Cross-Sourcing Produced in nine countries Japan, United States, United Kingdom, Brazil, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Russia, India Benefits Necessary Conditions 1. Responsiveness to foreign exchange 1. Base equipment standardization fluctuations 2. Responsiveness to 2. Production management system standardization production fluctuations 3. Reduced costs 3. Production and design bill of materials standardization 4. Effective utilization of production capacity 4. Manufacturing process and quality requirement standardization 5. Minimized investment Characteristic 2: Balanced Development of Global Operations Komatsu establishes worldwide sales and services systems and utilizes the strength of its flexible production and procurement systems to develop its global operations while maintaining close ties with customers and local communities. FY2019 Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment Business Sales (to Outside Customers) by Region Strategic Traditional Markets Markets 50% 50% Latin America ¥309.2 billion Japan ¥310.8 billion FY2019 CIS ¥127.4 billion North America ¥573.5 billion ¥ 2,205.9 billion China ¥127.0 billion Europe ¥219.7 billion Asia ¥205.7 billion Oceania ¥203.3 billion Middle East ¥30.6 billion Africa ¥98.2 billion 10 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Komatsu’s Business Model Business Segments Consolidated Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Net Income Attributable to Income Ratio Komatsu Ltd. / Return on Equity 397.8 256.4 2,725.2 2,501.1 ¥2,444.8 billion 196.4 14.7% 14.6% 268.5 ¥250.7 billion 12.1% ¥153.8 billion 10.7% 10.3% 8.6% FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2019 Consolidated Net Sales ¥ 2,444.8 billion Construction, Mining, and Utility Equipment Business ¥ 2,205.9 billion Komatsu supplies a wide range of products, services, and solutions including construction and mining equipment for use in construction and mining workplaces around the world as well as forklift trucks, forest machines, recycling equipment, and tunneling machines. We have established a position as the international leader in the construction and mining equipment field by delivering unrivaled quality and technological innovation together with this full lineup. Dump truck Retail Finance ¥ 62.9 billion Komatsu conducts a retail finance business aimed at helping reduce customers’ funding burdens and otherwise assisting in the purchase of its products. Our strengths in this field include the prevention of overdue debt through effective utilization of KOMTRAX (location information, operating status information, engine locks, etc.) technologies, swift credit screening, and competitive financing conditions. These strengths have enabled us to build long-term relationships with customers. Industrial Machinery and Others ¥ 175.9 billion The industrial machinery and others business stands alongside the construction, mining, and utility equipment business as a core business of Komatsu. Offerings in this business include the large presses used to mold automobile hoods and side panels as well as sheet-metal machines, machine tools, and light sources for semiconductor lithography systems (excimer lasers). In this business, we also contribute to the business activities of various customers through production of specialty equipment for Japan’s Ministry of Defense. Large press 11 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Message from the President At Komatsu, we aim to reach new, unrivaled heights of excellence in our products, services, and solutions and generate DANTOTSU Value, by which we refer to a positive cycle of resolving ESG issues and improving earnings through the creation of value for customers. This is the approach we will take toward pursuing sustainable growth with an eye to the 100th anniversary of our founding in 2021 and beyond. Hiroyuki Ogawa President and Chief Executive Officer I would first like to take this opportunity to extend our sincere conhealth and safety of our customers, business partners, community dolences and prayers to anyone who has lost loved ones to COVIDmembers, employees, and their families as our top priority. 19 or has fallen victim to this virus. I also want to express our Recognizing we are positioned as an essential business that supappreciation to all of the healthcare professionals and others who ports social infrastructure, and the obligation this represents to cusare working diligently to stop the spread of this virus. tomers that are continuing their operations, we are committed to Komatsu Group is combating the global COVID-19 pandemic ensuring an ongoing supply of products, parts, services, and solubased on the government policies of the relevant countries, with the tions while taking precautions against the spread of COVID-19. Pursuit of DANTOTSU Value Under DANTOTSU Value – FORWARD Together for Sustainable prior DANTOTSU Product (advancement of products), DANTOTSU Growth, the three-year mid-term management plan covering the Service (advancement of machine operations), and DANTOTSU period from FY2019 to FY2021, we are moving forward with initiaSolution (advancement of construction) initiatives. Through these tives based on the three pillars of our growth strategies: 1) value efforts, we aim to generate a positive cycle of resolving environmencreation by means of innovation, 2) growth strategies based on busital, social, and governance (ESG) issues and improving earnings ness reforms, and 3) structural reforms for growth. through the creation of value for customers. We thereby look to Our greatest focus is to achieve DANTOTSU Value, which is the build the safe, highly productive, smart, and clean workplaces of the slogan of this plan. DANTOTSU Value entails the evolution of our future together with customers. Steady Progress in Priority Initiatives Pertaining to Three Pillars of Growth Strategies We faced an opaque economic outlook in FY2019, the first year of and making for disappointing performance for the first year of the plan. the mid-term management plan, due to factors such as the trade In this environment, we made steady progress in advancing key friction between the United States and China and the United initiatives based on the three pillars of growth strategies aimed at Kingdom’s decision to withdraw from the European Union. Amid this realizing DANTOTSU Value. uncertainty, the global COVID-19 pandemic that struck in the fourth Looking first at value creation by means of innovation, we made quarter of the fiscal year drove down demand in China, North substantial progress in developing SMARTCONSTRUCTION operaAmerica, Europe, and Asia, resulting in declines in sales and income tions. At CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2020, a tradeshow held in Las Vegas 12 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies in March 2020, we announced our “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital conventional equipment. Transformation.” (Please see page 22) This solution comprises four Next, I would like to discuss our initiatives pertaining to growth new IoT devices and eight new applications that allow for digitization strategies based on business reforms. In April 2017, we acquired Joy of entire construction and production processes (“horizontal digitizaGlobal Inc. (currently, Komatsu Mining Corp.). We have since been tion”). Through this “horizontal digitization,” which connects all concarrying out initiatives to create synergies between Komatsu and struction processes digitally, this solution allows for worksite Komatsu Mining Corp. (KMC) by utilizing the management resources operations to be optimized by synchronizing the real worksite with of both companies. A great deal of success has been generated its digital twin, thereby realizing drastic improvement in the safety, through this approach. With a history in the mining equipment busiproductivity, and environmental performance of the entire worksite. ness spanning more than a century, KMC is a global manufacturer, We have also announced our plans to introduce the seller, and service provider dealing in super-large surface and under“SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation” solution into the ground mining equipment, an area in which Komatsu previously markets of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, lacked offerings. We had originally put forth the target of achieving France, and Denmark. In this manner, SMARTCONSTRUCTION, synergies that accounted for more than 10% of KMC’s net sales. In which has previously built its track record primarily in the Japanese FY2019, the third year since the acquisition of KMC, synergies promarket, is finally prepared for its global launch. With its ability to conduced benefits equivalent to ¥9.0 billion when including gross profit tribute to improved safety and productivity across construction and gains and cost reduction benefits. We have therefore judged that the production processes spanning from measurement to inspection, efforts to integrate KMC into the Group are going smoothly. SMARTCONSTRUCTION is a business model not found anywhere We will also expand applications of our equipment by introducelse. We therefore see substantial potential for ing the next-generation KOMTRAX construction equipment operaSMARTCONSTRUCTION to be used as a tool for fostering relationtion management system, engage in preventive maintenance by ships with customers. Furthermore, we introduced the applying Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI) preSMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit Kit to the Japanese market in April diction technologies, and introduce serial number-based manage2020. This offering can be installed on conventional construction ment. These initiatives will enable us to provide lifecycle support equipment to endow such equipment with the same ICT functions (lifetime warranties) for our customers’ machines, ranging from as ICT-intensive equipment, such as 3D machine guidance and paynew machines to their disposal, and increase our after-sales serload functions. More than 98% of the equipment operating at convice businesses that are resilient to fluctuations in demand. struction worksites in Japan is conventional equipment without ICT Elsewhere, our remanufacturing operations for engines, axles, cylfunctions. Accordingly, the SMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit Kit has inders, and other components, are a business which we can pursue the potential to quickly spread digital transformations throughout because of our ability to develop and produce key components inJapan’s construction industry by installing digital functions into such house, a strength of Komatsu. These operations also constitute a State of Progress of Focused Activity Items and Challenges from the Next Term Onward Three Management Examples of Activities Strategies •E  xpanded deployments of SMARTCONSTRUCTION (cumulative number of sites in Japan now exceeds 10,000) • Announced the provision of “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation,” starting from April 2020 • Announced the deployment of retrofit kits for hydraulic excavators to enable 3D construction, starting from April 2020 FY2019 • Achieved a total of 221 dump truck units operating under the Autonomous Haulage System (AHS) achievements 1. Value Creation by • Acquired Immersive Corporation Pty Ltd, an operator training company for mining customers Means of Innovation • Exhibited a battery-powered mini excavator at bauma 2019, and rolled it out as a rental machine for the Japanese market Challenges for •E  xpand SMARTCONSTRUCTION overseas the Next Term • Develop a new platform for mining and Onward • Development of technology for automation, autonomous operation, electrification and remote control •C  onsolidation of facilities with Komatsu Mining Corp. (“KMC”) • Launched aggregate/cement models FY2019 • Made model changes for hydraulic excavator for strategic regions achievements • Introduced the KomVision Human Detection & Collision Mitigation System as a standard fitment to hydraulic excavators 2. Growth Strategies in the Japanese market Based on Business Reforms • Improve the market position of the hard rock mining business Challenges for • Launch next-generation KOMTRAX the Next Term • Continue to promote value-chain reforms aimed at realizing full lifecycle support and Onward • Reforms of the industrial machinery business (Expansion of synergy with the construction equipment business and growth by capitalizing on core technologies) •S  teadily implemented cost improvement activities FY2019 • Won the Prime Minister’s Prize at the Monodzukuri Nippon Grand Awards for KOM-MICS realizing “connected plants” achievements 3. Structural Reforms for • Began construction on the new KMC Milwaukee plant and the new Komatsu Forest AB plant in Umeå, Sweden Growth Challenges for •P  romote work reforms using ICT and IoT the Next Term • Promote continuous cost improvement activities and Onward • Develop human resources with global perspective and promote diversity 13 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Message from the President cyclical business that helps reduce waste and recycle and reuse comfor efficient production control to be realized on a global scale by ponents amid rising global environmental awareness. We therefore look linking Komatsu factories with the factories of business partners, to proactively strengthen our systems in this business. making it possible to understand the operating status of various facMoving on to structural reforms for growth, a major initiative tory equipment at a glance. underway on this front is the promotion of KOM-MICS (KOMatsu KOM-MICS won the Prime Minister’s Prize in the manufacturing Manufacturing Innovation Cloud System)—a proprietarily developed and production process categories of the Eighth Monodzukuri Nippon production platform. KOM-MICS makes it possible to realize Grand Awards. This honor was a reflection of the system’s contribuimprovements in manufacturing sites using IoT technologies. These tions to the improvement and innovation of production processes at improvements are achieved through equipment operating status the Company’s production sites as well as at business partners. tracking and optimization made possible by collecting and analyzing data from machine tools and robots. The use of KOM-MICS allows Issues Arising from the COVID-19 Pandemic The global COVID-19 pandemic is impacting Komatsu in a variety of telecommuting system to streamline and revise work processes with ways. Of these impacts, I have particularly noticed the way in which the aim of realizing highly productive workstyles to facilitate operathe pandemic has changed our customer worksites, workstyles, and tions during and after the global COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we how we engage with stakeholders. recognize that the change in the nature of meetings, which include With regard to customer worksites, there is a need to take steps embracing both web conferences and face-to-face meetings, repreto avoid crowded and confined spaces and close interactions. In sent opportunities for Komatsu. We will capitalize on such opportuniterms of equipment, we can therefore expect rising demand for ties to realize further improvements in operation efficiency. We are remote, automated, and unmanned operation. On the nontangible also considering the distribution of wearable devices to employees side of operations, it is likely that the use of construction digitization for use in the management of their health. and digital twin methodologies will accelerate at customer workEngagement with stakeholders is important to us. However, the places. To swiftly respond to these needs, Komatsu will accelerate ways of engaging are clearly changing. For example, we must be delivery of the “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation” and careful to avoid crowded and confined spaces and close interactions automation solutions in the construction equipment field, and provide in our investor relations activities. To this end, we are examining the solutions such as new platforms, the Autonomous Haulage System, potential of arranging online events for institutional investors and priand remote operation in the mining equipment field. vate investors. We are also looking at the possibility of a virtual Moving on to workstyles, we had more than 90% of headquarGeneral Meeting of Shareholders, although we will have to wait until ters employees and over 50% of employees at indirect factory diviwe can confirm the legality of such meetings before moving forward. sions telecommute during the period of Japan’s state of emergency We will work to achieve high levels of quality in our communication declaration. Going forward, we will plan to introduce a full-fledged with stakeholders, even as we maintain safe physical distance. Acceleration of Growth Strategies toward the Solution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s mid-term management plan delineates our intent to roughly 4% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales came address ESG issues through growth strategies in our core business. from coking coal used in iron refining processes and approximately In accordance with this intent, we have defined material ESG issues 10% was attributable to thermal coal, which itself is viewed as probin areas in which Komatsu is poised to make particularly large contrilematic in terms of its contribution to CO2 emissions. We do not butions through its business. Key performance indicators have been expect any sharp declines in thermal coal demand to be seen over disclosed for these issues in our integrated reports, and we have the short term as it is still functioning as an important source of also established new ESG management targets. energy underpinning people’s daily lives in emerging countries. I would now like to explain some of our key initiatives for However, it can be anticipated that demand for thermal coal will addressing climate change, an area in which there is a great deal of decline gradually out of consideration for climate change and other interest from investors. environmental issues. Komatsu looks to counter the risk of future The first of our initiatives on this front is to enhance our hard declines in thermal coal sales by expanding its hard rock mining busirock mining businesses. Hard rock mining is the process of excavatnesses, in which we expect to see growth going forward, while also ing minerals other than coal, such as copper and nickel. In FY2019, lowering the portion of net sales accounted for by thermal coal. In 14 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies sales of 30-ton class excavators in Europe, a market characterized by Ratio of Coal Related Sales (FY2019) high environmental awareness. We believe that this is a product warThermal coal Coking coal Iron, copper, etc. Non-mining equipment ranting attention amid the recent rise in the importance of environ10% 4% mental issues. The third of our key initiatives for addressing climate change is to expand our forest machine business. While forestry work is increasingly being performed by machines in Europe and the United States, Consolidated net sales: Mining equipment it is still common for such work to be conducted using manpower in ¥ 2,444.8 billion 39% Japan and Asia. I was positioned in Indonesia over the period from 2015 to 2016. During this period, I visited customers engaged in forOf which, coal-related estry work on several occasions. These visits made me aware of the ¥357.2 billion large potential for forestry businesses, particularly in densely forested areas, while also giving me a strong interest in resolving the various issues faced by these businesses. Sustainable forestry businesses are circular businesses in which the CO2 emitted into the order to do so, we will pursue synergies through joint development atmosphere during the process of cultivating seedlings is then with KMC while launching products with characteristics that absorbed by trees to help mitigate climate change. Komatsu is suprespond to customer needs. porting sustainable forestry with equipment that is capable of perOur second key initiative for addressing climate change is to forming all processes from tree planting to harvesting grown trees, launch and promote fuel-efficient products with low environmental improving soil, and planting new trees. There currently exists impacts. In addition to our electric mini excavators and compact demand for more than 10,000 forest machines on a global scale, and battery-powered forklifts, we also look to focus on the sale of I therefore see the potential for consistent growth in this business hybrid excavators. Komatsu’s hybrid excavators use our proprietary going forward. Eventually, we will look to promote smart forestry by technologies to substantially reduce CO2 emissions. Approximately digitally linking all forestry processes through our 5,000 such excavators are currently in operation around the world, SMARTCONSTRUCTION solution. In this manner, I hope to help and we are gradually building our track record with regard to this address the various issues facing forestry businesses while cultivatequipment. In 2019, we launched a 30-ton hybrid excavator, and ing new pillars of earnings. this product has already come to represent more than 40% of Milestone of 100th Anniversary and Beyond We will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Komatsu’s founding offering electric mini excavators in the Japanese rental market. We in 2021. However, we recognize that this milestone is just that, have established a roadmap for promoting the spread of electric a checkpoint to be passed. Accordingly, we remain committed equipment going forward, and we look to make steady progress to working toward the resolution of the issues faced by society down this path through open innovation. and customers through flexible management in response to Komatsu is committed to sincerely addressing the issues faced changes in the external environment. by society and thereby raising its value as a company that grows One of the assumptions in the background of the formulation of together with society. We will also proactively participate in the the mid-term management plan was that we cannot anticipate sigUnited Nations Global Compact, the World Business Council for nificant growth in demand for construction equipment over the foreSustainable Development, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial seeable future and must rather expect short-term fluctuations. As of Disclosures, and other initiatives as we work to fulfill our obligations today, demand has become highly volatile as a result of the global to society and the environment as a global company. I continue to COVID-19 pandemic. Regardless, there will be no change to our thank all of our stakeholders and ask for your continued support. basic approach during or after the pandemic. What will be important, however, will be the speed at which we act. Collaboration with partners who share our vision will be key to enhancing our products, services, and solutions. In launching the “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation,” we are benefiting from collaboration with 20 start-up companies and other development partners located in Hiroyuki Ogawa Japan, the United States, and Europe. In addition, we have begun President and Chief Executive Officer 15 Komatsu’s Growth Komatsu’s Growth StrategiesStrategies Message from CFO Review of First Year of Mid-Term Management Plan (FY2019–FY2021)  FY2019, the first year of Komatsu’s mid-term management plan, DANTOTSU Value – FORWARD Together for Sustainable Growth, proved to be a challenging year. Factors behind this difficulty included declines in demand in strategic markets as well as the impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic that emerged in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. During the year, Komatsu continued to pursue sustainable increases in its corporate value by building a sound financial position and strengthening its competitiveness. We made steady progress during FY2019 in advancing key initiatives based on the three pillars of growth strategies described in the mid-term management plan. Examples of this progress included the introduction of the SMARTCONSTRUCTION solution and the launch of electric mini Takeshi Horikoshi excavators. Faced with the current adverse operating environment, Senior Executive Officer and CFO we are now pressed to demonstrate the true value of Komatsu that we have cultivated through our efforts to date. Financial Strategies Formulated in Response to Operating Environment Changes  To maximize growth and profits, our accounting and finance departwe have defined management targets, in light of the volatility in demand ments are responsible for the roles of developing business plans, manin the construction and mining equipment business. aging business performance, and studying indices and methods thereof, In regard to profitability, we strive to build a financial position capaas well as setting up investment decision-making criteria and making ble of weathering drastic market changes, and we will continue to thorjudgment on investment projects. oughly control fixed costs to this end. Fixed costs have been on the rise At the same time, we monitor management indices pertaining to over the past several years as a result of M&A activities. However, we profitability, financial soundness, and asset efficiency, areas for which have also made steady gains in efficiency through post-merger Domestic construction, mining and utility equipment Overseas construction, mining and utility equipment Net Sales and Operating Income Ratio Industrial machinery and others Retail finance Electronics Operating income ratio (right scale) (Billions of yen) (%) 14.8 14.6 15.0 12.9 12.9 12.1 12.3 12.2 3,000 10.7 10.1 11.2 11.2 10.3 10.0 9.7 7.7 7.0 7.1 6.5 7.5 5.2 2,000 5.0 3.9 4.2 4.7 4.2 4.5 2.5 2.3 3.2 2.6 2.7 2.1 1.8 1.6 1.6 0.4 0.0 –1.3 1,000 –5.0 0 –10.0 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Business Construction equipment strategies and industrial machinery Diversification Selective focus (DANTOTSU Product DANTOTSU Service DANTOTSU Solution) Mid-Term G to the Move the Together We Innovate DANTOTSU Management Plan 3G ((G)97, (G)2000) 21st World Global Teamwork GEMBA World Wide Value Structural 1st structural 2nd structural reforms reforms reforms Note: Concerning the figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2002 and earlier, Komatsu Electronic Metals Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries and outdoor power equipment (OPE) of Komatsu Zenoah Co. and its subsidiaries engaging in the OPE business were not reclassified as discontinued operations resulting from the sale thereof. 16 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies integration of the operations of acquired companies. In FY2019, we remains slightly above our ideal level, due in part to the impacts of the were able to absorb the rise in expenses for increased costs stemming global COVID-19 pandemic. There is thus a need to further shorten this from investments in growth areas through reductions in general period as we move toward the end of FY2020. expenses. As a result, total fixed costs were relatively unchanged year When selecting fund procurement sources, we aspired to secure on year. As for financial soundness and asset efficiency, we began workfunding reliability by considering factors such as source diversification ing to cut inventory assets in the first quarter of FY2019. These efforts and continuity along with procurement costs. Komatsu also issued its saw us systematically adjusting production levels while seeking to first green bond in July 2020. Through these bonds, we hope to spread lessen the impact on our suppliers from these efforts. As a result, invenawareness regarding Komatsu’s efforts to address environmental tories stood at ¥805.3 billion on March 31, 2020, down ¥32.2 billion from issues while also expanding our investor base. the previous fiscal year-end. However, the inventory turnover period Growth (Fund Allocation Policy)  In order to achieve sustainable growth, we are targeting a well-balanced alloThere is currently no clear end in sight for the global COVID-19 pancation of our funds to 1) investment for growth, 2) improvement of the baldemic. Accordingly, we must continue to take a flexible approach in respondance sheet (maintaining financial soundness), and 3) shareholder return. ing to the massive changes seen in the operating environment while setting In FY2019, net cash used in investing activities totaled ¥190.9 billion, priorities based on cost-benefit analyses and assessments of strategic value. an amount equivalent to roughly 65% of the net cash provided by operatBy advancing key initiatives based on our three pillars of growth strategies ing activities of ¥295.1 billion. One specific target of investments was the through this approach, Komatsu will target sustainable growth. acquisition of miningand forestry-related companies for the purpose of fueling future growth. Meanwhile, we accumulated cash and deposits to • Sales growth rate Investment ensure our future ability to meeting funding demands in light of the global (Growth strategies) • Operating income ratio COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, interest-bearing debt on March 31, 2020 • ROI rose to ¥1,012.3 billion, up ¥81.6 billion from a year earlier, while the net debt-to-equity ratio was 0.43 times, unchanged from the previous fiscal ROE Improvement year-end. As for shareholder returns, we adhered to the consolidated of the balance Shareholder sheet payout ratio target announced together with our financial results for the (Maintaining return financial six months ended September 30, 2019, issuing returns that made for a soundness) ratio of 57.7%, regardless of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. • Net debt-to-equity ratio • Consolidated payout ratio Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic  Even prior to the global COVID-19 pandemic, Komatsu has been pracpayment moratoriums to and purchasing the inventories of these disticing global cross-sourcing and procurement for equipment bodies tributors and suppliers. and parts. The goal of these efforts has been to absorb the impacts of Moreover, we have taken a number of steps to ensure sufficient demand and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. After the COVID-19 liquidity to meet funding needs in this challenging environment. In pandemic struck, these prior efforts enabled us to minimize the addition to accumulating cash and deposits, we have concluded new impacts on production by procuring the necessary articles from altercommitment line agreements, namely a yen-denominated line in the native sources and reallocating inventories. As a result, no issues have amount of ¥300.0 billion and a U.S. dollar-denominated line in the been faced with regard to our supply chain as of this point in time. We amount of USD1.3 billion. The funds procured through these commitalso are providing support as needed by distributors and suppliers sufment lines can be distributed to other countries through the Group’s fering in this challenging environment. This support includes offering global cash management system. Issuance of Green Bonds TOPICS In July 2020, Komatsu issued its first green bonds, unsecured straight bonds. Komatsu plans to use the proceeds from these green bonds to research and develop, promote, and popularize its products, such as hybrid hydraulic excavators and electric construction equipment; fuel-efficient operation support services utilizing offerings like KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking System); and SMARTCONSTRUCTION and other ICT-intensive construction equipment. With these products, we will aim to contribute to reduced CO2 emissions from product use. Komatsu also plans to use these proceeds for capital investment in facilities and equipment that help reduce CO2 emissions in manufacturing and increase the ratio of renewable energy use. In this manner, the issuance of green bonds has enabled for the diversification of procurement sources and the expansion of our investment base while also supporting the accomplishment of targets set for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in the mid-term management plan. Going forward, the proactive and ongoing issuance of such bonds will be positioned as an ESG initiative to be advanced by our accounting and finance departments. 17 Komatsu’s Growth Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Strategies Message from CFO Profitability  Operating Income Ratio unfavorable circumstances outweighed the benefits of our efforts to As the industry leader, it is important for Komatsu to maintain and increase selling prices and absorb the rises in fixed expenses attribincrease sales prices while pursuing ongoing reductions in cost of utable to investment in growth areas. sales and fixed costs. The operating income ratio is an index that comprehensively reflects our success in these tasks and is therefore Cost Control an important indicator for evaluating this success. In the mid-term While making investments in growth areas, we have taken exhausmanagement plan, we have set the target of maintaining an industive steps to reduce cost of sales and fixed costs, thereby working try’s top-level operating income ratio. In FY2019, operating income to secure profitability (separation of costs from growth). In FY2019, came to 10.3%. This outcome was largely due to the heavy impacts we pursued steady decreases in cost of sales while also cutting of reduced sales volume, as partially affected by the global COVIDgeneral and other standard fixed costs. Meanwhile, efforts were 19 pandemic, a change in the geographic composition of sales, and made to limit fix costs associated with investments in growth areas adverse effects of the Japanese yen’s appreciation. These by assessing and prioritizing investments based on strategic value. Fixed Costs Acquisition of Joy Global Inc. (Billions of yen) 600 300 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Note: Amounts for performance from FY2009–FY2019 have been translated based on the foreign exchange rates in the projection for FY2019 performance (JPY108.7 = USD1, etc.). Decision-Making of Investment  Concerning specific investment projects, we make careful decisions ability above the industry’s average. As for key initiatives after considering strategic value and payback periods in our Strategy currently underway, we will be sure to collect the returns on our Review Committee and Steering Committee meetings. Based on investments after the initiatives have been completed to fuel these efforts, we are working to achieve growth and improve profitongoing growth. Investments in Production Facilities and Others and Depreciation Construction, mining, and utility equipment Industrial machinery and others Depreciation (right scale) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60.1 55.3 57.7 56.4 150 60 51.8 52.6 48.7 49.9 50.2 49.2 43.6 100 40 79.8 86.5 63.9 63.9 67.8 66.1 67.6 54.5 56.8 52.7 56.5 50 20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Note: Excludes investments in rental assets R&D Expenses Construction, mining, and utility equipment Industrial machinery and others Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales (right scale) (Billions of yen) (%) 3.8 3.9 3.3 3.6 100 3.2 3.2 2.9 3.1 4.0 2.7 2.8 2.7 73.6 73.4 74.7 70.7 70.7 70.5 64.4 60.8 54.8 46.4 49.0 50 0 0 –4.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 18 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Efficiency  ROE (return on equity) is a general index, covering profitability, asset profitability by giving weight to growth. Concerning asset efficiency, efficiency, and financial leverage. Thus, we monitor it as one of our we apply ROIC (return on invested capital) to internal control. To conmanagement indices while continuously keeping close attention to trol working capital appropriately in response to the volatility of cost of shareholders’ equity. market demand, we periodically monitor the cash conversion cycle We estimate that our cost of equity is around 8% on a global of working capital through ROIC, for which invested capital in the basis. Thus, we have set an ROE of 10% or higher as the manageROIC formula is defined by the corresponding working capital plus ment target. To expand equity spread (ROE – cost of shareholders’ tangible fixed assets. We recognize that improving asset efficiency is equity), we will work to both improve ROE and reduce cost of sharea task that we will need to emphasize over the foreseeable future, holders’ equity. and we intend to ramp up efforts to curtail inventory assets to this To promote improvement of ROE, we will work to improve end going forward. ROE ROE Profitability Separation of costs from growth (%) 20.0 Thorough control of fixed costs 17.2 17.3 Fixed assets: 14.7 Efficiency Assessment of investment 15.0 12.4 12.1 Outstanding days of working capital 10.6 (overdue receivables and slow-moving inventory) 11.5 10.0 9.0 To set up the guidelines for financial indexes 8.6 which subsidiaries should achieve 7.3 5.0 Financial To optimize funding on a leverage consolidated basis 4.1 To manage net debt-to-equity ratio by 0 considering business characteristics 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Cross-Shareholdings to business relations or collaboration with the Company, for the purOn March 31, 2009, Komatsu held shares of stock in 34 listed compose of avoiding the risk of stock price fluctuation as well as ensurpanies in the form of cross-shareholdings. Since then, we have proing the efficiency of assets. ceeded to curtail such shareholdings while confirming those Later, a revision to U.S. GAAP standards prompted the Company holdings that we continued to hold offered quantitative and qualitato adjust profit figures to reflect gains and losses on valuation of tive benefits that exceeded the associated cost of shareholders’ marketable securities from FY2018. It was judged that the remaining equity. As a result, these holdings had been decreased to five comfive holdings, in general, offered satisfactory quantitative benefits. panies on March 31, 2017. It was during this period that the Tokyo However, it was decided to sell all of these holdings through a Stock Exchange enacted Japan’s Corporate Governance Code in reevaluation of the relations between the Company and the invest2015. In response to this code, Komatsu put forth a policy of not ees and the potential impacts of stock price fluctuations on profits. owning stocks of listed companies, unless they are necessary due All of these holdings were sold as of December 2017. Cross-Shareholdings (Non-Consolidated) (Number of holdings) 40 34 33 30 19 20 15 12 11 9 10 7 5 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) (March 31, 2018) 19 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Message from CFO Financial Position  Monitoring of Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio changes in market demand. Taking into account the business charac・リテールファイナンス事業以外：3,643 teristics of retail finance and 億円future investment opportunities, we We believe it is important to maintain a sound financial position in ・リテールファイナンス事業：6,480 億円 order for us to achieve sustainable growth while being free from monitor net debt-to-equity ratio as an index of soundness. ・ネット D/E レシオ：0.43 excl. Retail finance business Retail finance business Interest-Bearing Debt and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio Net debt-to-equity ratio (consolidated) (right scale) (Billions of yen) (Times) 2,000 0.9 0.60 0.50 0.56 1,500 0.49 0.6 0.40 0.43 0.43 0.37 0.32 1,000 0.23 0.18 0.3 500 0 0 –0.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Optimization of Funding on a Consolidated Basis Furthermore, a global CMS has been established to link all To optimize funding on a group-wide basis and reduce foreign regional headquarter companies, including the company in Japan. exchange risks by matching assets and liabilities in each currency, Through this system, we practice efficient funding on a consolidated we have built a funding system by region and maintain the policy of basis to complement the funding sources used in each region under local funding. Equipped with a local funding function, each regional normal circumstances. In addition, we have established new yenheadquarter company advances funds to Komatsu Group companies and U.S. dollar-denominated commitment lines through which the regardless of business segment in the corresponding region mainly procured funds can to be supplied to different regions to function as through the cash management system (CMS) for the region. a safety net for times of emergency. Retail Finance Business  Role of the Retail Finance Business profitability and financial conditions. This segment is also responsible Our retail finance business, which handles financial products to help for promoting sales our products. From this perspective, we are customers purchase our products, was separated into an indepenfocused on generating synergies in this segment through measures dent business segment in FY2016. This segment is pursuing its own such as financing forest machines, a key initiative of the mid-term segment-specific management targets (1.5%–2.0% for ROA and 5 or management plan, in addition to financing mainstay construction and under for net debt-to-equity ratio) to ensure transparency of mining equipment. Risk Management of the Retail Finance Business Risk management is now more important than ever given that it In an effort to reduce risks in the retail finance business, we diveris currently unclear when the global COVID-19 pandemic will end. sify portfolios and match the currencies, interest rates, and periods We have received requests for payment moratoriums from certain of lending and funding. In addition, we also work to safekeep our customers and distributors as a result of the pandemic, and we are credits by taking advantage of our strengths, for example, by using responding to these requests while confirming factors such as past KOMTRAX, installed in our construction equipment as a standard histories of overdue payments. feature, for credit management (monitoring the location and operating conditions of construction equipment). 20 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Total Assets and ROA of Retail Finance Business Japan North America Europe China Oceania Others ROA (right scale) (Billions of yen) (%) 900 3.5 2.9 3.0 2.5 2.5 2.2 2.5 600 2.0 2.4 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.5 1.5 300 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.5 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Shareholder Return  Concerning cash dividends, we have the policy of continuing stable from FY2018, out of reflection of performance in this fiscal year as payment of dividends after comprehensively considering consoliwell as the future business outlook. These payments made for a dated business results and reviewing future investment plans, cash consolidated payout ratio of 57.7%, an increase of 17.2 percentage flows, and the like. Specifically, we have the policy of maintaining a points year on year. consolidated payout ratio of 40% or higher. In FY2019, we issued Concerning stock buybacks, we plan to do so timely and flexibly dividend payments of ¥94 per share, a decrease of ¥16 per share in response to market and financial conditions. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash used in investing activities Free cash flow (Billions of yen) 400 151.9 161.8 170.9 200 109.1 82.6 122.8 104.2 61.8 –18.9 15.3 0 –200 –229.3 –400 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Cash Dividends per Share (Yen) 120 110 94 Stock buyback of approx. ¥30.0 billion conducted in FY2008, FY2011, and FY2014 84 in addition to dividend payments 58 58 58 58 60 48 42 38 16 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Dividend policy 20%–40% 30%–50% 40%–60% 40%~ Consolidated payout ratio 24.2% 35.8% 38.0%* 24.4% 36.2% 34.7% 39.8% 48.2% 40.3% 40.5% 57.7% (Total return [42.2%] [55.2%] ratio) * Excluding structural reform expenses 21 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Special Feature 2: Value Creation Story KOMATSU offers SMARTCONSTRUCTION in the USA and four countries in Europe. (United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Denmark) A video of the presentation by Rod Schrader, Chairman & CEO of Komatsu America Corp., at CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2020, a construction equipment tradeshow held in Las Vegas in March 2020, can be found below. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dd7oeh6MkCM&t=23s Realization of the Safe, Highly Productive, Smart, and Clean Workplaces of the Future Launch of “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation” Komatsu launched “SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation,” a solution comprising four new IoT devices and eight new applications that accelerate digital transformations through SMARTCONSTRUCTION, in April 2020. While the previous version of SMARTCONSTRUCTION only digitized part of the construction process (“vertical digitization”), these new IoT devices and applications will allow for digitization of the entire process (“horizontal digitization”). This will enable worksite operations to be optimized by synchronizing the real workplace with its digital twin, thereby realizing drastic improvement in the safety, productivity, and environmental performance of the entire worksite. Customer Construction Process Surveying Planning Construction Inspection Traditional Analog Process “Vertical digitization”: Digitization of individual construction processes (previous SMARTCONSTRUCTION) 3D construction / Drone 3D Construction management with Drone 3D measurement / simulation / ICT-intensive finished landform Digital visualization digital task preparation equipment and apps inspection Transformation Solution “DX” Digital Process “Horizontal digitization”: Digitization and connection of all processes to optimize entire construction process Digital transformation of construction (“SMARTCONSTRUCTION Digital Transformation”) 22 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Rodney Schrader コマツアメリカ（株）会長（兼）CEO Senior Executive Officer Rodney Schrader Chairman & CEO, Komatsu America Corp. Optimization of construction through synchronization between real workplace and its digital twin 23 Komatsu’s Growth Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Strategies 01 Special Feature 2: Value Creation Story SMART CONSTRUCTION Since its introduction in February 2015, SMARTCONSTRUCTION has addressed the labor shortages facing the Japanese construction industry by realizing improved productivity and safety at customer worksites. This has been made possible by openly employing digital technologies in both Japan and overseas; domestically, these technologies have been introduced to more than 10,000 customer worksites. Komatsu is dedicated to contributing to the realization of the safe, highly productive, smart, and clean workplaces of the future by digitally transforming both products (automation and autonomation operation) and processes (optimization). SMARTCONSTRUCTION promotional videos and introduction case studies can be found below. SMARTCONSTRUCTION promotional videos SMARTCONSTRUCTION introduction case studies (Japanese only) (Japanese only) http://smartconstruction.komatsu/movie.html https://smartconstruction.komatsu/case/ Strategic Directives By accelerating the digital transformation of construction through both products (automaWorkplaces of the future: Safe, highly productive, smart and clean tion and autonomation operation) and processes (optimization), we will realize the Level 5 Optimization workplaces of the future. of Construction Digital Transformation of Construction Processes: Optimization • Automatic generation of daily tasks from daily In addition to digitizing individual processes, optimized construction plans such as condition surveys by drones (“verti• Collaboration and autonomous operation of Level 4 equipment on the workplace cal digitization”), we will link the 3D workProcesses (Optimization Level of Construction) Automation of “Visualization” of workplace data place information gained from such Construction Planning digitized processes with our LANDLOG platform (“horizontal digitization”) to promote the automation and optimization of Level 3 entire workplaces. 3-Dimensional Products: Automation and Autonomation Construction Planning Operation Realizing the safe, highly productive, smart, and clean workplaces of the future will ICT Construction Level 2 require all construction equipment to work 3-Dimensional • I CT-intensive autonomously while collaborating with other Topo­graphical construction & machines Map • Visualization of progress equipment at the workplace. At the same • Utilization of topographical data time, it will be crucial to enhance ICTintensive equipment, specifically through increased automation and through autonomy Level 1 3-Dimensional achieved via communication and coordination Design Data among equipment. Komatsu is moving Introduction of advanced ICT-intensive models ahead with research and development on sophisticated automation and autonomy Conventional Products (Level of Automation and Autonomous Operation) construction technologies with an eye to the introduction of 5G and other ultrahigh-speed mobile comLevel 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 munications systems and the utilization of Limited Operation Advanced Operation Advanced Solo Advanced Advanced Support Support Automation Collaborative Decision-making high-precision global navigation satellite Autonomous Operation Autonomous Operation system technologies. 24 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Profitability and Growth Compared with other industries, the construction industry is lacking in terms of safety and productivity and has significant room for improvement via digitization. SMARTCONSTRUCTION is still in the early stages of its introduction. Nonetheless, we have verified its significant benefits for contributing to improved safety and productivity at adopting workplaces. We therefore anticipate that the use of this solution will spread steadily against the backdrop of labor shortfalls and aging workplace operators. The global COVID-19 pandemic also presents an opportunity in the form of potential for the rapid digitization of construction workplaces. Safetyand Productivity-Related Tasks Diffusion of Innovation Curve and Earnings Growth (as Projected by Komatsu) More dangerous than other industries No. of deaths per 100,000 employees*1 • The digitization of construction workplaces is projected to advance more swiftly than the popularization of enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, a similar Financial 0.4 solution launched in the 1980s, due to the current availability of sophisticated and Safety Information & communications 1.2 1.9 affordable technologies. Retail Manufacturing 2.2 • The global COVID-19 pandemic is expected to further accelerate this digitization trend. Public utilities 2.6 Service 2.6 Customer type S-curve Construction 9.5 Mining 14.1 Adoption rate Laggards Smartphone Lower than other industries Adoption in Japan (Past Nine Years) Digitization of Nominal productivity by industry (¥1,000/hr.)* 2 Late majority construction Productivity workplaces Public utilities 12.8 Sales at Companies at Which Finance & insurance 7.5 ERP Systems Are De Facto Information & Standard (Past 40 Years) communications 7.4 Acceleration due Manufacturing 5.6 Early majority to COVID-19 Retail 4.0 pandemic Construction 3.1 Health 2.8 Agriculture, forestry & fisheries 1.5 Early adopters Innovators *1 Source: National Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries in 2018, U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS FY2020 N years N+4 years Time *2 Source: Labor Productivity Trends in Major Industries, JAPAN PRODUCTIVITY CENTER Contributions to Resolution of Environmental and Social Issues TO P I C S Launch of SMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit kit Provision of ICT Capabilities for Conventional Construction Equipment Komatsu launched SMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit kit, the add-on kit to offer ICT capabilities, such as 3D machine guidance and payload measurement, to conventional construction equipment in Japan in late April through LANDLOG Ltd. Currently, conventional construction equipment with no ICT capabilities accounts for over 98% of all construction equipment working at construction workplaces in Japan. To accelerate the pace of achieving digital transformation of construction workplace operations, the SMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit kit can be added on not only Komatsu-made models but also other models as long as they are hydraulic excavators. With the SMARTCONSTRUCTION Retrofit kit, Komatsu is going to promote digitization of conventional construction equipment and digital transformation of construction in order to realize safe, highly productive, smart, and clean workplaces of the future soon. ICT-intensive SMARTCONSTRUCTION models Retrofit kit Non-ICT-intensive models Advanced 3D construction based 3D construction: 3D construction: 3D construction: ICT-intensive equipment on 3D design data Impossible Possible Possible Impossible: Limited Possible: Machine 3D control Impossible control to machined guidance Staking & assistant Necessary Unnecessary Unnecessary workers High-precision 3D High-precision 3D 3D construction Impossible to obtain data: Possible to data: Possible to records obtain obtain Equipment with SMARTCONSTRUCTION 25 Retrofit Kit (provisional name) Komatsu’s Growth Strategies 02 Special Feature 2: Value Creation Story Forestry Machinery Business Sustainable forestry is an undertaking with the potential to contribute to the accomplishment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) advocated by the United Nations. These contributions include helping mitigate climate change by reducing the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere and preserving biodiversity and water resources. Komatsu regards a forestry business as an important industry that contributes toward the achievement of the SDGs. In forestry, it is important to contribute to realizing the forest management cycle of planting, cultivating, and harvesting trees, and it is required to operate in a way that places due consideration on forest environments. Komatsu operates a wide-ranging forestry machine business on a global basis to help increase safety and productivity in forestry operation. Videos on forest machines, including a look at a forestry project adopting ICT in Sweden, can be found here. https://youtu.be/_D-EfqsrGT0 Strategic Directives Komatsu is working to mechanize forestry operation, including planting, cultivating, and harvesting trees, to contribute to sustainable forestry. In the realm of planting, we have developed subsoiling machines and automated tree planters based on our bulldozers. These machines are currently being supplied to the Brazilian market. Moreover, in the area of timber harvesting and extracting operations, where most forestry-related occupational accidents tend to occur, we are making progress in developing and selling forestry equipment that enables to harvest and extract trees in steep area without people having to descend to the forest floor. ntroduction of New Tree Planting • IProducts mprovement of Harvesting and • IExtracting Productivity and Safety Planting Harvesting Cultivating Sustainable D61EM-23M0 automated tree PC130F Harvester planter Forestry (forest machine based on hydraulic excavators) Planting Harvesting Land preparation Extracting D85EX subsoiling machine Forwarder 895 Forest Forwarder Usable on Slopes 26 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Profitability and Growth Komatsu’s forest machine business has continued to grow smoothly since the 2004 acquisition of Partek Forest AB (currently, Komatsu Forest AB) of Sweden. Looking ahead, economic growth in emerging countries is expected to drive rises in housing starts and pulp demand. In addition, we anticipate stable growth in timber production volumes as a substitute for plastic amid rising environmental awareness. Forest Machine Business Sales Global Timber Production Volumes (Billions of yen) (Millions of m3) 140 2,400 105 1,800 70 1,200 35 600 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 (FY) 2010 2015 2020 2025 (FY) Total industrial timber Sawtimber Pulp materials Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (Figures for 2019 forward are the Company’s projections.) TOP I C S Contributions to Resolution of Environmental and Social Issues Smart Forestry Powered by ICT We have been working on a smart forestry concept that makes it possible to visually monitor forestry supply chains. In Japan, we have been using drones to conduct tree planting and growth management surveys including forestry resource quantity estimates. This has enabled us to reduce the labor hours needed for surveys for felling from around five people per hectare per day to one person per hectare per day. Moreover, by using ICT-equipped harvesters for processing and soring logs, we have been able to reduce the labor hours needed from about 13 people per hectare per day to about 0.5 people per hectare per day. We are also focusing our efforts on developing applications that are capable of drawing on the accumulated log pro3D image cessing and timber transport data of the LANDLOG open platform. We will thereby contribute to streamlining operations in the future by sharing information with forestry business operators on lumber markets as well as lumber consumers. Going forward, we hope to help promote cyclical forestry around the world by facilitating further safety and productivity improvements in forestry. Through Komatsu’s smart forestry solutions, drone photography can be utilized to prepare 3D images of forests, which can be used to automatically estimate the number of trees, diameters of trees, and the volume of timber to be produced, thereby contributing to higher levels of efficiency in pre-felling forest resource surveys. 27 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Mid-Term Management Plan (FY2019–FY2021) DANTOTSU Value FORWARD Together for Sustainable Growth Komatsu’s External Environment Today, protectionism is growing around the world, and multipolarity is becoming evident. We are also witnessing growing concerns over climate change. As the external environment is changing dynamically, in the construction, mining, and utility equipment business, we assume gradual growth of the demand in the medium to long term, but the volatility will remain high in the short term. In the industrial machinery and others business, we anticipate a structural change of demand in the automobile manufacturing industry, mainly resulting from ongoing progress toward electric vehicles. In addition, we anticipate assured growth in demand in the semiconductor manufacturing industry over the medium to long term, while a temporary adjustment phase is also expected. Achieving sustainable growth in this environment will require growth strategies that are not affected by demand fluctuations. Changes in the External Environment and of ESG Issues  Politics & economy Technologies • Multipolarization of the world • Further spread of IoT, AI, and big data • Emergence of protectionism • The progress of electric and • Growth of emerging economies autonomous vehicles Environment & energy Society & values • Climate change • Acceleration of diversity in • Growing demand for energy, foods and water advanced countries • Decarbonization & renewable energy • A decline of working-age population • Achievement of a recycling-oriented society by accelerating the pace of sharing • Growing pursuit and needs for safety and comfort Expectations of achieving Our Tasks in the 1. T  o solve ESG issues through the growth Growth Strategies strategies of our core business 28 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Demand for Construction and Mining Equipment  Period of the mid-term Period of the previous plan management plan Sustainable • Growth strategies based on • Value creation by means of growth innovation innovation • Growth strategies of existing • Growth strategies based on businesses business reforms • Structural reforms designed to • Structural reforms for growth reinforce the business foundation Growth above the industry’s Sales / Demand average by focusing investment in growth areas Demand recovery for mining equipment and in emerging economies Assumed range of We assume gradual growth in demand change We assumed demand recovery would the mid to long ranges, start in FY2019 in the previous plan. but volatility will remain high (Actually it started in FY2017.) in the short range. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022~ Construction, Mining, and Utility Equipment Business Sales (to Outside Customers) by Region (Billions of yen) 3,000 2,466.6 2,500 2,267.3 Africa Middle East Strategic 2,000 Oceania Markets 1,500 1,566.3 Asia China 54% CIS 1,000 Latin America Traditional Europe Markets 46% 500 North America Japan 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 a sustainable society 2. T  o promote sustainable growth based on our profit structure which is free of changes in the external environment and market demand 29 Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Mid-Term Management Plan (FY2019–FY2021) Overview of the Mid-Term Management Plan The mid-term management plan sets forth the future vision Komatsu should aspire to and hope to accomplish as it approaches and moves beyond the 100th anniversary of its founding in 2021. As part of this vision, we seek to become a company that can help realize the safe, highly productive, smart, and clean workplaces of the future together with customers while generating a positive cycle of resolving ESG issues through the creation of value for customers and improving earnings. Management Make commitment to Quality and Reliability and maximize corporate Principle value (the total sum of trust from society and all stakeholders) 2021 2 Backcasting 100th Growth strategies and management targets by backcasting anniversary the roadmap to our future vision and beyond 1 Future Vision Mid-Term Previous Plan Management Plan (FY2016–FY2018) ESG Solutions (FY2019–FY2021) • Growth strategies based on innovation Positive cycle = Sustainable growth • Growth strategies of Three Pillars of Growth existing businesses Strategies Workplaces of the • Structural reforms 1. Value creation by means of future: Safe, highly designed to reinforce the innovation productive, smart business foundation 2. Growth  strategies based on and clean business reforms 3 3. S  tructural reforms for growth Positive cycle = Sustainable growth Integration of KMC (FY2017) Improvement of earnings •O  ptimization platform and solutions business strategies SMARTCONSTRUCTION, Autonomous Haulage System (AHS), and Value creation platforms (LANDLOG and IntelliMine) 1 by means of • Automation, autonomous operation, electrification and remote-controlling of innovation construction, mining and utility (compact) equipment • Smart forestry and agriculture • KMC integration synergies and business reinforcement • Value chain reforms and redefinition of the aftermarket business Preventive maintenance by applying IoT and AI, and Lifecycle support under serial number-based Growth strategies management; logistics reforms; and next-generation key components 2 based on business • Next-generation KOMTRAX • Stronger focus on aggregate & cement, forestry, agriculture and other segments reforms • Efforts for “DANTOTSU No. 1 in Asia” and in the growing markets of India and Africa • Reforms of the industrial machinery business (Expansion of synergy with the construction ­equipment business and growth by capitalizing on core technologies) Structural • Business reforms by means of ICT and IoT 3 reforms for • Structural reforms of development operations Model based development Open innovation • Connected plants with Zero impact on environment and workers growth • Global human resource development 30 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Management Targets of the Mid-Term Management Plan and Related Performance FY2019 (First year of the plan) Management Target Indicator Performance Growth • Growth rate above the industry’s average Sales growth rate 10.3% Operating Profitability • An industry’s top-level operating income ratio income ratio 10.3% Efficiency • 10%-level ROE ROE 8.6% • Keep a fair balance between investment for growth and Net debt-toFinancial position shareholder return (including stock buybacks), while placing main equity ratio 0.43 priority on investment Consolidated Shareholder return • Set the goal of a consolidated payout ratio of 40% or higher payout ratio 57.7% CO2 emissions: Reduction of Decrease by 40% in 2021 • Reduction of environmental impact environmental Renewable energy use: CO2 emissions: Decrease by 50% in 2030 from 2010. impact Increase to 15% of total ESG Renewal energy use: Increase to 50% of total energy use in 2030. energy use in 2021 • Evaluation by external organizations: Selected for DJSI (World & Evaluation by Selected for DJSI Asia Pacific) and CDP A-list (Climate Changes and Water Risk) external CDP Climate Change: A organizations CDP Water Risk: A• ROA: 1.5%–2.0% ROA 1.5% Retail finance business Net debt-to• 5.0 or under for net debt-to-equity ratio equity ratio 3.80 Concepts and Stance of the Mid-Term Management Plan The mid-term management plan defines three pillars of growth strategies: 1) value creation by means of innovation, 2) growth strategies based on business reforms, and 3) structural reforms for growth. By prioritizing investment on growth areas based on the three pillars of growth strategies, we will seek to achieve sustainable growth through a positive cycle of improving earnings and solving ESG issues that is resilient to fluctuations in demand. Expectations of society and Growth Strategy Aligned with stakeholders Management Principles Stakeholders Maximize Corporate Value which is the Total Sum of Trust Enhance Corporate Brand Communities Solutions for ESG issues Customers ESG Solutions Sustainable growth Positive cycle = Sustainable growth Employees Distributors Three Pillars of Growth Strategies Suppliers 1. Value creation by means of Shared growth innovation based on 2. Growth strategies based on business growth strategies reforms Business 3. Structural reforms for growth partners Positive cycle = Sustainable growth Shareholders Investors Sustainable Improvement of earnings increase of earnings 31 Resolution of ESG Issues Resolution of ESG Issues through Growth Strategies Komatsu’s CSR Themes and Mid-Term Management Plan KPIs Komatsu seeks to help resolve ESG issues by promoting the three pillars of growth strategies defined in the new midterm management plan. We strive to realize a positive cycle of sustainable growth through improvements of earnings and resolutions to ESG issues. Our initiatives include reducing environmental impacts to combat climate change and CSR Themes ESG Solutions through Three Pillars of Growth Strategies Relevant SDGs • Provide products, service and solutions contributing to sustainable development of infrastructure, natural resources and circular environmental protection (remanufacturing Enhancing and forestry). Quality of Life • Improve productivity, efficiency, safety and environmental impact (lower CO2 emissions and higher ratio of renewable —Providing Products energy use) through innovations, such as automation in the entire value chain. Required by Society— • Make commitment to DANTOTSU Value which will realize better Earth and future by means of technology and reliability (creation and maximization of customer value). • Develop a diverse workforce with a high level of productivity and technical skills. Developing • Strengthen and develop diverse and global-scope talent People to help achieve sustainable workplaces. • Develop talent with cross-value chain capabilities. • Offer resolutions for social issues through collaboration Growing with with stakeholders. Society • Act as a responsible corporate citizen ensuring corporate governance, compliance, and human rights. 32 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies supplying high-quality, high-performance products, services, and solutions ensuring safety. KPIs have been set to guide these initiatives solving ESG issues through our core business. Key Initiatives under Mid-Term Management Plan FY2019 KPI Performance FY2021 KPIs Reduction of CO2 emissions (in comparison to FY2010) • Reduction of CO2 emissions from product use (fuel-efficiency equipment, hybrid hydraulic excavator, rate of SMARTCONSTRUCTION use, enhancement of ICT-intensive construc14% reduction 16% reduction (in comparison to FY2010) tion, mine automation, and underground mining equipment) •R  eduction of CO2 emissions from production (plants with zero impact on environment 31.5% reduction 40% reduction (in comparison to FY2010) and workers) Plants with zero impact on environment and workers • Rate of renewable energy use (including purchase of renewable energy) 10.7% 15% • Work environment burden coefficient (particle matter density) 10.7% reduction 30% reduction (in comparison to FY2018) •W  ater consumption 49.4% reduction 55% reduction (in comparison to FY2010) Value chain reforms and redefinition of the aftermarket business • Spare parts sales 3% increase 11% increase • Reman component lifespan (compared to new components) 26,866 workhours (134% of new components) 20,000 workhours (100% of new components) Assurance of mine operation safety and productivity • AHS units’ population (promotion of mining platform business) 221 units 380 units (aggregate) DANTOTSU Product, DANTOTSU Service, and DANTOTSU Solution • ICT-intensive equipment introduced (United States, Europe, and Australia) 1,361 units 1,590 units (per year) • Sites adopting SMARTCONSTRUCTION 2,440 4,850 (per year) • Automation, autonomous operation, electrification, and remote-controlling of equipment Test introduction of hydraulic excavators for automated 1. Automation of construction equipment Verification tests conducted on user sites loading Preparations advanced to launch mining bulldozer with 2. Automation, autonomous operation, and remote operation of mining equipment Entry into mining bulldozer market (level 4 automation) level 2 automation Development of peripheral safety technologies for 3. Automation of utility equipment Development of technology for automated forklifts supporting automation 4. Enhancement of mining equipment and hard rock mining businesses Under development Expansion of product series Agricultural solutions and smart forestry Japan: Commencement of verification tests at five Japan: Expand lineup of agricultural loaders agriculture business operators • Creation of construction equipment demand in agricultural field Indonesia: Increase number of users of agricultural Indonesia: Started mass production and sales of D31PLL techniques employing agricultural bulldozers agricultural bulldozer • Smart forestry projects 10 50 IoT and ICT work reforms • Sales in KOM-MICS platform business (visualization of production equipment operation) 865 units 1,900 units (including for internal use) Development of a diverse workforce with a high level of productivity and technical skills • Enhancing employee engagement Scheduled for FY2020 Improvement of global surveys and indexes (1) 1,950 workhours per person/year Total workhours of less than 2,100; introduction of telework • Work process reforms through expansion of diverse and flexible workstyles (2) Commencement of trial in August 2019 system (Japan) • Training hours: 31,625 hours (aggregate hours for all participants) • Promotion of KOMATSU Way (global dissemination of KOMATSU Way) Training hours and number of participants • Number of participants: 1,461 in Japan, 307 overseas Strengthening and development of diverse and global-scope talent to help achieve sustainable workplaces Shifting of human resources to projects and improvement • Revision of role of Japan in global management Human resource system revisions started in Japan activities; globalization of organizations on by-function basis • Foundations for global measures (systems, frameworks) Preparations advanced for introduction Introduction •E  mpowerment of female employees ((1) non-consolidated ratio of female employees, (2) non-consolidated ratio of female managers, (3) consolidated ratio of female managers (1) 12.3%, (2) 7.2%, and (3) 4.5% (1) 12.5%, (2) 10.0%, and (3) 5.0% (Japan)) • Rate of employment of people with disabilities (comply with requirements in Japan) 2.58% (non-consolidated) Above 2.3% (legally mandated rate) •Human resource development program launched in Chile • Support for regional human resource development for job creation •O ngoing support provided in Peru, South Africa, and Chile, Australia, South Africa, others (regional human resource development with Cummins Inc.) Australia •Participants’ success in finding employment tracked Development of talent with cross-value chain capabilities •C  ultivation of SMARTCONSTRUCTION consultants (capable of proposing solutions 396 430 (aggregate) using ICT to improve productivity and safety throughout construction workplaces) Resolutions to social issues through collaboration with stakeholders •P  romotion of industry-government-academia collaboration as well as of collaboration Examination of cutting-edge tools through activities Promotion of Brand Management and activities creating value with customers with domestic customers and regional dissemination for customers •Shareholder meetings: 2 times •S  hareholders and individual investors (shareholder meetings, shareholder •Shareholder factory tours: 10 times factory tours, individual investor meetings) •Individual investor meetings: 7 times Number of meetings held •Certain factory tours and meetings canceled due to impacts of global COVID-19 pandemic • Institutional investors (ESG meetings) 11 (ESG-related meetings) Number of meetings held Business fairs at nine factories (Awazu, Osaka, Ibaraki, Kanazawa, Tochigi, Oyama, Koriyama, Shonan, and • Communities (business site fairs) One fair held at each of nine factories per year Himi); canceled only at Shonan Plant due to impacts of Typhoon Hagibis • Employees (meetings) 34 (30 in Japan, 4 overseas) Number of meetings held Action as a responsible corporate citizen addressing corporate governance, compliance, and human rights • Occupational health and safety, support for establishing environmental and safety systems at suppliers, response to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code (corporate governance Establishment of Human Rights Policy, disclosure in Ongoing improvements made in reflection of relevant laws reports), evaluations of effectiveness of Board of Directors, internal control, and internal integrated report and regulations and social expectations audits 33 Enhancing Quality of Life —Providing Products Required by Society— Climate Change Issues Komatsu established the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter in 1992, launching proactive initiatives for addressing climate change and other environmental issues a step ahead of its peers. The enactment of the Paris Agreement in 2016 sparked a rapid rise in the importance of initiatives for addressing climate change in the global society. As a global business operator, Komatsu recognizes that contributing to the transition to a low-carbon society is an important management issue in light of the increased frequency of abnormal climate events and natural disasters and changes in resource demand resulting from global warming. In April 2019, Komatsu announced its endorsement of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Through climate change risk and opportunity assessments and scenario analyses based on these recommendations, we will pursue increases our resilience toward climate change impacts. At the same time, we will advance climate change response measures through a healthy dialogue with stakeholders. Furthermore, we will supply high-quality, high-performance products, services, and solutions that are designed for reducing environmental impacts, particularly in relation to climate change, and for safety. 34 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Resolution of ESG Issues Initiatives Based on TCFD Framework Governance Komatsu views climate change as an important management issue, and targets for combating climate change have been incorporated into its business strategies. Discussions regarding climate change are held at meetings of the Earth Environment Committee, the Risk Management Committee, and the CSR Committee, and these committees make suggestions to the Strategy Review Committee and report to the Board of Directors, thereby furnishing a system of appropriate oversight. Meanwhile, the Executive Meeting fulfills the function of managing progress toward targets. Climate Change-Related Reporting and Deliberation System Board of Directors Report 提言 Strategy Review Committee Suggest • Earth Environment Committee • Risk Management Committee • CSR Committee Executive Meeting Major Discussion Items Related to Climate Change Name Chairperson Major Discussion Items Related to Climate Change • Report from Earth Environment Committee (once a year) Chairman of the •Reports from research, development, and product planning divisions and the Chief Board and Board of Directors Technology Officer (once a year) Representative •Reports from production and procurement divisions (once a year) Director •Mid-term management plan progress report (once a year) Strategy Review • Growth strategies for major plants (including climate change-related matters, five times a year) President Committee • Report from Environmental Affairs Department (once a year) • Progress in regard to product development and production systems (monthly) Executive Meeting President • Climate change lectures by external specialists (once a year) Name Chairperson Major Discussion Items Related to Climate Change • Deliberations and reports regarding important environmental matters and key Earth Environment President performance indicators (KPIs) Committee • Reports on overall environmental frameworks and activities Executive officer Risk Management supervising • Reports on responses to natural disaster risks Committee general affairs • Initiatives for addressing ESG issues CSR Committee President • CSR activity reports 35 Resolution of ESG Issues Strategies Risk and Opportunity Identification  In FY2019, a total of 16 climate change-related risks and opportunities were identified for Komatsu, primarily in relation to construction equipment operations, based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We then assessed internal factors, which impact sales and earnings, and external factors, which affect projected scenarios. Through this process, the 16 risks and opportunities were grouped based on four major themes. Risks and Opportunities and Groupings 16 Risks and Opportunities Four Major Themes • Coal demand fluctuations Changes in • Reduced coal demand • Changes in reputation among resource • Increased resource demand customers and investors demand related to electric equipment • Environmental regulations • Trend toward electric equipment • Subsidiaries for renewable energy Transition to • More stringent fuel regulations and energy conservation projects low-carbon • Progress in electrification and • Substitute fuel technologies products next-generation technologies Maximized in • Next-generation technical services 2°C scenario (new market) • Carbon prices • Popularization of renewable energy • Rising manufacturing costs due technologies Manufacturing to higher carbon prices* • Raw material prices costs *CO2 taxation measures for reducing emissions • Energy prices • Recycling • More frequent abnormal weather events • Increased precipitation amounts • Increased precipitation amounts and and flood risks due to abnormal Natural Maximized in weather patterns weather 4°C scenario disasters • Higher average temperatures • Higher demand in conjunction • Rising sea levels with national resilience plans Business Risks and Opportunities Based on Climate Change Scenarios  To gauge the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and Concentration Pathways 2.6 and 8.5) and the Sustainable opportunities on Komatsu’s business, we performed scenario analyDevelopment Scenario and Stated Policies Scenario of the ses of the Company’s four major risk and opportunity themes. For International Energy Agency (IEA). these scenario analyses, we defined a 2°C scenario and a 4°C sceThe risks and opportunities pertaining to specific ESG themes nario based on the Fifth Assessment Report of the and Komatsu’s strategies for addressing these risks and opportuniIntergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (Representative ties are described on the following page. 36 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Changes in Resource Demand Risks Opportunities • Rapid transition from fossil fuel-powered equipment to • Regulation of power generation using electric equipment fossil fuels • Higher demand for copper and other resources 2°C • Massive reductions in coal production necessary for electric equipment (motors, batteries, fuel scenario volumes under IEA scenarios cells, etc.) • Reduced sales to coal-related customers • Increased sales to copper and other relevant miningby Komatsu related customers by Komatsu in conjunction with trend toward electric equipment • Trend toward electric equipment less • Limited regulation of coal in developing nations pronounced than in 2°C scenario 4°C • Coal production volumes in 2030 in line with • Higher demand for copper and other resources scenario current levels under IEA scenarios necessary for electric equipment • Reduced appetite for investment in coal mines • Rise in investment for streamlining mine operations Exploration of business opportunities arising from climate change through value creation by means of innovation and growth strategies based on innovation • Increased metal resource demand in conjunction with transition to electric equipment—Expansion of underground mining equipment operations Strategies • Contribution to sustainable forestry—Provision of equipment and systems for streamlining processes spanning from afforestation to logging • Contribution to rehabilitation of closed mine sites and greenification of deserts—Forest restoration projects at closed mine sites and forest machine operations • Transition to circular economies—Expansion of equipment restoration (“Reman”) business Transition to Low-Carbon Products Risks Opportunities • Higher demand for electric, fuel-efficient, and bio-fuel equipment • Regulations promoting transition to fuel-efficient equip• Expansion of equipment restoration (“Reman”) business in 2°C ment, electric equipment, and other low-carbon products conjunction with transition to circular economies scenario • Rapid changes in research and development trends and • Increased demand for SMARTCONSTRUCTION and other competitive climate and market entry by new competitors solutions contributing to decarbonization • Respond to transition risks by shifting toward low-carbon products through realization of the safe, highly productive, smart, Strategies and clean workplaces of the future described in the mid-term management plan Manufacturing Costs Risks Opportunities • Taxation of fossil fuels and CO2 emissions 2°C • Transfer of higher product purchase prices to Komatsu • Increased competitiveness through production technologies that scenario •R  ising power fees and energy costs following investment reduce CO2 emissions in power generation facilities with low CO2 emissions Strategies • Mitigation of cost increases by achieving CO2 reduction and renewable energy targets defined in the mid-term management plan Natural Disasters Risks Opportunities • Increased frequency of heavy rain and floods due to abnormal weather 4°C • Risks of disaster damages to Komatsu plants at high risk • Increased demand for flood-control works scenario of flooding • Component supply delays following damages to suppliers from disasters Strategies • Institute heavy rain and flood countermeasures across the value chain 37 Resolution of ESG Issues Risk Management Please refer to page 52 for information on the Company’s risk management systems. Indicators and Targets Komatsu is mitigating climate change through its business by supplying high-quality, high-performance products, services, and solutions that include provisions for ensuring safety and reducing climate change-related environmental impacts. The following three indicators and accompanying targets have been set in the mid-term management plan to facilitate the appropriate assessment and management of climate change-related risks and opportunities. Climate Change-Related Indicators and Targets Indicators Targets CO2 emissions from product use Decrease by 50% in 2030 (Base year of 2010, basic unit) CO2 emissions from production Decrease by 50% in 2030 (Base year of 2010, basic unit) Rate of renewable energy use 50% in 2030 Please refer to ESG Databook 2020 for more information. https://komatsu.disclosure.site/en/themes/149 VO ICE Message from the CTO (Supervising Research & Development and Environment) Komatsu’s mid-term management plan puts forth environmental impact reduction targets pertaining to cutting CO2 emissions, which contribute to mitigating climate change, and the increasing use of renewable energy. Approximately 90% of CO2 emissions from the lifecycles of Komatsu construction equipment, which span from production through to disposal, are attributable to the consumption of fuel during product use at active workplaces. Recognizing this fact, we are dedicated to lowering CO2 emissions from both production and product use. Efforts to reduce CO2 emissions from production include utilizing ICT to carefully track product manufacturing processes and all of the energy used therein and identifying where energy is wasted in these processes. We are addressing this waste through steadfast small reforms to remove each and every source of energy waste as well as large reforms that entail transforming Yuichi Iwamoto the very way we do our work. By tracking metrics pertaining to factors such as Senior Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer (CTO) plant air-conditioning, lighting, and machinery, we are endeavoring to eliminate Supervising Research & Development and Environment wastes and switch to more efficient equipment. These energy conservation efforts are being complemented by the increased use of renewable energy. encourage them to use their equipment more efficiently. Meanwhile, the Specific renewable energy initiatives include electricity generation using solar SMARTCONSTRUCTION solution monitors conditions throughout construcpower and thinned wood as well as air-conditioning systems that take advantion workplaces to propose more efficient construction methods and allows tage of differences in temperature between air and underground water. us to provide solutions for optimizing customer workplaces. To reduce CO2 emissions from product use, Komatsu is utilizing its proWe are also pursuing CO2 reductions in the forest machine business, prietary technology development and production systems to improve effiwhich has been identified as a core theme of the mid-term management ciency with regard to engines and hydraulic, electronic, and other plan. In this business, we see potential to cut emissions by delivering components. These efforts have led to the reduction of CO2 emissions products with superior safety and productivity to realize recycling-oriented through the introduction of the world’s first hybrid system for construction forestry, a woodland management approach entailing a cycle of planting, equipment. Through ongoing development and improvement measures cultivating, and felling forests. Accordingly, as part of our social contribudriven by proprietary technologies, we seek to further reduce the CO2 emistion activities, we have been participating in forest restoration projects to sions from Komatsu products. For example, we have been promoting the greenify the sites of mines at which the excavation of underground minerelectrification of our products and have launched compact battery-powered als has been completed. forklifts and, more recently, electric mini excavators that do not emit CO2. Komatsu does not view climate change response measures excluOur attempts to improve the fuel efficiency of our products are not limsively in terms of the related risks. Rather, we see these measures as ited to performance enhancements to the products themselves; we are also representing prime opportunities to create new businesses. For example, utilizing Internet of Things (IoT) technologies obtained through open innovawe could create businesses that enable us to improve the value of custion to reduce fuel consumption by tracking conditions across active worktomer workplaces through the provision of solutions that take advantage places. For example, KOMTRAX includes a function that provides customers of products and open innovation capitalizing on the strength of our ability with operating status and fuel efficiency improvement recommendations to to develop and produce key components in-house. 38 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies TOPIC S Afforestation Projects Advanced Worldwide  Surface mining operations are subject to rigorous regulation to protect the environment as they develop resources. The mine rehabilitation process, which includes filling mine sites and restoring them for use in agriculture or as forests, entails a great deal of effort within the confines of this regulatory framework. However, even such effort does not guarantee that former mine sites can be revived as sustainable forests. If the revegetation process fails, the nutrition will be lost from the top soil, due to its reduced water-holding capacity, and the mine site will decay further. Komatsu believes that human intervention is needed to break this downward spiral and assist in the forest restoration process. In addition to helping forge relationships with our mining customers, these efforts utilize our construction equipment and forest machines, making them a social contribution activity that is highly compatible with Komatsu’s business. North America-Originating Forest Restoration Projects Spreading across the Globe Komatsu’s involvement in forest restoration projects can be traced back to projects launched in North America in April 2019. Through one of these projects, we are working to rehabilitate a mine site spanning 1,000 acres (4 square kilometers) in West Virginia over a period of three years. Komatsu provides monetary support, renting equipment, and dispatching employee volunteers for tree planting activities in this project (see KOMATSU REPORT 2019 for details). In FY2019, we planted 50,000 trees across a 93-acre (0.4 square kilometers) stretch of the former mine site. In March 2020, another forest restoration project was launched in Australia through collaboration between major mineral resource company Anglo American PLC and Komatsu Australia Pty. Ltd. and Komatsu Mining Corp. The current goal of this project is to plant more than 9,000 trees at the former site of Anglo American’s Dawson Mine to restore the forest of this site using indigenous tree species and with an eye to converting parts of the site to farmland. At the kickoff event held in March 2020, a total of 120 people, including employees of the three companies, local residents, Kickoff event held in Australia in March 2020 at which a total of and elementary school students, gathered to plant 4,000 trees in a single 120 people gathered to plant 4,000 trees in a single day day. In Europe, we have partnered with Belgium-based NPO Tree-Nation ASBL, which specializes in afforestation, and we are conducting donation campaigns to fund the afforestation activities this NPO is advancing on five continents. A major characteristic of this initiative is that it allows donators to check the progress in the tree planting activities they funded and confirm the resulting CO2 absorption volume via a smartphone application. European Komatsu Group companies are soliciting donations on various occasions via the efforts of employees as well as collaboration with partners to contribute to the restoration of forests. Carbon Offset Initiatives The forests to be restored through the on-schedule advancement of forest restoration projects in North America and Australia should absorb an estimated value of approximately 2,000 tons of CO2 each year. Komatsu anticipates that the spread of its forest restoration projects will have the positive benefit of mitigating climate change. 39 Resolution of ESG Issues Developing People Founder Meitaro Takeuchi established Komatsu Ltd. in Komatsu City, Ishikawa Prefecture roughly a century ago. Having witnessed Europe’s cutting-edge technologies at that time, Takeuchi put forth the four management principles of global expansion, quality first, technological innovation, and human resource development. The commitment to the development of human resources, an invaluable asset to Komatsu, lives on in the Company today. Employees Supporting Komatsu Technical Institute lesson Komatsu as a Global Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Company  32% 68% 6% (13) 94% (206) Komatsu develops its operations around the world, and approximately 70% of its employees are not Japanese. Accordingly, developing human resources that are Number of Number of rooted in the communities they serve while promoting Employees Consolidated Subsidiaries mutual acceptance of the values and cultures of vari62,823 ous countries and regions is becoming increasingly (consolidated) 219 important. Operations around the world must be (as of March 31, 2020) (as of March 31, 2020) instilled with Komatsu’s manufacturing competitiveness, which includes the values that support Komatsu and the workplace improvement, driven by employees. VO ICE Message from the General Manager of the Human Resources Department The ongoing growth of a company is driven by its people, or its employees, Group, including at overseas and these people are thus its most important resource. Group companies. A basic policy of human resource development at Komatsu is that The global COVID-19 pansenior managers and other leaders are expected to foster their successors demic is spreading uncertainty of and other human resources capable of competing on the global stage an unprecedented degree. We are through their own actions. therefore pressed to make deciAt the same time, we are constantly working to improve group-wide sions and act swiftly and flexibly in GEMBA capability (employee-driven, continuous improvement capability) response to an ever-changing and support the career development efforts of individual employees. These environment. efforts are carried out through a diverse range of human resource developCurrently, a large number of ment and personnel rotation programs advanced on a global scale. our employees are being forced to Koichi Honda In recent years, employees of non-Japanese nationality have come to telecommute. Regardless, we are Senior Executive Officer represent around 70% of our total employee base. In reflection of this fact, maintaining close coordination General Manager of the Human creating an environment where globally diversified employees can work with our colleagues around the Resources Department Supervising Education together as one solid team and make contributions to business growth has world to remain up-to-date on the been positioned as a central tenet of our human resource strategies under latest information. The health and safety of all of our employees and their the current mid-term management plan, and various initiatives are being families remains our top priority throughout this process. implemented accordingly. Meanwhile, on the front lines of business, our strength in enacting poliSpecifically, we are focused on the following four areas: cies is being utilized to its fullest as middle managers play a central role in 1. Enhancing global measures for recruiting and cultivating talented personamassing the capabilities of the relative divisions to resolve the issues and nel and managing staff (visualization of human resources) problems faced at customer workplaces. 2. Increasing diversity and empowering female employees (increasing ratio Over the roughly one century since its founding, Komatsu has continof female employees and ratio of female managers) ued to surmount countless trials, growing rapidly in the process. The global 3. Improving employee health, engagement, and productivity through workCOVID-19 pandemic presents a need for constant vigilance going forward. style reforms Still, I am confident that, with the KOMATSU Way sculpted by our forebear4. Addressing birthrate decline and population aging in Japan ers and the principles of SLQDC (Safety, Law, Quality, Delivery, and Cost) 40 In these areas, we are looking to heighten our capabilities across the as our guide, we can come together to overcome this challenge as well. Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies The KOMATSU Way   The KOMATSU Way is the very DNA of Komatsu, an expression of the strengths of Komatsu, the beliefs supporting these strengths, the basic attitudes, and patterns of behaviors established based on the experiences of our predecessors as they proceeded to tackle the challenges facing them. Komatsu seeks to develop its operations on a global scale and to become a stronger company and grow. To accomplish these objectives, it will be crucial for us to transmit the KOMATSU Way to employees with different cultures and customs around the world and to implement these principles in a manner that aligns employees along the same vector. To spread understanding of the KOMATSU Way among all employees worldwide, we published the third edition of the K-Way booklet in 2019. This booklet is being utilized in human resource development through training programs, improvement activities, and daily communication. 1 Leadership/ Top Management 2 “Monozukuri” for All Employees 3 Brand Management Leaders must be directly involved in the Komatsu aims to pass on the manufacturing (Customer Value Creation Activities) workplaces and manage businesses with an competitiveness, perspectives, and values that, Komatsu defines “Brand Management” as all the activities emphasis on contributing to the entire Group, based on total quality management, have that “make Komatsu indispensable to our customers.” This including distributors and suppliers. We have continued to drive Komatsu’s competitiveness and objective is accomplished by visiting customer workplaces also defined guidelines for leaders related to support its growth. We look to transmit these to understand the ideal state of these customers and to actively engaging in regular board meetings, principles through a joint effort encompassing all build relationships that enable us to work together with communicating with stakeholders, complying internal divisions as well as our suppliers, them to help achieve their goals through concerted efforts with rules of the business community, distributors, and other partners and to continue by the Group and its distributors. managing risks, and grooming successors for promoting involvement by all of these parties. management positions. Diversity & Inclusion Development Seminar for Cultivating Female Leaders on a Global Basis  In March 2019, a Diversity & Inclusion Development Seminar was held for female managers at Komatsu and at local overseas subsidiaries, and 15 individuals from 12 countries took part. Through this seminar, we hope that participants will deepen their understanding of the history of Komatsu, the KOMATSU Way, and management strategies, and become leaders promoting diversity initiatives at their companies. Discussion between participants and senior management Komatsu Technical Institute for Fostering Production Engineers  The Komatsu Technical Institute is an internal boarding school system that offers a program for fostering the distinctive production engineers that underpin our manufacturing competitiveness. At the Komatsu Technical Institute, junior engineers selected from the production sites of Group companies and affiliates take part in a structured, two-year education program while stimulating mutual growth through communal living. A new training facility was completed in February 2020, and it was also at this time that we began accepting employees from overseas subsidiaries into this program. As a result, the Komatsu Technical Institute now offers an even more diverse environment for cultivating future global production leaders. New Komatsu Technical Institute training facility at the Awazu Plant AI Education for Developing Key Personnel for AI Field Requirements of Key AI Coordination  Coordination Personnel Looking ahead, it can be anticipated that there will be growth in opportunities for business coordination with external partners in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). Based on this recognition, Communication Technical Skill Skills Komatsu launched dedicated programs for cultivating key personnel in the AI field in 2019. Through the basic and advance programs, we are working to heighten the AI technological Customercapabilities of our staff, foster key personnel in the field, identify pertinent themes from cusBusiness Oriented Perspective tomer-oriented and business perspectives, and develop human resources capable of playing a Perspective central leadership role in internal and external coordination. 41 Resolution of ESG Issues Growing with Society —Social Contribution Activities Komatsu recognizes that social contributions to the communities in which it conducts its business activities are an important corporate responsibility. Komatsu defines the social contribution activities as activities related to its three CSR themes that are not directly aimed at generating earnings. Based on this definition, we seek to contribute to society in a manner that leverages the strengths of our core business. Social Contribution Activities in FY2019  The following chart shows expenditures for social contribution activities by Komatsu Group aggregated based on six general categories. Academic and Human Industry-Academia Collaborations 22% Resource Development 25% FY2019 Social Contribution Culture & Sports 26% Expenditures (Consolidated) Local Community Support 17% ¥2,136 Disaster Relief 7% million Environment 3% Type of Social Contribution Expenditure Cash contributions Employee dispatchment Expense related to Expense related to events Total and time contributions providing own facilities for the community for public use ¥707 million ¥316 million ¥314 million ¥797 million ¥2,136 million Commencement of Agricultural Support Project Following Demining Project  Since 2008, Komatsu has been engaging in collaborative efforts with efforts, which are shaped by local needs, in which we will use conthe Japan Mine Action Service (JMAS) to support the demining of struction equipment to contribute to agriculture. For example, it is anti-personnel landmines in Cambodia and other areas threatened possible to increase rice yield by flattening out rough areas to make by these weapons. In addition to removing mines, we also provide a smooth and level surface prior to planting. We therefore see the reconstruction work, building roads and schools in demined areas, potential for ICT-intensive agricultural bulldozers equipped with autoas part of a community development project. In January 2020, we matic blade control functions to be used to increase rice production embarked on a new project with JMAS. Through this project, volumes by flattening direct-planting rice paddies to the greatest Komatsu ICT-intensive bulldozers, wheel loaders, and hydraulic excadegree possible. We also anticipate that agricultural wheel loaders vators will be deployed to Cambodia to provide agricultural support. can be utilized in the production and harvesting of crops such as casThis project represents a new step in our community development sava, which has been the target of growing demand in recent years. 42 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Social Support Activities in Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic  Producing and Donating Medical Supplies in Collaboration with Business Partners, The Komatsu Midori-kai The COVID-19 pandemic has directly damaged our lives and health, but has also significantly impacted the economy, finance, medical infrastructure, and other aspects of society. Members of donation recipient National Hospital In Japan, as the number of people infected by COVID-19 increased, the shortOrganization Osaka National Hospital ages of medical devices became a critical issue. Though we do not have the equipment or skills to produce medical devices, Komatsu has some assets, like long-time collaborative relationships with our business partners and our production and sales networks. By utilizing these assets, we have procured and donated isolation gowns and face shields, which are personal protective equipment (PPE) for medical workers for which there is particularly urgent need. To procure them, we asked a Midori-kai member company to begin PPE production. At Komatsu, the staff of our production technology also participated in the activThrough the personal network of our supplier, we ity to improve the strength of the parts, productivity, and the comfort of the PPE also received support from a garment making vocational school in Nagano Prefecture. The teachers and during the prototyping phase of the face shield. students made 100 pieces of PPE from materials donated by a filter maker, one of Midori-kai member After medical experts inspected the protective ability and comfort of the protocompanies and donated them to the medical institutions in the region. types, 10,100 gowns and 8,000 face shields were produced. We distributed them to medical institutions around the nation for free through the NPO Peace Winds Japan and the government, of which part was funded by donations from our employees. In addition to the isolation gowns and face shields, Komatsu and our employees are carrying out the following support activities: Country/Region Major Activities • Donations equivalent to 350,000 dollars in total Breakdown: • A 250,000-dollar joint donation with our employees to the hunger relief organization, Feeding USA America •1  00,000 dollars donated to local communities Chile • Support for sanitation of streets using cistern trucks (in collaboration with the government) • Donations equivalent to 10 million rupees (national or state welfare funds and technical training support for conIndia struction equipment operators) • Donations equivalent to 100,000 euros from our group companies in Europe (for medical and food-related purposes Europe depending on local needs, and support for multiple organizations) • Donation of 100,000 N95 medical masks from our stock to the Red Cross, the government, medical institutions, Japan etc. Business Partners—They are Invaluable to Komatsu For manufacturers, business partners (the suppliers of materials, parts, and components) are important partners that support product quality and reliability. Komatsu especially places great value on relationships with business partners and has grown together with TOPICS them throughout our long history. We have been thinking together with them and supporting each other, not only in terms of the procurement of goods but also from the perspective of management and human resource development. The Komatsu Midori-kai comprises 156 member companies that are the main suppliers in Japan. They supply approximately 80% of the items we procure in Japan. Representatives of Midori-kai member companies and top Komatsu management participate in general conferences and roundable discussions for managers, etc. to share policies and issues with each other. We also established regional Midori-kai member comprises for China, North America and Europe. With the addition of the member companies of the Joint Associations of Business Partners in Asia, the total number of overseas member companies exceeds 140. 43 Resolution of ESG Issues Corporate Governance Basic Stance on Corporate Governance To become a company which enjoys more trust from shareholders and all other stakeholders, the Company is working to strengthen corporate governance, improve management efficiency, advocate corporate ethics and ensure sound management on a group-wide basis. To further improve the transparency of management for its shareholders and investors, the Company discloses information in a fair and timely manner and actively engages in investor relations’ activities by holding meetings with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Framework  At the Company, the Board of Directors is positioned as the core of Officer (Shikko Yakuin) System in 1999, the Company has separated corporate governance, and to improve the effectiveness of discusmanagement decision making and supervisory functions from execsions at meetings of the Board of Directors, the Company has utive functions to the extent permitted by laws and regulations, and worked to put in place a system to ensure thorough discussions of while appointing both Outside Directors and Outside Audit & important management matters and prompt decision making, and Supervisory Board Members, limits the Board of Directors to a small reform their operational aspect. Having introduced the Executive number of members. Corporate Governance of the Company (As of June 30, 2020) Figures in represent the number of meetings in FY2019. General Meeting of Shareholders Elect / Discharge Elect / Discharge Elect / Discharge 15 Audit 15 times times Audit & Audit reports Accounting Auditors Supervisory Board (Audit corporation) Office of (Standing 2 / Outside 3) Corporate Board of Directors Recommend Human Resource 3 Auditors’ Staff (Standing 5 / Outside 3) times Collaboration Advisory Committee Advise / Suggest Recommend Audit Compensation Advisory 1 International time Committee Advisory Board Elect / Discharge / Supervise Report / Submission Executive Functions President and CEO Internal Major Committees Auditing Product Safety Committee Dept. Strategy Review Committee Compliance Committee Risk Management Committee Export Control Committee Komatsu Group’s Global Operations Earth Environment Committee Internal audit Executive Officers and Global Officers 60 CSR Committee • Japan 32 • Global 28 (including 19 foreign nationals) Disclosure Committee Collaboration Decide on the details of the items including election and discharge / Confirm suitability or independency of the Accounting Auditors Recommend Audit reports 44 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Activities of the Board of Directors  The Company holds Board of Directors’ meetings periodically at and objective management. least once every month. The Board of Directors deliberates and To promote efficient management of the Board of Directors, the makes resolutions on important matters, determines management Company has established a Strategy Review Committee consisting of policies of Komatsu, and rigorously controls and supervises the Senior Executive Officers and senior managers. Based on the reviews execution of duties by all members of the executive management of the Committee, Executive Officers and senior managers execute team including Representative Directors. Of the eight (8) Directors their duties within the authority delegated by the Board of Directors. on the Board, three (3) are Outside Directors to ensure transparent Characteristics of Komatsu’s Board of Directors Board of Directors Meeting Attendance and Agenda Item • Monthly reports from the CEO (recent important items and other topics) Numbers in FY2019 (April 1, 2019–March 31, 2020) • Monthly reports from the CFO (performance, order trends, borrowings, etc.) Outside Directors 100% Attendance Outside Audit & • Annual proposal plans and follow-up 100% Supervisory members • Multiple discussions on important items (deliberation → resolution) Reports 45 • Business reports to Board of Directors covering nearly 100% of sales-generating Agenda item activities numbers Deliberations, • Proactive expression of opinions by Audit & Supervisory Board Members Resolutions 28 in addition to Directors • Opportunities for free discussion at Board of Directors meetings Free discussion 2 times Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors  The Company is working to improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and performs annual evaluations and analyses of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for this reason. Evaluation Process Survey Collection of survey Discussion among Report of discussion After discussion by the Board of results from all Directors Outside Directors and results, evaluation and Directors on the method to be used for FY2019 evaluation, based on the and Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & analysis of effectiveness, method applied in the previous year Board Members Supervisory Board and discussion of the and the results thereof, the Company Members based on matters for improvement conducted a survey out of considersurvey responses at meeting of the Board ation for the nature of an effective Board of Directors. of Directors Survey Topics: • Composition of the Board of Directors • Structure through which important matters are reported, • Contents of agendas proposed, and followed up • Straightforward and meaningful • Succession plans for CEO discussions • Other items • Provision of information and presentation of agendas by executives Outline of the the Results  The assessment shows a generally high level of achievement for variety of viewpoints, and the fact that Board members followed up each item and confirms that there were no serious problems conthe conditions of resolutions which were regularly reported. cerning the effectiveness. The Company received excellent evaluaWith respect to the conducting of Board meetings, there were tions for factors, such as the following: the timely sharing of issues, a few suggestions for improvement. The Company will make those problems, and other information provided in monthly reports by the improvements and work to make the Board of Directors further President himself in Board meetings, the fact that Board members effective in the future. discussed the directions of overall business multiple times from a 45 Resolution of ESG Issues Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Reforms  The Company has proceeded to implement reforms to its corporate supplement executive functions, the Company established the governance system in order to ensure effective and adequate perforInternational Advisory Board (IAB) in 1995. Through the IAB, the mance of matters related to decision making, management and Company aims to secure objective advice and suggestions from supervision, such as separation of corporate management from experts from Japan and abroad about how to function as a global business execution, enhancement of corporate management decicompany by exchanging opinions and holding discussions. Going forsion making by the Board of Directors, strict management and ward, the Company will pursue increases to the effectiveness of the supervision of business execution, measures undertaken by Outside Board of Directors while appointing Outside Directors to ensure Directors to improve transparency and objectivity of management, transparency and soundness and promoting openness and accountand measures undertaken by the Audit & Supervisory Board to ability in management. appropriately audit Directors’ execution of duties. As a means to Board of Directors 1999: 2003: 2005: 2017: 28 members 8 members 8 members 10 members 8 members (0 Outside Directors) (1 Outside Director) (2 Outside Directors) (3 Outside Directors) (3 Outside Directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board (1994) 1999: 3 members 1994: 4 members 2006: 5 members (1 Outside Audit & (2 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) (3 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Supervisory Board Member) Other organizations and systems Executive Officer System (1999) Global officers (2016) Compensation Advisory Committee (1999) 4 outside members, 1 standing member Human Resource Advisory Committee (2015) 3 outside members, 2 standing members International Advisory Board (1995) 3–4 domestic and overseas experts Hitech & Innovation International Advisory Board (2015) 4–6 overseas experts Compliance Committee (2001) Members of senior management and labor representatives Internal Composition of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of June 30, 2020) Outside Internal Outside Internal 3 5 3 Audit & 2 Supervisory Directors Of whom, Of whom, Of whom, Board non-Japanese women women Members 1 1 1 46 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Major Activities of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members in FY2019  Outside Directors Masayuki Oku Mitoji Yabunaka Makoto Kigawa Major Career Major Career Major Career Representative Director of Sumitomo Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs Representative Director at both Yamato Mitsui Banking Corporation Holdings Co., Ltd. and Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. Attendance to the Meetings Attendance to the Meetings Attendance to the Meetings Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) Mr. Masayuki Oku previously served as Mr. Mitoji Yabunaka previously served as ViceMr. Makoto Kigawa previously served as Representative Director of Sumitomo Mitsui Minister for Foreign Affairs. During the fiscal year Representative Director at both Yamato Holdings Banking Corporation. During the fiscal year ended ended March 31, 2020, based on his standpoint as a Co., Ltd. and Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. During the March 31, 2020, based on his rich experience in the specialist in international affairs, he provided comfiscal year ended March 31, 2020, based on his rich business world, he provided comments at the meetments at the meetings of the Board of Directors experience in the business world, he provided comings of the Board of Directors concerning such concerning such issues as market conditions in the ments at the meetings of Board of Directors conissues as product and service demand trends, busiAsian region, development of emerging markets and cerning such issues as the utilization of new ness strategy and utilization of AI. In addition, he environmental measures. In addition, he was a technologies, information disclosure policies and ICT was a member of the Company’s Human Resource member of the Company’s Human Resource strategies using platforms. In addition, he was a Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee. member of the Company’s Human Resource Advisory Committee. Advisory Committee. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Hirohide Yamaguchi Eiko Shinotsuka Kotaro Ohno Major Career Major Career Major Career Deputy Governor of the Bank of Japan Professor Emeritus, Ochanomizu Prosecutor-General, Special Counsel, University, Commissioner, National Mori Hamada & Matsumoto Personnel Authority, Member of the Bank of Japan’s Policy Board Attendance to the Meetings Attendance to the Meetings Attendance to the Meetings Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% Meeting of the Board of Directors 100% (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) Meeting of the Audit & Supervisory Meeting of the Audit & Supervisory Meeting of the Audit & Supervisory Board 100% Board 100% Board 100% (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) (15 meetings out of the 15 meetings held) Mr. Hirohide Yamaguchi previously served as Deputy Ms. Eiko Shinotsuka possesses wide-ranging knowlMr. Kotaro Ohno possesses rich experience in the Governor of the Bank of Japan. During the fiscal year edge and experience in fields such as economics, legal profession. During the fiscal year ended March ended March 31, 2020, based on his professional labor relations and law. During the fiscal year ended 31, 2020, based on his professional standpoint, he standpoint, he provided comments at the meetings March 31, 2020, based on her professional standprovided comments at the meetings of the Audit & of the Audit & Supervisory Board and the meetings point, she provided comments at the meetings of Supervisory Board and the meetings of the Board of of the Board of Directors concerning such issues as the Audit & Supervisory Board and the meetings of Directors concerning such issues as legal compliM&A risks, inventory management and audit the Board of Directors concerning such issues as ance, internal reporting system and risk managesystems. In addition, he was a member of the the compliance system, securing and utilizing ment. In addition, he was an observer of the Company’s Compensation Advisory Committee. human resources, and mental care for employees. Company’s Compliance Committee. In addition, she was a member of the Company’s Compensation Advisory Committee. Introduction of New Outside Directors  In conjunction with the resignation of Masayuki Oku and Mitoji Yabunaka, the following two new directors were appointed at the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2020. Takeshi Kunibe has considerable knowledge and rich experience in the business world, including the field of finance and in group New company management, etc., having served successively as Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of SMBC, as well as Representative Director and President, Director President and Representative Executive Officer, and Chairman of Takeshi Kunibe the Board of SMFG. Utilizing this knowledge and experience, his recommendations concerning the overall management of the Company are expected to contribute to sustaining and improving transparency and soundness of management as well as enhancing corporate governance. Therefore, the Company appointed him as an Outside Director. Mr. Arthur M. Mitchell has worked for many years as a New York state attorney and foreign law attorney in Japan, and has considerNew able knowledge and rich experience in the field of international legal affairs. Utilizing this knowledge and experience, his recommendations concerning the overall management of the Company are Arthur M. Mitchell expected to contribute to the mitigation and avoidance of risk in the Company’s global business operations, and to the enhancement of the Company’s mediumand long-term corporate value. Therefore, the Company appointed him as an Outside Director. 47 Resolution of ESG Issues Corporate Governance Activities of Advisory Committees  Committee Name Human Resource Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee External expert (Advisor: Tsuguoki Fujinuma, The Japanese Chairperson Outside Director (Masayuki Oku) Institute of Certified Public Accountants) 1 external expert (Advisor: Tsuguoki Fujinuma, The 3 Outside Directors Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants) (Masayuki Oku, Mitoji Yabunaka, Makoto Kigawa) 1 Outside Director (Masayuki Oku) Members Chairperson of the Board 2 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members President (Hirohide Yamaguchi, Eiko Shinotsuka) Chairperson of the Board Selection of next President and deliberation, resolution, and Deliberation, resolution, and reporting to the Board of Directors reporting to the Board of Directors on human resource and Audit & Supervisory Board on remuneration systems for Purpose development methods, succession plans, and appointment Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive and dismissal of Directors Officers to ensure objectivity and transparency Meetings in FY2019 3 1 •S  election and cultivation of candidates for next President • Proposal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board •M onthly compensation levels for Directors and Audit & Members for FY2020 Supervisory Board Members in FY2020 Agenda items in • Terms of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members • Performance-based remuneration for Directors for FY2019 FY2019 • Composition of Outside Directors (projections) • Concurrent positions held by Chairman of the Board and • Evaluation methods for the mid-term management plan Outside Directors, etc. Succession Plans  One of the items contained in the Code of Conduct for Leadership/ important domestic and overseas positions up to and including that Top Management that has been described in the KOMATSU Way of the President are decided through the annual implementation of since its establishment in 2006 is “continue to think about your sucsuccession plans (see chart below). cession plan.” Selected successors are assigned to challenging tasks and In order to ensure that Komatsu’s management values are transgranted even larger roles in the organization to systematically mitted to the next generation, the basic requirements for candidates develop them in an environment that encourages the pursuit of for the position of President are discussed and clearly defined by the mutual growth. Human Resource Advisory Committee. In addition, successors for Overview of Succession Plans Results Feedback Evaluation and Selection of Human Resource Relocations Succession Plans Successors and Cultivation Oversight of Implementation Process Board of Directors Human Resource Advisory Committee Key Points for Cultivating Leadership/Top Management Successors 1. Foster willpower necessary to overcome challenges by having candidates experience extremely difficult situations 2. Nurture organizational operation capabilities needed to unite parties with differing interests 3. Cultivate compliance awareness to prevent misconduct 48 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Remuneration Systems  In an effort to maintain an objective and transparent remuneration single fiscal year (bonus in cash and the Stock-Based Remuneration A) system, the policy and levels of remuneration for Directors and Audit as well as the performance-based remuneration (Stock-Based & Supervisory Board Members of the Company are deliberated by the Remuneration B) that will reflect the degree of achievement of the Compensation Advisory Committee. Taking its reports and recommentargets raised in the mid-term management plan, so that it will further dations into consideration, the remuneration for Directors is detercontribute to the enhancement of the mediumand long-term corpomined by the Board of Directors, and the remuneration for Audit & rate value of the Company, by linking the remuneration. The remuneraSupervisory Board Members is determined by discussions by the tion for Outside Directors only consists of basic remuneration (fixed Audit & Supervisory Board Members, respectively, within the range remuneration) designed to support their role to make recommendapreviously determined by resolution of the General Meeting of tions with respect to the overall management of the Company as a Shareholders. With regards to remuneration levels, their comparison member of the Board of Directors. Furthermore, the remuneration for by position at other key, globally active manufacturers in Japan is Audit & Supervisory Board Members only consists of basic remuneramade by the Compensation Advisory Committee and is reflected in its tion (fixed remuneration) designed to support their independent posireports and recommendations. The remuneration for Directors excludtion with authority to audit the execution of duties by Directors ing the Outside Directors (hereinafter “Internal Director”) comprises without getting fettered by the movements of corporate performance basic remuneration (fixed remuneration) and performance-based of the Company. The retirement allowance system for Directors and remuneration linked to the Company’s consolidated performance for a Audit & Supervisory Board Members was terminated as of June 2007. Composition of Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Performance-Based Remuneration Basic Remuneration Performance-Based Remuneration for a Single Year Linked to Performance of Mid-Term (Fixed Remuneration) (Monthly Remuneration x 0–24 months) Management Plan Internal (Monthly Remuneration x 0–3 months) Directors Stock-Based Remuneration A Stock-Based Bonus in Cash Monthly remuneration x 12 months (1/3, in principle) Remuneration B (2/3, in principle)* Restricted Stocks Restricted Stocks Basic Remuneration Outside (Fixed Remuneration) Directors Not influenced by Company performance and Audits Monthly remuneration x 12 months * The upper limit for Bonus in Cash is set at 12 months’ worth of monthly remuneration; the remainder of bonuses is to be paid as Stock-Based Remuneration A. Performance-Based Remuneration Linked to Performance of Mid-Term Management Plan The Company will pay Internal Directors the equivalent of a three-month portion of monthly remuneration every fiscal year as remuneration linked to the period of the Company’s Mid-Term Management Plan by granting restricted stock as stock-based remuneration (Stock-Based Remuneration B). In deciding Stock-Based Remuneration B, after the expiry of the period of the mid-term management plan, the number of shares on which to lift transfer restrictions (within range of 0–100%) will be decided based on the achievement of the management targets of the Mid-Term Management Plan presented in the following table and as a general rule, the restriction of transfer on the shares will be lifted after three years from delivery. Management Indicators and Management Targets in Mid-Term Management Plan (FY2019–FY2021) Management Indicator Management Target Growth • Sales growth rate • Growth rate above the industry’s average*1 Profitability • Operating income ratio • Industry’s top-level operating income ratio*1 Efficiency • ROE • ROE of 10% or higher Financial position • Net debt-to-equity ratio*2 • Industry’s top-level financial position • ROA • ROA 1.5% to 2.0% Retail finance business • Net debt-to-equity ratio*2 • 5.0 or under for net debt-to-equity ratio*2 • CO2 emissions: Decrease by 50% in 2030 from 2010 • Reduction of environmental impact ESG Renewable energy use: Increase to 50% of total energy use in 2030 • Evaluation by external organizations • Selected for DJSI*3 (World & Asia Pacific) and for CDP*4 A-list (Climate Changes and Water Risk), etc. • Keep a fair balance between investment for growth and shareholder return Shareholder return • Consolidated payout ratio (including stock buybacks), while placing main priority on investment • Set the goal of a consolidated payout ratio of 40% or higher *1 Relative comparison with domestic and foreign major competitors in the same industry. *2 Net debt-to-equity ratio = (Interest-bearing debt – Cash and cash equivalents – Time deposits) / Shareholders’equity of the Company *3 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices: SRI indices generated by S&P Dow Jones of the United States and RobecoSAM of Switzerland. *4 International non-profit organization which advocates the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and protection of water resources and forests by companies and governments. 49 Resolution of ESG Issues Corporate Governance Major Executive Committees Committee Name (Committees indicated with an asterisk [*] are chaired by the President.) Purpose Meeting Frequency Effective promotion of Companywide product safety activities based on basic 2 times a year and Product Safety Committee product safety policies defined in product safety regulations when necessary Discussion on and decision and execution of policies and important measures pertaining to 2 times a year and Compliance Committee* group-wide compliance when necessary Risk Management Primarily discussion and approval of group-wide risk management tasks and risk 1 time a year and when Committee countermeasures necessary Discussion on and decision and execution of policies and important measures regarding group1 time a year and when Export Control Committee wide export control (trade security management) necessary Earth Environment Formulation of group-wide environmental measures and discussion of progress to 1 time a year Committee* facilitate promotion of environmental preservation throughout the Group Discussion on and decision and execution of group-wide CSR policies and important CSR Committee* 1 time a year measures and activities Discussion and assessment to facilitate accurate information disclosure as required by the 4 times a year and Disclosure Committee Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and submission of recommendations to internal when necessary ­information control representatives regarding judgments on material developments Discussion on and decision and execution of policies and important measures regarding human KOMATSU Way resources, labor affairs, education and human resource development, the KOMATSU Way, total 2 times a year Committee* quality management, employee benefits, and occupational health and safety management for the Company and the Group Appointments of Advisors of the International Advisory Board  TOPI C S Komatsu established the IAB back in 1995 for the Board of Directors to incorporate, from external experts, objective advice and suggestions concerning management and operations of Komatsu as a global company. The IAB has met a total of 35 times in the conventional and new organizations combined. In April 2020, Komatsu is going to start the 8th the session of the IAB for Management of the IAB with the following new advisors. The term of service for each advisor is set at three years as a general rule. Komatsu will continue to incorporate advice and suggestions from IAB members with expertise in global business, further improve management and strengthen its corporate governance in order to enhance its corporate value. Name Current Position and Brief Background 2018–Present Chairman of the Board, Elanco Animal Health 2015–Present Board of Directors, Edgewell Personal Care Company R. David Hoover 2009–2018 Board of Directors, Eli Lilly and Company 2000–2015 Board of Directors, Energizer Holdings, Inc. 1996–2013 Board of Directors, Ball Corporation (Chairman, 2002–2013) 2015–Present Vice President Commissioner of PT Adaro Power 2010–Present President Commissioner of BFI Finance Kusmayanto Kadiman 2004–2009 The State Minister for Research and Technology of the Republic of Indonesia 2001–2004 President of Bandung Institute of Technology (ITB) 2006–Present Chairman of the Board of Directors, F-Secure Corporation Risto Siilasmaa (He is the founder of F-Secure Corporation.) 2012–May, 2020 Chairman of the Board of Directors, Nokia Corporation 2010–Present Visiting Professor, Ritsumeikan University Mitoji Yabunaka 2014–June, 2020 Outside Director, Komatsu Ltd. 2008–2010 Vice Minister, Ministry of Foreign Affairs 50 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Stakeholder Engagement  In order to gain more trust from all stakeholders, the Company is strengthening corporate governance and top management is practicing direct engagement with stakeholders. Corporate Value = Total Sum of Trust Given to Us by Society and All Stakeholders Share information on the Komatsu Group’s vision and Provide as many opportunities for engagement as the issues it faces (employees, suppliers, distributors) possible and practice proper information disclosure Society to facilitate understanding of Komatsu Investors and Distributors Suppliers Employees Customers Shareholders Mass media Communities Analysts Distributor Midori-kai Meetings with Visits from top General Meeting of Visits to investors Interviews Meetings with meetings General the president management Shareholders worldwide mayors, meetings with Shareholder meetings Analysts meetings governors, etc. management Financial results briefings Direct Communication by Top Management Major Investor Relations Activities in FY2019  To further improve the transparency of management for our shareholders and investors, we disclose information in a fair and timely manner and actively engage in investor relations activities by holding meetings with shareholders and investors. For Institutional Investors For Shareholders and Homepage Individual Investors Financial results briefings (4 times) Shareholder meetings (2 times) Financial information Small meetings (7 times) Factory tours for shareholders (10 times) • Financial results briefings Business briefings (2 times) Individual investor meetings (7 times) • Sales and profits gains reports Business site tours (1 time) Gifts of appreciation for long-term • Quarterly reports, etc. Overseas investor relations activities shareholders Web interviews with the president (4 times) (5 times; approx. 70 companies) * Certain tours and briefings have been cancelled KOMATSU REPORT, etc. Individual meetings (over 240) as a result of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Engagement Topics  Komatsu holds meetings with institutional investors and securities analysts to deepen their understanding of the Company. Date Meeting Name Attendants Contents Investors September 18, 2019 39 (1) K omatsu business development in Africa and (2) Komatsu’s digital transformation strategy Meeting (1) S olving ESG issues in the new mid-term management plan, (2) KOMATSU REPORT 2019 / December 11, 2019 ESG Meeting 40 corporate governance, and (3) KOMATSU REPORT 2019 / Komatsu’s social contribution activities WEB For materials from meetings held in FY2019, please refer to Komatsuʼs corporate website: https://home.komatsu/en/ir/library/results/1203311_1764.html 51 Resolution of ESG Issues ESGの課題解決 Corporate Governance Risk Management Basic Principles and Structure for Risk Management  In addition to the basic policy for risk management to ensure busiWe are developing risk reporting lines, preparing related manness continuity and stable development, Komatsu has established uals and making other efforts to further improve the risk manageRisk Management Rules to correctly recognize and manage risks. ment system of the entire Group, including overseas subsidiaries. Komatsu has established a Risk Management Committee to We have reflected climate change risks in this system for devise relevant policies for the entire Group, review the risk manmanagement. agement system, and evaluate and improve upon response measures in place for each risk, as well as to take control of risks when they arise. The committee regularly reports on its deliberations and activities to the board of directors. Komatsu will establish an emergency headquarters when serious risks occur and implement appropriate measures to minimize damage. Risks Surrounding the Company Risk Management System Board of Directors Hazard Risk Report as needed Review Risks of natural disasters and other regularly President Report regularly disasters caused by external factors Basic Manual for Risk Management Risk Management Committee​ Risk Management Rules (When serious risks are exposed: Operational Risk Emergency Headquarters) Inherent risks associated with corporate activities such as the violaRisk Management Committee tion of laws and scandals Executive Office (Administration Department) Strategy Risk Primary division responsible for each risk​ • Identify and review risk recognitions Risks related to the significant • Perform activities to prevent risks and minimize change of social situations and their effects business uncertainties • Take action when a risk is exposed Each division and each Group company​ Financial Risk Expert committees Risks related to finance including • Product Safety Committee • Compliance Committee fluctuations in interest rates and • Export Control Committee • CSR Committee stock prices • Earth Environment Committee, etc. Compliance  The Company shall establish the “Compliance Committee” as establishment of the Compliance Department. Through all of these, Komatsu to oversee compliance, and the Committee regularly we work to supervise, educate and train Directors, Audit & reports its reviews and activities to the Board of Directors. The Supervisory Board Members and employees. Company shall also establish a system to ensure all Directors and In addition, the Company shall establish the internal reporting employees thorough compliance to business rules as well as laws system where those who are discretely reporting questionable and regulations through a variety of measures, including the proviactions in light of laws and regulations and business rules will not be sion of“Komatsu Code of Worldwide Business Conduct,” appointgiven any disadvantageous treatment. ment of the Executive Officer in charge of compliance, and 52 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Establishing a business continuity plan (BCP) and providing training  Komatsu has established business continuity plans (BCPs) for individswift decisions by senior management should a disaster strike. ual bases and conducts initial response training drills to prepare priWe are focused on not only strengthening the BCPs of Komatsu marily for earthquakes. At production bases, we implement measures Group but also on strengthening the supply chain system through to reinforce the seismic resistance of structures and production equipsupport of our business partners. Recent initiatives to this effect ment while implementing countermeasures to safeguard against have included holding nationwide seminars on initial disaster water and wind damage from concentrated heavy rains and other responses and hazard map use led by experts on these subjects. weather events in order to minimize the impacts of increasingly more Several partners were invited to take part in these seminars. severe natural disasters. Moreover, the disaster response reporting Going forward, we will continue to promote and enhance our chains and standards for frontline sites have been clarified to facilitate Groupwide BCP initiatives. Recent Natural Disasters and Response Measures 1995 2007 2011 2018 2019 Great Hanshin Earthquake Chuetsu Offshore Earthquake Great East Japan Earthquake Heavy Rain in West Japan Typhoon Hagibis • Reconfirmation of natural disaster risks and coun• Initial response manual devel• Business continuity manual • Group-wide deployment of termeasure development opment for ensuring safety development response measures • Improvement of BCP implementation procedures at • Preparation of disaster • Preparation of BCPs for • Installation of equipment and Komatsu Group and business partners response manuals specific bases communications infrastructure • Improvement of BCP implementation procedures at • Formulation of risk-related • Establishment of headquar• Establishment of base-specific individual bases regulations ters BCP drill regulations BCP drill regulations • Establishment of BCPs for business partners regulations Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic  With the safety and health of our customers, partner companies, headquarters with our president as its Chairperson. Since the state people in local communities, and our employees and their families of emergency was declared in Japan in April, we have carried out set as our priority, the Komatsu Group is striving to prevent the remote meetings almost every day that include the president, interspread of the COVID-19 pandemic based on the government policies nal directors, and the heads of functions to share the latest informain each country. tion about the situation at the global level and determine the correct To fulfill our responsibilities to customers involved in businesses actions to take. In addition, the president has also regularly reported that support social infrastructure (essential businesses), we have this information and these actions to the board of directors. continued to supply products, parts, and services to our customers We have posted news releases on our website to keep all stakewhile thoroughly taking measures to prevent infection. holders updated on the status of our mask donation and other support In the middle of March, we determined that we had entered the activities, our global production activities, and other matters as needed. Infection and Pandemic phase, a management item in the Basic We will continue to exercise accountability toward stakeholders Manual for Risk Management, and set up an emergency through timely and appropriate information disclosure going forward. Measures appropriate to the phase and local situation Management of Government the physical Avoid the Hygiene Safety and security of employees policy c­ ondition of three C’s measures employees Sustainable measures Response to Climate Change  Approximately 90% of the CO2 emissions associated with Komatsu operation by 2030, and R&D activities are being advanced toward Group’s operations are attributable to product operation. Accordingly, the accomplishment of this goal (response to transition risks). we have the potential help mitigate climate change by providing lowMeanwhile, the rise in natural disasters associated with climate carbon products and solutions. However, if efforts to deliver such change is creating risks of damages to the Company and its supply offerings do not conform to the regulatory requirements of the chain. We are therefore taking steps to identify the water-related relevant countries or with the demands of markets, we will risk risks threatening the Company and its supply chain while instituting suffering future impacts to our earnings. For this reason, Komatsu BCP drills and other measures to mitigate these risks (response to has set the goal of halving the CO2 emissions from product physical risks). 53 Corporate Profile Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors Chairperson of the Board and President and Representative Director, and CEO Director and Senior Executive Officer Director and Senior Executive Officer Representative Director 2 Hiroyuki Ogawa 3 Masayuki Moriyama 4 Kiyoshi Mizuhara 1 Tetsuji Ohashi President of Construction Equipment Marketing President of Mining Business Division Division Number of Year (s) in Office 11 years Number of Year (s) in Office 2 years Number of Year (s) in Office 1 year Number of Year (s) in Office 1 year  ttendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors A Attendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors Attendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors Attendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors  15/15 (100%)  15/15 (100%)  11/11 (100%)  11/11 (100%) Number of Shares of the Company Held Number of Shares of the Company Held Number of Shares of the Company Held Number of Shares of the Company Held  151 thousand shares  55 thousand shares  52 thousand shares  35 thousand shares Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations:  Outside Director of Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd.  None  None  None Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company:  None  None  None  None 4/1977 Joined the Company 4/1985 Joined the Company 4/1982 Joined the Company 4/1983 Joined the Company 4/2019 Took office as Chairperson of the Board and 4/2019 Took office as President and Representative Director 6/2019 Took office as Director and Senior Executive Officer 6/2019 Took office as Director and Senior Executive Officer Representative Director (current) (current) CEO (current) (current) (current) Director and Senior Executive Officer Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director 5 Kuniko Urano 6 Makoto Kigawa 7 Takeshi Kunibe NEW 8 Arthur M. Mitchell NEW Supervising Safety & Health Care, Corporate Communications, and CSR Number of Year (s) in Office 2 years Number of Year (s) in Office 4 years Number of Shares of the Company Held None Number of Shares of the Company Held None Attendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors Attendance to the Meetings of the Board of Directors Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other  15/15 (100%)  15/15 (100%) Organizations: Organizations: Number of Shares of the Company Held Number of Shares of the Company Held None Chairman of the Board of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Foreign lawyer of White & Case LLP  34 thousand shares Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Group, Inc. Outside Director of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Organizations: Outside Member of the Board of TAISHO Inc.  None Special Advisor of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. PHARMACEUTICAL HOLDINGS CO., LTD Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Outside Director of Seven Bank, Ltd. Outside Auditor of Nankai Electric Railway Co., Ltd.  None  None Outside Director of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of The Higo  None 7/1976 Registered as attorney at law in New York State, 4/1979 Joined the Company Bank, Ltd. USA (current) 6/2018 Took office as Director and Senior Executive Officer Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: 4/1976 Joined The Sumitomo Bank, Ltd. (currently 1/2003 Took office as General Counsel of Asian (current)  None Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, hereinafter Development Bank the “SMBC”) 9/2007 Joined White & Case LLP 4/1973 Joined The Fuji Bank, Limited (currently Mizuho 6/2003 Took office as Executive Officer of SMBC 1/2008 Registered as registered foreign lawyer in Japan Bank, Ltd.) 10/2006 Took office as Managing Executive Officer of SMBC (current) 4/2004 Took office as Managing Director, Chief Risk Officer / 4/2007 Took office as Managing Executive Officer of Registered foreign lawyer of White & Case LLP Head of Risk Management Group, and Chief Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (hereinafter (current) Human Resources Officer / Head of Human “SMFG”) 6/2020 Took office as Outside Director (current) Resources Group of Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. 6/2007 Took office as Director of SMFG (currently Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) 4/2009 Took office as Director and Senior Managing 3/2005 Retired from Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. Executive Officer of SMBC 4/2005 Joined Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. (currently Yamato 4/2011 Took office as Representative Director, President Holdings Co., Ltd.) and Chief Executive Officer of SMBC 6/2005 Took office as Managing Director of Yamato 4/2017 Took office as Representative Director and Transport Co., Ltd. (currently Yamato Holdings Co., President of SMFG Ltd.) Retired from Director of SMBC 11/2005 Took office as Representative Managing Director of 6/2017 Took office as Director President and Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Representative Executive Officer of SMFG 4/2006 Took office as Representative Director and 4/2019 Took office as Chairman of the Board of SMFG Managing Executive Officer of Yamato Holdings (current) Co., Ltd. 6/2020 Took office as Outside Director (current) 6/2006 Took office as Representative Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 3/2007 Took office as Representative Director and Executive Officer of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. Took office as Representative Director, President and Executive Officer of Yamato Transport Co., Ltd. 4/2011 Took office as Representative Director, President and Executive Officer of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 4/2015 Took office as Chairman of the Board and Representative Director of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 6/2016 Took office as Director of the Company (current) 4/2018 Took office as Director and Chairman of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 6/2019 Special Advisor of Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. (As of June 30, 2020) (current) 54 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Audit & Supervisory Board Members Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Member 1 Hironobu Matsuo 2 Terumi Sasaki NEW Number of Shares of the Company Held Number of Shares of the Company Held  22 thousand shares  21 thousand shares Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations:  None  None Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company: Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Company:  None  None 4/1982 Joined the Company 4/1983 Joined the Company 6/2017 Took office as Standing Audit & Supervisory Board 6/2020 Took office as Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member (current) Member (current) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member 3 Hirohide Yamaguchi 4 Eiko Shinotsuka 5 Kotaro Ohno Number of Shares of the Company Held 0 shares Number of Shares of the Company Held 0 shares Number of Shares of the Company Held 0 shares Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Important Concurrent Positions Held in Other Organizations: Chairman of the Advisory Board of Nikko Financial Professor emeritus at Ochanomizu University Attorney at law, Special Counsel of Mori Hamada & Intelligence, Inc. (currently Nikko Research Center, Inc.) Special Interests Between the Candidate and the Matsumoto Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Mitsui Company: None Outside Director of AEON Co., Ltd. Fudosan Residential Co., Ltd. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Menber of ITOCHU Special Interests Between the Candidate and the 4/1993 Took office as Professor at Ochanomizu University Corporation Company: None 4/2008 Took office as Professor emeritus at Ochanomizu Special Interests Between the Candidate and the University (current) Company: None 4/1974 Joined the Bank of Japan 6/2015 Took office as Audit & Supervisory Board Member 10/2008 Took office as Deputy Governor of Bank of Japan of the Company (current) 4/1976 Appointed as Prosecutor 3/2013 Retired from Bank of Japan 7/2009 Took office as Vice-Minister of Justice 7/2013 Took office as Chairman of the Advisory Board of 7/2012 Took office as Superintending Prosecutor of Tokyo Nikko Financial Intelligence, Inc. (currently Nikko High Public Prosecutors Office Research Center, Inc.) (current) 7/2014 Took office as Prosecutor-General of Supreme 6/2014 Took office as Audit & Supervisory Board Member Public Prosecutors Office of the Company (current) 9/2016 Retired from the position of Prosecutor-General of Supreme Public Prosecutors Office 11/2016 Attorney at law, Special Counsel of Mori Hamada & Matsumoto (current) 6/2017 Took office as Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (current) Komatsuʼs Independence Standards for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members can be found via the link below. WEB https://home.komatsu/en/ir/profile/corporate-governance/independence-criterion.html (As of June 30, 2020) 55 Corporate Profile Executive Officers and Global Officers (As of June 30, 2020) Executive Officers  Norikatsu Nishiyama Senior Executive Officer (Senmu) Executive Officers Himi Plant Manager, Production Division Yuichi Iwamoto Keiko Fujiwara Hiroshi Makabe Chief Technology Officer (CTO) GM, Department for Promotion of Supervising Legal, General Affairs & Supervising Research & Development and Distributor HR Development, Construction Compliance Environment Equipment Marketing Division GM, Business Reform Department, Mitsuko Yokomoto Construction Equipment Marketing Division GM, General Affairs Department Senior Executive Officers (Jomu) Responsible for Risk Management Chikashi Shike Susumu Ueno President, Smart Construction Hidefumi Obikane President, Japanese Domestic Marketing, Promotion Division Oyama Plant Manager, Production Division Construction Equipment Marketing Division GM, Aftermarket Technology Development Yasuo Suzuki Masaki Nobuhara Department Vice President, Production Division President, Production Division (Responsible for Parts & Reman) Toru Sunada Taiichiro Kitatani President, Service Division, Construction Nozomu Okamoto Vice President, Construction Equipment Equipment Marketing Division Awazu Plant Manager, Production Division Marketing Division Takayuki Furukoshi GM, ICT Project Department GM, Project Masami Naruse Osaka Plant Manager, Production Division Promotion Department Vice President, Development Division GM, Vehicle Development Center 1, Kenichi Sato Naoki Fujita Development Division President, Aftermarket Business Division, Supervising Industrial Machinery Business Construction Equipment Marketing Division Chairman of the Board, Komatsu NTC Ltd. Takuya Imayoshi GM, Marketing Department, Aftermarket (Part time) GM, Business Coordination Department Business Division, Construction Equipment GM, Komatsu Economic Strategy Seiichi Fuchita Marketing Division Research Center President, Development Division Jun Taniguchi Kosei Okamoto Yoshiharu Sato Vice President, Development Division President, Product Marketing Division President, Quality Assurance Division GM, ICT System Development Center, Kenichi Tanaka Development Division Kazuya Kuriyama President, Defense Systems Division President, Procurement, Naoyuki Sakurai Production Division Shinji Maeda Ibaraki Plant Manager, Production Division President, Information Strategy Division Kazuaki Miura Vice President, Japanese Domestic Marketing, Construction Equipment Marketing Division President, Komatsu Customer Support Japan Ltd. Takeshi Horikoshi Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Koichi Honda GM, Human Resources Department Supervising Education 56 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Executive Officers (Global) Note: Executive officers overseas concurrently serve as global officers.  North America South America Asia/Oceania Senior Executive Officers Executive Officer Executive Officer Rodney Schrader Yasuji Nishiura Pratjojo Dewo S. Chairman & CEO, Komatsu America Corp. Representative of All Latin America* President, PT Komatsu Indonesia Operations Jeffrey Dawes President, Komatsu Cummins Chile Ltda. President & CEO, Komatsu Mining Corp. Vice President, Mining Business Division President, Komatsu Holding South America China Ltda. Korekiyo Yanagisawa * “Latin America” does not include Brazil Senior Executive Officer EVP & COO, Komatsu Mining Corp. Yasuhiro Inagaki Ichiro Nakano Europe Representative of All China Operations Vice President, Mining Business Division Chairman, Komatsu (China) Ltd. Technical Director, Modular Mining Senior Executive Officer Systems, Inc. Masatoshi Morishita Executive Officers President & CEO, Komatsu Europe International N.V. Quanwang Zhang Executive Officers President & CEO, Komatsu(China) Ltd. Taisuke Kusaba Executive Officer Takashi Yasukawa President & COO, Komatsu America Corp. President, Production & Procurement Division, Gary Kasbeer Umeda Hiroyuki Komatsu (China) Ltd. Executive Vice President & CFO, Komatsu President, Komatsu Forest AB America Corp. Yuushi Oshikawa Africa Executive Vice President & President, North Executive Officer America R&D Division, Komatsu America Corp. Technical Director, Komatsu Mining Corp. Michael Blom President & MD, Komatsu South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Global Officers  North America Europe Asia/Oceania Peter Salditt Paul Blanchard Charoen Ruengwilai President, Underground and Hard Rock President & MD, Komatsu UK Ltd. President, Bangkok Komatsu Co., Ltd. Mining, Komatsu Mining Corp. Göksel Güner Sean Taylor John Koetz Chief Operating Officer, Komatsu Europe Managing Director, Komatsu Australia Pty. Ltd. President, Surface Mining, Komatsu International N.V. Mining Corp. Ralf Petzold Jorge Mascena President & MD, Komatsu Germany GmbH China President & CEO, Modular Mining Systems, Inc. Ingo Büscher Fangchang Liu Executive Vice President & President, President, Komatsu (Shandong) Construction John Fiedler Construction Division, Komatsu Germany Machinery Corp. President, Hensley Industries, Inc. GmbH Dechun Tian David Bazzi President, Komatsu Shantui Construction President & MD, Komatsu Italia Machinery Co., Ltd. Manufacturing S.p.A. 57 Corporate Profile 11-Year Summary FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Net sales 1,431,564 1,843,127 1,981,763 1,884,991 Operating income 67,035 222,929 256,343 211,602 Operating income ratio (%) 4.7 12.1 12.9 11.2 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and 64,979 219,809 249,609 204,603 equity in earnings of affiliated companies Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. 33,559 150,752 167,041 126,321 Capital investment 96,191 97,738 122,038 136,962 Depreciation and amortization*1 90,215 88,442 89,015 88,005 Research and development expenses 46,449 49,005 54,843 60,788 Total assets 1,959,055 2,149,137 2,320,529 2,517,857 Shareholders’ equity 833,975 923,843 1,009,696 1,193,194 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 42.6 43.0 43.5 47.4 Net interest-bearing debt*2 502,818 459,110 563,814 585,926 Net debt-equity ratio (times) 0.60 0.50 0.56 0.49 Net cash provided by operating activities 182,161 150,402 105,608 214,045 Net cash used in investing activities (72,967) (88,509) (124,539) (131,397) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (116,363) (56,365) 18,781 (71,814) Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 82,429 84,224 83,079 93,620 Number of common share issued (thousands of shares) 998,744 998,744 983,130 983,130 Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. per share (yen) 34.67 155.77 173.47 132.64 Cash dividends per share (yen) 16.0 38.0 42.0 48.0 Consolidated payout ratio (%)* 3 38.0 24.4 24.2 36.2 ROA (%) 3.3 10.7 11.2 8.5 ROE (%) 4.1 17.2 17.3 11.5 Exchange rate for the U.S. dollar (yen)*4 93 85 79 83 Exchange rate for the Euro (yen)*4 131 113 110 107 Exchange rate for the Chinese Renminbi (yen)*4 13.6 12.7 12.4 13.2 Number of employees (persons) 38,518 41,059 44,206 46,730 Overseas employee ratio (%) 51.9 55.5 57.5 64.3 CO2 emissions (thousand t) 359 554 583 468 Waste generated (thousand t) 69.5 111.1 119.5 112.1 Volume of water used (thousand m3) 7,022 7,400 6,784 5,737 *1 Depreciation is the total of depreciation on property, plant and equipment and on intangible assets. *2 Net interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt – Cash and equivalents – Time deposits. *3 Figures for FY2009 exclude structural reform expenses. *4 Average exchange rates for the fiscal year. 58 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Millions of yen FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 1,953,657 1,978,676 1,854,964 1,802,989 2,501,107 2,725,243 2,444,870 240,495 242,062 208,577 174,097 268,503 397,806 250,707 12.3 12.2 11.2 9.7 10.7 14.6 10.3 242,056 236,074 204,881 166,469 291,807 377,471 223,114 159,518 154,009 137,426 113,381 196,410 256,491 153,844 179,070 192,724 160,051 142,006 145,668 179,210 166,552 85,837 100,666 111,174 103,219 132,442 129,860 129,525 64,479 70,715 70,736 70,507 73,625 73,447 74,761 2,651,556 2,798,407 2,614,654 2,656,482 3,372,538 3,638,219 3,653,686 1,376,391 1,528,966 1,517,414 1,576,674 1,664,540 1,815,582 1,771,606 51.9 54.6 58.0 59.4 49.4 49.9 48.5 513,918 481,817 349,081 286,512 663,740 779,890 762,705 0.37 0.32 0.23 0.18 0.40 0.43 0.43 319,424 343,654 319,634 256,126 148,394 202,548 295,181 (167,439) (181,793) (148,642) (133,299) (377,745) (187,204) (190,930) (155,349) (143,983) (173,079) (107,718) 243,949 (3,660) (3,457) 90,872 105,905 106,259 119,901 144,397 148,479 247,616 983,130 971,967 971,967 971,967 971,967 972,252 972,581 167.36 162.07 145.80 120.26 208.25 271.81 162.93 58.0 58.0 58.0 58.0 84.0 110.0 94.0 34.7 35.8 39.8 48.2 40.3 40.5 57.7 9.4 8.7 7.6 6.3 9.7 10.8 6.1 12.4 10.6 9.0 7.3 12.1 14.7 8.6 100 110 121 109 111 111 109 133 140 132 119 130 129 121 16.3 17.7 19.0 16.2 16.8 16.5 15.6 47,208 47,417 47,017 47,204 59,632 61,908 62,823 61.8 61.0 60.7 62.7 66.7 68.4 68.4 458 412 342 384 459 519 404 101.4 83.2 62.4 83.5 113.1 117.8 95.1 5,114 4,265 3,627 3,351 4,016 3,941 3,557 59 Corporate Profile Non-Financial Highlights Reduction of CO2 Emissions from Product Operation CO2 Emission Index for Product Operation 100 In the mid-term management plan (FY2019–FY2021), 100 88 Komatsu has set the target of reducing the CO2 emissions 86 80 from the operation of products (construction, mining, and forest equipment) by 50% by 2030 (compared to 2010). Target 60 To evaluate progress toward this goal, we compared the 50 performance of the current year’s products to the products 40 of the reference year (2010) and estimated CO2 reduction 20 rates through the improvement of fuel consumption and work efficiency. The products of 2019 achieved a CO2 0 2010 2018 2019 2030 ­reduction of 14%, compared to the reference year. Incidence Rate of Occupational Accidents Changes in Reman Sales (Base FY2004 = 100) (Frequency Rate of Lost Work Time) (%) (Frequency rate) 500 2.0 1.83 1.80 451 1.66 1.63 1.66 402 414 1.61 400 1.5 1.44 349 304 313 300 250 270 1.02 0.88 239 1.0 200 0.81 0.79 200 0.73 168 0.87 0.56 160 156 0.79 0.75 0.59 137 0.72 112 0.5 0.42 0.45 0.46 100 100 0.32 0.29 0.44 0.14 0.32 0.36 0.05 0.20 0.16 0 0.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) All industries (Japan) Construction and mining equipment manufacturing industry (Japan) Komatsu Group (Japan and Global) Komatsu Group (Japan) Komatsu (Non-consolidated) Notes: 1. The data for all industries (Japan) and construction and mining equipment manufacturing industry (Japan) are provided by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 2. The scope of Komatsu Group (Japan) includes Komatsu Ltd. and Group companies in Japan. 3. The scope of Komatsu Group (global) includes “Komatsu Group (Japan)” and overseas production plants. Numbers and Ratios of Female Employees and Number of Global Officers Female Managers (People) (People)(%) 32 1,600 16 29 1,463 27 1,321 26 1,281 24 1,200 12.3 12 12.0 12.2 18 18 16 16 800 8 7.0 6.2 5.5 8 400 4 94 109 129 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ■ Total ■ National top managers out of total executive officers ■ Number of female employees ■ Number of women in management and executive positions Ratio of female employees (right scale) Ratio of women in management and executive positions (right scale) 60 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies Corporate Profie External Evaluations and Index Inclusion For more information on the above indexes, please refer to Komatsu’s corporate website: WEB https://komatsu.disclosure.site/en/themes/133 CDP Climate A-List Dow Jones Sustainability MSCI Global Indices (DJSI) Sustainability Indexes*1 ISS-Oekom EURONEXT VigeoEIRIS FTSE Blossom Japan Index*2 MSCI Japan ESG Select MSCI Japan Empowering S&P/JPX Carbon Leaders Index*1 Women Index*1 Efficient Index Digital Transformation SBT Grand Prix of the Corporate Value Stock Selection Improvement Award, Grand Prix 2020 Tokyo Stock Exchange *1 THE INCLUSION OF KOMATSU LTD IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HERIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF KOMATSU LTD BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. *2 F TSE Russell confirms that Komatsu has been independently assessed according to the index criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index. Created by the global index and data provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products. 61 Corporate Profile Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2020) Name Number of Employees Stock Listings Komatsu Ltd. Consolidated: 62,823 Tokyo Non-consolidated:11,692 Head Office Average age (non-consolidated) : 39.5 Transfer Agent for Common Stock/ 2-3-6 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8414 Average years of continuous Management Institution for service (non-consolidated) : 15.1 Special Account Date of Establishment Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Shares of Common Stock Issued Corporation May 13, 1921 and Outstanding 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, 972,581,230 shares Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Common Stock Outstanding (including shares of treasury stock) Depositaries (ADRs) Consolidated: ¥68,689 million based on The Bank of New York Mellon U.S. GAAP Number of Shareholders 101 Barclay Street, New York, NY 10286, Non-consolidated: ¥70,973 million 230,041 U.S.A. Tel: +1-(201)-680-6825 for international Number of Shares per Trading Unit calls and 888-269-2377 (888-BNY-ADRS) 100 for calls within U.S.A. URL: https://www.adrbnymellon.com/ Securities Code Ticker Symbol: KMTUY 6301 (Japan) Major Shareholders Number of shares held Shareholding ratio (Thousands of shares) (%) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 75,533 7.99 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 45,657 4.83 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505223 32,244 3.41 (Standing proxy: Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Settlement & Clearing Services Division) Taiyo Life Insurance Company 27,200 2.87 Nippon Life Insurance Company (Standing proxy: The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd.) 26,626 2.81 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 22,815 2.41 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 18,449 1.95 Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 17,835 1.88 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 15,951 1.68 (Standing proxy: Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Settlement & Clearing Services Division) THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON AS DEPOSITARY BANK FOR DEPOSITARY RECEIPT 14,237 1.50 HOLDERS (Standing proxy: Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation) Notes: 1. Shareholding ratio is calculated by subtracting treasury stock. 2. Although the Company holds 27,479 thousand shares of treasury stock, it is excluded from the major shareholders listed above. Stock Information (including shares of treasury stock) Financial........................... 34.5% 335,868,341 shares 213 shareholders Foreign............................. 39.1% 380,368,180 shares 1,068 shareholders Breakdown of Shareholders Individual and other.......... 20.7% 201,375,918 shares 226,946 shareholders (%) Corporate........................... 2.5% 24,395,112 shares 1,648 shareholders Securities........................... 3.1% 30,573,679 shares 166 shareholders 62 Resolution of ESG Issues Komatsu’s Business Model Komatsu’s Growth Strategies Corporate Profile through Growth Strategies About KOMATSU REPORT Published annually, Komatsu report (integrated report) provides financial and non-financial information on the Company’s efforts to realize continuous, long-term improvements in corporate value. Separate reports are prepared and disclosed to provide detailed financial information and information on environmental and social initiatives. Structure of Komatsu’s Annual Reports  KOMATSU REPORT (Integrated reporting) Annual Securities Report ESG Databook (Financial conditions) (Social activities and Environmental performance) * KOMATSU REPORT, Annual Securities Report and ESG Databook, in both Japanese and English, are uploaded on Komatsu’s website. * Komatsu Ltd. issues the Komatsu Report only on the website. Please refer to “Annual Securities Report” for Please refer to “ESG Databook” for more informore company and financial information. mation concerning social and environmental efforts. • Overview of the Company and Its Consolidated • Stance on CSR Efforts Subsidiaries • Theme 1: E  nhancing Quality of Life • Business Overview (Safety, environmental indexes, etc.) • Property, Plants and Equipment • Theme 2: Developing People (Diversity, etc.) • Information on the Company • Theme 3: G  rowing with Society (Compliance, risk • Financial Information management, governance, etc.) WEB https://home.komatsu/en/ir/library/annual-security-report/ WEB https://komatsu.disclosure.site/en • Komatsu has signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Click this link for more information about the Ten Principles advocated by the UNGC and how they Komatsu has joined the World Business Council for pertain to Komatsu’s initiatives. Sustainable Development (WBCSD). https://komatsu.disclosure.site/en/themes/129 63 2-3-6, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8414, Japan https://home.komatsu/en Corporate Communications Department e-mail: JP00MB_info@global.komatsu
