Our Responsibility 2019 rwe.com Our energy for a sustainable life €5 billion net investment for approx. 4 GW wind and solar power by 2022 Carbon neutral by 2040 Wind Sun Water Biomass International presence in 36 countries Environment RWE has established one of the most ambitious programmes in the industry for reducing 10.7% 23% 3,000 100% CO2 emissions. share of renewable share of coal in species of animal and coverage through energy in electricity external sales 1,500 environmental generation species of plant in management system recultivation areas Employees Committed and motivated employees 19,792 15.8% 93.2% 1,070 are a key factor for the corporate success of RWE. employees, share of women health quota patents and patent of which 568 are in management applications new colleagues positions Society Corporate Responsibility is part of RWE’s Around 15 600 contribution to sustainable development and responsible business. years of social and community We support the Paris Climate Agreement, Code of Conduct projects the UNGC and the SDGs C Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Inhalt Non-financial Report CR Report 01 About the Report 03 Foreword 04 Overview of the current ranking results 05 GRI Content Index 10 General disclosures 20 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 11 Organisational Profile 20 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 11 GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 20 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 11 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services governance body 11 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 21 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 11 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 21 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 11 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form setting purpose, values, and strategy 12 GRI 102-6 Markets served 21 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 13 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation environmental, and social impacts 14 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other 21 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management workers processes 14 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 22 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 15 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and social topics and its supply chain 22 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 15 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach sustainability reporting 15 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 22 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies 16 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 23 Stakeholder Engagement 17 Strategy 23 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 17 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 23 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 23 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 23 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18 Ethics and Integrity 23 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 26 Reporting Practice 18 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 26 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated about ethics financial statements 26 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic 19 Governance boundaries 19 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 26 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 19 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 29 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 19 GRI 102-20 Executive level responsibility for 29 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting economic, environmental, and social topics 29 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 20 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 29 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report environmental, and social topics 29 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle D Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix 29 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 53 GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, the report and services on biodiversity 29 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 54 GRI 305 Emissions GRI Standards 56 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 30 GRI 102-55 GRI Content index 56 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30 GRI 102-56 External assurance 56 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 31 Material topics 56 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 32 Economic (ODS) 32 GRI 201 Economic Performance 57 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) 33 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and and other significant air emissions distributed 58 GRI 306 Effluents and waste 33 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 59 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method opportunities due to climate change 59 GRI 306-3 Significant spills 34 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from 60 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance government 60 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 35 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts and regulations 36 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 60 GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 37 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 60 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 38 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers environmental criteria 38 GRI 205 Anti-Corruption 60 GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 38 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to supply chain and actions taken corruption 61 Social 38 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti61 GRI 401 Employment corruption policies and procedures 62 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee 39 Availability and reliability turnover 41 Energy-efficient products and services 62 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 42 Research and development that are not provided to temporary or part-time 44 Shutdown and decommissioning of power plants and employees reinstatment of opencast mines 62 GRI 402 Labour/management relations 47 Environmental 62 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 47 GRI 302 Energy operational changes 48 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the 63 GRI 403 Occupational health and safety organisation 64 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 49 GRI 303 Water occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 50 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source and number of work-related fatalities 51 GRI 304 Biodiversity 64 GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 52 GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed diseases related to their occupation in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 64 GRI 404 Training and education high biodiversity value outside protected areas E Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix 65 GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee 76 Appendix skills and transition assistance programmes 65 GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 77 Key sustainability indicators 67 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 77 Economic performance indicators employees 78 Environmental performance indicators 67 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 79 Social performance indicators women to men 80 Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited 68 GRI 413 Local communities Assurance Engagement on Sustainability Information 68 GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 82 Progress Report on the Global Compact 2019 programmes 85 Contact and imprint 69 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 70 Catastrophe/emergency planning and response 71 GRI 414 Supplier social assessment 71 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 71 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 72 GRI 415 Public policy 73 GRI 415-1 Political contributions 74 GRI 417 Marketing and labelling 74 GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 74 GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 75 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report rwe.com I Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Non-financial Report The CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) obliges transferred to RWE in 2020, the activities of renewable eleclarge capital-market oriented companies to draw up and tricity generation have not been reflected in the perforpublish a Non-financial Declaration (NfD) in the Management mance-related compensation of the Executive Board. Report or a separate Non-financial Group Report (NfR). The aim is to provide information that is necessary to understand The Non-financial Report was audited and approved by the the business performance, business results, position and also Supervisory Board of RWE AG. The audit was carried out by impacts of the activity of the company on the environment professional services firm PwC, see Assurance Report on and society. RWE has decided to publish a separate Nonpage XVII. financial Group Report as a section in the Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report). Business model In the Non-financial Report, we have used the GRI Standards We report on our business model and our markets in the 2016 (Global Reporting Initiative) as a framework for the review of operations in the RWE Annual Report 2019 in description of the concepts. section 1.1 Strategy . Up until September 2019, innogy SE and its subsidiary comOver recent years, RWE has reinvented itself from the ground panies (innogy or the innogy Group) were part of the RWE up. Up to now, we have covered all stages of the value chain Group. As a result of the transaction announced in March in the energy sector through our Group companies (including 2018, the shares held by RWE in innogy SE were transferred innogy). The new RWE will concentrate on electricity generato E.ON on 18 September 2019. A part of innogy – the section from conventional and renewable sources, and on tions for electricity generation from renewable energy – are energy trading. The platform for this is the transaction with being transferred back to RWE in the course of 2020. “innogy E.ON, which both companies agreed in March 2018 and – continuing operations” will therefore remain part of our which is being implemented in the years 2019 and 2020. (financial) reporting, although from a legal perspective they On 18 September 2019, E.ON acquired 76.8% of the shares will temporarily belong to E.ON. The sections remaining with in innogy, which up to then had belonged to RWE AG. On E.ON will be designated as “discontinued innogy operations”. 18 September 2019, RWE took over the renewable energy Where possible from a systems perspective, we will recognise business from E.ON and the non-controlling interests of E.ON innogy – continuing operations for the complete reporting in the nuclear power plants Emsland and Gundremmingen year 2019 in the non-financial reporting of the RWE Group. operated by RWE. The takeover of the renewable energy busiThe designation “RWE stand-alone” relates to the RWE Group ness of innogy and its holding in the Austrian energy utility without the renewable energy business. Contrary to the situaKelag will follow in 2020. Furthermore, RWE has also taken a tion in the RWE Annual Report 2019, we will also recognise in 16.7% shareholding in E.ON. . the Non-financial Report the discontinued innogy operations for the first three quarters of 2019 as far as possible. This Non-financial risks relates to time-dependent indicators. As far as the management approaches are concerned, we refer to the key differIdentifying, assessing and managing risks at the earliest posences between the approaches adopted by RWE and innogy sible stage are the function of the Risk Management Departon the corresponding topics. Furthermore, we are reporting ment at RWE AG. This includes our Group-wide reporting and Operations acquired from E.ON with effect from 1 October controlling systems. It also encompasses our guidelines on 2019. In the case of data relating to a defined reference handling risks, and risk analysis within the scope of strategic, date, we report in accordance with the group of consolidated planning and controlling processes. The activities of the Risk companies as at 31 December 2019. Committees and Internal Auditing are also fundamental tenets of this work alongside reporting on the basis of the Act on The components of the Non-financial Report are based on Control and Transparency of Enterprises (KonTraG). the performance indicators relating to Corporate Responsibility (CR), which are reflected in the performance-related Internal Auditing ensures compliance with the RWE Code of remuneration of the Executive Board. Owing to the transition Conduct in the course of the audits carried out. The principles phase in the Group restructuring, in the course of which the of the Code of Conduct are included in the audit criteria. The renewable energy business of E.ON has already been transChief Compliance Officer regularly reports on this matter to ferred to RWE and the Renewables business of innogy is to be the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. II Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Potential risks were discussed for the relevant non-financial Aspects  (GRI 102-47) aspects of environment, employee, and social concerns, and human rights and corruption/bribery additionally arising The components of the Non-financial Report were selected from sustainability perspectives. These risks could result from on the basis of the performance indicators relating to Corpoour own business activity or from business relationships and rate Responsibility (CR), which are reflected in the perforfor the company itself, as well as for the company environmance-related remuneration of the Executive Board. This ment and its stakeholders, and which extend beyond reportmeans that meeting CR targets exerts a direct influence on ing on the basis of the Act on Control and Transparency of the compensation of the Executive Board of RWE AG. Enterprises (KonTraG), see Risk Report in the review of operations, page 84. In the course of reporting, no significant risks The selection of the topics for the Non-financial Report was were identified by the Corporate Responsibility Team for the carried out in consultation with the Executive Board and the fiscal year 2019. Supervisory Board, and it also reflects the assessments of the stakeholders. Development of the Corporate Responsibility Strategy of RWE In relation to the aspects of the Non-financial Report, the topics of Emissions (greenhouse gas emissions) and CompliWe can only be successful over the long term if we uphold our ance (environment) constitute the contribution to the aspect corporate responsibility and as a result ensure our acceptenvironmental concerns, occupational accidents from the ance within society. The importance of Corporate Responsioverarching topic of Occupational Health and Safety constibility is greater today than ever before. It relates to various tute the contribution to the aspect of employee concerns, environmental, economic and social aspects and therefore and the topic of Procurement deals with a number of areas extends significantly beyond the reduction of greenhouse gas including the aspect of protecting human rights. Anti-corrupemissions. Environment, employment, human rights, the new tion and combatting bribery are also addressed in the eponyRWE – these are only some of the aspects that are particumous section of the Non-financial Report. Social concerns larly relevant for our stakeholders and were topics of conversuch as dialogue with our local stakeholders were not taken sations or themes at events. The findings from these diaaccount of in the CR components of remuneration for the logues are also channelled into the ongoing development of Executive Board and are not a constituent element of the our new corporate responsibility strategy. Non-financial Report, see Non-financial Report, page II. Owing to the requirements of the CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) for reporting on the aspects required in this act, we explain that no concept is being pursued for social concerns because this aspect is currently not classified as material. Topics for the Non-financial Report Statutory aspects pursuant to Article 289c Section 2 German Commercial Code (HGB) Topics Respect for human rights Procurement practices Anti-corruption and combatting bribery Anti-corruption Environmental concerns Greenhouse-gas emissions, environmental compliance Employee concerns Health and safety Social concerns The aspect of social concerns is currently not material for RWE in accordance with the materiality provision in the German Commercial Code (HGB). III Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Respect for human rights Procurement practices Organisation and management Ethical and lawful procurement is an important topic for us. In Group Procurement manages the procurement relationships order to comply with this principle, we align our supply chain centrally. Group Procurement is assigned organisationally to taking into account local framework conditions, national or RWE Power AG and reports to its Chief Financial Officer. The pan-national regulations and international standards. The platform for procurement activities is provided by our Group procurement practices at RWE are essentially divided into Procurement Guideline. This defines uniform principles applitwo categories. This relates on the one hand to the procurecable throughout the Group for carrying out procurement. ment of energy sources, i.e. combustion fuels such as hard coal and gas. On the other hand, we also procure goods, The compliance rules and principles must be complied with plant components and services. These two categories are for all procurement transactions alongside the RWE Code of presented separately below in order to provide a better overConduct. The supplier or service provider is obliged to adhere view. to these regulations. We review business relationships with business partners if it becomes known in the public domain that they have breached the principles of the UN Global Procurement of goods, plant components and Compact. We then take appropriate measures that we conservices sider necessary and put them into action. Challenges A key factor relates to compliance with our regulations on occupational health and safety especially when we commisUp to now, we have sourced a substantial proportion of sion third parties to carry out aspects of the maintenance goods, plant components for conventional power plants and work on our plants or to handle hazardous substances. services from our business partners who – like us – are based in the European Union. These businesses therefore operate Up until September 2019, innogy SE and its subsidiary comwithin the robust legal framework that is in place in the EU. panies (innogy and the innogy Group) were part of the RWE We have also implemented management and controlling Group. During the year under review, innogy operated indeinstruments in order to ensure the best possible compliance pendently of RWE also in relation to the management of with legislation and safeguarding standards relating to envimaterial topics for non-financial reporting. However, the ronmental, labour and social concerns, human rights, and standards applied for the procurement of goods and services prevention of corruption. Nevertheless, we are ultimately in relation to respect for human rights are similar. Conseunable to fully guarantee that all possible negative impacts quently, innogy ensures that suppliers acknowledge their own are completely excluded as a result of our efforts. We are Code of Conduct and like RWE uses coverage for the protherefore working continuously on improvements and we curement volume as an indicator. Re-integration of procurecooperate in this process with other companies and organiment processes for innogy – continuing operations in Central sations to address the challenges. Group Procurement has commenced and it is projected for completion at the beginning of 2020. Central Group ProNational and international standards are becoming increascurement has been responsible for the procurement of indiingly concrete in relation to the expectations for sustainable rect requirements for Operations acquired from E.ON since supply chain management. For example, national action 1 October 2019. The procurement of direct, businessplans for business and human rights are already in place, or specific requirements for the renewable energy business such plans are being prepared. These regulations relating to is carried out by a separate Purchasing Department, which the duty to respect human rights refer in particular to the is situated within the organisation of the renewable energy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The business and procures in accordance with the same princiModern Slavery Act in the United Kingdom requires us to do ples as Central Group Procurement. everything possible to prevent modern slavery occurring in our supply chains. We are committed to upholding human rights throughout RWE. IV Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all All the business partners accredited for our trading operacontractual relationships of the central Purchasing tions were reviewed for compliance with our Code of Conduct Department before engaging in business relationships. The following individual trading processes are based on standard contracts The production of goods and the provision of services in our usual in the market. supply chains should take place under comparable conditions to those prevailing in our own company. We expect partDuring the year under review, Group Procurement purchased ners in a business relationship with RWE to accept the princigoods, services and plant components with a volume of ples of our Code of Conduct as a basis for cooperation. This is around € 1.9 billion (2018: € 1.7 billion, data for RWE standimplemented by integrating the RWE principles for behaviour. alone). At innogy, the procurement volume of goods and serThese principles address issues including the topics of human vices for innogy – continuing operations in 2019 amounted rights, labour standards, the environment, anti-corruption, to € 0.5 billion and for discontinued innogy operations for the and money laundering. The principles for behaviour are part period Q1–Q3/2019 amounted to some € 2.5 billion. We of our Code of Conduct. regularly monitor the proportion of the purchase volume in which the requirements of our Code of Conduct are a constitSupplier management is a key building block within the tactiuent element of the contractual relationship. During the year cal procurement process for Group-wide procurement. One under review, the corresponding level of coverage of RWE of the objectives of supplier management is safeguarding Group Procurement met its target value of 100% in relation and improving the supplier service and identification and to the procurement volume for goods and services. In 2019, management of supplier risks. If there are any problems in the proportion of the purchase volume for innogy – continurelation to the business relationship, we involve our suppliers ing operations covered by acknowledgement of the innogy and work together with them to generate improvements. For Code of Conduct was 100%. In the first three quarters of example, we have implemented an escalation process for 2019, the level of coverage for discontinued innogy operaincidents in the area of occupational safety in order to tions was 97.5%. develop suppliers. Suppliers can also be suspended if there is a repeat and depending on the severity of the incidents. Declarations on the UK Modern Slavery Act Measures and performance measurement Our Group companies RWE Supply & Trading GmbH and RWE Generation SE also operate in the United Kingdom. They Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all therefore regularly publish a Statement of Compliance relatcontractual relations ing to the UK Modern Slavery Act on their national Internet pages. Central Group Procurement bears responsibility for procurement procedures of RWE stand-alone and since 1 October 2019 it has also been responsible for the indirect Procurement of fuels requirements of Operations acquired from E.ON. More than 9,000 suppliers are registered in our supplier portfolio for Challenges procurement of goods, plant components and services within the framework of business and plant operation. Some 300 of The challenge is also to exclude the possibility of money launthese suppliers are strategically relevant. Around 15,000 dering or financing terrorism when procuring fuels and derivsuppliers were registered for the procurement processes of atives in trading markets. The challenges of complex value innogy which were carried out independently by innogy. chains and corresponding supplier relationships are also present for the procurement of fuels – similar to the procureWe use an initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a ment of goods, plant components and services. The standself-assessment to gather information on matters including ards already referred to in respect of the duty to respect environmental protection, occupational safety and complihuman rights are also applicable here. ance. We are in regular and close communication with strategically relevant suppliers. V Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Regarding the renewable energy business of innogy and Compliance Team of RWE Supply & Trading. A date for the E.ON, the procurement of fuels is not material because elecnext audit is also defined in the course of this process. The tricity generation is based on renewable energy sources and timing depends on the risk identified with the party investithese resources do not come under the procurement procegated. This is a continuous process which ensures that audits dures addressed here. In 2019, the procurement volume for are carried out on a regular basis and not just at the beginenergy sources purchased by RWE Supply & Trading for the ning of a business relationship. Since 2014, we have also had operation of conventional power plants was some € 4.1 bilaccess to the information garnered in the Bettercoal Initiative lion (2018: € 4.2 billion). for the procurement of hard coal. Organisation and management Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain Review of trading partners on the wholesale markets In the context of procurement of energy sources, the conditions for extraction of the hard coal imported for our power Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard plants are a top priority alongside their impacts on the local coal, gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and biomass, as well as population. trading in combustion fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised products with defined quality attributes on In order to support sector-wide development of standards, international wholesale markets. These markets are the most RWE already joined forces with other large purchasers of important source of procurement. Raw materials traded in hard coal to launch the Bettercoal Initiative in 2012. The these markets often change ownership several times after objective of Bettercoal is continuous improvement of the they have been first offered for sale by the producers. Generconditions under which hard coal is produced and transally, it is only possible for us to identify the immediate ported. To this end, Bettercoal developed a globally recogupstream owner, while the precise geographical origin of the nised standard for production of hard coal and uses it as a raw material is not known when a transaction is concluded. basis for audits. The high aspirations of Bettercoal do not There are therefore only limited direct supplier relationships simply relate to environmental standards but also to social between RWE and the producers. This means we are only standards. They are likewise expressed in the principles able to exert indirect influence on the production conditions. established in the Bettercoal Code. The aim of Bettercoal is to bring about significant improvements and to ensure compliBefore we enter into any business relationships in the wholeance with standards in all the important production countries sale market, we review all potential trading partners. The through cooperation with local producers. review takes place in a standardised and multistage process. All business partners are expected to accept and follow the Measures and performance measurement RWE Code of Conduct, or if they have their own equivalent Code of Conduct to comply with this. We use international Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain databases and information systems in order to see whether there is any potential misconduct. A review of trading partBettercoal uses a central database to provide its member ners is carried out independently of the purchase volume. The companies with information about coal producers who are Code of Conduct for the RWE Group defines our expectations committed to Bettercoal. The names of the producers and for our own working practices, the standards for cooperation summaries of the assessments are published on the Betterwith contractual partners and the joint basis for establishing coal website. A self-assessment by the coal producers is contractual relationships. Each supply company is evaluated complemented by regular Bettercoal audits carried out using a fixed procedure in the form of the “Counterparty on-site by independent experts. The audits result in binding Approval Process” (CAP). Each supplier is reviewed for negaimprovement measures, in order to close the gaps identified tive reporting about the company in the media and more in the audit compared with the Bettercoal Code. Their implein-depth investigations are then carried out as necessary. mentation is monitored by expert assessors. This process The audit and further investigations are performed by the is repeated at regular intervals and this guarantees a VI Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report continuous improvement process for environmental and the producers and communicate with all the relevant stakesocial conditions. RWE plays an active role in all the commitholders. RWE’s role included being part of a delegation that tees of Bettercoal – from the Executive Board to the working visited Russia in September 2019. groups specific to each country. Furthermore, RWE managers meet with representatives of Bettercoal pursues a country-based approach of including coal producers and critical stakeholders in civil society – the majority of producers in the improvement process. Focus independently of Bettercoal and concrete supply relationcountries are currently Colombia, South Africa and Russia. In ships – in order to identify additional terms of references for 2018, additional working groups were set up for Colombia establishing an approach to positive development. The talks and Russia. The aims are to prepare for the audits, support on imported coal in Germany and the Netherlands were conimplementation of potentials for improvement identified at tinued. Hard coal by supply countries Proportion in % 2019 2018 Germany 7.0 23.1 United Kingdom 1.2 1.0 Colombia 2.0 2.2 Russia 61.1 42.4 South Africa 1.6 6.1 USA 23.1 23.5 Other 4.0 1.7 VII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Anti-corruption and combatting bribery Anti-corruption the Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG. Compliance officers inside Germany and in other countries ensure uniform impleChallenges mentation of compliance principles for prevention of corruption at these Group companies. Integrity and compliance with the law are fundamental principles defining the entrepreneurial actions of RWE. The RWE innogy SE also has a Compliance Management System and Code of Conduct forms the platform for our interpretation of has its own Chief Compliance Officer. After the transfer of compliance and it is binding on all employees. The goals and innogy – continuing operations from E.ON to RWE, this will be principles to achieve this are anchored in the RWE Code of integrated into the existing Compliance Management System Conduct. The Code prohibits any form of corruption and it is of RWE. given concrete form by other Group guidelines. The integration process into the Compliance Management The prevention of corruption is a top priority for RWE. The System of RWE has commenced for Operations acquired focus of the Compliance Management System is therefore on from E.ON by RWE. identification of potential structural corruption risks and the avoidance of corruption within the RWE Group. This is Organisational regulations such as the double-checking (four because apart from the risk of reputational impairments for eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisation conthe Group, corruption can restrict economic growth, reduce cepts and licensing regulations provide support for compliequal opportunities and contribute to an increase in poverty. ance with the Group guidelines which give concrete form to RWE therefore bases all its activities and business decisions the principles set out in the Code of Conduct. The approprion established internal rules for compliance. The company ateness of the underlying internal controlling system is regudoes not tolerate any corruption or other breaches of the larly reviewed by the Internal Audit Department. regulations. Compliance requirements are also factored in when making decisions about entering into business relationThe Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG regularly reports to ships with suppliers or business partners and in the administhe Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG on tration of donations, sponsorship measures and memberissues relevant to compliance. ships. Measures and performance measurement The energy industry is a sector defined by regulatory decisions, continuous change and projects with high order volThe Chief Executive Officer of RWE AG writes personally to umes. This also impacts to a greater or lesser extent on the each manager with a request to report on the implementavalue chain of RWE. The corruption risks described above tion of the Code of Conduct in their area of responsibility. This cannot be excluded in our supply chain. However, RWE AG management survey is carried out once a year in order to has implemented comprehensive systems for avoidance of create transparency in relation to compliance with the Code corruption within the framework of the Compliance Manageof Conduct and provide an overview of compliance awarement System in order to ensure the best possible compliance ness at RWE. with statutory legislation. The feedback rate for the management survey in the previOrganisation and management ous RWE Group structure (RWE stand-alone) provides an indicator for compliance awareness. We strive to generate a We want to avoid corruption completely in all our processes feedback rate of 100% and this was achieved in 2019 and and we are committed to raising the awareness of our 2018. employees and managers throughout the company. During the year under review, the topic of anti-corruption was Management of the Compliance Management System to also material for innogy. The number of employees with prevent corruption at RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE attendance training courses on anti-corruption is used as the Power AG, and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH is carried out by indicator. VIII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report The further review of the Compliance Management System Internal media within the Group inform our employees about was started by a professional services firm at the end of behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and 2018. The review was extended to cover the topic areas of also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. Our prevention of money laundering and compliance with foreign employees also receive compliance training each year on a trade/export control. In 2019, the conceptual audit was sucweb-based training programme with a changing focus topic. cessfully completed. The concept for risk assessment was Participation in this programme is obligatory for all employconfirmed during the course of the conceptual review. The ees. Employees without any PC access receive instruction risk assessment of RWE companies selected on the basis of from their supervisors. In addition, the employees also take risk indicators is being commenced in 2020. The results of part in attendance training sessions that are organised by the risk assessment will be evaluated over the course of the Compliance Department. These are calibrated according 2020. The subsequent efficacy audit will complete the overall to the risk of corruption associated with the relevant activity. review in 2020. The Executive Board is also integrated in this training concept. The rollout of the new training concept for the RWE companies was commenced in 2018/2019. IX Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Environmental concerns Greenhouse gas emissions Organisation and management Challenges We are consistently reducing our CO2 emissions and simultaneously massively expanding our renewable energy in order In December 2015, virtually all the countries in the world to achieve a sustainable alignment of our business model joined together in the Paris Climate Agreement (COP 21) to and as a contribution to limiting the consequences of climate make a commitment to limiting the global rise in temperachange. This also encompasses the transaction between ture to significantly below 2 degrees Celsius compared with RWE and E.ON, see Non-financial Report, page I. the pre-industrial level, and to work towards a limitation of less than 1.5 degrees Celsius. The countries signed up to Our European fossil-fuel power plants are subject to the national reduction commitments to achieve this aim. ConseEuropean Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). Reporting on quently, the European Union made a commitment to reduce CO2 emissions from these power plants is made to the the emission of greenhouse gases by at least 40% by 2030 national emissions trading offices, which in turn report to the compared with the baseline year of 1990. In the course of responsible EU authorities. Rights and obligations of the her nomination for the new EU Commission, the Commission emitters are regulated in detail at the level of the member President and the Commissioner responsible for climate prostates so that additional corporate regulatory standards are tection announced that the reduction target would be tightrendered obsolete. The European Emissions Trading Directive ened and a reduction to 50% would be examined. A decision is one of the regulations applicable for this area at European on this matter will be reached at the earliest in 2020. level. In Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, the relevant national regulations based on this directive are The Netherlands wants to achieve a 49% reduction comapplicable, which are now being amended by national lawpared with 1990 in their greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. makers following the current ETS reform. The emission reduction in the UK envisages a fall of 37% by 2020 and 57% by 2030, in each case by comparison with The CO2 data relevant for reporting are calculated in the 1990. opencast mines, at the relevant power-plant locations, and when combustion fuel is purchased. They are then collated Additional countries in which we also operate have likewise centrally in the course of reporting. The Group Management defined their own targets – Turkey, for example, has made a is integrated in the course of reporting for the audit of the voluntary commitment under the Paris Climate Agreement. financial statements. Political pressure to tighten the defined goals is coming not The emissions generated by RWE are determined in operaonly from the Paris Climate Agreement but primarily also tional terms by the use of our power plants in association with from a large number of initiatives generated by civil society, development in the energy markets. RWE Supply & Trading is organisations such as Fridays for Future, protest movement primarily responsible for commercial optimisation to for climate justice “Ende Gelände” and Extinction Rebellion. enhance utilisation of power plants. The prices for combusThey have ensured that climate protection is being made a tion fuels and CO2 certificates determine the costs at which much bigger priority in the political discussion. power plants are able to offer the electricity they produce on the wholesale market. The demand for electricity determines Investors include the topic of climate protection in their comwhen and which power plants are used. More expensive pany assessment. In their procurement processes, our cuspower plants are correspondingly only deployed when there is tomers too are increasingly taking into account the sustainahigh demand in the electricity market and they emit correbility aspects and the carbon intensity of the electricity we spondingly lower levels of greenhouse gases and harmful air generate. Non-government organisations (NGOs) and initiapollutants owing to the lower number of operating hours. The tives are continuously stepping up their efforts to promote additional expansion of renewable energy, which has priority short-term shutdown of older coal-fired power plants in order feed-in in Germany, for example, means that the operational to achieve climate targets, both against the background of hours and the associated emissions for all other power plants greenhouse-gas emissions and against that of other emisare continuously declining. sions. We are pursuing a long-term strategy. This is oriented towards the currently applicable legal framework conditions and those anticipated in the future, and the expectation of reducing CO2 emissions.. X Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Climate protection and climate-protection measures constiIn Germany, our main electricity generation market, the stage tute key elements of our corporate strategy. In this connecis now set for an early phaseout of coal-fired power production, the coordination of decision-making and preparing the tion. In January 2019, the Growth, Structural Change and groundwork are in the hands of Group Strategy, which inteEmployment Commission (Structural Change Commission), grates all the relevant divisions and generating segments, which was appointed by the Federal Government, made a and reports to the Executive Board of RWE AG. For the organconcrete proposal to achieve climate protection goals within isational position of environmental compliance, see Nonthe energy sector. The panel, made up of representatives financial Report, page XII/ XIII. from industry, trade unions, science, associations, citizen groups and environmental organisations, called for a coal We also use appropriate risk management to safeguard phaseout by no later than 2038. In addition, the Commission the financial risks associated with emissions trading, see presented a roadmap for plant closures and voted in favour Reduction of financial risks, page XI. of power plant operators being allocated appropriate compensation. The amount of compensation is either to be deterIn relation to the renewable energy business, Operations mined by auction (hard coal) or via negotiations (lignite). acquired from E.ON and innogy – continuing operations Redundancies for operational reasons as well as inapproprimake a positive contribution to the emissions footprint of ate social and economic disadvantages to employees are to RWE because direct CO2 emissions in this segment are not be avoided as much as possible. The Commission also material. Rather, the emissions of the upstream and downrequested that the Hambach Forest should be preserved. We stream value chain are of key importance here. The expanpublished a detailed overview of the panel’s recommendasion of the renewable energy business is relevant for innogy tions on page 33 of the RWE Annual Report 2018. and in future also for RWE, and the Renewables business is responsible for this area. During the course of the year under The suggestions of the Structural Change Commission were review, innogy made a contribution to decarbonisation and predominantly well-received by policymakers and other transformation of energy supply under its own responsibility stakeholders. After they were published, the government, the within this business and other activities in the divisions of affected federal states and the power plant and opencast mine Retail and Grid & Infrastructure. operators started negotiating the implementation of the recommendations in the lignite industry. These talks led to a Measures and performance measurement consensus in early 2020. On this basis, the Federal Cabinet published a draft Coal Phaseout Act on 29 January 2020, thus The expansion of the renewable energy business is a constitlaunching the parliamentary procedure. Once it has been comuent element of the RWE reduction strategy because it is part pleted, the government will be authorised to conclude publicof the transformation of RWE. Under the umbrella of RWE, the law contracts with operators of lignite assets which protect merger of the Renewables business of E.ON and innogy will their legitimate interests. empower us to become one of the leading European electricity generators from renewable energy sources. RWE has The draft act envisages that RWE will bear most of initial defined ambitious targets in relation to reduction of our burden for exiting from lignite-fired electricity generation. By greenhouse gas emissions. From 2012 to 2019, RWE the end of 2022, additional generation capacity from lignite already reduced its annual CO2 emissions by 51%. A reducamounting to 3 GW should have been removed from the martion of 75% is projected by 2030. The gradual exit from coalket. Out of this, we will take over 2.8 GW. On the basis of the fired electricity generation plays a key role. By 2040, we want current planning, the first 300 MW unit is already scheduled to have converted the electricity production of the RWE for removal from the grid in the Rhineland Lignite Mining Group such that the aspiration of climate neutrality is fulfilled. Region by the end of 2020. In the following year, three addiOur corresponding corporate decisions in this area are sigtional 300 MW plants will be switched off. In 2022, another nificantly influenced and defined by the regulatory and social 300 MW unit and two 600 MW units will also be shut down. framework. With our goal of carbon neutrality, we are being The main sites affected are the power plant locations Neurath more ambitious compared with the objective of the European and Niederaußem, and to a lesser extent Weisweiler. In 2022, sector association eurelectric, which had announced climate we will also cease production of lignite briquettes at the neutrality for the electricity industry “significantly before Frechen location and hence also operation of electricity 2050”. We are therefore also significantly ahead of the targeneration capacity amounting to 120 MW. By the end of gets of carbon neutrality by 2050 currently under discussion the decade, we will continue to significantly reduce our lignitein Germany and at European level. fired generation capacity. Already in the year 2025, a XI Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report 300 MW unit will stop operating in Weisweiler. The two responsible for concrete implementation of the hedging 600 MW units at this site will follow in 2028 and 2029. The strategies within a framework approved by the Executive lignite from the Inden opencast mine is used exclusively at Board of RWE AG based on a number of factors including Weisweiler and this facility will then be closed down. Out of limits. the other two 600 MW units, one is scheduled for shutdown at the close of 2029 and the other will be transferred to legallyMost of the emissions are hedged by the purchase of Euromandated security standby for four years on 1 January 2030. pean Emission Allowances (EUAs) on different exchanges. From 2030 onwards, only our three most advanced ligniteFurthermore, we only use a very small amount of Certified fired units in the 1,000 MW class will remain in the market. Emission Reduction units (CER), which originate from our own They are projected to keep operating until the end of 2038. CER projects or are purchased on different exchanges. In 2019, we emitted 87.1 million metric tons of CO2 from our Emissions over the medium and long term at RWE can plants in accordance with EU ETS. This was covered by an be influenced by the ongoing development of the power estimated 86.0 million EUAs, in addition to 1.1 million certifiplant portfolio. This relates to a range of potential measures cates allocated free of charge. including modernisation and efficiency enhancement of existing power plants, replacement or shutdown of existing Reduction of our own CO2 emissions power plants, and a change in fuel, for example from coal to biomass. Since 2012, measures such as decommissioning of We use CO2 emissions from plants subject to the European coal-fired power plants or a reduction in the capacity utilisaEmissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) as an indicator for tion of coal-fired power plants have facilitated a significant greenhouse gas emissions. We report on emissions from our decrease in CO2 emissions of 51%. Additional planned measgas-fired power plant in Turkey together with the EU ETS ures are presented under Reduction of our own CO2 emisemissions as the total CO2 output for the RWE Group. sions , page XI. The operation of our lignite-fired power plants and the assoReduction of financial risks ciated CO2 emissions are limited due to the restriction on lignite mining in the opencast mines. The State Government of Financial risks associated with CO2 emissions from our power North Rhine-Westphalia took the key decision about future plants are reflected in our risk management, see review of lignite mining at the Garzweiler II opencast mine in July 2016 operations, page 84. We reduce these risks by concluding and reduced the lignite stocks of Garzweiler II licensed under appropriate hedging transactions. Furthermore, we sell most planning legislation by approximately one third. In terms of of the electricity from our power plants in forward transactions planning law, this decision still has to be implemented by a and hedge the prices for the fuels and emission allowances lignite planning amendment procedure. required. The Commodity Management Com­mittee (CMC) is Emissions balance in million metric tons of CO₂ CO₂ emissions Free allocation of Shortage of CO₂ certificates CO₂ certificates 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lignite & Nuclear 57.7 79.4 0.6 0.7 57.1 78.7 European Power of which: 30.4 38.6 0.5 0.6 28.9 36.9 Germany1 7.4 13.0 0.5 0.6 6.9 12.4 Netherlands/Belgium 9.1 12.1 9.1 12.1 United Kingdom 12.9 12.4 12.9 12.4 Turkey2 1.0 1.1 innogy – continuing operations Operations acquired from E.ON RWE Group 88.1 118.0 1.1 1.3 86.0 115.6 1 Including figures for generation capacities of plants which are not owned by RWE but we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2019, these power plants emitted 1.3 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 2.0 million metric tons). 2 Since Turkey does not participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need any emissions allowances for the CO2 emissions there. XII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report We carry out systematic reviews and adopt the available sions of the RWE Code of Conduct were applicable for the options for optimisation of the power plant portfolio. In the entire RWE Group in 2019. Since the transfer of Operations past, we have significantly increased the efficiency of our acquired from E.ON they are therefore also applicable to this power plants and expanded the proportion of gas-fired gensegment. innogy has its own Code of Conduct with equivalent eration. In the case of generation from hard coal, we sucprovisions. ceeded in removing around 70% of the installed capacity in 2013 from the grid or in converting the capacity to biomass The Group Guideline Environmental Protection is based on consumption. In 2019, these measures were continued. ISO 14001:2015 and defines uniform principles for environmental protection. This applies to all the affiliated companies Carbon capture and utilisation or storage is one course of that are integrated in the consolidated financial statements action available for the reduction of greenhouse gas emisand have business operations with personnel and/or assets. sions. While alongside the cost-effectiveness of Carbon The renewable energy business is within the scope of applicaCapture and Storage (CCS) projects is as yet unproven, an tion of the Group Guideline. During the transition phase up appropriate legal framework is also not in place and there is until the end of 2019 – as a result of the transaction – no currently no acceptance for this technology. Meanwhile, RWE environmental data were collected or monitoring audits carcontinues to carry out further research into Carbon Capture ried out because the reporting in the CR Report for 2019 did and Utilisation (CCU) technologies because they are an not yet include the renewable energy business. This is proimportant option for covering the supply of carbon required jected to occur on a regular basis from 2020. The responsiby industry. At the same time, the application of these techbility for this guideline is with the Chief Environmental Officer nologies can reduce CO2 emissions of fossil-fired power of RWE AG. The RWE companies appoint environmental officplants. Other sources of carbon, such as biomass, waste and ers in the Executive Management. Furthermore, there are sewage sludge, are also being investigated with the aim of also environmental management officers and central speestablishing closed carbon cycles. cialist environmental coordinators who regularly review, assess and improve the relevant Environmental Management Systems. As part of integrated compliance reporting, Environmental compliance the Chief Compliance Officer also reports on environmental protection topics, or on serious incidents relevant for the Challenges environment to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG. We identify environmental topics and associThe operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and ated risks and opportunities, regularly assess our environplants for generating electricity and the production of lignite mental performance and make use of these results in order inevitably result in our impacting on natural ecosystems. In to initiate systematic improvements on a continuous basis. the regions where we are operating, strict environmental legislation and licensing regulations define the framework for Environmental management is additionally accredited and our operating activities. Our objective is to avoid the risk of certified in order to manage our key activities with environserious negative impacts on ecosystems. Our activities here mental relevance ingeneration. Owing to the diverse statupartly extend beyond the obligations arising from legislation tory obligations and requirements for management of occuor licences for the operation of opencast mines and power pational health and safety, environment, energy and plants. information security, RWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG rolled out an integrated management system for these topics Organisation and management to achieve synergies, which alongside compliance comprise the areas of energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, and effluIn our RWE Code of Conduct, we describe our aspiration for ents and waste. environmental protection as follows: We are committed to a responsible approach to natural resources and we promote the use of environmentally friendly technologies. The proviXIII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Anchoring environmental protection in business Group-wide coverage by environmental management processes The level of coverage by our Environmental Management In the course of Group-wide environmental protection System provides us with a performance indicator. It is commanagement, the relevant emission data are surveyed and prised of the proportion of the employees covered by the calculated at the individual sites, before being collected and Environmental Management System and the level of impleprocessed in a central department for licences and environmentation. We aim to achieve 100% coverage, either through mental protection. certification or internal auditing. On 31 December 2019, the level of coverage for environmental management at Reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE stand-alone amounted to 100%. 89% of the EnvironRWE AG takes place through the Chief Compliance Officer of mental Management Systems in the Group were certified. RWE. During the reporting year, no serious environmentally relevant events were identified in an internal survey. Equally, no Measures and performance measurement material monetary and no non-monetary sanctions in the environmental area were reported to us in an internal survey. Necessary or recommended measures for maintaining or improving environmental protection are identified from difinnogy established its own comparable Environmental Manferent sources, including internal audits or monitoring audits agement System. On 30 September 2019, the Renewables of RWE AG in the uncertified companies. These measures Division at innogy SE had a coverage level of 66% through include, for example, ensuring qualification of existing and its Environmental Management System (weighted by number new environmental management officers in the Group comof employees), of which 0% were certified. The integration of panies and supplementing environmental aspects relating to Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy – continuing the lifecycle approach after Hall. Their implementation and operations into the Environmental Management System of effectiveness are also systematically reviewed. In this context, RWE is being progressed in the course of 2020. we are strengthening the environmental awareness of our employees on the basis of a variety of information formats and in direct dialogue. XIV Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Employee concerns Occupational health and safety Executive Board of RWE AG. A regulated organisational structure ensures that the decentralised occupational safety Challenges departments throughout the company are included in H&S reporting. Operations acquired from E.ON have their own As an industrial company, occupational safety and maintainHealth & Safety Department and this is currently being inteing health are the most important topics of concern to our grated in the structural and process organisation of the RWE employees. Our workforce and the employees of our subconGroup. innogy has its own H&S Department. innogy pursues tractors often carry out their assignments at workplaces that the goal of a vibrant culture of occupational health and are subject to special requirements for occupational health safety through overarching framework conditions and comand safety. In particular, these include activities in the sphere pany-wide standards. This objective is assisted through supof opencast mining, in technical areas at our power plants, port from an overarching management system for occupaand at wind turbines. These areas of application are subject tional health and safety. Implementation of this system was to particular accident risks and health hazards for our launched in 2018 and continued throughout 2019. As in the employees and the workforce of subcontractors. So as to case of RWE, innogy also uses the LTIF as an important indiprotect them, we are committed to sustainable development cator for measuring success. This is a measure for the numof occupational health and safety. The further robust develber of accidents with at least one day off work for every one opment of a respectful management culture in an atmosmillion hours worked. phere of trust is absolutely essential for strengthening our culture of occupational health and safety – we have recogThe structural and process organisation of Health & Safety is nised that the topics of management and personnel developensured through acknowledged management systems ment need to be more tightly dovetailed and we are currently including international standards and rules. Corresponding working at improving these interfaces. regulations are defined in a guideline valid throughout the Group. The guideline includes fundamental provisions for Good occupational health and safety generates high defining occupational health and safety policy and for struclevels of quality and demonstrates a good business policy. tural and process organisation. Drawing up RWE workplace Sustainable prevention also exerts a positive impact on the safety standards and advance definition of targets in occumotivation of employees, the quality of their work, the image pational health and safety provide the platform for this. of the company and the satisfaction of the workforce. This is Group programmes directed towards establishing a culture another reason why high standards are maintained, such as of occupational health and safety will continue to undergo OHSAS 18001, and we continually carry out improvements refinement. RWE has defined the target of ensuring that all in this area. Group companies have certifiable management systems for occupational safety. On 31 December 2019, external certifiOrganisation and management cation (partly accredited) was conferred in 75% of the companies for RWE stand-alone (based on FTE = Full Time Our objective is for every employee to be healthy and to Equivalent). remain so. We are committed to using all the available opportunities to aid the recovery of sick employees as quickly as During the year under review, the Renewables Division of possible. This applies equally to occupational safety, in other innogy SE had a coverage level of 84% as a result of its occuwords the avoidance of accidents and to the promotion and pational safety management system (based on the number retention of health. of employees on the reference date of 3 September 2019), of which 51% are certified. Organisation of Health & Safety Continuous improvement of occupational safety Health & Safety (H&S) is responsible for the management of occupational safety and Company Health Management The occupational safety management systems cover the (CHM). The H&S Department is situated at RWE Power AG relevant management and business functions including the and also operates on the basis of a Service Level Agreement definition of targets, structures and processes, rules and for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply & Trading. tools relevant to occupational health and safety. The objecAnother responsibility of the department is H&S reporting in tive is to make the best possible contribution to achieving the the RWE Group and in this function it reports regularly to the corporate goals. The relevant processes for Health and XV Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Safety are systematically analysed and continuously In 2017, the Health & Safety Department already developed improved using the Plan Do Check Act cycle. The integrated the “Safety Academy” game. This involves small teams workapproach is applied for relevant activities that extend across ing together and answering questions interactively about management systems. These include management reviews, Health and Safety. Situations from routine work every day audits, analyses and event notifications. are also trained in action fields. The game has meanwhile become an established and accepted teaching tool in the Measures and performance measurement administrative sector. In November 2019, the “Safety Academy” was awarded the “German Occupational Safety Continuous improvement of occupational safety Prize” (“Deutscher Arbeitsschutzpreis”) in the “Cultural” category. The campaign “Thinking about Risks” was also Since 2017, a uniform classification of all events and accicontinued in 2019. In addition, the campaign “Mission Zero” dents relating to all employees throughout RWE has been was launched at RWE Generation in 2019. The objective of implemented along an accident pyramid with the intention of the “Mission Zero” campaign is to achieve zero accidents if ensuring development and alignment with international possible. Health & Safety (H&S) standards. In parallel, an assessment of potential has been carried out using a risk matrix. We want The key performance indicator we use for occupational to apply long-term establishment of a probabilistic approach safety is the number of occupational accidents with at least in order to assist our employees in achieving better identificaone day off work for every one million hours worked (Lost tion and assessment of safety risks. To this end, we particuTime Incident Frequency, LTIF). This indicator includes collarly promote independent responsibility in employees and leagues at subcontractors. In the reporting year 2019, raise their awareness of the issues. RWE stand-alone succeeded in almost keeping to the number of occupational accidents compared with the previous We focus systematically on investigating events and acciyear and it achieved an LTIF of 2.1 (2018: 2.2). This means dents with a high potential for risk. For this purpose, we deploy that our LTIF target of 1.8 for 2019 was unfortunately not an independent, interdisciplinary analysis team in order to achieved. Our goal is to bring about a sustainable reduction determine causes and derive suitable measures. In addition, in LTIF rate. An important focus for Health & Safety at RWE is we also support the subcontractors working for us with analtherefore also raising awareness for potential causes of acciysis and implementation of measures. dent and the avoidance of accidents. We intend to achieve an LTIF of 2.0 at RWE by 2020. Our objective is to treat the employees of our subcontractors in the same way at all times as RWE’s own employees. We The LTIF for employees at innogy SE and colleagues of subtherefore take account of the number of subcontractor accicontractors (partner companies) was 2.3. innogy – continuing dents in the LTIF rate, i.e. the number of accidents with at least operations have an LTIF of 2.6 and the discontinued operaone day off work for every one million hours worked. Over tions have an LTIF of 2.2. the course of the past ten years, RWE has established and expanded a reliable system of Workplace Safety SubcontracIn 2019, there were no fatal occupational accidents at tor Management (WSSM). Apart from reducing the accidents RWE stand-alone. Likewise, there were no fatal occupational and work-related stresses for our subcontractors, the focus is accidents at Operations acquired from E.ON. At innogy SE, on joint development of an H&S culture. In order to achieve there was a total of two fatal occupational accidents in 2019 this, we support our subcontractors from the tender stage to (of which one was at innogy – continuing operations). carrying out the work, as well as in the final phase of continuous improvement. In 2019, we also carried out H&S workshops, highlighted specific safety performance and intensified cooperation between the H&S experts at RWE and subcontractors. XVI Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Accidents involving at least one day off work in 2019 by division Number of occupational accidents1 Number of commuting accidents2 RWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG 96 43 RWE Supply & Trading GmbH 0 2 RWE AG (other) 0 2 innogy – continuing operations 14 3 Discontinued innogy operations3 159 94 Operations acquired from E.ON 6 -4 RWE Group 275 144 1 Including employees from subcontractors. 2 Only own employees. 3 The period Q1-Q3/2019 is reported for discontinued innogy operations 4 Commuting accidents are not surveyed for Operations acquired from E.ON. XVII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Non-financial Reporting1 To RWE AG, Essen mented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable We have performed a limited assurance engagement on legal and regulatory requirements. the separate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB ( Handelsgesetzbuch : Practitioner’s Responsibility German Commercial Code ) of RWE AG, Essen, (hereinafter the “Company”) for the period from 01 January 2019 to Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion 31 December 2019 (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). on the Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement we have performed. Responsibilities of the Executive Directors Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform an The executive directors of the Company are responsible for audit on external sources of in-formation or expert opinions, the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance referred to in the Non-financial Report. with §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements the selection and application of appropriate methods of non(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than financial reporting as well as making assumptions and estiAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued mates related to individual non-financial disclosures which by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perare reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the execform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude utive directors are responsible for such internal control as with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attenthey have considered necessary to enable the preparation tion that causes us to believe that the Company’s Nonof a Non-financial Report that is free from material mis­ financial Report for the period from 01 January 2019 to statement whether due to fraud or error. 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with Independence and Quality Control of the Audit Firm 289c to 289e HGB. have complied with the German professional provisions In a limited assurance engagement the assurance proceregarding independence as well as other ethical requiredures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance ments. engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and depend on the practitioner’s judgment. professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we per(“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchformed amongst others the following assurance procedures prüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Conand further activities: trol 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: sustainability organization and of the stakeholder Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftengagement sprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the comprehensive system of quality control including docuNon-financial Report regarding the preparation process, the internal control system relating to this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial (group) report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. XVIII Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report QQ Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement Intended Use of the Assurance Report of the Non-financial Report QQ Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed Non-financial Report with the Company. The assurance engagement has been QQ Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding performed for purposes of the Company and the report is data in the consolidated financial statements and in the solely intended to inform the Company about the results of group management report the limited assurance engagement. QQ Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information The report is not intended for any third parties to base any QQ Inspection of samples of relevant documents and (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility lies only with evidence the Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Assurance Conclusion Frankfurt, 28 February 2020 Based on the assurance procedures performed and PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material Michael Conrad  ppa. Susanne Klages aspects, in accordance with §§ 315c in conjunction with Wirtschaftsprüfer 289c to 289e HGB. (German Public Auditor) rwe.com Our Responsibility 2019 CR Report rwe.com 01 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix About the Report The report entitled “Our Responsibility 2019” is aimed at anapart of the GRI Standards. This report has been prepared in lysts and investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), accordance with the GRI Standards: “Core option”. The GRI customers and suppliers, policymakers and government report “Our Responsibility 2019” was available for the impleagencies, at our employees and the people living in the regions mentation of the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, see where we do business. It describes the most important social, GRI Content Index, page 05. The report also serves as our environmental and economic challenges facing our core busiprogress report for the Global Compact of the United Nations ness, the conflicting aims that can arise, and the Corporate and provides information on the Sustainable Development Responsibility (CR) strategy we have developed in response. Goals (SDG) we make a contribution to, see page 82. RWE AG is meeting the obligation to publish a Non-financial Dates  (GRI 102-45) Report envisaged pursuant to the German Commercial Code (HGB) in a separate section of this CR report. This differs from The period under review is fiscal 2019, which began on the reporting in the previous year in which the Non-financial 1 January and ended on 31 December. Some generation Report was integrated in the CR Report. The section of the capacities of E.ON were transferred to RWE during the course Non-financial Report 2019 was subject to a limited assurof the year. E.ON took over our 76.8% shareholding in innogy ance engagement performed by professional services firm on 18 September. Part of this holding – the renewable energy PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgebusiness of innogy – is being transferred back to RWE in sellschaft in accordance with the requirements of the 2020. This CR Report 2019 relates with “RWE stand-alone” German Commercial Code (HGB). to the operating segments Lignite & Nuclear, European Power and Supply & Trading. Owing to the fact that Group This CR Report is published electronically in pdf format. The (financial) reporting is taking place with the two temporary professional services firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH positions “innogy – continuing operations” and “Operations Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft performed an engagement acquired from E.ON”, explicit reference is made to these audit on the disclosures indicated with and provided a limitems and this then refers to the RWE Group overall. If innogy ited assurance relating to compliance of the disclosures with is referred to in this report without additional explanation, this the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The audit comprises the continuing and discontinued operations of only covered the appropriately highlighted sections of the innogy. The financial and market data were taken from the report and not texts or Internet pages referred to. RWE Annual Report 2019 In the case of these indicators, the generation capacities of E.ON and innogy, which are or The limited assurance engagement was carried out in will be transferred to RWE, are reported as continuing or accordance with the auditing principles of the International acquired operations. We present financial data denominated Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised), in the relevant national currency or have converted these see page 80. for Assurance Report. The CR Report includes based on the average annual values for 2019, see an overview of all the key indicators, see page 77. Annual Report 2019 page 109. Approach For reference The CR Report of RWE AG is published as a GRI Report and This report is published in German and English. The Executive conforms with the GRI Standards (2016) of the Global ReportBoard of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. ing Initiative in a selection based on a Materiality Analysis of The editorial deadline was on 30 March 2020. This report the topics relevant for our business. In addition, we also report continues our policy of annual reporting. The next report will on material in-depth topics based on the GRI requirements for be published in the spring of 2021. the electricity industry, which were formerly applicable as the G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures, and no longer form Archive CR Reports 02 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the event that the underlying assumptions do not materialise the future development of the RWE Group and its companies or additional developments arise, actual performance may as well as future economic and political developments. These deviate from the performance expected at present. We are statements are assessments that we have made based on therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever for information available at the time this report was drawn up. In the accuracy of these statements. 03 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Foreword Dear Readers, Running a sustainable business, taking responsibility – this is As in the two previous years, our Group Non-financial Report the aspiration of RWE and it will remain so in the future. This is part of this sustainability report. However, contrary to past year, we have given this commitment an even higher profile, practice, this is not presented in individual sections, rather it with tangible impacts both inside and outside the company. is published as a separate continuous section. As a result, we Our purpose defined as “Our energy for a sustainable life” further enhance accessibility and transparency in respect of represents a strong position and a clear aspiration for us as information relating to non-financial aspects in line with the a company. We have defined new targets for ourselves so as European CSR Directive and the German Implementation Act to transform this into concrete action. Our objective is to be (Deutsches Umsetzungsgesetz). climate neutral by 2040. In 2019, our sustainability report once again simultaneously And we are already breathing life into this goal. Once again, constitutes our progress report on the UN Global Compact. we have reduced our power-plant emissions in a year-earlier By signing the Global Compact, we declared our commitment comparison for the seventh consecutive year running. Since to actively promoting human rights, decent working condi2012, we have succeeded in cutting our CO2 emissions by tions and environmental protection within our sphere of influhalf. This represents a saving of more than 90 million metric ence, and taking decisive action against corruption and bribtons. ery. This progress report sets out how we at RWE implement the ten principles of the Global Compact. And we highlight Simply reducing our CO2 emissions by no means makes the contribution we are making to achieving the Sustainable RWE a sustainable company. This objective requires a holistic Development Goals (SDG). approach and commitment within a large number of quite different areas. The following report outlines the extent to Our sustainability report is intended to provide our stake­ which we are achieving our own aspiration and taking holders – in particular policymakers, investors, customers, responsibility. employees, local authorities and the general public – with transparent and evidence-based information outlining the Our analysis includes the transaction with E.ON as far as possustainability performance of RWE. We will be delighted to sible. The Renewables operations of E.ON only became part of receive your feedback on this matter. RWE late in 2019. The Renewables Division of innogy will only follow in 2020. At the same time, we are already reporting on this matter and in each case we clearly highlight the underlying metrics for explanations and indicators. The report being compiled for the year 2021 will present an even more comprehensive picture on the sustainability of the new RWE. Yours, Rolf Martin Schmitz 04 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Overview of the current ranking results In 2019, RWE again participated in various rankings. A table showing an overview of the various rankings and the results obtained by RWE is provided below. Result Scale (Best score to worst score) MSCI A AAA to CCC Environmental: 2 Governance: 2 ISS Governance Quality Score Social: 1 1 to 10 ISS Oekom C+ A+ to DClimate: B CDP Water: BA to F Ecovadis 62 (Gold Status) 100 to 0 ESG Rating 3.3 FTSE Russell Percentile Rank 58 5 to 0 RobecoSAM 54 (12th out of 30 multi-utilities) 100 to 0 Sustainalytics 71 (43rd out of 194 assessed companies) 100 to 0 RWE is listed in the index of the 120 best Euronext VigeoEiris companies in the eurozone. RWE is listed in the Bloomberg Bloomberg Gender Equality Index Gender Equality Index (GEI). Standard Ethics EEEEE to F Global Compact (GC) Score: 59.1 Arabesque ESG Score: 65.3 100 to 0 Transparency International UK C A to F 05 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the German version of the report. GRI Standards Page Omissions CR NFB GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organisational Profile GRI 102-1: Name of the organisation 11 GRI 102-2: Activities, brands, products and services 11 GRI 102-3: Location of headquarters 11 GRI 102-4: Location of operations 11 GRI 102-5: Ownership and legal form 11 GRI 102-6: Markets served I, 12 GRI 102-7: Scale of the organisation 13 GRI 102-8: Information on employees and other Workers 14 GRI 102-9: Supply chain 14 GRI 102-10: Significant changes to the organisation 15 and its supply chain GRI 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach I, 15 GRI 102-12: External initiatives 15 GRI 102-13: Membership of associations 16 Strategy GRI 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 3, 17 GRI 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities I/ II, 17 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16: Values, principles, standards, 18 and norms of behaviour GRI 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and 18 concerns about ethics Governance GRI 102-18: Governance structure 19 GRI 102-19: Delegating authority 19 GRI 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, 19 environmental, and social topics GRI 102-21: Consulting stakeholders on economic, 20 environmental, and social topics GRI 102-22: Composition of the highest governance 20 body and its committees GRI 102-23: Chair of the highest governance body 25 GRI 102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest 20 governance body GRI 102-25: Conflicts of interest 21 GRI 102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting 21 purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102-29: Identifying and managing economic, 21 environmental, and social impacts GRI 102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 21 06 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI Standards Page Omissions CR NFB GRI 102-31: Review of economic, environmental, 22 and social topics GRI 102-32: Highest governance body’s role in I, 22 sustainability reporting GRI 102-35: Remuneration policies 22 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 23 GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 23 GRI 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 23 GRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 23 GRI 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 23 Reporting Practice GRI 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated 1, 26; financial statements AR 176 GRI 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 26 GRI 102-47: List of material topics II, 26 GRI 102-48: Restatements of information 29 GRI 102-49: Changes in reporting 29 GRI 102-50: Reporting period 29 GRI 102-51: Date of most recent report 29 GRI 102-52: Reporting cycle 29 GRI 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding 29 the report GRI 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with 29 the GRI Standards GRI 102-55: GRI Content index 5, 30 GRI 102-56: External assurance 30, 80 Material Topics Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 32 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated 33 and distributed GRI 201-2: Financial implications and other risks 33 Quantitative results relating to risks and opporand opportunities due to climate change tunities are subject to a specific confidentiality constraint. The quantified data are not disclosed for competitive reasons. GRI 201-4: Financial assistance received from government 34 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 35 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 35 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 III-VI, 37 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 38 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 VII/ VIII, (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 38 GRI 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related VIII, 38 We do not explicitly report on the established to corruption risks and on the number of audited business premises, since these values are subject to specific confidentiality constraints. They are confidential as it is business-relevant information. 07 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI Standards Page Omissions CR NFB GRI 205-2: Communication and training about VIII, 38 We do not explicitly report any quantitative anti-corruption policies and procedures data since these values are subject to specific confidentiality constraints as they are businessrelevant information. Availability and Reliability GRI 103: Management approach 2016 39 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Energy Efficient Products and Services GRI 103: Management approach 2016 41 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Research and Development GRI 103: Management approach 2016 42 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Shutdown and Decommissioning of Power Plants GRI 103: Management approach 2016 44 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Environmental GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 47 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation 48 GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 49 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 50 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 51 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 52 Continuous surveying for all our parcels of land or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiverwould take up a disproportionately high input sity value outside protected areas of resources. Furthermore, it is by no means certain that the digital data required from the authorities for such an updating process would be sufficiently up to date to provide an accurate determination. GRI 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, 53 and services on biodiversity GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 IX-XII, 54 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions XI, 56 GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 56 GRI 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 56 GRI 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) and 57 other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 58 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 59 GRI 306-3: Significant spills 59 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 XII/ XIII, 60 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws XIII, 60 and regulations 08 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI Standards Page Omissions CR NFB GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 III-VI, (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 37, 60 GRI 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using IV/ V, environmental criteria 60, 71 GRI 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the III-VI, supply chain and actions taken 60, 71 Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 61 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 62 We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data on the fluctuation rate and external hirings because the benefit is not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We regularly report on the age structure and the breakdown of employees by gender. GRI 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that 62 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 62 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational 62 changes GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 XIV/ XV, (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 63 GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational XVI, 64 We do not report by regions but analogous to diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workoperational line controlling. Data on the type related fatalities of injuries, the injury rate, the absentee rate, and work-related fatalities are surveyed in anonymised form for reasons associated with data protection regulations. The data cannot therefore be reported by gender. Reporting on occupational diseases and the absentee rate is also not possible for the same reason. GRI 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of 64 diseases related to their occupation GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 64 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 404-2: Programmes for upgrading employee skills 65 and transition assistance programmes GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 65 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 67 GRI 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 67 of women to men GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 68 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, 68 impact assessments, and development programmes GRI 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential 69 negative impacts on local communities 09 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI Standards Page Omissions CR NFB Catastrophe/Emergency Planning and Response GRI 103: Management approach 2016 70 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 III-VI, (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 37, 71 GRI 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social IV/ V, 71 criteria GRI 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and III-VI, 71 actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 72 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 415-1: Political contributions 73 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 74 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service informa74 tion and labelling GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 74 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 75 the social and economic area AR = RWE Annual Report 2019 10 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix General disclosures 11 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Organisational Profile In addition to the information provided below, more information is also available in section 11 of the combined review of operations in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 28. GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation RWE Aktiengesellschaft GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services RWE AG makes a major contribution to the smooth-running holding (76.8%) to E.ON. In return, we received the renewable operation of the entire energy system and also to security of energy business from E.ON, referred to as “Operations supply in Europe with its operating segments Lignite & acquired from E.ON”, and the minority interests in the RWE Nuclear, European Power and Supply & Trading, and with nuclear power plants Gundremmingen (25%) and Emsland electricity generation from renewable energy. (12.5%) formerly held by E.ON subsidiary PreußenElektra. The plan for the year 2020 is for E.ON to transfer “innogy – conAs a result of the exchange transaction with E.ON, which was tinuing operations” with the main constituent of renewable largely implemented in September 2019, highly profitable energy business back to us. For more information, see GRI activities will be established within the Group structure in 102-6, page 12. future. On 18 September 2019, we sold our innogy shareGRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Essen, Germany GRI 102-4 Location of operations RWE is an international group which including the operations QQ Germany of the renewable energy business is represented at business QQ Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands locations in 36 countries. QQ United Kingdom and Ireland QQ Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe The key business operations are distributed across the (Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Turkey) following countries and regions: QQ Western and Southern Europe (Spain and Italy) QQ Singapore QQ USA and Canada QQ Asia Region (China, India, Indonesia and Japan) GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form In mid-2019, RWE converted the RWE non-voting preferred tinent, this investor group held 14% (previous year: 15%) of shares into common shares with voting rights. The latest ana­ RWE’s equity capital. North America, the United Kingdom and lysis (at the beginning of 2020) indicated that an estimated Ireland accounted for a combined 44% (previous year: 43%). 86% of the total of 614.7 million RWE shares were held by At the beginning of the year, RWE AG’s largest single shareinstitutional investors, while 14% of the shares were held by holder was the American asset management company private individuals (including employee shareholders). InstituBlackRock with 7% of the subscribed capital. Second place tional investors from Germany owned 24% of RWE shares was taken by KEB Holding with some 5%, which is backed by (previous year: 25%). In other countries on the European conthe City of Dortmund, followed by the City of Essen with 3%. 12 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix The proportion of our common shares in free float, considthe capital stock are not included in the free float. However, ered by Deutsche Börse (German Stock Exchange) in terms of a higher threshold of 25% applies to asset management index weighting was 100% most recently. Normally, shares companies like BlackRock. held by investors accounting for at least a cumulative 5% of GRI 102-6 Markets served We report on our business model and our markets in the Supply & Trading review of business operations in the RWE Annual Report 2019 in section 1.1 Strategy and in the Non-financial This division encompasses the operations of RWE Supply & Report, page I. Trading. The company specialises in independent commodity trading, acts as an intermediary for gas, and supplies large The RWE Group is currently structured in five segments industrial and corporate customers with energy. Furthermore, (business units). The segments are described below. it markets the electricity of our generation companies and optimises the Group’s power plant dispatch commercially; Lignite & Nuclear however, earnings achieved through the latter activities are reported in the Lignite & Nuclear and European Power This segment encompasses our German electricity generasegments. tion from lignite and nuclear power as well as our lignite mining in the Rhineland. Operating responsibility for these activiinnogy – continuing operations ties lies with RWE Power. The segment also includes our capital expenditure in the Dutch nuclear power plant operator The main element in this segment is innogy’s renewable energy EPZ (30%) and the German company URANIT (50%), which business. The company ranks among the leading producers holds a 33% stake in Urenco, a uranium enrichment specialist. of electricity from renewable sources, with a strong focus on Europe – in particular Germany and the United Kingdom – European Power and with footholds in North America and Australia. The focus in terms of energy sources rests on wind, followed by hydro This is where we report on our electricity production from and solar. This segment also includes the German and Czech gas, hard coal and biomass, which focuses on Germany, the gas storage facilities as well as the 37.9% interest in the AusUnited Kingdom and the Benelux region. The segment also tria-based energy utility Kelag. includes our 70% stake in the Turkish gas-fired power plant Denizli, some hydroelectric power plants in Germany and Operations acquired from E.ON Luxembourg, and RWE Technology International, which specialises in project management and engineering services. This is where we present the renewable energy operations we All of these activities are overseen by RWE Generation. received from E.ON. By far its main source of energy is wind, supplemented by smaller solar and energy storage activities. Its geographical focus is on North America and Europe. 13 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Company size Unit 2019 2018 Workforce¹ FTE 17,287 15,556 Headcount 18,244 16,463 Total number of business locations² Countries 36 28 Revenue (without natural gas/electricity tax)³ € billion 13.125 13.388 Equity ratio³ % 27.2 17.8 Net debt € billion 9.298 19.339 Lignite produced (opencast mining in the Rhineland Mining Region) million mt 64.8 86.3 External electricity sales volume³ kWh bn 192.0 216.1 External gas sales volume³ kWh bn 56.6 67.0 1 Employees of RWE stand-alone and Operations acquired from E.ON. 2 Number of countries in which fully consolidated companies and joint operations of the RWE Group including Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy SE have their registered office. 3 Disclosures for the RWE Group (including Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy – continuing operations). Number of industrial and commercial customers of RWE The size of the customer base in our RWE Supply & Trading The proportion of revenue from coal in external revenue segment makes up a proportion of around 29% of electricity (including natural gas and electricity tax) was 23% in the sales and around 65% of gas sales in the segment of very year under review. large customers. Residential and Industrial and External electricity sales volume commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total billion kWh 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lignite & Nuclear 0.2 0.2 2.7 5.1 2.9 5.3 European Power 1.7 2.3 2.8 4.5 4.5 6.9 Supply & Trading 55.3 56.5 174.11 199.91 innogy – continuing operations 5.0 4.0 5.0 4.0 Operations acquired from E.ON 1.4 4.1 5.4 RWE Group² 0.2 0.2 58.4 58.8 14.5 13.7 192.0 216.1 1 Including volume effects arising from the sales of self-generated electricity on the wholesale market. 2 Including lower volumes recorded under “Other consolidation” 14 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Residential and Industrial and External gas sales volume commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total billion kWh 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Supply & Trading 36.8 30.7 19.7 35.4 56.5 66.1 innogy – continuing operations 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 European Power 0.8 0.8 Operations acquired from E.ON RWE Group 36.8 30.7 19.9 36.3 56.6 67.0 More information on the company is also available under Key sustainability indicators, page 77. GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Headcount of employees 20191 20182 Women Men Total Women Men Total Germany 1,646 13,124 14,770 1,574 13,077 14,651 United Kingdom 400 1,466 1,866 184 971 1,155 Netherlands/Belgium 53 502 555 52 498 550 Central Eastern/South Eastern Europe 25 71 96 21 56 77 Other countries 209 748 957 9 21 30 RWE 2,333 15,911 18,244 1,840 14,623 16,463 Part-time employees 1,026 949 Full-time employees 17,218 15,514 Permanent contract 17,511 15,790 Fixed-term contract 733 673 1 Employee data relate to RWE stand-alone and Operations acquired from E.ON 2 Employee data relate to RWE without innogy. RWE only contracts a small proportion of permanently employed staff from subcontractors to carry out operational functions. We contract them for service and service packages, and for construction and assembly work. GRI 102-9 Supply chain The purchasing functions of the Group are responsible for RWE stand-alone). Secondly, an important part of our procarrying out the procurement processes necessary for our curement processes relates to the purchase of energy business activities. These comprise firstly the sourcing of sources, for example hard coal, gas, liquefied natural gas goods, services and plant components, which is the responsi(LNG) and biomass, and trading in combustion fuels. These bility of Corporate Procurement. Here, RWE is in direct contact processes are carried out by RWE Supply & Trading as our and in contractual relationships with the service providers and trading company. In 2019, the procurement volume of comsuppliers. In 2019, the procurement volume of the RWE Group bustion fuels (hard coal, natural gas and biomass) was was about € 1.9 billion for these purchases (data for around € 4.1 billion. 15 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain See GRI 102-6, page 12 for material organisational changes. GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach For disclosures on risk management, see Non-financial We regularly invest in environmental protection. We have Report, page I/II, and the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 84. divided our expenses by area of activity. Environmental protection expenses in € million 20192 20181 Air pollution control 183.5 Of which RWE stand-alone 183.1 185.5 Of which renewable energy business 0.3 Nature conservation and protection of the landscape 38.1 Of which RWE stand-alone 38.0 35.4 Of which renewable energy business 0.1 Water protection 105.2 Of which RWE stand-alone 102.1 99.1 Of which renewable energy business 3.1 Waste disposal 303.0 Of which RWE stand-alone 302.9 273.0 Of which renewable energy business 0.1 Noise abatement 4.8 Of which RWE stand-alone 4.8 4.9 Of which renewable energy business 0 Polluted sites, soil contamination 5.7 Of which RWE stand-alone 5.7 2.2 Of which renewable energy business 0 Climate protection 698.4 Of which RWE stand-alone 31.4 35.5 Of which renewable energy business 667.0 Total 1,338.6 635.5 1 Owing to the previous year’s reporting structure, data for 2018 are only available for RWE stand-alone. 2 Data for renewable energy business include innogy – continuing operations and Operations acquired from E.ON. GRI 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact and SDG tions, and preventing corruption. We present the contribution we have made to global implementation of the principles of Since January 2004, the RWE Group has been a member of the Global Compact in an annual Progress Report. We also the “Global Compact” (GC) of the United Nations. By signing outline our contribution to the Sustainable Development up to the ten principles underlying the Global Compact, RWE Goals (SDG) adopted by the United Nations in September made a commitment to human rights and labour standards, 2015 in the Appendix to this report on page 82. promoting environmental protection in its business opera16 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Bettercoal Initiative forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the Bettercoal Initiative. By the end of 2019, 12 major energy Cooperating with other energy companies is absolutely essencompanies were members of Bettercoal. This organisation tial for us. This places us in a position to exert more pressure audits coal production sites throughout the world and makes and meet demands for sustainable production and transport the results garnered from assessment of its suppliers available conditions in the supply chain for hard coal. In 2012, we joined to members, see Non-financial Report, page V. GRI 102-13 Membership of associations We are an active member of a large number of different comQQ GDD Society for Data Protection and Data Security mittees and specialist associations as part of our social, envi(Gesellschaft für Datenschutz und Datensicherheit e.V.) ronmental and business responsibility. The following memberQQ German Equities Institute (Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V.) ships are important for RWE AG (in alphabetical order) QQ German Global Compact Network (Deutsches Global Compact Netzwerk (DGCN)) QQ AGWE – Employers’ Association of Gas, Water and QQ German-Russian Forum (Deutsch-Russisches Forum e.V.) Electricity Utilities (Arbeitgeberverband von Gas-, QQ IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme & IEA CIAB Wasserund Elektrizitätsunternehmungen e.V). QQ IETA (International Emissions Trading Association) QQ Bettercoal Ltd. QQ If.E Innovation Forum for the Energy Transition of IG BCE QQ BDEW – German Association of Energy and Water Industries (Innovationsforum Energiewende lf.E der IG BCE) (Bundesverband der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e.V.) QQ PROUT AT WORK Foundation QQ BDI – Federation of German Industries QQ Promotion Group for German Industry (Bundesverband der Deutschen Industrie e.V.) (Förderkreis der Deutschen Industrie e.V.) QQ DEBRIV Federal Lignite Association QQ Sustainable Biomass Program (Bundesverband Braunkohle) QQ United Europe e.V. QQ DICO – German Institute for Compliance QQ VdV – Association of the German Integrated Economy (Deutsches Institut für Compliance e.V.) (Verband der Deutschen Verbundwirtschaft e.V.) QQ DIIR – German Institute for Internal Auditing QQ VGB PowerTech e.V. – International technical association (Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision e.V.) for generation and storage of power and heat QQ DIRK – German Investor Relations Association QQ VRB – Association of Raw Materials and Mining (Deutscher Investor Relations Verband e.V.) (Vereinigung Rohstoffe und Bergbau e.V.) QQ econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of the QQ World Economic Forum German Economy (Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der QQ World Energy Council (Weltenergierat) Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V.) QQ enei – Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion In the course of its membership activities, RWE checks whether QQ EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders the association positions published in press releases or in QQ Energy Netherlands (Energie Nederland) any other form are in line with RWE positions on these issues, QQ Energy UK e.g. on climate change. Once again, there was no need for the QQ Eurogas Group to distance itself from specific association positions in 2019, see GRI 415, page 72. 17 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See Foreword, page 03. GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities An analysis of material topics for the RWE Group is carried out Another focus is on occupational health and safety. This in preparation for drawing up the CR Report each year, see relates to our own employees and to employees of subconGRI 102-47, page 26. This includes a survey of selected tractors commissioned by us. Furthermore, a great deal of stakeholders. This survey was held in September 2019 in parattention is focused on the area of compliance, and the susallel with the transaction between RWE and E.ON. The relevant tainability requirements in the supply chain, particularly in the individual topics identified in this Materiality Analysis detercase of hard coal. mine the reporting scope of this CR report. Other aspects of sustainability impacts are protection of our First and foremost, key sustainability impacts were identified plants – safe technical operation and protection against as the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) associated with concyber-attacks, transparency of lobby work particularly relating ventional power generation that guarantees a secure energy to the topic of coal production, and the areas of biodiversity supply. These currently frame the debate in the public domain and recultivation. Other topics in our reporting relate to the and shape the direction of government policy. In future, these dialogue with critics and citizens’ participation, and aspects emissions will continue to decrease, see Non-financial arising from the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. Report, page X. Key reasons for this are the ongoing expansion of renewable energy and the implementation of our plan The dialogue with the different stakeholders is important to us for reducing CO2 emissions, as well as the measures for – starting with government, continuing through associations implementing the ending of electricity generation from coal and employees, and including environmental and consumer adopted in Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherorganisations. With this end in mind, we are continuously lands. Opportunities result for RWE from the transaction with engaging in discussion in the public domain and monitoring E.ON since the renewable energy business is a new operating the positions of our stakeholders in relation to all issues of susmainstay with highly regulated income. We will therefore be tainability and making good use of opportunities to exchange not only more profitable but also more resilient in times of views with them, see GRI 102-43, page 23. This is carried crisis. The resulting risks include the risk that our financial out in close consultation with colleagues from the relevant burdens caused by the German exit from coal are higher specialist departments and the subsidiaries in the various than expected and the risk from the resolution adopted by countries where we operate. The key task is to integrate the the Dutch Government to exit from coal. For explanations fundamental concepts of Corporate Responsibility in all our of material risks and opportunities, see the RWE Annual business processes. Report 2019, section 1.13, page 84. 18 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour At RWE, we are well aware of our role in the community and of pliance pursuant to Article 161 Stock Corporation Act (AktG). our responsibility towards customers, business partners, and This enables us to strengthen the trust placed in us by our shareholders and employees. We therefore have clearly investors, customers, employees and the general public. defined principles which form the framework for our corporate and community engagement. The focus of our actions is on On 16 December 2019, the Government Commission the common values of trust, passion and performance. These for the German Corporate Governance Code adopted a values are supplemented by the RWE Code of Conduct and the completely revised version of the Corporate Governance principles for good conduct defined in the Code. Our employCode and submitted it to the Federal Ministry of Justice ees and business partners must comply with the Code, see and Consumer Protection for review and publication on Non-financial Report, page III-V, VII. 23 January 2020. Even though the Statement of Compliance was submitted at the end of 2019 still on the basis of the Responsible management and supervision of the company Code version of 7 February 2017, the updates have already rank among the cornerstones for long-term success. The been taken account of in the Corporate Governance Declabenchmark is provided here by the German Corporate Govration along with the Corporate Governance Report for the ernance Code in the relevant latest version. We comply with year 2019. Details relating to corporate governance at RWE most of the recommendations of the Code, see more inforare included in the Corporate Governance Declaration along mation under GRI 102-18, page 19. Following the mandawith the Corporate Governance Report. tory audit on 18 December 2019, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of RWE submitted a Statement of ComGRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Every single employee is encouraged to be proactive in bringbreaches are recorded by the Compliance Department. Each ing any issues relating to our Code of Conduct and complicase is reviewed by the Group function responsible, and any ance with the Code to the attention of their supervisor and/or remedial measures are initiated in the context of a systemthe responsible compliance officer. The same applies to any atic follow-up process as far as necessary. indications relating to breaches of the Code of Conduct. Compliance officers are appointed for all divisions and Group Our external ombudsperson takes all notifications and comcompanies, and they are always available as points of conplaints relating to negative environmental, social and tact for such matters. In particular, they receive information human-rights impacts, and regarding working practices. about issues relating to prevention of corruption. Contact details for compliance officers are available on the Intranet. In addition to the existing communication/reporting system, the web-based whistleblower system BKMS (Business Keeper It is also possible to contact an independent external Monitoring System®) was launched at RWE in 2019. Whistleombuds­person by phone or email. This contact is available blowers can use the BKMS – also anonymously – to report for employees and also accepts information from third incidents, e.g. violations against the RWE Code of Conduct or parties outside the company, for example suppliers or other the General Data Protection Regulation, economic criminal business partners. Notifications relating to any potential offences and actions constituting a threat to the business. 19 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure The corporate governance of RWE AG as a German jointresolutions on the compensation system for the members stock company listed on the stock exchange is primarily of the Executive Board and defines individual compensation determined by the Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) packages for each member. The Supervisory Board is involved and also by the regulations of the German Corporate Govin all decisions that are of fundamental importance for RWE. ernance Code in its latest version. The RWE Supervisory Board currently has five permanent Pursuant to the statutory regulations, RWE is subject to the committees and the Executive Committee: the Mediation “dual governance system”. This is characterised by a strict Committee pursuant to Article 27 Section 3 Co-determinaseparation of personnel between the Executive Board as a tion Act (MitbestG), the Personnel Affairs Committee, the management body and the Supervisory Board as a monitorAudit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the ing body. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board Strategy Committee. The committees prepare topics and work closely together in pursuing the interests of the company. resolutions in advance of meetings of the Supervisory Board. They sometimes also have decision-making powers deleThe Executive Board manages the company with the objecgated to them by the Supervisory Board. The chairs of the tive of generating sustainable value added under its own committees regularly inform the Supervisory Board about responsibility. The principle of overall responsibility applies to the work of the committees. In addition, shareholder and their work, and this means that the members of the Executive employee representatives regularly hold separate preliminary Board bear joint responsibility for the entire executive manage­ meetings before Supervisory Board meetings. Additional ment. They develop the corporate strategy and ensure impledetailed information on the concrete work of the Supervisory mentation in consultation with the Supervisory Board. Board and its committees is provided in the latest Supervisory Board Report in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 18. The Supervisory Board advises the Executive Board on managing the company and monitors its activity. It appoints and dismisses members of the Executive Board, passes GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Powers of attorney are granted by the Executive Board in the take decisions independently within their sphere of responsiform of procurations and powers to act to the individual bility, so long as a higher level of authority has not reserved departmental and section managers who are empowered to the right to approve certain decisions. GRI 102-20 Executive level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board of RWE AG has adopted a portfolio disRelations, IT, Portfolio Management/Mergers & Acquisitions, tribution which gives specified members of the Executive and Tax. The Group Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board responsibility for various topics. The current portfolio Board of the company as the highest governance body. distri­bution provides for the following powers of responsibility over economic, environmental and social topics: The ChairThe Group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate man of the Executive Board deals with the group-level responResponsibility is coordinated by the Group Corporate Responsibilities Company Development, Corporate Transformation, sibility Team within the Group Communication & Energy Policy Internal Audit & Compliance, Group Communications & Energy Team. The Head of the Group Communication & Energy Policy Policy, Group Strategy, Human Resources, Legal & Insurance. Department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Since 1 May 2017, the Chief Executive Officer has also held Representatives of RWE AG and the key operating companies the role of Labour Director. The responsibilities of the Chief come together in relation to specific themes as necessary in Financial Officer include Accounting, Business Services, Conorder to swap experiences and to agree activities jointly. trolling & Risk Management, Finance & Credit Risk, Investor 20 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Each shareholder has the right to submit a countermotion The publication of the business results is accompanied by an with substantiation against the proposals put forward by the investors’ and analysts’ teleconference. Additionally, managers Executive Board and/or the Supervisory Board on a specific take part in Group roadshows and participate in conferences. agenda item at the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corwhose shares taken together make up one twentieth of the porate Governance Code, the Chairman of the Supervisory capital stock or a proportionate amount of € 500,000 can Board is regularly available to investors for discussions about demand that items are placed on the agenda and announced. matters specifically relating to the Supervisory Board. For dialogue formats with other stakeholders, see GRI 102-40, page 23, and GRI 415, page 72. GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees The Supervisory Board is a non-executive supervisory body. ance bodies in the Annual Report 2019, page 207. It proIt consists of 20 members, ten of which are elected by the vides an overview of other important positions or obligations Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of the held by the individual persons, the number of mandates and German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Ten of the the type of obligation. members are elected by the employees pursuant to the Co-determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz, MitbestG) In order to ensure a fit and proper composition of the Super­ dated 4 May 1976. In accordance with the German Stock visory Board, and a compliant election process based on objecCorporation Act, the period of office for current members of tive competence and requirement criteria taking into account the Supervisory Board continues until the end of the Annual the regulations of the German Corporate Governance Code for General Meeting which passes a resolution on the discharge election and lawful appointment of new members of the Superfor the actions of the Supervisory Board for the fourth fiscal visory Board of RWE, the Supervisory Board resolved to draw up year after the commencement of the period of office. At the a competence profile for the Supervisory Board and a requiremoment, the Supervisory Board of RWE AG includes six women, ments profile for the Supervisory Board members of RWE. of which three were elected by the employees. RWE AG therefore complies with the statutory gender quota of 30% in the For more information, see the Report of the Supervisory Supervisory Board. A presentation of the Executive Board and Board in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 18, the Supervisory Board is given in the description of the governand on our Webseite. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr Werner Brandt is not a Member of the Executive Board and he has not held this position in the past. GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body As defined in the Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory pany, potential conflicts of interest, and diversity. There is Board, the Nomination Committee convenes as necessary also a competence and requirements profile for members and proposes suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board which is intended to ensure a as its nominations for election by the Annual General Meetheterogeneous composition of the Supervisory Board, see ing. When the committee selects the nomination proposals, GRI 102-22, page 20. it takes into account the international operations of the com21 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix The Supervisory Board has adopted a requirements profile for prepared by the Human Resources Committee. On behalf of Members of the Executive Board in relation to long-term sucthe Supervisory Board, this committee takes decisions about cession planning for making appointments to the Executive concluding, amending and terminating the employment conBoard in accordance with the recommendations of the Gertracts with the Members of the Executive Board, with the man Corporate Governance Code. This also takes account of exception of the decisions about compensation for the Executhe requirements for diversity relating to this governance body. tive Board which are reserved for the full Supervisory Board. All personnel decisions taken by the Supervisory Board are GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Transparency is a core element of good corporate gover­ cussions on the Supervisory Board of innogy SE, which related nance. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board thereto the transaction. In the fiscal year 2019, there were no further fore also need to pay particular attention to double mandates decisions requiring resolutions to be passed which would have within the Group in the fiscal year 2019, and the entailed conresulted in actual conflicts of interest. On 4 October 2019, flicts of interest that arise when a member of the Executive Dr Krebber and Dr Schipporeit stepped down from their posiBoard of RWE AG and members of the Supervisory Board tions on the Supervisory Board of innogy SE. On 18 September of RWE AG were also represented on the Supervisory Board 2019, the day of the transfer of the innogy shareholding to of innogy SE. As a consequence, Ms Monika Krebber and E.ON, Ms Monika Krebber and Mr Reiner Böhle stepped down Dr Erhard Schipporeit, who each held a mandate on the from their positions as employee representatives of innogy Supervisory Board of RWE AG and on the Supervisory Board on the Supervisory Board of RWE. of innogy SE in the fiscal year 2019, did not receive any preparatory meeting documents and did not take part in any The memberships in other governance bodies held by memconsultative discussions and passing resolutions on the Superbers of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are disvisory Board of innogy SE, which related directly or indirectly to closed transparently in the presentation of governance bodies the RWE/E.ON transaction. Equally, Dr Markus Krebber as a in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 207. RWE AG has no member of the Executive Board of RWE AG, who also had a controlling shareholder. Transactions with related parties are seat on the Supervisory Board of innogy SE, did not receive included in financial reporting. any documents and did not take part in any consultative disGRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy We have created long-term incentives for sustainable corpodeveloping a new Corporate Responsibility Strategy. This inrate governance in which part of the variable compensation cludes definition of goals and work focuses. Work on this stratfor the Executive Board has been linked to CR indicators, egy is already well advanced and completion is scheduled see Non-financial Report, page I. In 2019, RWE worked on for the beginning of 2020, see Non-financial Report, page II. GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts See GRI 102-31, page 22. For the section on climate risks, see GRI 201-2, page 33. GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The Executive Board of RWE AG holds the principal responsito the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of RWE AG bility for the risk management system. The board monitors on the risk position of the Group. For the section on climate and manages the overall risk of the Group. The responsibility risks, see GRI 201-2, page 33. for applying and developing the risk management system is at the level below the Executive Board with Controlling & Risk The Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the quality Management of RWE AG. This department regularly reports and the functional capability of the risk management system. 22 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board of RWE AG is informed immediately if Health & Safety is also an important aspect at RWE. The health there are any significant changes to the risk situation. The and safety of our employees and subcontractors is an impormanagement and supervisory bodies are informed about tant issue for us. We want to ensure that every employee is the risk situation as part of quarterly reporting. healthy and remains so. Occupational safety management systems were set up for this purpose and these undergo continThe entrepreneurial actions of RWE are defined by integrity uous improvement, see Non-financial Report, page XIV/ XV. and compliance with the law. The RWE Code of Conduct sets out the targets and principles for this and forms the basis for In relation to all matters relating to our employees, we comply the corporate culture. The Compliance Management System with all the statutory laws and regulations applicable in the focuses in particular on the identification of potential strucindividual countries where we are operating. In some cases, tural risks of corruption, see Non-financial Report, page VII. we even go beyond the statutory requirements for the benefit The Compliance Management System for anti-corruption of our employees. In order to protect the most important was audited by a professional services firm in accordance rights of our employees, we adopted the RWE Social Charter with IDW Audit Standard 980. The efficacy audit was successin collaboration with the European Works Council as early as fully completed at the turn of the year 2013/2014. The Chief 2010. And in order to protect our employees, our service proCompliance Officer reports at regular intervals to the Executive viders and business partners, the latter are required to recogBoard of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee of the Supervinise the Code of Conduct and therefore to make a commitsory Board on compliance-relevant issues. This includes in ment to compliance with the principles of the United Nations principle all the topic areas of the Code of Conduct and proGlobal Compact. Our managers, the Compliance Departvides consolidated information about this. Every manager ment, Human Resources Management and Purchasing, and with disciplinary responsibility additionally needs to submit an our Co-determination procedure monitor compliance with annual report on implementation of the Code of Conduct in these requirements. Management information systems prohis/her area of responsibility. A further review of the Complivide our managers with appropriate assistance in this respect. ance Management System was started by a professional services firm at the end of 2018. The conceptual review was successfully performed in mid-2019. The efficacy audit will be concluded in 2020. GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The CR Report was checked and approved by the Executive Board of RWE AG. GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies The performance of individual Executive Board members is rate responsibility (CR) and employee motivation. Success in taken into account through multiplying the company bonus CR depends on the achievement of environmental and social by a performance factor. The value achieved depends on the goals and is documented in our sustainability reporting. following criteria, each of which is weighted by one-third: (1) achievement of the individual targets, (2) collective perforMore information on the compensation policy and criteria for mance of the Executive Board, and (3) performance in corpothe Executive Board, including disclosures on components of the compensation package, is included in the compensation report published in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 72. 23 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our company regularly engages in communication in differWe also seek contact with players who are otherwise involved ent ways with customers, academics, policymakers, reprein issues relating to the energy industry, as well as the corposentatives of environmental organisations, local government rate activities of RWE and its impacts on society as a whole, agencies, neighbours around our locations and other citizens. see GRI 102-44, page 23. GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 95.5% of the employees in RWE stand-alone and Operations 100% of these employees. In RWE stand-alone and Operaacquired from E.ON work in Europe and are represented by tions acquired from E.ON, 22.2% are non-payscale employthe European Works Council. The RWE Social Charter covers ees and 66.3% payscale employees. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our stakeholders include all the people and organisations we rate policy, we are in continuous dialogue with our stake­ have relationships with and engage in dialogue with. We also holders. Expectations that stakeholders have of RWE are regard individuals and entities who seek communication with nuanced and defined by their attitude towards energy, clius, or who are interested in our company, as stakeholders. mate change and other concerns relevant for the company, There is no prior selection process. In order to identify the and the extent to which these stakeholders are affected by various aspirations and take account of them in our corpoall those issues. GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable dents and citizens’ initiatives, local authorities and regional ideas for the orientation of our corporate activities. Especially initiatives. These conversations might relate to, for example, against the background of the new direction being taken by construction measures and approval proceedings. We are RWE, it is particularly important for us to discuss expectations very pleased to take account of ideas and constructive proand projections about the future of energy supply with exterposals. At national level, we engage in discussions with our nal stakeholders. At the same time, this dialogue provides us stakeholders in particular on the following issues: the “new” with the opportunity to reflect our company decisions, and RWE, our contribution to the energy transition and climate convey them and our underlying motivation more effectively. protection, the future of the generation mix and the energy market, current and pending legislative and regulatory proThe dialogue takes place at different levels. We pursue a cedures, sustainability in international supply relationships transparent information policy in relation to the company’s and a responsible approach to our customers and the activities at local level and engage with neighbouring resienvironment. GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised In 2019 as in the previous year, the dominant issue in the In 2019, the focus in Germany was on recommendations context of the dialogue with stakeholders continued to be the commissioned by the Federal Government and published in contributions that the energy industry can make to achieving January of that year by the Growth, Structural Change and the national and international climate change targets. We Employment Commissions, see Non-financial Report, page engaged in an intensive dialogue at all levels on this issue X. These included proposals for an exit pathway away from with a large number of representatives from the political generating coal-fired electricity up until 2038, and compresphere, business, unions, civil society and the general public. hensive recommendations for supporting measures directed towards achieving the climate protection targets for 2030. 24 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix In addition, intensive communication also took place on dialogue opportunities directed towards different target climate-protection legislation and for the programme of groups. Openness in relation to planning for decommissioning measures from the Federal Government for the period up and the process involved is also part of this approach. until 2030. We are also in regular dialogue with our suppliers. We hold an There was also dialogue in local and regional forums on annual suppliers’ conference as a forum for discussion focusissues relating to the energy transition and climate protecing on current market developments and ideas. More than tion. For example in the Rhineland Mining Region, there was 100 subcontractors participate in this conference. interaction at the level of local authorities and at meetings of elected politicians. Other key issues related to security of supWe continue to hold regular events at European and German ply, the outlook for a hydrogen economy, job security and level, for example our RWE Talks in Berlin and Brussels. Memperspectives for the future at the locations. bers of the Executive Board and Managing Directors reported in this forum on the latest developments in the energy industry In 2019, we also continued cooperation with the Future and held discussions with a wide range of different specialAgency Rhineland Mining Region (Zukunftsagentur Rheinisinterest groups including government, civil society, business ches Revier, formerly Innovation Region Rhenish Mining and academia. The discussion topics included the results of Area), which is responsible for implementing structural the Structural Change Commission, the opportunities of the change in the lignite-producing region. Furthermore, RWE Power-to-X Technology and the new alignment of RWE. also participates in a large number of different projects and initiatives in the sphere of opencast mining (the Indeland Over the course of 2019, representatives of RWE in the United development company, the Special Purpose Association Kingdom engaged in a dialogue on a variety of issues relating Zweckverband Landfolge Garzweiler, team Hambach and to energy and environmental policy with the regulatory autho­ “Future FORUM Paffendorf – We support the Rhineland Minrities and policymakers. The focus of these discussions with ing Region”) for purposes of shaping the region. the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) was on the temporary suspension of the British capacity The Federal Government commenced the process for the market following the relevant judgement handed down by the Structural Development Act (Strukturstärkungsgesetz) as European Union Court. There were also discussions on various part of implementing the recommendations of the Growth, other subjects including Brexit, its shape and the potential Structural Change and Employment Commission. This inimpacts on the energy industry, and the future of CO2 pricing. cludes the funding opportunities for the regions affected by the exit from coal in order to support the structural change. Likewise, RWE was in regular contact with a large number of The Future Agency Rhineland Mining Region (Zukunftsagenregional and national stakeholders in the Netherlands. These tur Rheinisches Revier) established regional hubs so that included parliamentarians, policymakers, NGOs and academthese funds could be deployed in a targeted approach. An ics. In particular, we contributed to the discussion about the economic and structural development programme was instiongoing climate protection policy directed towards achieving tuted and it will focus on the topics of “Space”, “Infrastructure the climate goals for 2030 and 2050. Following on from last & Mobility”, “Energy”, “Industry”, “Innovation & Education” and year, we also participated in conversations about implemen“Agrobusiness & Resources” in the six regional hubs. In 2020, tation of the national climate agreement. An important legisthis initial draft will be discussed by various specialist comlative programme for RWE in 2019 related to legislation on mittees and with the citizens living in the Rhineland Mining the exit from coal in the Netherlands, which was ratified in Region in a broadly based public participation process. RWE December 2019. We were also involved in debates about the is supporting this process. framework conditions for the use of biomass and hydrogen. In the case of biomass, we also worked together with other In 2019, we continued to hold regular power-plant discussions industrial partners to seek intensive contact with stakeholders at our nuclear power locations. The events are used to inform on the “Energieveld” platform. policymakers, representatives from the community and the media about operations at the locations. We continued to roll Development of renewable energy projects out Transparency Initiatives at all three sites. The objective of these is to create even more transparency in the future for During the development phase for each of our projects on providing information about licensing procedures currently renewable energy, we carefully investigate the potential under way to various regional special-interest groups through impacts on the environment and on wildlife. We then adopt a 25 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix proactive approach to any issues, partly in cooperation with We hold two customer events every year. The “Energy other companies and nature conservation organisations. Dialogue” is held in Germany and the language is German. We want to ensure that our projects are as environmentally The “Energy Talks” take place in the Netherlands/Belgium friendly as possible and protect biological diversity. and they are held in English. The exchange with our customers extends from the strategy of RWE Supply & Trading, In dialogue with customers through topics relating to innovation such as “Green Power Purchase Agreements” to market analyses. These events We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in have provided us with a great deal of constructive feedback new products and to recommend our company to other peofrom our customers. We have been able to gain concrete prople. We work together with our customers as partners to creposals for improvement and new ideas from these events. We ate individual solutions. Our usual high level of product qualevaluate these and put them into practice, for example cusity, fast and streamlined processes, competitive prices, and tomer-oriented development of green electricity contracts a clear customer-centric focus continue to remain our top and expanded functionality of the online customer portal. priorities in this relationship. 26 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Reporting Practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See list in the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 176, and About the report, page 1. GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Our management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting We used a standardised questionnaire to survey the internal take into account the relevant issues that we have deterstakeholders and collect information about aspects relating mined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach to the environment, employee and social concerns, and corresponds to the current GRI Standards of the Global human rights and corruption/bribery. Prior to disseminating Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this report. the questionnaire, we laid the groundwork and allocated a total of 20 topics to these five aspects which we had identiSo as to determine the material topics for sustainable corpofied from the familiar set of expectations relating to our comrate governance at RWE, we have focused on the topics that pany that we were aware of and from the GRI Standards and are particularly relevant for our external and internal stakethe CR Report from the previous year. Our deliberations covholders. Our approach involved an update of the comprehenered their individual importance for our business, our stakesive Materiality Analysis from 2017 by conducting interviews holders and the associated impacts. Additional sub-topics with eight specialist departments that make a tangible conwere also allocated to all the topics so as to achieve maxitribution to our sustainability management. As a result of the mally comprehensive coverage of all the relevant issues. The delayed integration of the renewable energy business carried stakeholders were able to supplement these. A distinction out during the course of the year in September 2019, the was also drawn by the stakeholders between topics where new segments were not included in the Materiality Analysis the biggest potential change was in the company itself and because the corresponding interviews had already been cartopics that primarily affected our supply chain or our busiried out by this time. ness relationships, see GRI 102-47, page 26. GRI 102-47 List of material topics The topics below present the results of our Materiality Analysis We draw a distinction in the presentation of the analysis carried out in 2019, as described in GRI 102-15, page 17, between the value-chain phases in which the key impacts of and GRI 102-46, page 26. The topics identified in the the topic are generated. RWE would also like to exercise a Materiality Analysis and presented in the table below shape positive influence as far as possible on upstream and downthe scope of this CR Report. They focus on issues from the stream activities in our value chain, even if these take place existing business model of RWE and topics relating to the outside our company. We are able to directly manage the renewable energy business are not therefore fully covered. impacts that are caused within our company. 27 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Overview of the material aspects and where their impacts are caused: Material topics GRI topics Upstream value RWE Consumption phase/ phase Downstream value generation phase Environmental Concerns Biodiversity Quality of recultivation GRI 304 – Biodiversity Interventions in the landscape GRI 304 – Biodiversity and nature Climate Protection CO2 emissions in power plants GRI 305 – Emissions GRI 417 – Marketing and Labelling Contribution to achieving political GRI 201 – Economic performance climate goals GRI 305 – Emissions Emissions (apart from greenhouse gases) NOx, dust and mercury emissions GRI 305 – Emissions from power plants Energy Efficiency Efficiency of power plants and systems GRI 302 – Energy Innovative products and services Energy-efficient products and services, research and development GRI 302 – Energy Water Lowering of the groundwater table GRI 303 – Water by opencast mining Materials Origin of the biomass used in GRI 204 – Procurement Practices power plants GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental Assessment Waste Nuclear energy Polluted sites IntermeGRI 306 – Effluents and Waste diate storage and final repository Environmental Management Safe operation of power plants and GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance opencast mines Environmental protection targets GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance Employee Concerns Occupational Health and Safety Occupational accidents GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety Healthcare promotion and GRI 403 – Occupational Health overcoming stress and Safety Labour Relations Job cuts and reorganisation GRI 401 – Employment GRI 402 – Labour/Management Relations GRI 404 – Training and Education Diversity Avoidance of discrimination GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promotion of diversity GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity 28 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Material topics GRI topics Upstream value RWE Consumption phase/ phase Downstream value generation phase Social Concerns Catastrophe/Emergency Planning Security and protection of Catastrophe/Emergency planning nuclear plants and response Protection of infrastructure Catastrophe/Emergency planning against cyber-attacks and response Economic Performance Transaction and integration of GRI 201 – Economic Performance renewable energy Availability and Reliability Flexibilisation of the power plant Availability and Reliability portfolio New storage technologies Availability and Reliability Research and Development Power-to-X Research and Development Shutdowns and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of mining locations Decommissioning of nuclear GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste power plants Shutdowns and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of mining locations Regional Relationships Regional partnerships and GRI 203 – Indirect Economic cooperations Impacts GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 413 – Local Communities Dialogue with critics GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Relationships with Politics Transparency in lobbying GRI 415 – Public Policy Respect for Human Rights Supplier Selection and Assessment Respect for human rights in the GRI 204 – Procurement supply chain GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment Origin of imported coal GRI 204 – Procurement Anti-corruption and Combatting Bribery Anti-corruption, combatting bribery and granting and accepting advantages Implementing and monitoring compliGRI 205 – Anti-corruption ance with the Code of Conduct For selection of constituent elements of the Non-financial Report, see Non-financial Report, page II. 29 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-48 Restatements of information The segments are shown separately in this report – provided that disclosures with the appropriate granularity are available – on the basis of “RWE stand-alone”, “innogy – continuing operations” and “Operations acquired from E.ON”. For more information, see GRI 102-6, page 12. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting For information on the changed reporting structure, see GRI 102-6, page 12. For changes to material topics, see GRI 102-47, page 26. GRI 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2019: 1 January 2019 – 31 December 2019 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report RWE Aktiengesellschaft Dr Jens Wiggershaus Corporate Responsibility 45128 Essen Germany Phone +49 201 12-15593 Email responsibility@rwe.com GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 30 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 102-55 GRI Content index The GRI Content Index is shown on page 05. We prepared Disclosure” but are no longer part of the GRI Standards. The the report in accordance with the GRI Standards (2016) in values were not available to us with the necessary differentiaorder to facilitate a comparison of our performance with that tion for a number of the disclosures derived from the GRI. of other companies. We also report on in-depth material topWe have provided a justification in each case and used disics based on the GRI requirements for the electricity industry closures which came closest to the requirements. which were formerly valid as the “G4 Electric Utilities Sector GRI 102-56 External assurance The disclosures marked with the were subject to a limited International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) assurance engagement performed by professional services 3000 (Revised). For the Independent Practitioner’s Assurfirm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgeance Engagement report see page 80. sellschaft. The audit was implemented taking into account the 31 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Material topics 32 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Economic GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges proportion of electricity from renewable energy. The unambiguous target of sustainable electricity generation indicates Our market environment and the demands of society at large that as a supplier of reliable energy provision, we offer secure on the RWE Group are changing with the transition of energy and affordable energy for economies, companies and most systems in Europe. We are committed to solving this challenge. importantly people. In Germany, the development of the electricity market is largely dependent on the expansion and rising feed-ins of Furthermore, RWE Technology International (RWE TI) is renewable energy. This means reduced utilisation of convenexpanding the international offering of independent services tional power generation operated by the RWE Group, in parti­ as a project management and engineering company of RWE cular a reduction in the deployment of coal-fired power plants in the areas of mining, thermal power plants, renewable in 2019. The expansion of renewable energy, the development energy and infrastructure, see Energy-efficient products of prices for hard coal and gas, the prices for CO2 certificates, and services, page 41. the general economic development and other factors impact on the wholesale prices that electricity producers are able to The art of mastering the transition quickly is now a key achieve in the marketplace. Our revenues are therefore detercompetitive advantage. RWE is supporting the required mined by capacity utilisation and wholesale prices for electricand necessary internal processes of change with various ity and CO2, as well as capacity payments. The integration of transfor­mation programmes. These are coordinated and renewable energy will establish RWE in an even more stable driven forward by the Corporate Transformation Departposition because capacity utilisation and income from renewment, which reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. able energy plants and conventional power plants are negatively correlated. Our central focus here is on anchoring the transformation project within the organisation. Achieving this successfully Existing business models and processes in the energy indusentails analysing the aspects of strategy, structure and cultry are increasingly losing their profitability and are no longer ture. However, our overriding aim is to treat the people who fit for purpose. They need to be modified by new ideas and in are implementing the transformation and the organisation some cases even replaced, see Research and Developas a social system. The success of transformation projects ment, page 42. stands or falls with the willingness of our employees to support and contribute to the process. The Executive Board and The intention is to strengthen our competitive position and the managers act as role models by actively supporting and convince our customers over the long term with innovative, exemplifying the transformation. Supporting and establishing attractive and affordable products, efficiency enhancements structural and cultural changes empowers us to make an in our power plants, strategic planning for deployment of important contribution to implementing the strategy of our power plants and adjustments to our power plant portfolio. company. The speed of the transition is continually accelerating. Measures and performance measurement The markets we are operating in demand that we undergo a continual process of transformation and development in In 2019, we shut down further power plants or transferred order to be successful. If we are to meet these requirements in them to legally-mandated security standby in order to adapt the future, it is important to confront the challenges over the our power plant portfolio to the market conditions, see long term with creative, motivated and competent employees. Shutdown and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatment of opencast mines, page 44. Organisation and management Alongside the complete restructuring of the Group and our RWE has adopted a number of measures so that we are R&D activities, the motivator of innovations is also driving forable to remain competitive as one of the biggest European ward new conceptual and operational approaches within the energy utilities operating in the marketplace. Our strategy organisation of RWE, see GRI 401, page 61. was therefore adjusted and in future we will generate a large 33 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix A large proportion of the value added generated by us flows contribution to regional development. Our value-added back into the regions where we are operating, for example in statement provides a transparent presentation of how profits the form of tax, deductions or salaries. We thereby make a are distributed, see GRI 201-1, page 33. GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Distribution of value added by the Group¹ in € million Total 2019 Total 2018 Total 20,331 7,379 to employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions) 2,525 4,854 to the government (taxes and deductions)² 152 141 to hybrid capital lenders 15 881⁴ to other shareholders 643 738 Net income 8,498 335 Dividends/disbursements to RWE shareholders and other shareholders³ 560 430 1 Disclosures relate to the RWE Group including Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy – continuing operations 2 Only the taxes paid are included, not tax expenses. Value for 2018 is adjusted retrospectively. 3 Dividend proposal of RWE AG for the fiscal year 2019 subject to the adoption of the resolution by the Annual General Meeting 2020. 4 Disclosure for 2018 relates to “Lender”. Regional engagement by the Group in € million Total 2019 Total 2018 Donations¹ 0.8 0.9 Sponsorship¹ 1.95 0.8 Volunteering² 0.95 1.2 1 Disclosures for RWE stand-alone (rounded). 2 Disclosures for 2019 up to 18 September 2019 including the activities of innogy SE. GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Once again, climate protection was one of the key political and plants. Alongside the service packages outlined above, issues in 2019 and it is also crucial for RWE. Key factors in our RWE Supply & Trading also markets the electricity produced business are the ongoing expansion of renewable energy. We by these power plants, see Energy-efficient products and are positioning ourselves for this business through the transservices, page 41. action with E.ON and the takeover of the Renewables Divisions of innogy and E.ON. The topic of climate change offers Impacts associated with risk or opportunity RWE huge opportunities owing to the increasing political and societal pressure to decarbonise our energy system. Hence, RWE is committed to the Paris Climate Agreement and to the this creates a favourable environment for global growth in climate protection goals that lawmakers define in our marrenewable energy. Our conventional power plant portfolio will kets. We also support expansion of renewable energy and continue to guarantee security for the electricity supply with improvement of energy efficiency at European level and at advanced and flexible power plants that compensate for the the level of the member states, see Non-financial Report, fluctuating feed-in of renewable energy. In addition, we are page IX. At the same time, we are addressing the enormous also reviewing a lot of other options for guaranteeing security challenges that these objectives present for us in terms of of supply when the proportion of renewable energy is growcompetitiveness, innovative power and financial strength. ing, e.g. storage or various Power-to-X technologies. Aside from dedicated trading operations, our trading subsidiary In mid-2017, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial RWE Supply & Trading offers appropriate services for major Disclosures (TCFD) set up by the G20 Financial Stability industrial customers. In addition to pure energy supplies, the Board published recommendations relating to the type company also makes specialist commercial service offerings, and scope of future reporting on climate risks, particularly such as optimisation and enhanced flexibility for portfolios those resulting from the emission of greenhouse gases. 34 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Today, we are already following parts of these recommendaand flexible, see GRI 201, page 32. Financial risks associtions in reporting standards and ratings we participate in. In ated, for example, with general climate protection policy and future, the issue will relate to cross-sector implementation emissions trading in particular are reflected in our risk manof the recommendation. agement. We reduce these risks in the case of emissions trading by concluding appropriate hedging transactions, see Already in 2018, we carried out an analysis of existing reNon-financial Report, page XI. porting processes. This investigation demonstrated that the internal processes in the TCFD pillars of governance, strategy In relation to risks, potential future deviations and a higher and risk management were already meeting the TCFD reclevel of volatility in climate and weather conditions may exert ommendations. For the year 2019, we had envisaged inan impact on the operation and income generated by our cluding TCFD requirements in processes that were already assets from renewable sources because the service life of the established. Climate risks have already been recorded and plants extends over a number of decades. These risks must assessed for some time as part of risk management. A key be taken account of in our decisions on capital expenditure area for action therefore related to introducing a new and mitigated by diversification of our portfolio through tech“climate risk” indicator to supplement existing risk categories nology and geographical location. in the current risk management. An initial test run of risk evaluations has already been carried out. The next step will The Executive Board engages with the financial risks and involve us in striving to achieve greater synchronisation with opportunities associated with climate change in the control the pillars of the strategy proposed by TCFD. The objective processes. This also includes the review of other risk mitigaof RWE is to align reporting in 2020 with reporting in tion options, for example through portfolio adjustments. accordance with TCFD recommendations. However, the quantified results are not disclosed for com­ petitive reasons. Financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken We have already carried out a large range of measures to make our processes even more efficient, our organisation even more effective and our corporate culture more robust GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government RWE does not receive any financial grants or subsidies from We also receive agricultural subsidies from the EU for operathe government for its operating business. Furthermore, we tional areas used for agriculture. These subsidies are for finance all capital expenditure from our own resources. On interim agricultural use in the course of reinstating former the other hand, we receive financial assistance from governopencast mining sites and they last for a limited period ment agencies for projects in research and development of time. In 2019, these subsidies amounted to around (R&D) activities. The EU Transparency Register is one of the € 340,000. sources providing information on R&D projects with EU subsidies. For example, RWE received state subsidies in the The state does not hold any shares in RWE. Netherlands to finance biomass upgrades for power plants and in the United Kingdom for a British wind power project. 35 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Promotion of education on energy and engineering issues “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generAs an economic player, RWE exerts a significant influence on ate young people’s enthusiasm for energy and technology. We the economy and society. We want to be a highly credible discuss the energy supply of the future with them in this conpartner for the energy transition and our aim is to enhance text. “3malE – Education with Energy” bundles the education trust in our company both within our regional and local envipackages of all RWE and innogy companies in Germany. The ronment, and in society as a whole. As the RWE Group, our initiative is intended to help young people research, discover ethos is that we have a duty of community engagement. and experience energy. For statistics on 3malE, see RWE makes an important contribution to the regional econGRI 413-1, page 68. omy through the secure and cost-effective supply of electricity and gas at all times. The provision of jobs and allocation of RWE wants to use the energy blog at www.en-former.com orders to local companies constitute additional important to provide interested stakeholders with as much information contributions. We promote social developments through initias possible on current issues in the energy industry and also atives in social, environmental and cultural spheres, with supreport on topics that extend far beyond the activities of the port for volunteering engagement by RWE employees and company itself. through financial assistance. Partnership with not-for-profit AfB for inclusive The energy transition is associated with shifts in energy employment generation that will lead to the shutdown of plants. We are RWE has been actively supporting a partnership with participating in shaping the structural change so that the AfB gGmbH for several years. AfB is a not-for-profit company transformation can be organised in such a way as to be that creates jobs for people with disabilities by reconditioning maximally smooth-running for the affected regions, our used computers. AfB collects the devices from all RWE locaemployees and indeed for us. tions and takes them to the nearest AfB branch. The devices are processed there and then sold to individuals, businesses Organisational, management and performance and public agencies. On-site sales at RWE locations allow measurement used devices to be sold for private use to our employees. AfB creates skilled jobs for people with disabilities and conserves Allocation of resources in compliance with rules natural resources through the recovery of used IT equipment We want to use the resources available to us effectively and and its reuse. in conformity with our compliance objectives. We have defined rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline Supporting structural change in areas with opencast mining on Donations, Sponsorship and Memberships which applies A contribution to a broad spectrum of jobs and training throughout the Group. places in other companies can be made in areas around former opencast-mining sites by the development of building Promotional gifts and resources that are relevant according land and industrial zones. Research institutions and leisure to our guidelines are documented in each case in a register. amenities can also be expanded. These developments will These include gifts and resources provided to holders of pubcontribute to safeguarding the future in the region over the lic office and governance mandates, donations and sponsorlong term. We are therefore collaborating with the region to ship measures and memberships, and consultancy and intershape the structural change by supporting initiatives which mediary contracts relevant to compliance for the RWE Group. drive forward economic and structural development in the For information on donations and sponsorship, see regions. These include the Future Agency Rhineland Mining GRI 201-1, page 32. Region and joint ventures between local authorities, such as the Indeland Development Company, the Special Purpose Promotion of volunteering engagement by our employees Association Zweckverband Landfolge Garzweiler and the See GRI 203-2, page 36. Terra Nova Special Purpose Association. Our contribution ranges from providing specialist and financial assistance, through cooperation on master plans and individual projects, to research into sectors of the future. 36 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix For example, RWE is involved in projects to safeguard the WeisSupport for local communities weiler energy and industrial site and its immediate surroundAs a company with an enhanced focus on renewable energy ings. These measures include expansion of the Grachtweg joint in the future, we are committed to supporting the local comlocal-authority industrial zone and the research project on use munities where our wind turbines are located. RWE Renewaof deep geothermal heat at the Weisweiler location. bles has a number of active Community Benefit Funds for our onshore and offshore projects in the United Kingdom. Together with municipalities and administrative districts, RWE Although these funds are voluntary, we unreservedly support has already made available a total of several million square their role within small rural communities. In the USA, we play a metres of industrial land in the Rhineland Mining Region over proactive role in communities where our projects are located recent years. Following subsequent capital expenditure, new and sponsor a lot of school and community-based events. jobs have been created here. GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts We promote volunteering by our employees and implement 600 projects in the programme RWE Aktiv vor Ort – RWE our social responsibility under the umbrella of the Group-wide Active on Site. The amount contributed to these projects Volunteering Programme “RWE Aktiv vor Ort” – Active on Site. totalled some € 0.95 million. The sums specified relate to the In 2019, around 1,200 employees throughout the Group RWE Group and included innogy up until 18 September dedicated their time to providing assistance for nearly 2019. 37 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 204 Procurement Practices RWE is aware of its responsibility in relation to procurement gas) – also in relation to upholding human rights in the supply of goods, services, plant components and combustion fuels. chain – part of the compensation for the Executive Board is This is where the combustion fuels biomass and uranium are linked to performance in this area. The corresponding condescribed. Owing to the important position of Central Group ceptual descriptions are a constituent element of the NonProcurement (for goods, services and plant components) and financial Report, see page III–VI. The procurement practices procurement of energy sources (particularly hard coal and of innogy are also shown there. GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges RWE Supply & Trading has SBP certificates or comparable certificates such as GGL, Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) Alongside fossil energy sources, RWE will be increasingly focusor Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification ing on biomass as a combustion fuel in future. One such fuel (PEFC). These certificates prove that the pellets meet national relates to wood pellets for use in dedicated biomass power sustainability standards in Europe. We are also Chain-ofplants. RWE also uses biomass for co-firing plants as a substiCustody certified and pass on certificates that are provided by tute fuel for hard coal. Environmental and socially ethical the (FSC®) and by the PEFC. Furthermore, sustainability can be extraction and production methods for purchases of fuels also verified through a review carried out by an accredited certifyhave to be guaranteed in this area. ing agency using the verification protocols applicable in the Netherlands. A large proportion of the solid biomass used by Organisation and management RWE Generation in future will continue to be wood pellets. These are primarily sourced by RWE Supply & Trading from Standards in the procurement of certified biomass international sources. The remaining quantity may be local Owing to the increasing importance of biomass, the focus biomass from the Netherlands as part of the SDE+ Proneeds to be on sustainable standards when this fuel is being gramme or a proportion of up to 15% may be another compoprocured. The procurement of biomass is carried out by the nent such as waste, which does not require any certification. trading subsidiary RWE Supply & Trading. Appropriate rules and regulations are enshrined in the relevant national legislaProcurement / sale of uranium tion and these must be documented with the appropriate RWE has purchased uranium within the framework of longnational registration agencies. In the Netherlands, these term supply contracts with established international supply requirements have been defined in law since January 2018. and trading companies for uranium. These companies pro­ As a complement to this, RWE has further agreed more duce the material in different regions of the world or source extensive, non-statutory requirements with environmental it as intermediate traders. Since the operation of our nuclear organisations. In the United Kingdom, we also ensure that power plants is time-limited, uranium was last procured wood is procured from a source in sustainably managed forseveral years ago and no further procurement looks likely to ests. Uniform rules and regulations pursuant to the EU be necessary. In the case of potential sales of uranium, RWE “Renewable Energy” Directive (REDII) may follow throughout places the same demands on business partners for responsithe EU in future. ble business practices equivalent to its own standards. The Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) is an industrial Measures and performance measurement standard promoting compliance with sustainability criteria along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets imported Procurement of certified biomass by us. Since its establishment, RWE has been involved in the In 2019, a large proportion of the biomass handled by SBP initiative. So far, the United Kingdom and Denmark have our trading house RWE Supply & Trading was provided with recognised the standard of the SBP certification system as Sustainable Biomass Programme certificates or comparable being in conformity with the national sustainability criteria, certificates such as GGL, FSC® or PEF, see Organisation along with the Netherlands. A large proportion, approxiand Management, page 37. mately 95%, of the biomass supplied by our trading company 38 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers In order to promote competition, all capital expenditure order volume was approximately 27%. The cost-benefit projects and procurement procedures are offered in tender analysis undergone by our suppliers focuses particularly on documents with appropriately neutral formulations and criteria of sustainability and occupational safety, as well as placed internationally in the marketplace. In order to energy efficiency and environmental standards. RWE awards strengthen local suppliers, regional allocation of orders is orders amounting to approximately 500 million euros to preferred if tenders are equivalent on economic and qualitacompanies from the region every year. tive levels. In 2019, the proportion of local suppliers in the GRI 205 Anti-Corruption GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Integrity and compliance with the law are fundamental prinOwing to the importance of this topic, combatting corruption ciples defining the entrepreneurial actions of RWE. This basic is linked to the compensation for the Executive Board and is understanding guides all the activities of the RWE Group. described in the Non-financial Report, see page VII. GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption For information on risk reviews, see Non-financial Report, page VIII. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures For information on communication and training related to the topic of combatting corruption, see Non-financial Report, page VIII. 39 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Availability and reliability GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges planned non-availability is allocated to times of low market price, which should be regarded as an indicator of adequate Secure supply with electricity at all times is one of the most supply for the electricity market. important enablers for the smooth-running operation of our economy. However, the emphasis is on structuring security of Our aim is to contribute to ensuring that the volatile feed-in supply at all times so as to be increasingly carbon neutral. from solar and wind power plants can be smoothly integrated Conventional power plants are indispensable as a bridging in the energy system. Consequently, we have one of the most technology even with further expansion of renewable energy. powerful and most flexible power plant portfolios in Europe. If This is because the main growth of renewable energy will take – despite all our efforts – a blackout should occur in the elecplace through wind and photovoltaics, which make an importricity grid or in parts of this grid, we have power generation tant contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions from capacities that are in a position to support reinstatement of electricity generation. However, these energy sources are the grid systems without the need for any external supply of unfortunately not always available. Currently, conventional electricity. These primarily include pumped-storage power power plants are primarily necessary to provide compensaplants. Furthermore, a trial has demonstrated that lignitetion when renewable feed-ins fluctuate due to weather condifired power plants from the secured island operation supplied tions or time of day. The expansion and integration of renewfrom opencast mines have once again been able to supply able energy and decentralised generating units within the power to the electricity grid. overall system are placing increasing demands on the performance of conventional power plants and the distribution Reserves are available if capacity bottlenecks occur in Gergrids. The long-term development of the requirement for many. One of them is the legally-mandated security standby conventional generation and secure power-plant output in Germany to which RWE will contribute a total of five lignitedepends on a number of factors including demand-response fired units with an output of around 1,500 MW, see Shutdevelopment, expansion of renewable energy, and expansion down and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatof grids, storage facilities and load management. ment of opencast mines, page 44. Organisation and management RWE offers all types of balance outputs from its power plant portfolio in order to equalise any instability within an equilibRWE strives to provide high availability for its power plants rium and this contributes to a stable electricity supply. particularly at times when their output is urgently required. The availability is controlled by the responsible divisions. The As a supplier of renewable energy with an attractive growth executive boards of RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG, RWE platform for the entire technology spectrum, we have eviRenewables and RWE AG are regularly informed about the dence-based knowledge and skills over the entire value chain availabilities, and planned and unplanned shutdowns. of renewable energy. For example, we run modern operating centres in Europe and the USA. The team members at the Power plant units are managed in accordance with a contincentres manage the routine activities every day for purposes uously recurring PDCA Cycle (Plan Do Check Act cycle). Within of ensuring safe and reliable grid operation, and handling the scope of medium-term planning, technical and commersupply transactions 24/7. The services provided by the cencial non-availabilities are planned for specific units taking tres include planning and distribution of electricity, remote into account scheduled non-availabilities and maintenance management of electricity and voltage, and the supply requirements. The use of the power plants is defined by comagreement within the framework of various contracts. mercial aspects. The requirements of the transmission network operators are also included in the concrete timetabling Measures and performance measurement plans. Outages, i.e. non-availabilities, are determined on the basis of predefined rules and they are taken into account as In 2019, RWE was once again able to rely on a broadlytechnical non-availability in the commercial evaluation. The based generation portfolio. This provided a robust mainstay management of non-availability is carried out – as far as in the German electricity system for covering electricity possible – through commercial evaluation. In particular, the demand and provision of secure generation capacity. Our thermal power plants made an important contribution to 40 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix compensating for the fluctuating feed-in from wind and phoRhineland Mining Region can be reduced to 20% of the nomitovoltaic systems (PV) by provision of the necessary system nal output. This clearly demonstrates that lignite is able to services. provide the necessary capacity to meet requirements of time and need. The entire capacity of Rhineland lignite-fired power plants can be reduced to less than half its output (by around 5,000 For information on our capacities and our generation, MW) or, by the same token, fired up to full capacity within the see the Appendix, page 76 sowie RWE Annual Report space of half an hour. This means that our lignite-fired power 2019, page 53. RWE also publishes comprehensive and plants are now comparable with combined-cycle gas turbine timely data online about electricity generation in its power (CCGT) power plants operated with natural gas. In special plant portfolio at www.rwetransparent.com and at situations, the capacity of the lignite-fired power plants in the www.eex-transparency.com. 41 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Energy-efficient products and services GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Our Flex2Market Model – another example – is ideal for companies which have production flexibilities or emergency The reduction of existing obstacles and the exploitation power units such as those that are gaining greater promiof additional potential for efficiency and flexibility on the nence in computer centres. We control and market flexibilities demand side in the energy market are becoming the success for this purpose on the Intra-Day Market or as standard factor in the energy transition. These flexibilities need to be energy in the secondary and minute reserve market. We join intelligently networked and controlled. An enabler for this is forces with our customers to develop holistic concepts for identifying consumers in the market who are prepared to enhancing flexibility potentials, which provide an optimum adjust their consumption behaviour, for example by pro­ commercial link-up with the use of production flexibilities, actively switching off, throttling back or switching on their generation plants and (battery) storage facilities. production machines. We are able to give our customers technical support for this control. The appropriate demand External consultancy services for electricity is taken out of the market in bottleneck situaRWE TI has been commissioned by RWE Generation to carry tions or made available to the electricity market in the form out upgrading of the existing power plants Amer and Eemof an additional generation offering. When prices are high on shaven (both of these facilities are located in the Netherthe balancing energy market, it may be worthwhile for our lands) to biomass co-combustion and the development of customers to market their flexibilities. We therefore help to grid-stabilisation plants. RWE TI is also supporting the Group optimise the electricity costs and performance requirement in the areas of storage, the circular economy and green of the customer. The market for flexibility is a key subject area hydrogen by providing project management and technical for RWE. There is potential for growth here, particularly with expertise. industrial customers. The area of opencast recultivation is a growing field of activAs RWE’s project management and engineering company, ity. The experience of RWE is in demand on a worldwide scale RWE Technology International (RWE TI) offers internationally so that experts at RWE TI, for example, were invited to give a independent services in the areas of mining, thermal power presentation at the INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIOplants, renewable energy and infrastructure. DIVERSITY in Thailand held in May 2019. The topic here was the development of biodiversity at recultivated opencast Organisation, management and performance sites, with reference to the example of the opencast locations measurement of RWE in the Rhineland Mining Region. Marketing of flexibilities At the coal-fired power plant TENT B in Serbia, RWE TI is supRWE Supply & Trading has a broad product range which can porting a project for improving flue-gas scrubbing. The leverage potential flexibilities with industrial and commercial objective is to modernise the power plant in relation to emiscustomers in the context of the energy transition. For examsions (particularly sulphur and dust), and experts from RWE TI ple, it offers our industrial customers and distributors priceare contributing the experiences gained in their power plants signal supported load management. This means that a time in Western Europe. shift in consumption loads moving to more favourable market-price phases enables costs for sourcing electricity to be The topic of emission reduction is also a concern for rawreduced. The model is ideal in particular for companies using materials companies in Brazil. In 2019, RWE TI was commisequipment and systems with flexible time and power capa­ sioned to develop a concept for reducing emissions at a tranbility in their production processes where the requirement for shipment port for iron ore. The transhipment had previously electricity can be shifted within a day or a week. been carried out with a great deal of dust emissions and this had been associated with negative impacts on the surrounding residential and rural areas. 42 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Research and development GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges similar to the TetraSpar Demonstrator currently under development – is the next stage in our development for deepRWE is playing a role in shaping a more climate-friendly elecwater operations where production is not cost-effective using tricity supply in the course of the transformation and wants to wind turbines that require foundations. assist in continuing to meet the need for energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable prices. Our ambition can In the sphere of photovoltaics, innovations from the innogy be realised through a continuous stream of innovations that subsidiary Belectric are contributing to generating electricity address the challenges of our core business and are directed competitively from photovoltaic systems today without the towards achieving the best possible solutions for the energy need for any subsidies. Alongside developing substructures system of the future. If there is a lack of innovative capability, that can be installed efficiently in terms of materials and there is a risk that it may no longer be possible to secure the time, Belectric is also developing solutions that contribute profitability of the company to the same extent in the future. to grid stability with a growing proportion of regenerative energy. For example, hybrid systems comprised of photo­ Organisation, management and performance voltaic and battery storage systems and other generation measurement technologies support the maintenance of frequency in the electricity grid. Comprehensive research and development Continuous research and development activities are being channelled into optimising the design We are working in different research and development proand management that is necessary for these systems. grammes, primarily on advanced and sustainable technology and plant concepts. Here we draw on the competences of our “Green” hydrogen generated using electricity from renewable employees and on the expertise offered by our partners at energy can also be an important building block for a successuniversities, research institutions and in industry. A top priority ful energy transition. Hydrogen offers the potential for transis also promoting the ideas of our employees to achieve this mission and storage of large amounts of renewable energy, ambition. Our projects are situated in a wide range of research and hence providing substantial support for decarbonising fields and we are continually registering new patents. In 2019, the industrial and mobility sectors. We are committed to the 172 employees worked full-time or part-time on more than “GET H2” initiative, which is directed towards building up a 100 R&D projects. We number among the leading group of hydrogen infrastructure throughout Germany. We are workEuropean utilities with 1,070 patents and patent applicaing together with long-distance transmission system operations. RWE also invests in a Group-wide network of experts tors and industrial customers in Lower Saxony and North who analyse existing fields of technology on a continuous Rhine-Westphalia on the “GET H2” Nucleus Project to implebasis, and identify and evaluate new developments. ment large-scale electrolysis at the RWE site in Lingen and to drive forward the first hydrogen subnetwork from Lingen to Research on “Low Carbon Projects” North Rhine-Westphalia. Today, most wind power is still generated by onshore plants. The number of offshore wind farms on the open sea is increasIncreasing the flexibility and efficiency of conventional ing because wind strength is greater there and winds blow plants more uniformly on the high seas enabling more electricity to In order to secure and increase the availability and security of be generated. our power plants, we are running various research projects to investigate procedures for forecasting material behaviour Our objective is to further reduce the costs for constructing under changing loads and developing corrosion probes for offshore wind farms, particularly in deeper waters. We are monitoring corrosion attacks. We are also carrying out therefore carrying out research, for example into innovative research to investigate the consequences of conversion to methods for designing and installing plant foundations for alternative combustion fuels. One of the avenues we are wind turbines, for sensor systems and for evaluation algoexploring relates to biomass combustion for our power plants rithms to create improved operational and maintenance in the EU projects BELENUS and BIOFIRE with a focus on corconcepts. The design and testing of floating wind turbines – rosion-resistant coatings. 43 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix We are reviewing high-temperature heat storage integrated and LOTER.CO2M are designed to use new technical procein coal-fired power plants in order to increase flexibility and dures in the manufacture of basic chemicals for the chemifacilitate temporal uncoupling of renewable electricity genercals industry from the same starting materials. ation and feed-in. The pilot project StoreToPower is dedicated to developing and testing a heat-storage power plant. This Facilitating use of lignite as a material project currently involves plans being funded by the state of Lignite is Germany’s most abundant domestic natural North Rhine-Westphalia for upgrading a heat-storage modresource by volume and it can also be used for the producule at a lignite-fired unit. Furthermore, the project qualified tion of energy sources and basic chemicals. This technology for a funding application in the Ideas Competition “Real Labs paves the way for use of waste and biomass as materials, for the Energy Transition” sponsored by the Federal Ministry of and therefore increasingly forms the entry point into the carEconomics and Technology (BMWi). bon-based circular economy. In this context, a multi-rawmaterials project (ITZ-CC) was launched in collaboration with Emission reduction and protection of resources are a further regional universities and research institutes for gasification ongoing challenge. Examples of this relate to approaches for of sewage sludge and other input materials including phosefficiency enhancement and advanced development of fluephorus recovery. A pilot gasification system is being set up for gas desulphurisation, origination of measures for reducing this purpose. mercury and nitrogen-oxide emissions, and the development of separation and use of CO2. At our Innovation Centre in The application of additional energy sources such as geoNiederaußem, we piloted, for example, one of the most effithermal heat was also investigated. In this context, activities cient CO2 scrubbers in the world for 8,000 operating hours are running at our Weisweiler power-plant site where district annually. This system uses a detergent to extract carbon heating is also being fed in for the Aachen region. The opendioxide from the flue gas of the power plant to the quality cast Inden lignite mining facility is linked to the Weisweiler required for food. We are also cooperating with numerous power plant and is to be shut down around 2030. Low-CO2 national and international partners on the development of subsequent uses are projected to become the focus here opportunities for using CO2. For example, we are currently from an early stage. In order to progress this, we are involved setting up a pilot system at the innovation centre in Niederin an EU project organised by the geological service of North außem within the framework of the EU project ALIGN-CCUS Rhine-Westphalia that is due to run until 2022. Other partfor manufacturing less emission-intensive fuels from CO2 ners include the state geological services of the Netherlands and hydrogen generated by electrolysis. The projects OCEAN and Belgium, the University of Bochum and a company from the exploration sector. 44 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Shutdown and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatment of opencast mines GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges targets for 2030 are reached. The targets were first enshrined in statutory legislation through the Climate Protection Act. By 31 December 2022, the last nuclear power plants will Furthermore, annual intermediary targets are defined for all have been shut down in Germany. Furthermore, instruments sectors. have been introduced by the Federal Government and mea­ sures have been put in place to meet CO2 targets at national A characteristic feature of the draft law is the move from tarlevel. These will impact on our thermal, non-nuclear power get years for all sectors apart from the energy sector to an plant portfolio. The decision on legally-mandated security emissions pathway and hence to an emissions budget by standby has already been taken in Germany. By October 2030. Furthermore, the existing climate protection targets 2019, 2.7 GW of lignite-fired power plants in Germany had will be designed to be more restricted as a result of the draft. been transferred to this reserve. In each case, the final shutThe Climate Protection Act thereby goes significantly beyond down will take place four years later. For more information, the Climate Protection Plan 2050 in terms of its level of see Availability and Reliability, page 39 and GRI 305, ambition. page 54. The parties in the Dutch Government stated in their coalition The Federal Government set up the Growth, Structural contract that generation of electricity from coal should come Change and Employment Commission, see GRI 305, page to an end in the Netherlands by 2030. The corresponding law 54. In bilateral talks, at a large number of events and in many was passed by the Dutch Senate in December 2019. The publications, we have advocated the implementation of all United Kingdom has defined an exit from coal-fired electricthe proposals put forward by the commission. The negotiaity generation by 2025. RWE has decided to shut down the tions between the Federal Government, the federal states hard coal-fired power plant Aberthaw B (1,560 megawatt involved and the operators of power plants and opencast output) in Wales before this deadline. The closure of the mines, including RWE, addressing the implementation of the power plant is scheduled for March 2020. The existing oblirecommendations in the lignite industry reached a consensus gations of the plant arising from the British capacity market at the beginning of 2020. Under these recommendations, for 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 will be transferred to third RWE will gradually shut down its capacities in lignite-fired parties. A smaller proportion will be moved to other units of power plants by 2038 and the company will receive compenthe RWE power plant portfolio. The available output guaransation amounting to € 2.6 billion in return. At the same time, teed as a result of the capacity market for the United KingRWE will take account of the wishes of policymakers that dom will therefore remain unchanged. Hambach Forest should be preserved. On the basis of the consensus, the Federal Government has drawn up a draft Organisation and management law for the reduction and cessation of generating electricity from coal and has also started the appropriate parliamenPower plants can be shut down on the one hand for economic tary procedure. After the legislative process has been conor technical reasons. Preparations for decisions on shutdown cluded, the Federal Government should be empowered, are managed by the generation divisions. On the other hand, together with the operators of lignite-fired power plants power plants are shut down as a result of statutory or other including RWE, to conclude contracts under public law. Such regulations, and this is projected to happen under the plans an agreement will then offer the company and its workforce for an exit from coal-fired generation in Germany and the planning certainty until the supply of coal-fired electricity is Netherlands. Whatever the reason, the relevant state-specific discontinued in the Rhineland and this will be in harmony with regulations are taken into account and the process is supthe relevant regulations. Correspondingly, RWE will also apply ported by the responsible supervisory authorities. for an amendment to the relevant licenses for opencast mining. At national level in Germany, the German Federal ParliaIn Germany, the intended shutdown of a power plant must be ment (Bundestag) and the Federal Council (Bundesrat) notified to the responsible regulatory authority, the Federal passed a national Climate Protection Act (KSG) in December Network Agency and the transmission grid operator respon2019. In conjunction with the Climate Protection Programme sible for the system with a lead time of at least one year. The 2030 submitted in October 2019 and the measures encomsystem relevance of the notification must be reviewed by the passed within the programme, the Climate Protection Act grid operator and approved by the Federal Network Agency. is intended to ensure that the national emissions reduction Whether the affected power plant is to be shut down 45 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix permanently or only temporarily is not relevant. When lignitefederally-owned company has also taken over the storage fired power plants are shut down, the effects on the opencast sites for low and intermediate level radioactive waste from sites and the application licenses also need to be taken into nuclear power plants. account. Lignite After the last unit at a power plant location has been shut down, RWE will strive to achieve a subsequent use for the After conclusion of the negotiations relating to the exit from occupied land at the site as far as possible. We work together lignite with the Federal Government, based on the recomwith the local community affected before the final decommendations of the Growth, Structural Change and Employmissioning of a power plant to develop a concept for followment Commission, and the various legislative procedures on use of the land previously occupied by the power plant. RWE is developing an amended lignite timetable. This roadThe shutdown and decommissioning are carried out to meet map offers planning certainty for the company and the the requirements of the follow-on use in accordance with the employees until the end of coal-fired electricity generation in relevant applicable state-specific standards. An appropriate the Rhineland in harmony with the corresponding regulalevel of provisions for shutdown and decommissioning of tions. Accordingly, RWE will also apply for an amendment to nuclear power plants, recultivation of opencast sites and the relevant licenses for the opencast sites. water management measures are set aside in accordance with our statutory obligations. This is coordinated by the The provisions in lignite mining to enable reinstatement of appropriate specialist department of the finance division. use for the land occupied by production are a rolling system in key areas. Recultivation projects and measures relating to Nuclear energy water management are largely already carried out while operations continue so that provisions are constantly being The remaining lifetime of the German nuclear power plants used for this purpose. At the same time, new provisions are is defined in the Nuclear Power Act (Atomgesetz, AtG). The formed each year to take account of the ongoing decommisauthorisation for power operation of the Gundremmingen sioning. The tasks being adopted from lignite extraction cover Unit C nuclear power plant comes to an end on 31 December a timeframe that extends in part significantly beyond the dis2021, and the licence for the Emsland nuclear power plant continuation of lignite mining itself. However, they are without ends on 31 December 2022. question finite. In 2017, lawmakers introduced new legislation in Germany Existing contracts and licensing documents are used to regulating responsibility for disposal of nuclear waste. The determine the projected costs underlying the provisions. operators of nuclear power plants have together paid a total Comprehensive empirical values from the past are also availamount of € 24.1 billion into a state disposal fund. The state able. At the planning stage of the mining operations, the has now taken responsibility for processing and financing responsible regional state authorities are already intensively intermediate storage and a final repository to hold radio­ involved. The issues being addressed include those relating to active waste. geology and water management. The mining authorities as the responsible supervisory authority have a rolling proThe operators of nuclear power plants will continue to be gramme of iterative reviews in accordance with statutory responsible for shutdown and decommissioning of their power regulations in order to assess whether there is a need to proplants and for proper packaging of radioactive waste. RWE vide financial security in addition to the provisions available. formed provisions during commercial power operation to We provide a comprehensive report on the so-called mining meet these obligations. The provisions encompass the costs of provisions in the Annual Report 2019, page 43. all stages after operations have finished including shutdown, disposal of the fuel rods and disposal of the radioactive waste Measures and performance measurement from operation through to final decommissioning. The Act on Transparency of Costs relating to Shutdown and DecommisNuclear energy sioning of Nuclear Power Plants and Packaging of Radioactive The shutdown and decommissioning operations at the Biblis Wastes defines how these costs have to be reported. site were continued in 2019. Further adjustments were made to residual operation, shutdown and removal of some sysThe sites for intermediate storage were transferred to tems no longer required, various decommissioning measures BGZ Gesellschaft für Zwischenlagerung mbH in Essen on and the installation of infrastructure for processing materials 1 January 2019. With effect from 1 January 2020, this resulting from decommissioning. 46 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix By the beginning of the 2030s, this work will have proceeded In 2019, we continued to keep stakeholders informed about such that the remaining sections of the buildings will no the individual steps in the ongoing process at all the sites, see longer come under the scope of the regulatory regime of the GRI 102-44, page 23. Furthermore, preparations continAtomic Energy Act. ued to be made for repatriation of the reprocessing waste from England to the Biblis intermediate storage site and the On 1 June 2019, the Biblis nuclear power plant no longer had preparations for the planned transfer of storage sites for lowany nuclear fuel rods. This meant that processes could be level and intermediate radioactive waste at the beginning of further streamlined and recurring inspections were one of the 2020 to BGZ up until signature of the contract. measures that could be reduced. On 20 March 2019, the license applied for in December 2014 was granted for the As part of the RWE/E.ON transaction, the stakes held by E.ON decommissioning of systems components at Gundremminin the nuclear power plants Gundremmingen (25.0%) and gen Unit B. The shutdowns and removals of systems no Emsland (12.5%) were transferred to RWE when the deal was longer required for operation could therefore be commenced. closed on 30 September 2019. This also provided the go-ahead for preparations in advance of various decommissioning measures and the installation of Lignite infrastructure for processing materials originating from the After the Frimmersdorf P and Q Units were transferred to dismantling process. The decommissioning works at the Müllegally-mandated security standby in 2017 and the Niederheim-Kärlich site continued to progress in 2019. The cooling außem E and F Units were transferred in 2018, the last unit tower there was demolished as planned on 9 August 2019. of RWE in the form of the Neurath C Unit was transferred to The focus of work at the Lingen location (nuclear power plant) legally-mandated security standby on 1 October 2019. was on release of the steam converter and removal of conThis reserve now comprises around 2.7 GW of power-plant necting pipework in preparation for the outward transfer and capacity throughout Germany, to which RWE contributes shipment to Sweden. Dismantling the reactor pressure vessel 5 units with capacity of around 1.5 GW. After four years on and its equipment at specialist industrial firms is particularly legally-mandated security standby, the last two units at the important in the timetable for decommissioning at the locaFrimmersdorf location will be finally shut down on 30 Septions of Biblis, Lingen and Mülheim-Kärlich. During the reporttember 2021. Against this background, a planning consultaing period, orders were therefore already awarded for distion has already been launched for this location. This involves mantling to specialised industrial companies. Planning and the town of Grevenbroich and the Rhine District of Neuss. The dismantling work was also commenced. consultation is addressing the future opportunities for usage of the areas. Ultimately it will involve sustainable and structurally effective post-utilisation facilities for the power-plant location. 47 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Environmental GRI 302 Energy GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges For information on the offerings to our customers, see Energy-efficient products and services, page 41. Apart from pure energy consumption, energy efficiency is a key factor in regard to sustainability. In this connection and to Certification level of Energy Management Systems (FTE) avoid unnecessary negative burdens for the climate, environWe implemented the Energy Efficiency Directive throughout ment and society, RWE is committed to continuous improvethe Group by the required deadline in 2016, with energy ment of the energy and environmental footprint. In addition audits or a certified energy management system and to complying with statutory legislation and licensing regulaincluded energy management in control processes. In 2007, tions, economically viable measures are implemented for RWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG had already estabenvironmental protection and energy efficiency. They are lished an Environmental Management System in conformity based on a conscious and responsible approach to the enviwith ISO 14001 with the aim of bringing about a sustainable ronment and the use of energy in our office buildings, vehicle improvement in energy efficiency and environmental protecfleets, production and energy-conversion plants. This means, tion, and reducing the use and consumption of energy at the for example, that if functioning non-controllable pumps used German operational facilities. In 2013, the Energy Manageat different points in the power plants are defective, they are ment System was integrated in conformity with ISO 50001. replaced by energy-efficient controllable new pumps. The key The two systems have so far been successfully recertified. factor is that when analysing the entire carbon footprint, susThis process was last carried out in 2019. The certification tainability and cost-efficiency are the focus of attention. level of Energy Management Systems (based on FTE = Full Time Equivalent) was 78% for RWE stand-alone in 2019. As producers of electricity and heat, we have a particular responsibility in this respect because we are able to reduce Increasing the efficiency of conventional power plants our CO2 emissions per unit of electricity or heat produced by We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production of deploying more efficient power plants and increasing the use electricity by modernising our conventional power plant portof sustainable combustion fuels. At the same time, we are folio and by shutting down older plants, see Shutdown and also reducing the consumption of resources, the fuel costs decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of minand the expenses involved in CO2 certificates. We supply ing areas, page 44. In addition, there is the option of further innovative products and services with a high level of effiuse of potential sourced from combined heat and power in ciency, for example in the area of generating emergency our plants and the use of heat derived from electricity to electricity and reserve energy, so that our customers can cover own requirements. adopt a responsible approach to energy. Already since 2008, we have been monitoring the overall The European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) has been efficiency of energy use from our conventional plants. On the enshrined in national law within our key markets in the EU. consumer side of the plant, this includes the primary energy This legislation requires all large companies to regularly carry use for power generation and the purchase of electricity from out an energy audit or to introduce and operate an Energy outside sources for our own use. Conversely, the production Management System in conformity with ISO 50001 or an side balances this with generated electricity, and steam and Environmental Management System in conformity with heat products for our customers. As a result, continuous EMAS. monitoring using our advanced operating management systems enables us to implement rapid countermeasures as Organisation, management and performance necessary, as well as maximally high utilisation of the primary measurement energy sources used in all operating statuses of the plants. Furthermore, data analysis yields valuable findings for research Our energy management is part of the integrated manageand development requirements. This continual improvement ment system, see Non-financial Report, page XII. is being reviewed annually by our external certifier in energy and environmental management audits. 48 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Average generation efficiency of thermal power plants by For the external electricity and gas sales volume, see GRI fuel and region 102-7, page 13. At 43.7%, we succeeded in significantly improving the averEnergy consumption during generation and distribution age efficiency of our thermal power plants compared with 2018 (41.6%). Current market conditions can exert a positive Energy consumption during generation and distribution and negative influence here on the mode of operation and hence the efficiency of the power plant portfolio. A renewed Electricity distribution grids are operated by our former subincrease in the use of gas-fired power plants exerted a posisidiary company innogy SE. The electricity distribution grids tive impact during the year under review, while the lower are part of “innogy – continuing operations”. electricity generation tangible in all thermal generating tech­ nologies compared with the previous year also exerted a negative impact. Energy consumption within the organisation Unit 2019 2018 Primary energy consumption1 million GJ 934 1.213 Energy consumption of the sites2 TWh 7.6 8.8 Energy consumption of the grids3 TWh 0.04 0.04 1 Disclosures for RWE stand-alone. Fossil fuels used, not including biomass and energy sources recorded under “Other combustion fuels”. This does not include transport. Disclosure for 2018 was adjusted on the basis of improved data. 2 Disclosures for the RWE Group including Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy. 3 Disclosures for innogy. Efficiency of energy use of thermal power plants1 in % 2019 2018 Germany Lignite 37.5 37.0 Hard coal 38.8 38.2 Gas 58.3 62.5 Waste 40.3 46.4 United Kingdom Hard coal 33.4 31.8 Gas 55.9 55.9 Netherlands Hard coal 45.3 45.4 Gas 63.2 62.5 1 The thermal power plants belong to the plants operated by RWE stand-alone. Power plants in Hungary and Turkey are not included. 49 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 303 Water GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Minimizing risks associated with water A record is kept of the interfaces between RWE’s operations Water is essential for life and it is not an unlimited resource. In and water that exert or can exert an impact on rivers and regions with restricted or endangered water supply, manusurface waters. The type of impact on the water is also deterfacturing companies are exposed to the risk of production mined. We record environmental impacts for rivers, surface failures. Furthermore, their water consumption may pose a waters and groundwater on the basis of existing licences, risk to the supply situation for the environment and indeed limits and expert reports, and the operating results of the the local population. Nevertheless, wherever water is availaprevious year. The relevance of these results is evaluated for ble in abundance, the impacts of production may impair the their importance by the internal specialist departments and condition of water bodies and sources. And this therefore a group of experts taken from government agencies, asso­ exerts negative impacts on the environment and society. As ciations and external specialists. Their evaluation is then an industrial operation with a requirement for water at our presented transparently by analysis of the environmental plants, we believe that we have an obligation to take a impacts in relation to the potential level of damage and freresponsible approach to water. Our operations affect water quency or probability of occurrence. We assess measures consumption and the use of water when it is withdrawn from already introduced for minimising risks and accident avoidrivers and surface waters, and the groundwater. Naturally, ance on this basis. If this action is not adequate, other measthere are also impacts when we discharge wastewater into ures are developed and introduced. these waters. Of course, the licenses necessary for this are underpinned by all the statutory regulations. Protection of rivers and surface waters We want to contribute to preserving water as a habitat and to In areas subject to flooding, heavy rainfall and similar maintaining the biotopes dependent on it. Our objective is to extreme weather events can put the smooth-running operaavoid negative consequences arising from our interventions tion of our plants at risk. We therefore take appropriate in surface waters and ecosystems or – where this is not viable measures in order to avoid or minimise risks to electricity – to minimise such impacts as far as possible. We mitigate supply and potential costs. unavoidable negative consequences to the maximum extent feasible. We also provide the best possible protection against Organisation, management and performance adverse impacts for aquatic habitats and other ecosystems measurement linked with such habitats. Furthermore, we avoid environmental impacts owing to the use of methods such as recirculation A top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts in the power plants, intensification of usage for pumped minimum impact on natural resources when we supply our water from opencast mines, the use of collected rainwater thermal power plants with cooling water. Keeping our openand process water. cast facilities dry by withdrawal of groundwater is an operational necessity and therefore unavoidable. We attempt to Protection against flooding make these interventions in a maximally environmentally All operating plants are protected against flooding in confriendly way. formity with statutory regulations. Heavy rainfall in opencast mines can be managed without major damage since water Anchoring environmental protection in business processes retention systems have been designed to cope with correSee Non-financial Report, page XIII. sponding levels of precipitation. Group-wide coverage by environmental management See Non-financial Report, page XIII. Compliance with licensing regulations See Non-financial Report, page XII. 50 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal by source1 Unit 2019 2018 Water Cooling water consumption net2 million m3 182.5 232.4 Water consumption net3 million m 3 184.9 235.1 Water withdrawal Groundwater million m3 515.5 518.5 Surface water million m 3 1,379.3 1,175.1 Seawater/brackish water million m3 2,999.5 2,943.3 Drinking water million m 3 2.4 2.8 Other sources4 million m3 27.3 25.9 Total water withdrawal million m3 4,924.0 4,665.4 1 Disclosures relate to the plants of RWE stand-alone. 2 Figure includes wastewater in public drains/third-party and evaporation losses. 3. Figure includes drinking water and net cooling-water consumption. 4 Including rainwater, wastewater and service water. The figure for 2018 was adjusted on account of subsequent data inputs. 51 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 304 Biodiversity GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges environmental cycles and on representative partial areas of the recultivation in the course of a monitoring exercise. The The protection of species through the preservation of habiresults are evaluated by specialists with reference to the spetats is one of the biggest global challenges of the present cific species and the measures are adjusted as appropriate. day. Our activities also result in direct and indirect interventions in ecosystems. Wherever feasible, we therefore avoid or In 2019, an organisational process was launched for controlminimise these impacts. As far as possible, we take appropriling and implementing the biodiversity strategy. This comate nature conservation measures to mitigate unavoidable prises a management group encompassing all the relevant or irreversible negative consequences. This affects our opendecision-makers from different specialist areas, an action cast mines, the maintenance of our transmission lines, and team and working groups. The action team organises the the construction and operation of plants for generating process and cooperates with different working groups of renewable energy. Consequently, we promote species the three areas for action – forest, open country and surface through selective measures – primarily within the framework waters – in order to make arrangements for the activities of our recultivation activities. Recultivation can therefore frenecessary to implement the biodiversity strategy. In 2019, quently achieve positive effects in relation to biodiversity. indicator species were defined in relation to the areas for action and concrete measures were developed for promoting Organisation, management and performance biodiversity. measurement Our measures are very diverse within this framework. We proProtecting biodiversity tect species diversity strategically if natural habitats are disCompliance with regulations governing biodiversity is a preturbed by our activities. The same approach continues as we requisite for upholding the licensing regulations covering our reinstate substitution habitats or facilitate the population of business. We also meet these regulations using internal conexisting habitats. The specific protection measures are inditrolling systems and exceed the requirements with more vidually designed to match the requirements for the affected extensive measures. Since 2015, RWE has had a Biodiversity species and types of habitat, and to deal with the types of Policy. This guideline establishes the approach of RWE to the intervention. A concrete survey of the species is carried out protection and promotion of biodiversity as the company using specialist mapping in advance of each intervention or carries out its business activities. Biodiversity is also an area an evidence-based potential analysis is implemented. Concovered by environmental management, see Non-financial crete species protection measures are then derived from this Report, page XII. In 2018, a biodiversity strategy was develdata. At the same time, an ecological evaluation of the habioped for the Rhineland Lignite Mining Region on the basis of tats based on special evaluation methods is carried out this general RWE Biodiversity Guideline. Alongside the legally before and after the intervention. On the one hand, this work required reduction in the consequences of opencast mining yields a mitigation requirement based on landscape and operations, this strategy also facilitates opportunities for environmental parameters and on the other hand functionidentifying and making use of voluntary improvement in bioally appropriate measures are developed. We also promote diversity. The area for which the biodiversity strategy was biodiversity in the course of the annual reinstatement of developed comprises the active recultivation of the opencast opencast mines by designing, promoting and maintaining mining sites and species protection areas outside recultivaspecial and diverse habitats. The impact of measures is tion. The scheme was presented to the public in May 2019 scientifically investigated and their design is optimised and since then it has been rolled out. as necessary or their application is expanded if they are successful. The targets of the biodiversity strategy are geared towards environmentally sensitive indicator species that are repreLikewise, we contribute to preserving diversity by installing sentative for holistic ecosystems. Measures to optimise the fish ladders at our run-of-river power plants and use technihabitat conditions in the recultivation are developed and cal measures to protect the aquatic animal world at offshore implemented on the basis of these indicator species. The wind farms. When procuring our biomass, we ensure that it environmental status of the indicator species is assessed by comes from sustainable sources, see GRI 204, page 37. ecological mapping carried out in scientifically appropriate 52 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Reinstating habitats They include habitats with extremely low-nutrient, dry or We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining by moist living conditions. The recultivation research office carrecultivating the extraction sites. This approach enables us to ries out regular investigations. return rehabilitated areas of land to agriculture and other uses while also creating space for nature conservation where In 2018, a study was carried out on insects and pioneering we can strategically foster biological diversity. The objective species in the River Inde water meadows, whereas in 2019 of recultivation is to reinstate the development potential of the suitability of agricultural recultivation for repopulation of the landscape while taking account of the typical conditions small animals, reptiles, amphibia and birds was the primary of the surrounding environment and, if possible, improve focus of attention. A particular focus in this study was on field them. Development of forest and creating agricultural land hamsters, wild bees, bats, and butterflies and moths in the are key building blocks for this. However, structuring new habareas around the edges of woods, and the dormouse populaitats for nature conservation and protecting species are also tion in the habitats of the Sophienhöhe Hill. As a result of an important component of recultivation. For information on many years of research into recultivation, around 3,000 anithe effects of recultivation on local communities, see GRI mal species and some 1,500 plant species have been identi413, page 68. fied over the entire recultivation process. Many of these recorded species are very rare and classified as “endanThe quality of reinstatement of opencast mines is continually gered” or “under threat from extinction” according to the Red being enhanced. A total area of around 22,850 ha has been List in North Rhine-Westphalia. reinstated in the Rhineland Mining Region. Around 12,600 ha are being used for agricultural purposes, around 650 ha The Sophienhöhe Hill, the River Inde water meadows, the lake were reinstated for water management, and around 8,450 Kasterer See and the Elsbach Valley are all examples of reculha of this has been returned to woodlands, forests and green tivation areas in the Rhineland Mining Region where animal corridors. Meanwhile, more woodland areas overall have and plant species under threat find a new home. These areas been recultivated here than the actual amount of land that are also popular recreational amenities. was used for mining operations. Recultivation in the Rhineland Mining Region also encompasses highly diverse and One example of our species protection activities is provided species-rich habitats. Special biotopes make a particularly by the region around the Hambach opencast mining area. important contribution here. They are deliberately esta­ Comprehensive measures are implemented here on former blished on account of their extreme and rare site conditions agricultural land or in managed forest covering an area of and they can be regarded as “hot spots” of species diversity. around 1,500 ha with the aim of safeguarding the stock of species living in the old-growth forest located in the area about to be developed for opencast mining. GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Nature conservation areas are designated on the basis of the Continuous surveying for our parcels of land would take up a German Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG) and disproportionately high input of resources. Furthermore, it is they are the responsibility of various authorities. In the adminby no means certain that the digital data required from the istrative district of Cologne, these areas are managed by the authorities for such an updating process would be sufficiently district government as a higher nature conservation authorup to date to provide an accurate determination. In order to ity provided that the areas have not already been designated obtain licenses for our operational measures, all scientific as the responsibility of the regional districts or municipal city aspects relating to nature conservation are addressed durauthorities. RWE Power AG and RWE Generation SE are owning the licensing procedure with the objective of complying ers or leaseholders of parcels of land throughout Germany. with the statutory regulations. The requirements for the operThe actual number of these parcels of land and designated ation of our plants or necessary mitigation measures resultconservation areas around our locations is undergoing coning from the licenses are implemented in accordance with tinuous change. the licenses, see GRI 303, page 49, GRI 306, page 58, and Non-financial Report, page XII. 53 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity The operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and The new conservation zones cover a total area of around plants for generating electricity and for the production of lig3,398 ha. Owing to the age of the designated areas of opennite inevitably result in our impacting on natural ecosystems. cast mine, we are not aware of any listings as conservation Harmful substances are released during the generation of zones originating from before the period of opencast mining electricity and heat at our power plants or the operation of activities. The renaturalised post-mining landscape of today our opencast mines, and they could lead to negative impacts is in fact structurally more diverse than was actually the case on the environment and biodiversity. We are therefore combefore its use as a mining site. Alongside the quality of our mitted to maintaining the purity of air and water (see GRI recultivation, this diversity also contributed to the designation 303, page 49, GRI 305, page 54, and Non-financial of conservation areas. Report, page XII) and to conserving natural ecosystems. We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining Ecological comparative analyses provide evidence that bioactivities by recultivating the extraction sites, see GRI 304, coenoses in recultivation have at least an equivalent diversity page 51. of species to those in high-value reference habitats located in other areas of North Rhine-Westphalia. The numbers of speBiodiversity of habitats protected or restored cies in recultivation are frequently above the numbers before opencast mining took place. This applies in particular to minIn 2016, five landscape protection areas located in the ing districts in overwhelmingly agricultural areas. One reason Rhine-Erft district were designated under the legislation. They for this large diversity of species is the diverse habitats and cover the recultivated areas of the former Bergheim, Fortuna microstructures that are created in the course of agricultural and Frimmersdorf opencast mines. These areas were proand forestry recultivation, as well as in the comparatively low tected in order to preserve, develop and reinstate the effilevel of fertiliser at the new sites. The biodiversity footprint for ciency and function of the balance of nature, to conserve biorecultivation shows that designing a new landscape also protopes and habitats for certain species of wild animals and vides big opportunities to upgrade the ecological characterplants, and its particular significance as a recreational amenistics that extend far beyond the scope of “proper reinstateity. This conservation success is also due to the quality of our ment of use”. recultivation. 54 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 305 Emissions GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Organisation and management Owing to its previous power plant portfolio, CO2 emissions Anchoring environmental protection in business processes are of vital importance for the RWE Group and are linked to The responsible approach to natural resources and promothe compensation of the Executive Board. For this reason, tion of the use of environmental technologies is one of the the concept in relation to CO2 emissions and the Scope 1 principles governing conduct at RWE and this principle is CO2 emissions footprint is a constituent element of the enshrined in the RWE Code of Conduct. In 2019, the proviNon-financial Report, page IX–XII. Other CO2 emissions sions of the RWE Code of Conduct were applicable for the (Scope 1 in accordance with EU ETS and in accordance with entire RWE Group, since the transfer of the Operation the GHG Protocol and Scope 2 and 3) and emissions of NOX, acquired from E.ON and hence also for this area. EstablishSO2 and dust are described below. ment within the organisation is described in the Non-financial Report, page XIII. Other emissions Apart from the emission of greenhouse gases, the electricity Group-wide coverage for environmental management and heat generation from the power plant portfolio of RWE also releases other emissions into the air and water bodies. See Non-financial Report, page XIII. Compliance with limits defined under licensing regulations is necessary for sustainable alignment of our business model. Compliance with licensing regulations Our corporate decisions are therefore strongly defined by the See Non-financial Report, page XII. regulatory and social framework that undergoes continuous development. Measures and performance measurement Emissions produced during electricity and heat production in Reduction of other emissions conventional production units include sulphur dioxide (SO2), When electricity and heat are produced in our power plants, mercury (Hg), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and dust. Dust and fineemissions of pollutants like nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, dust emissions are also produced in the course of operating dust and mercury also occur. In August 2017 the EU Comour opencast mining facilities and these can be a burden on mission adopted new regulations on the reduction of pollutthe surrounding areas. These materials reduce the quality of ants. For many pollutants, this entailed more stringent requirethe breathing air and can exert a detrimental effect on ments than those stipulated by the legislation in Germany. health. We use clean-air purification measures to avoid risks Existing power plants must comply with the regulations from of this nature. August 2021. However, prior to this deadline, the Federal Government must implement these restrictions in national European and national efforts directed towards reducing law by means of an amendment to the 13th Federal Emission greenhouse gas emissions also exert an effect in reducing Control Act (Bundesimmissionsschutzverordnung). This the emission of air pollutants from our plants. Taking the amendment is likely to be adopted in the course of 2020. We calendar year 2017 as the baseline, the transfer of our five are striving to ensure that our power plants stay within the lignite-fired units to legally-mandated security standby, upper limits of the emission bandwidths agreed in compliupcoming imminent implementation of European regulations ance with EU regulations. for clean air with new requirements for lignite-fired plants in national law and the achievement of the shutdown pathway Primary emission reduction measures such as optimisation for lignite by 2023 will contribute to a reduction of the NOX of firing technology and secondary emission reduction mea­ and mercury emissions from our lignite-fired power plants sures such as dust removal and desulphurisation in our operamounting to around 40%. By 2030, this sector together with ations mean that emissions of mercury, sulphur dioxide (SO2), other planned shutdowns of lignite-fired units will ultimately nitrogen oxide (NOX) and dust emissions comply with the statachieve a minimum contribution to reduction of up to 70%. utory limits for these substances in our plants. During the reporting period, no incidents relating to protection against air pollutants, events relevant for spills or limit breaches occurred at our sites that would have resulted in consequences under administrative law during the reporting period. 55 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Independently of this, work in the context of our research environmental impacts should be kept to a minimum. We are activities is focusing on a further reduction of pollutant emisable to fully comply with these obligations. These environsions from our power plants. In order to achieve this, we equip mental impacts connected with the operation of opencast our power plant portfolio with advanced firing technologies mines are primarily dust and noise pollution. In a case by case for NOx reduction. For example, we have upgraded our Weisapproach, we adopt suitable measures to reduce these emisweiler Brenner power plant. Furthermore, we are testing optisions that take into account the operational conditions and mised separation processes – for example for mercury. At the local circumstances. Noise emissions are reduced by the use Coal Innovation Centre in the Rhineland Mining Region, we of low-noise machinery, equipment and installations, encapare currently working on advanced procedures for capturing sulating drive units, the use of noise-optimised rollers, setting mercury by adding furnace coke to the flue gas. Since the up protective ramparts and walls, or putting in place planting beginning of 2019, a demonstration plant has been operatschemes across sound propagation pathways. In addition, ing for this purpose on a flue-gas stack in Unit K of the Nieder­ the works necessary during the night-time period are außem power plant. The results for separation of mercury are restricted to the absolute minimum for normal operations, extremely promising. Currently, we are also making preparae.g. by minimising the use of earth excavators and transport tions for the upgrade on another flue-gas stack at Unit K and times for large items of machinery. A top priority when proon the two blocks in Neurath. The aim is for the improved curing new auxiliary equipment is ensuring compliance with technology to achieve reliable compliance with EU regulathe sound power level defined by the German Machine Noise tions for reduction of mercury emissions from the middle of Prevention Regulations (32nd BlmSchV). We take a number 2021. We are making substantial investments in our plants of measures to reduce dust emissions (dust precipitation) for this purpose and we have the resources to cover financial including treatment of open surfaces to prevent the removal outlays of more than 100 million euros. of dust. The action here includes covering with materials that will not be blown away, spraying large areas with water and Since the 1980s, we have been using flue-gas desulphurisaother methods of binding dust to the surface. Measures were tion systems to capture SO2 from the flue gas. This process also developed that exert a targeted impact on the creation involves the SO2 being scrubbed out with the assistance of a and dissemination of fine dust. These include cleaning facililimestone solution. We have been developing this process on ties for the lignite conveyor belts and sprinklers on bunker a continuous basis and we are applying it on an industrial equipment and coal excavators. The individual methods are scale. always carried out in consultation with the supervisory authorities. Furthermore, monitoring stations covering operReduction of air pollutants: dust and noise ations at opencast mines are available 24/7 for any citizens Legislation requires opencast mines to be structured and who may have issues, so that short-term remedies can also operated using the current level of technology so that be implemented if there is an incident involving acute noise harmful environmental impacts are avoided. Unavoidable pollution. 56 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions For the emissions of the RWE Group see Non-financial Report, page XI. Unit 2019 2018 CO2 emissions in accordance with EU ETS1 million mt 87.1 116.9 CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in accordance with GHG Protocol)2, 3 million mt 91.7 120.4 1 Figures for CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS include emissions from the plants of the RWE Group less CO2 emissions from the Turkish power plant in Denizli, which amounted to 1.0 million metric tons in 2019 (previous year: 1.1 million metric tons). Since Turkey does not participate in the European Emissions Trading scheme, we do not need any emissions allowances for these quantities. 2 EU ETS quantities plus emissions from power plants which are not subject to EU ETS. 3 The figures for CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with the GHG Protocol) include the emissions from the RWE Group including innogy. GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Unit 2019 2018 CO2 emissions Scope 21 million mt 4.72 5.0 1 Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties outside the Group in innogy’s own grids. Calculation based on the countries with the main share (2019: Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Slovakia; 2018: Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Hungary). GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Unit 2019 2018 CO2 emissions Scope 31 million mt 187.2 188.7 1 Scope 3: Indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2: They are produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties outside the Group, the production and transmission of combustion fuels used and the consumption of gas that we have sold to our customers. Data for the RWE Group including innogy. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Unit 2019 2018 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS 1 mt/MWh 0.569 0.670 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 12 mt/MWh 0.599 0.684 1 Data for the RWE Group including innogy – continuing operations. 2 Data for the RWE Group including emissions from innogy. GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See reduction of our own CO2 emissions in GRI 305, page 54. GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Negligible amounts of ozone-depleting substances, which primarily relate to chlorinated hydrocarbons, are used in core processes at RWE so that there is no separate recording process for them. 57 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) and other significant air emissions Absolute emissions1 Unit 2019 2018 NOX emissions thousand mt 50.5 71.4 SO2 emissions thousand mt 17.0 28.1 Dust emissions mt 1,454 2,063 1 Data for RWE stand-alone. The regular ongoing measurement of mercury levels is being established. Specific emissions1 in g/kWh 2019 2018 NOX emissions 0.33 0.41 SO2 emissions 0.11 0.16 Dust emissions 0.01 0.01 1 Data for RWE stand-alone. 58 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 306 Effluents and waste GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Power plant residues are produced at our lignite-fired power plants in the form of ash and FGD gypsum, see GRI 306-2, Sustainable waste management is also part of a responsible page 59. approach to resources, alongside sustainable application of raw materials. This enables us to comply with the necessary We treat residual materials and waste from our nuclear licensing regulations. We avoid wastewater and waste as far power plants which occur while they are being operated as as possible, while unavoidable waste is disposed of properly well as when the power plants are decommissioned. Treatin accordance with the statutory regulations. We ensure that ment and disposal are carried out in accordance with the all safety regulations are complied with and relevant pre­ statutory regulations, see Shutdown and decommissioning cautions are taken. of power plants and reinstatement of opencast mines, page 44. Organisation, management and performance measurement Avoid waste Our waste hierarchy is based on the principle of avoidance, Ensuring sustainable waste disposal recovery, recycling and disposal. Our top priority is avoidance Comprehensive waste management ensures that the waste of waste. All organisational units are therefore continually generated is disposed of properly in compliance with waste reviewing the possibility of avoidance for the waste that is legislation. The Environmental Management System produced within their area of responsibility. Within this prodescribed in the Non-financial Report, page XII, also regucess, we reduce the quantity of waste as far as possible. This lates handling waste so that comparable standards are is done by optimising our plants but also in the course of the implemented here. For the reporting year 2019, waste planning and procurement process. management covered the same area of application as the environmental management described in the Non-financial Nevertheless, if waste is still produced, it is handled in accordReport, page XII. ance with the waste hierarchy referred to above. Disposal is only permissible if recovery is not technically feasible or is not Owing to the varying composition of waste and the resulting commensurate with commercial requirements. potential for hazard, waste is classified into two categories: hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Furthermore, a dis­ Process wastewater tinction is drawn between recovery and removal of waste Potential contaminants are prevented by our internal wasteduring the course of disposal. Waste subsequently undergoes water treatment facilities and their regular internal and sta­ further disposal. tutory monitoring. This process enables us to avoid negative impacts for the natural environment and health. During the project phase, the new-build and the maintenance of plants, an internal system evaluates the potential harm The pollutant concentrations for wastewater from operacaused by waste disposal and appropriate protective mea­ tional facilities are limited by the licensing authorities with sures are provided. Disposal information systems are used specification of monitoring values. These parameters are for organising disposal services. These information systems defined in the relevant permits under water legislation. The guarantee compliance with all the applicable statutory and results are analysed by in-house monitoring systems and in contractual conditions in the disposal of the waste generthe course of regular in-house and independent monitoring ated. surveys carried out by government agencies. Compliance with the permissible monitoring values ensures that the wastewater discharges are not in contravention of the water management targets for surface waters. 59 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Power-plant residues from our coal-fired power plants domigenerates gypsum. Most of this gypsum is marketed as nate the generation of waste. The ash from hard coal-fired power-plant by-products. Other waste products from our power plants is marketed as power-plant by-products. operations are forwarded for recovery and preparation for Almost 100% of the ash from the lignite-fired power plants is reuse, recycling, and other uses, for example energy generaeliminated in our power-plant residue deposits. The process tion and backfilling, or disposal. of flue-gas desulphurisation of our coal-fired power plants Waste1 Unit 2019 2018 Ash thousand t 4,197 6,344 Ash recovery thousand t 704 1,054 Gypsum thousand t 920 1,517 Gypsum recovery thousand t 737 1,057 Radioactive operational waste from nuclear power plants t 241.2 225.2 Spent fuel rods t 78.2 180.7 1 Figures relate to the plants of RWE stand-alone. GRI 306-3 Significant spills During the reporting period, no serious events involving spills of harmful substances were recorded in the regular internal survey for RWE. 60 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 307 Environmental Compliance On account of the particular importance of environmental compliance for the RWE Group, the indicators are linked to the compensation of the Executive Board. Environmental compliance and a description of it are a constituent element of the Non-financial Report, pages XII/XIII. GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) For information on the challenges, organisation and measures relating to the environmental compliance of the RWE Group, see Non-financial Report, pagen XII/XIII. GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations See Non-financial Report, page XIII. GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) For information on the general Management Approach on Procurement see GRI 204, page 37 and Non-financial Report, pagen III–VI. Depending on the tendered requirement, environmentally relevant criteria are interrogated from the suppliers in the course of prequalification. Relevant criteria are also used in the tender process and cost-benefit analysis in order to assess the offers of our suppliers. GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria See GRI 414-1, page 71 and Non-financial Report, page IV. GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken See GRI 414-2, page 71 and Non-financial Report, page IV–VII. 61 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Social GRI 401 Employment GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Currently 35 experts and around 8,000 employees are working within the NWoW context. We are working together with our employees to master the challenges of the energy transition. The growing business presIn addition, other initiatives are running in the area of Manage­ sure being exerted on the RWE Group and the changes occurment & Alignment with the aim of expanding the skills of ring in the energy market have also made a cultural change managers. By acting as role models for the RWE managenecessary at our company. If we failed to take action here, we ment profile, executive managers also lay the foundation would put our future performance at risk. The realignment of stone for successful introduction of NWoW at the individual our company has not yet been completed. It requires locations. increased flexibility from our employees and opens up the possibility of new functions. We have therefore launched an array We measure the success of our NWoW projects specifically by of different programmes so that our people are in a position to analysing leadership quality and employee and customer achieve the best possible outcome. We are joining forces with satisfaction. our employees to structure our working culture. This is intended to ensure that we remain competitive and attractive. Promoting cultural change through programmes The cultural change was supported in 2019 by a number of Organisation, management and performance measures including the continuation of the New Way of Workmeasurement ing (NWoW) programme. The New Way of Working (NWoW) programme represents a new mindset and approach to carSocially acceptable and responsible restructuring rying out work, see GRI 401, page 61. The project is enaOur internal employment market has already been established bling us to strengthen the orientation of our employees on in the RWE Group. This platform promotes and supports many performance and customers, and involve them more closely colleagues in relaunching their careers within the framework of in decision-making processes. At the same time, we are an internal Group-wide job market. The framework conditions ensuring more efficient cooperation within the entire Group. are defined in a collective bargaining agreement. QQ In 2019, a Group-wide staff survey for RWE stand-alone Several tools are available to measure the success of the was carried out at all the companies in order to involve internal job market including the number of internal and employees proactively in the development of RWE. The external applicants for each job. intention of the staff survey was to help identify the strengths of the company so that they could be further Our employee survey regularly measures the motivation expanded and optimisation fields determined. The topics index. This continues to be at a high level and demonstrates included management, information flow, along with that we are also good at providing our employees with adescope for taking action and development opportunities. quate motivation even during phases of change. Responsibility for the staff survey depends on the companies. However, a uniform core of questions is used. Establishment of new mindset and working practices QQ Peer Group@RWE is a forum for executive employees that Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of allows them to develop management expertise through working within the RWE Group. The programme “New Way of joined-up peer-to-peer consultation and advice based on Working” (NWoW) has been designed to achieve this. We are case studies. This creates an informal, strong and condefining new standards for our working practices and provincing network throughout RWE. moting the skills of our employees. A common working culture is also being developed in the areas of Operating ExcelDefining objectives through the Code of Conduct and RWE lence, Universal Process Management, and Leadership and Social Charter Alignment. Our intention is to use these and other measures Our Code of Conduct and the RWE Social Charter were jointly to enhance employee satisfaction, customer satisfaction and adopted by the European Works Council and the Executive improve the financial results. Board in 2010. They define standards for the relationship of governance with employees and for the conduct between the The NWoW programme has meanwhile been expanded to employees themselves. The guidelines in both documents are 19 operational projects in RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, binding for all employees of the RWE Group. RWE Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. 62 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover RWE Stand alone Unit 2019 2018 Fluctuation rate % 7.3 5.5 External hirings FTE 568 825 We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data on fluctuation rate and external hirings because the benefit is not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We regularly report on the age structure and the breakdown of employees by gender. GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees The principle of equal opportunities applies at RWE, irrespective of whether positions are full-time, part-time or fixed-term. However, there may be deviations for employees on fixed-term contracts, particularly in the case of those working on a shortterm basis, if for example statutory deadlines or reference dates cannot be complied with. GRI 402 Labour/management relations GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Council. It states that the Executive Management and the Works Council should cooperate together in an atmosphere We intend to make any necessary restructuring and staff of trust. RWE has gone beyond these statutory regulations relocations socially acceptable and implement them in a and made a commitment to open and trusting cooperation responsible manner. We are therefore continually in discusin the RWE Social Charter. The RWE Social Charter was sions with the employee representative bodies in the Group adopted by the European Works Council and the Executive and with the unions. Of course, the individual relevant national Board in 2010. Apart from the Group Works Council and the legislation covers the situation at RWE. We base our actions European Works Council, there are other forms of employee on this legislation. Naturally this also applies to employees representation across the Group, at company level and at who joined RWE as part of the transaction or who will join operational level. Specific interest groups, such as spokesRWE in the future. person committees, representative bodies for people with disabilities, and youth and apprentice representations are Organisation, management and performance also included. measurement Cooperation beyond the statutory regulations in an atmosphere of trust In Germany, the Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG) regulates the comprehensive information, consultation and co-determination rights of the Works GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We comply with all information disclosure obligations and involve employee representatives at an early stage. 63 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 403 Occupational health and safety Owing to its exceptional importance, workplace safety is linked to the remuneration of the Executive Board and is therefore a constituent element of the Non-financial Report, pages XIV/XV. Health protection is described below in this section. GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges In the transition period up to complete integration of the renewable energy business, Operations acquired from E.ON As an industrial company, occupational safety and maintaincurrently have their own Health & Safety Department and this ing health are the most important topics of concern to our is already being integrated into the structural and process employees. Our workforce and the employees of our subconorganisation of the RWE Group. tractors often carry out their assignments at workplaces that are subject to special requirements for occupational health In cooperation with the Company Medical Centre, the Health and safety. In particular, these include activities in the sphere & Safety Department develops and initiates health prevenof opencast mining, in technical areas at our power plants, tion packages in the context of Occupational Health Manageand at transmission lines or wind turbines. These areas of ment. The management function within the Company Mediapplication are subject to particular accident risks and health cal Centre is separate from the role of the Chief Company hazards for our employees and those of subcontractors. So Doctor. The Chief Company Doctor is responsible for the as to protect them, we are committed to sustainable develfunctions and duties that are in accordance with the relevant opment of occupational health and safety. The further robust regulations. The Chief Company Medical Officer is responsidevelopment of a respectful management culture in an ble for all more far-reaching functions, in particular the straatmosphere of trust is absolutely essential for strengthening tegic alignment and management of the whole department. our culture of occupational health and safety – we have Detailed organisation of healthcare management has been recognised that the topics of management and personnel defined within the framework of the Workplace Safety Mandevelopment need to be more tightly dovetailed and we are agement System. Since the employees of the Company Medicurrently working at improving these interfaces. cal Centre are part of the organisation of RWE Power AG and have contracts of employment with this company, healthcare Good occupational health and safety generates high levels of management is part of the integrated management system quality and demonstrates a good business policy. Sustainaof RWE Power AG. ble prevention also exerts a positive impact on the motivation of employees, the quality of their work, the image of the comMeasures and performance measurement pany and the satisfaction of the workforce. This is another reason why high standards are maintained, such as OHSAS Continuous improvement of health 18001, and we continually carry out improvements in this The Company Medical Centre is continuously analysing area. Packages such as “Safety Academy” therefore contribhealth data available inside and outside the company, and ute to prevention, in this case in the form of a game for delividentifying the need for action. This analysis gives rise to conering training on different topics from the area of Health & crete measures for the adjustment and completion of its serSafety. Likewise, a Root Cause Analysis – a standard analysis vice portfolio and for prevention and healthcare promotion of events – will also contribute towards avoiding other events campaigns. as far as possible. Since 2018, the focus has been on metabolic syndrome, Organisation and management which is regarded as the key risk factor for arterial diseases, in particular coronary heart disease. In 2019, the topic of Organisation of healthcare management “Healthy Sleep” was defined as a further focus and issues The functions of healthcare management are situated with associated with sleep were outlined in keynote presentations the Company Medical Centre and the Department of Health and roadshows at various locations. & Safety. The Company Medical Centre bundles the organisation of all the medical and emergency medical resources Moreover, the Company Medical Centre runs an annual flu alongside the social counselling service. The corresponding injection programme for all our employees. As necessary, this services relating to this are provided on the basis of service can include individual vaccination advice, setting up a vaccicontracts. These are dedicated to the RWE Group. nation plan and may also encompass any additional vacci64 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix nations necessary on an individual basis. Starting in October being expanded. These programmes are intended to proand continuing into the first quarter of the following year, all mote the skills of our employees, foster their ability to master employees can have a flu injection. Since this vaccination crises and provide staff with an opportunity for personal provides the most effective protection against infection development by drawing on their own competences as a with the influenza virus, information and communication to platform for development. Furthermore, a training concept employees will be stepped up in order to gradually expand involving blended learning was developed which communithe proportion of employees who take advantage of the cated content for occupational health and safety as a manvaccine. agement function. The programme has been set up for the long term (over several years). The aim of Company Health Management (CHM) is to present our employees with a wide range of offers and needsHealth indicator based measures to promote their health. Thematic focuses A key indicator of health in the workforce is the sickness rate. are made up of mental, physical and social health. The This reflects the periods of absence due to sickness including sphere of mental health offers a burgeoning area of action absence as a result of accidents and due to rest cures. It is owing to the intensified concentration of work and increased calculated as a function of the scheduled working hours for psychological burdens. Against this background, offerings all employees. The sickness rate of RWE stand-alone was related to stress competence, resilience and mindfulness are 6.8% in 2019. GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities See Non-financial Report, pages XV/XVI. GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation The activities carried out by our employees and our subcontractor employees are often associated with particular hazards. We believe that all hazards can be avoided if we take preventive action and implement appropriate protective and safety measures. GRI 404 Training and education GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement Our company is only as strong as the knowledge and skills of our employees. We will only be able to continue mastering the Recruitment of new employees future challenges presented by the energy business through We are an important economic factor in the regions where having professional and dedicated employees and managers. we have operations in the energy sector. So as to ensure Our aim is therefore to continue recruiting talented young that we continue to reinforce this perception of an attractive people to work at RWE, promoting our employees, supporting employer in potential employees, we are proactive in engagthem in their individual development, and furthering their ing with them. We inform them about the activities and the careers on the basis of their individual strengths. It is imporopportunities for employment and a career at RWE. This protant for us to be an attractive employer. cess includes a range of different tools including our Career Portal. We provide information to schoolchildren, students, graduates and prospective employees with career 65 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix experience on this website. The aim is to get in contact with Every year, around 200 young people start their training in them and help them make a start on the career ladder in the the RWE Group. This means that they are part of a cohort world of work or give them advice on changing jobs at RWE. of more than 600 apprentices in the Group. Around 96% of We focus our on-site activities on selected universities and these trainees work at companies in Germany. If you comfairs in Germany and abroad, as well as offering an intensive pare the number of German apprentices with the full-time exchange of views through personal interviews. jobs in Germany, the apprentice ratio of the RWE Group without innogy was 4.5% in 2019. We offered 39 places in our Women continue to be less inclined than men to take up a entry-level qualification “I can do it!” (“Ich pack’ das!”) in technical career. We are therefore especially committed to 2019. Here we help young people who have not yet found a motivating young women to explore technical careers at an training place and give them the knowledge to enable them early stage. One example is our engagement with the nationto achieve the necessary level in order to embark on basic wide Girls’ Days. training. Promotion of training Career training and development The RWE Group has a long track record of vocational training. We offer a range of training sessions and courses for develIn Germany, we focus primarily on the dual vocational training oping personal skills. We help managers to enable their system. This involves theoretical instruction being given at employees to take advantage of opportunities on a daily vocational colleges alongside on-the-job training in the combasis – opportunities to try out new things, implement propany. Overall, we offer training at eleven training locations for a jects and collaborate with different people so that they can total of 18 apprenticeship vocations in craft, engineering and learn from each other. We aim to structure personal and commercial occupations, and other areas. We train more peoongoing challenges strategically as careers unfold in order to ple than are necessary for our own requirements. promote the development potential of our employees. GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Our employees have access to a broad spectrum of developportal of RWE offers attendance training courses, blended ment opportunities and advanced qualification. These range learning, web-based learning, videos and much more. In from IT skills and project management, through specialist 2019, approximately 27,000 training courses were booked topics such as technical training courses, occupational safety through the HR portal for RWE. and compliance, to management training sessions. The HR GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges opportunities) and location (e.g. home office). At the same time, we are digitalising workplaces and structuring our faciliOur society is becoming more and more diverse as a result of ties to meet the current needs of our workforce. In future, we skills shortages, migration, changes in values and the indivi­ will continue to assess whether ongoing digitalisation of produalisation of life concepts. We perceive the diversity of our cesses is a sensible option. employees at RWE as an opportunity for cultural transformation, to recruit talents and to convince our employees about Organisation, management and performance our merits every day. An open and respectful culture is theremeasurement fore advantageous for our company and for our employees. Establishment of diversity management in the organisation RWE addresses the challenges presented by changes in the Our commitment to diversity in the company culture is world of work. These result from modified behaviour and enshrined in our Social Charter and our corporate mission. mindsets of employees and from the advance of digitalisaWe reject any form of discrimination, require a working envition. We provide support for this path by making workplaces ronment free of prejudice and promote a diverse corporate more flexible in terms of time (partly through part-time culture. Our diversity management plays a key role here. 66 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix We interpret diversity management as a long-term manageThe proportion of women in management positions was ment function in order to deploy the right competences at around 16% for the RWE Group at the end of 2019. The perthe correct place in the company. The Diversity Office defines centage was 27% for the first management level below the the framework for the entire RWE Group, and the decentra­ Executive Board of RWE AG and 19% at the second managelised Diversity Champions are our multiplicators within the ment level below the Executive Board of RWE AG. companies. They establish binding goals and priorities for the RWE Group that are tailored to needs. Voluntary employees At the Supervisory Board meeting held on 23 June 2017, from the Group also support diversity management within the Supervisory Board passed a resolution defining goals for the different companies. the compliance period to 30 June 2022 in the form of target quotas. These amount to 0% for women in the Executive The diverse personalities and capabilities of each individual Board. A target quota of 30% was defined for the first manare the central focus. This gives every employee the opportuagement level. The target quota of 20% women in the second nity to fully exploit their potential. management level takes account of the current appointment situation and the difficult conditions in the employment On Diversity Day, RWE celebrated diversity in the company at market. a total of five locations. Diversity Day is a day of action initiated by the Charter of Diversity (Charta der Vielfalt e.V) when The number of women on the 20-strong Supervisory Board companies and institutions publicly demonstrate their comof RWE AG is currently six, of which three are drawn from the mitment to the topic of diversity by taking action within the employee side, see GRI 102-22, page 20. This means that company or outside. Our campaign on Diversity Day this year the statutory regulations have been implemented. During the was a digital treasure hunt that all our employees were able year under review, no women were present on the Executive to take part in. The objective was to raise the awareness of Board of RWE AG. our workforce for the topic of diversity and to make them aware of the diversity that already exists within the company. Promotion of inclusiveness RWE uses the RWE Inclusiveness Action Plan to promote the We are currently in a process of continuous knowledge inclusion of people with disabilities in all the company’s activiexchange with the enei network, one of the biggest diversity ties. The agreed targets will continue to be implemented in networks in the English-speaking world. Furthermore, RWE the companies of the RWE Group. Their sustainable impact is engages with other diversity networks like the Boss’s Business demonstrated in the constant employment rate for people initiative and the company is a founding member of the with disabilities, in the package of internship places for young Charter of Diversity. people with disabilities and the sustainable, barrier-free establishment of workplaces for people whose ability to take Appointing more women to management positions part in the workplace is compromised. Our community and As a technology-based company, we have to contend with social responsibility towards people with disabilities is defined the ongoing challenge of increasing the proportion of women across Europe through the Social Charter and our commitworking in our company. We therefore provide women with ment to the Charter of Diversity. This commitment will constrategic support for entering our company structure and tinue to be implemented in a practical way by campaigns to climbing up the career ladder. The women’s network at the raise awareness and strategic measures in human resource RWE Group including innogy SE brings approximately 500 development, training, employment and health measures women at 14 locations together. The network promotes and appropriate workplace design and a barrier-free Group-wide communication on the latest challenges in the approach. Employee representatives also play a role in strucenergy industry and generates momentum to enable women turing and monitoring the implementation of inclusion here. to develop their individual career paths. We will continue to The ratio of employees with disabilities at RWE in Germany provide support with other initiatives, for example the MINT was 9.7% in 2019 (2018: 9.4%). This means that we have Women initiative. This approach brings together women in complied with the statutory quota of 5.0%. our company who have taken scientific and engineering degrees and it strengthens their profile. Around 160 women Combining work and private life from different hierarchical levels within the Group have taken Combining work and private life is a top priority at RWE and part in the initiative. Furthermore, we promote women with the company promotes getting the work-life balance right the RWE Female Leader Initiative, which fosters networking within the framework of the individual national circumstances for women managers within the RWE Group. and the specific opportunities available in the Group companies. We have created the structural conditions for getting 67 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix the work-life balance right with mobile working and flexible gency mothers and au pairs is also available – even in situaworking hours including management positions, and up to tions when private childcare is suddenly not available at short 24 months of unpaid special leave. Additional benefits are notice. available to help employees combine career and health, alongside combining career and family. For combining Additionally, RWE provides support for care scenarios with “Career and Children” there are additional packages for (procomprehensive services. For example, employees can get spective) parents including the Lumiland daycare nurseries advice from an online portal about subjects like patient located close to the company’s premises. Employees are now instructions and long-term care insurance, or they can also also able to make use of nursery places in Essen, Dortmund obtain expert advice at on-site events. We also provide supand Cologne. Parent and child offices are also available, and port with selecting care services or organising support in the a central mediation centre for childminders, nannies, emerhome. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Proportion by gender in the RWE Group1 Unit 2019 2018 Proportion of women in the company % 12.8 11.2 Proportion of men in the company % 87.2 88.8 Proportion of women in management positions 2 % 15.8 15.3 1 Data relate to the employees of RWE stand-alone including Operations acquired from E.ON. 2 Encompasses the first four management levels. Encompasses RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Age structure of RWE stand-alone in % 2019 2018 Proportion < 20 Years 1.5 1.4 Proportion 20–24 Years 4.8 4.6 Proportion 25–29 Years 6.6 6.3 Proportion 30–34 Years 7.5 7.7 Proportion 35–39 Years 8.8 8.3 Proportion 40–44 Years 7.7 7.7 Proportion 45–49 Years 10.0 11.2 Proportion 50–54 Years 19.5 21.5 Proportion 55–59 Years 24.1 22.7 Proportion ≥ 60 Years 9.5 8.6 A survey of data on minorities is subject to the individual sory Board see RWE Annual Report 2019, page 207 and national regulatory standards. Differentiation is therefore the RWE website. The career profiles of the Members of the only possible on the basis of gender and age. For disclosures Executive Board and the Supervisory Board can also be on the composition of the Executive Board and the Supervifound here. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men In 2017, the Act to Promote Transparency of Pay Structures this background, pay regulations and structures are to be (Entgelttransparenzgesetz) came into force in Germany. The made more transparent for employees. RWE implements all objective of the act is to implement the requirement of equal the statutory regulations and answers all enquiries from pay for women and men for equal or equivalent work. Against employees within the defined framework. 68 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix RWE pays women the same salary as men when they are in therefore dependent on qualifications, the activity being carequivalent positions. We observe the principle that employried out and the experience of the employees. The employee ees at RWE receive remuneration on the basis of the activity representatives also ensure that the principle of equal treatcarried out, independently of gender. The amount of pay is ment is observed. GRI 413 Local communities GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Dialogue with neighbouring residents and other stakeholders affected Wherever we have operations, our actions exert an impact We engage in a lot of different stakeholder dialogues. These on local communities. Our power plants and opencast mines are intended to communicate information and to involve offer jobs and therefore support the structure of the indivi­ neighbouring residents and other groups who are affected dual regions. In some places, this has already been happenby our business activities. This is primarily related to our ing for a long time. We temporarily take over very large areas opencast mines and our power plants. For more information of land for our opencast mines. This is associated with serious on integrating our stakeholders, see GRI 102-43, page 23 changes in the profile of the landscape. In some cases, these and GRI 102-44, page 23. operations may necessitate resettlements of individual villages or parts of local settlements. Furthermore, employee, Public interest in paying visits to opencast mines and power supplier and customer traffic associated with our plants also plants of RWE increased once again in 2019. During the past exerts an impact on the neighbourhood. year, around 52,000 visitors took part in tours through the facilities and recultivation areas of RWE Power. Over the past Organisation, management and performance ten years, RWE has welcomed around 600,000 visitors. Promeasurement viding visitors and neighbours with a transparent and factbased picture of its operations is a top priority for RWE. FurWe want to operate in a socially ethical way at our operating thermore, we maintain contact with neighbouring residents locations and be perceived in a positive light. With this in and engage in dialogue with them as part of our donation mind, we enter into dialogue with neighbouring residents and and sponsorship activities. We focus on promoting youth other groups which are impacted by our business operations work in regional associations and supporting local heritage or whose activities exert an impact on the business activities and customs. of RWE. Wherever we have operations, we want to cooperate with the local communities where we are working. GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes At all our major locations, we exchange views with the people Our aim with the programme “3malE” Education with Energy, living in the region. We regularly analyse the needs of comis to motivate young people for topics related to energy and munities and the impacts on the environment within the engineering. We also discuss the energy supply of the future framework of the licensing procedure in Environmental and with them. In 2019, 782 experiment kits were loaned to 247 Social Impact Assessments. A detailed disclosure of the schools and 336 nurseries, nearly 17,000 teaching packs results is not practicable owing to the large number of licenswere sent to teachers, and 19 members of staff went into ing procedures. schools as energy ambassadors. 69 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities The operation of opencast mines is unavoidably associated Nevertheless, the resettlement of the third resettlement secwith interventions in the landscape and with the resettlement tion in the Garzweiler opencast mine was called into question of local communities. RWE is very much aware of the impacts during the public debate in 2019 and by a few people earof these interventions for the region. marked for resettlement after submission of the recommendations by the commission. However, most of the affected Structuring resettlement with a consensus people have demonstrated a lively interest in the resettlement so that this is continuing at a dynamic pace. In the When people are being resettled, the important issues assomeantime, agreements have been reached for three quarciated with this topic are not simply about fair compensation ters of the properties. These include the properties relating to for their material assets. Intangible assets like tradition, comthe infrastructure of the local authority and the church. munity and a sense of belonging also play a key role. So that these needs can be met as far as possible, RWE has been The new location is currently being restructured and commucommitted for decades to the offer of community resettlenity activities are increasingly being relocated to the new site. ment with the aim of finding solutions that are ethical and Putting a stop to the process of the resettlement at this very socially compatible. The people being resettled are involved advanced stage would fly in the face of the concept of a on many levels in the process from the planning stage to joined-up resettlement. Furthermore, the lignite deposited implementation. They receive comprehensive support below the relevant locations will be required at the beginning through the relevant government agencies, local authorities, of the 2020s and therefore long before the recommended and most importantly from our company. Their requirements exit from coal. RWE has therefore emphasised that it wants also play a central role within the framework of the required to complete these final resettlements in the Rhineland as licensing procedure. They are involved in selecting the locaplanned. As a result of this, RWE is proactively promoting tion of the resettlement site and they play a key role in community life and the quality of the living conditions at the designing the new village. This has ensured that the majority new location during the construction phase. One example of of the people being resettled were always involved in the this is the community marquee transferred to the village resettlement of the community. Vibrant new settlements can community for the period running up to completion of conbe created in accordance with the ideas of the citizens. They struction of the multi-purpose hall, the sports facilities and can be provided with appropriate infrastructure where comthe church. munity life can be continued with familiar social structures and similar cultural life. Socially acceptable resettlement canStructuring new landscapes not be achieved without this input. Extraction of lignite by opencast mining inevitably leads to a Since the 1940s, more than approximately 41,000 residents temporary impact on the landscape. However, a key attribute have been resettled in a socially acceptable way. So far, more for lignite opencast mining in the Rhineland is that simultanethan 30 new and vibrant localities have been created as a ous and sustainable reinstatement of the original use is a result in this process. In 2018, around 150 properties were constituent element of the operating processes. Recultivaacquired in four localities alongside additional agricultural tion is therefore part of opencast operations throughout the and other parcels of land. entire lifecycle. It takes account of the environmental requirements and the leisure and recreational needs of the local Although the Growth, Structural Change and Employment community. Today, forested areas more than 80 years old Commission (see GRI 305, page 54) recommended ending can be found in recultivated former opencast mining districts, electricity generation from coal in Germany at the latest by for example in Ville. Moreover, new water meadows have also 2038, it did not call into question the need for the resettlebeen created along with areas of fertile agricultural land. For ments in advance of the Garzweiler opencast mining operamore information on reinstatement of opencast mines, see tions. The authorities and municipalities have even emphaGRI 304, page 51. sised the necessity of resettlement. 70 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Catastrophe/emergency planning and response GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges However, the commitment of the Group extends beyond these statutory requirements. RWE is a member of the As the biggest power producer in Germany, RWE is a constitGerman Cyber Security Council (Cyber-Sicherheitsrat uent element of the basic services known as critical infraDeutschland e. V.), the Alliance for Cyber Security (Allianz für structure. We are therefore well aware of our macroeconomic Cybersicherheit) of the Federal Ministry for Security in Inforresponsibility to society as a whole. (Cyber) security managemation Technology (BSI) and UP KRITIS1 of the BSI. The latter ment is therefore a central management function at RWE. is the initiative for cooperation between business and the A major incident, involving for example a cyber-attack on state to protect critical infrastructures in Germany. power plants, can lead to complete supply outages, with extremely negative impacts on public life. It can likewise pose In accordance with the Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting a threat to health and life in power plants and the surroundOrdinance (AtSMV), the operators of nuclear facilities in the ing area. Such an incident can also constitute a threat to the Federal Republic of Germany must report any notifiable economic future of the company. This means that it is necesevents occurring to the relevant responsible state supervisary to cater for a broad spectrum of potential incidents by sory authorities. The aim and purpose of the official reporting adopting appropriate planning measures and implement relprocedure is to monitor the security status of these plants evant training programmes – including incidents with a low and to make improvements using the knowledge obtained probability of occurrence but entailing substantial impacts. from the reported events in the framework of the supervisory Prevention of incidents like this is the primary goal. procedure. Organisation and management Measures and performance measurement As part of its management function (governance), Group Integrated crisis organisation has been established for meetSecurity at RWE AG defines Group-wide regulations for safeing the challenge of crisis situations, comprising central and guarding the Group security of RWE AG. Business Continuity local crisis staffs. These crisis staffs are supported by crisis Management (BCM) and Crisis Management are also a conmanagement plans. In addition, crisis exercises are carried stituent element of this model. An integrated approach also out at regular intervals to deal with different scenarios. entails establishment of Cyber Security Governance, Cyber Security Management and the Cyber Security Incident In 2019, our Group-wide Cyber Security Awareness camResponse Team within Group Security. paign “Human Firewall was continued. Alongside online training sessions, billboards and articles, live-hacking events Risk assessment is used to identify critical assets and roll out provide an effective method for raising awareness. The suitable technical and organisation measures for protecting effectiveness of the method was tested by means of a phishthose assets. So that the Group is prepared for cyber-attacks ing campaign initiated in-house. Emails were sent to RWE and is in a position to respond to them, the threat situation is employees who had been equipped with standard phishing continuously analysed and evaluated. technologies. The number of clicks on the link included were used as a measured value. As an operator of critical infrastructure, reporting pathways to the government agencies involved are defined in legislaThe notifiable events occurring at the sites of our nuclear tion. We work together with government agencies to make power plants were also reported to the relevant supervisory preparations for the scenarios entailed in an emergency. authority in 2019 in accordance with the regulations of the Exercises simulating emergencies are carried out at local Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting Ordinance (AtSMV). The level and these generally take place in cooperation with the general public was also informed about all notifiable events authorities operating on the ground there, for example the through press releases. Out of a total of seven nuclear power police and fire service. plants operating in Germany in the year 2019, two nuclear 1 Initiative for cooperation between industry and state for the protection critical infrastructures in Germany. 71 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix power plants are operated by RWE Nuclear GmbH (Emsland Seven notifiable events were reported at the RWE nuclear and Gundremmingen C). Units A and B of the Biblis nuclear power plants (nuclear power plants Emsland: 5, Gundremminpower plant, unit B of the Gundremmingen power plant, the gen C: 1, Mülheim-Kärlich: 1). All the notifiable events were Mülheim-Kärlich nuclear power plant and the Lingen power classified at level 0 on the International Nuclear Event Scale plant (KWL) were being decommissioned. (INES) for nuclear and radiological events. Level 0 applies to notifiable events with no significance for safety or very little. GRI 414 Supplier social assessment GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) For information on the general Management Approach on scope of pre-qualification. Relevant criteria are applied when Procurement see GRI 204, page 37 and Non-financial we assess the offers submitted by our suppliers during the Report, pages III–VI. course of the tender process and the cost-benefit analysis. The regulations governing the contractual relationship with Depending on the requirement put out to tender, suppliers individual suppliers are explicitly agreed in separate contracare also interrogated on criteria such as compliance with tual clauses on the basis of a risk assessment for specific statutory regulations and RWE’s internal rules for minimum product groups. wage, and for environmentally relevant criteria within the GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria There may be many different impacts on society. In order to respect of illegal activities such as money laundering or terensure that our suppliers act in conformity with social and rorism, or human-rights violations. This process is managed ethical principles, and in accordance with the law, we have by our Compliance Department. Since there are no direct developed a range of different measures supplier relationships when procurement is carried out in the wholesale markets, RWE has adopted a variety of different The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a measures to ensure that our suppliers act in accordance with constituent element of contractual relationships for all new the Code of Conduct, the national legal system and internaand existing direct suppliers. tionally recognised principles for compliance with social and ethical principles, see Non-financial Report, page IV. In order to safeguard human rights and social standards in our hard-coal supply chain, we work together with other comA separate work instruction and a checklist are used by the panies in the Bettercoal organisation, which carries out Purchasing Department for commissioning disposal services audits with suppliers, see Non-financial Report, page V, and in order to establish the suitability of the supplier. In such Bettercoal Annual Report. cases, compliance with the defined criteria can be reviewed in supplier appraisals and used for future tender processes in In the case of suppliers that are monitored through the Counthe framework of the internal appraisal system. terparty Approval Process, regular reviews are carried out to ascertain whether there are indications or breaches in GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken The RWE Purchasing Department does not maintain any Information “in the public domain” relates to all generally business relationships with suppliers if there is information in accessible sources from which information can be obtained. the public domain indicating that they breach the principles Press reports containing merely the suspicion of a breach are underlying the Global Compact. RWE is committed to implenot sufficient in this case. Rather, we rely on legally admissible mentation of the Global Compact. or officially confirmed facts. Furthermore, we use published 72 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix negative lists (World Bank Listing of Ineligible Firms and NonIn order to exert more leverage for the demands of sustainaResponsible Vendors) drawn up by the World Bank based in ble production and transport conditions in the hard-coal supWashington/USA. When suppliers are in contention for being ply chain, we joined forces with other large European energy included on the list of RWE’s suppliers, the background check utilities to establish the Bettercoal Initiative in 2012. is carried out by the relevant purchaser before any orders are awarded. In the case of existing suppliers, the review is perThe objective of Bettercoal is to bring about improvements in formed centrally in the vendor accounts section. all important production countries and raise environmental and social standards in the production of coal throughout the We can only report on the proportion of suppliers checked in world. For this purpose, on the one hand audits are carried the Counterparty Approval Process. See Non-financial out in coal mines and binding measures are adopted in order Report, page V. We regularly carry out reviews of our counterto eliminate any defects identified. On the other hand, Betterparties, their management and the majority shareholders. A coal carries out an intensive dialogue with all the stakeholder number of different databases are used to review them on a groups and the people affected including production compadaily basis. This ensures that RWE and all the suppliers that nies and mine operators. are subject to this Counterparty Approval Process comply with regulations in relation to potential compliance risks. ProThis enables the Bettercoal Initiative to create more environcurement has to deal with an exceptional situation when purmental protection over the long term, improved production chasing is carried out in the wholesale markets. An appraisal and working conditions, and takes more intensive, sustained is not possible here due to an absence of direct supplier relaaccount of the interests of neighbouring residents. More intionships. depth information is available on the Bettercoal website, including details of the participating coal mines. GRI 415 Public policy GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges preneurial activities. Particularly at the present time when the company is undergoing change, it is important to discuss A secure and environmentally compatible supply of electricity expectations and assessments for the future of the energy is a constituent element of public service. As part of this oblisupply with as many external stakeholders as possible so as gation, the operation of power plants is subject to a large to reflect the diversity of different positions. At the same time, number of statutory and downstream regulations in the EU, dialogue gives us the opportunity to provide better communiat national and partly also at regional level. Political decisions cation relating to corporate decisions and the underlying leading to changes in existing regulations or implementation motives. This approach highlights the fact that we also of new regulations therefore exert a major influence on our believe part of our role is to act as advisors for a successful business activity. Additionally, developments at international energy transition which achieves a balance between climate level outside the EU also exert an indirect influence, for examprotection, competitiveness and security of supply. We ple at international level. believe we have an obligation to provide answers for our stakeholders and we want to be a credible partner in the disOrganisation and management cussion standing shoulder to shoulder on an equal level. This enables us to meet the expectations of transparency placed RWE bases its actions on the applicable legal framework on us by society, see GRI 102-43, page 23, and GRI 102conditions and ensures compliance with the existing regula44, page 23. tory standards. It is equally important that we explain our actions here and inform others about the impact of existing Our conduct in relation to policymakers is clearly regulated in and planned legal and sublegal regulations. A top priority the Code of Conduct, see GRI 102-16, page 18. We state here is objective fact-based presentation. We also participate there that dialogue with representatives of government instiin dialogue at the political and community levels, both in tutions and political parties is indispensable from our standdirect personal contact and through the media and the Interpoint. However, we want to avoid exerting undue influence in net (social media channels). Communication with our stakethese contexts. We have therefore made a commitment to holders provides us with helpful ideas for aligning our entrestrict neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not 73 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix make any donations to political parties, or organisations The Hague, London and Düsseldorf. Topic-related “Power and foundations which are closely related to political parties. Plant Talks” were held at the sites of nuclear power plants and Employees have the opportunity to report breaches of the a dialogue has been established with local-authority policyCode of Conduct through various channels, makers in the Rhineland Mining Region. Furthermore, we comsee GRI 102-17, page 18. municate indirectly through the associations we are members of, for example the German Association of Energy and Water Measures and performance measurement Industries (BDEW), see GRI 102-13, page 16. The Corporate Affairs Department at RWE AG coordinates our In 2019, the main themes addressed in discussions with policontacts. The Department Head reports directly to the Chief cymakers focused on the energy transition and climate proExecutive Officer. RWE maintains two liaison offices in Brussels tection policy in general. The focus in the EU was on elections and Berlin as points of contact. RWE strives to contribute its to the European Parliament. The emphasis in Germany was on perspective and specialist expertise to debates in the public the Climate Protection Plan 2050 and the future of coal, and domain. This also applies to climate policy initiatives. As early on the amendment to the 13th Federal Emission Control Act as 2009, RWE made a commitment to the goal of climate (Bundesimmissionsschutzverordnung). In the Netherlands, we neutrality in the European electricity sector significantly before engaged with a number of topics in discussions with govern2050 as part of an initiative by eurelectric, the sector associament including renegotiation of a national energy agreement, tion which represents the common interests of the electricity exit from coal and the role of co-incineration of biomass as a industry at a European level. We have also proactively supcontribution to the Dutch CO2 reduction strategy, see GRI ported the revision of the European Emissions Trading System 102-43, page 23, and GRI 102-44, page 23. In the United (EU ETS) at European level by bringing forward the target traKingdom, we engaged in discussions about Brexit, the British jectory for CO2 reduction by 2030 and introducing a market capacity market, and on national climate protection policy. stabilisation reserve. This was rolled out in 2018 and since then has led to a significant increase in CO2 prices in the EUR Associations are an important tool for us in political work and Emissions Trading System. for the articulation of common interests to policymakers, social institutions and other players. As far as we are conSince 2010, we have been entered in the Transparency Regiscerned, they are a place for exchanging ideas on positions and ter of the European Union and we publish relevant information are therefore indispensable for our companies. Our memberthere. We would welcome establishment of a Transparency ships in associations are always directed towards strategic Register in Berlin based on the Brussels model. objectives, and related to current and future activities of the Group. RWE cooperates on the positioning of associations with We operate offices in Brussels and Berlin, each with a staff of differing intensity but specific association positions may also four employees (which include two assistants and one respecdeviate from our own principles. In the reporting year, we tively). The pro-rata RWE outgoings for the office still operated established a process for the topic of climate in order to idenjointly by RWE and innogy in Berlin last year and for the RWE tify discrepancies of this nature. We also reviewed the positionoffice in Brussels amounted to some 1.5 million euros in 2019. ing of 18 association organisations relating to the Paris CliAlongside other functions, a further nine employees within the mate Agreement on the basis of public documents. RWE is Group are also engaged in lobby work. committed to the targets of the Paris Agreement and would like to ensure that the associations are in conformity with our In 2019, we were in direct contact with policymakers and position. We have published the complete results and a government agencies, for example through discussion formats description of the selection and approach in an independent in Berlin and Brussels, or through bilateral exchanges in report. GRI 415-1 Political contributions RWE has made a commitment to neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not make any donations to political parties, or organisations or foundations which are closely related to political parties. 74 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix GRI 417 Marketing and labelling GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement We provide customers with a secure and reliable supply of electricity, gas and heat. It is only possible to reach an Transparent product labelling informed decision about a product if it is transparently We want to provide all our customers with comprehensive labelled. There are different statutory regulations on labelling and transparent information about the energy mix of the in the countries where we supply customers. Particularly individual product and the associated environmental detailed regulations on the labelling of electricity are on the impacts, see GRI 417-1, page 74. statute book in Germany. GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Electricity labelling is an instrument for increasing market waste in accordance with the statutory regulations. Furthertransparency in the electricity market. All electricity bills more, the relevant information is also provided transparently issued by the RWE Group throughout Europe include inforonline https://www.group.rwe/en/the-group/organisamation on the energy mix, CO2 emissions and radioactive tional-structure/rwest GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance GRI 103 Management approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges order to implement data protection measures in accordance with the latest technological standards and to guarantee the Integrity, honesty, acting in accordance with the law and level of protection for confidentiality. Furthermore, the Group respect for our fellow human beings and the environment Data Protection Department is responsible for development form the basis of our entrepreneurial activity. We are subject and updating the data protection management system and to laws, regulations and comparable rules and procedures. upholding a uniform understanding of data protection at These conditions and the RWE Code of Conduct form the RWE. Working together with the data protection coordination framework for carrying out our operations. Any breaches offices and the data protection partners in the specialist may entail significant consequences for the financial result departments ensures that efforts are made to continually and reputation of RWE. Individual employees may also be raise awareness of the amended data protection requirepersonally liable. A top priority for our employees and subments. Furthermore, the Group Data Protection Department contractors is that their conduct and actions should be in ensures appropriate management for data protection inciaccordance with the law and ethical principles. dents. The Group Data Protection Officer regularly reports on data protection issues to the Executive Board of RWE AG. RWE has also adopted guidelines defining a responsible approach in the area of personal data to complement the Organisation, management and performance RWE Code of Conduct and our sustainability principles. The measurement guidelines provide an operational framework for a responsible approach to personal data both internally and externally. The principles of general compliance and the Compliance Each employee is also obligated to a duty of confidentiality Management System are defined by the Chief Compliance when handling personal data. The aim is to protect personal Officer of RWE AG, for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, data against misuse and thereby sustainably strengthen the RWE Power AG, RWE Supply & Trading GmbH and the trust of employees and customers over the long term. The Renewable Energy business that was transferred by E.ON Group Data Protection Department at RWE works closely to RWE over the course of the year. together with the Information and IT Security Department in 75 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG is supported in Anti-competitive behaviour complying with his functions and responsibilities at the level It is important for our company to be perceived as trustworof RWE AG by Compliance Managers and at the local level thy and transparent. We earn this trust through fair conduct. by the Compliance Officers of the individual RWE companies. RWE also keeps within the law and complies with legislation The focus of activity for the content is on prevention of in competitive situations. Our efforts are directed towards corruption, see GRI 205, page 38. Alongside this function, ensuring that all our business activities are in accordance measures for export control compliance and prevention of with the conditions of fair competition at all times. We also money laundering are continuously developed further and observe regulatory and anti-trust requirements for unbund­ implemented. ling. Our operations are based on these rules. In this way, we therefore meet our responsibility as a major player in the The compliance function at RWE AG has a coordinating and economy. consolidating role for other compliance areas defined for RWE such as competition and antitrust/energy law, company In order to prevent anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, we and capital market law, employment law, tax law and enviraise the awareness of all employees and management ronmental law / environmental management, occupational including Members of the Executive Board to this issue. health and safety, corporate responsibility and data protecAttendance events, online training sessions and individual tion law. The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG bundles needs-specific specialist presentations are held within the information from these compliance areas within integrated Group on the requirements relating to conformity with compliance reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit behaviour in accordance with competition legislation. Committee of RWE AG. However, responsibility for operational content always remains with the functions bearing individual responsibility for areas such as legal affairs, employment law and Group data protection. GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Our Group-wide survey on fines due to incidents of corruption revealed that no sanctions had been incurred in this area. 76 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Appendix 77 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Key sustainability indicators Economic performance indicators Installed capacity Power generation capacity Pumped as at 31.12.2019, Renewable storage, Nuclear Total Total in MW energy batteries Gas Lignite Hard coal energy 20191 31.12.2018 1 Lignite & Nuclear 7 400 10,255 2,770 13,459 13,459 European Power 670 2,336 13,553 3,977 20,879 23,906 Of which: Germany2 55 2,336 3,767 2,341 8,538 9,872 United Kingdom 55 6,676 7,035 8,595 Netherlands/ Belgium 560 2,323 1,636 4,519 4,652 Turkey 787 787 787 innogy – continuing operations 3,639 3,639 3,571 Operations acquired from E.ON 4,864 20 4,884 RWE Group2 9,180 2,3583 13,953 10,255 3,977 2,770 42,863 40,9373 1 Including capacities which cannot be allocated to the specified energy sources (e.g. oil-fired power plants). 2 Including capacities which are not owned by RWE but we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. At the end of 2019, these plants taken together generated a net output of 2,986 MW as in the previous year, of which 783 MW were attributable to hard coal-fired power plants. 3 Including low generation capacities at RWE Supply & Trading Power generation by primary energy source Power generation Pumped Renewable storage, Nuclear in billion kWh energy batteries Gas Lignite Hard coal energy Total1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lignite & Nuclear 0.2 48.3 67.2 21.2 21.8 70.1 89.2 European Power 2.2 1.1 1.8 2.1 50.6 47.2 14.2 27.4 68.9 78.0 Of which: Germany2 0.2 0.7 1.8 2.1 7.8 5.5 4.7 13.0 14.6 21.5 United Kingdom 0.4 0.4 33.5 33.2 0.7 0.5 34.6 34.1 Netherlands/ Belgium 1.6 6.6 5.5 8.8 13.9 17.0 19.4 Turkey 2.7 3.0 2.7 3.0 innogy – continuing operations 9.7 8.8 9.7 8.8 Operations acquired from E.ON 4.5 4.5 RWE Group 16.4 9.9 1.8 2.1 50.8 47.2 48.3 67.2 14.2 27.4 21.2 21.8 153.2 176.0 1 Including capacities which cannot be allocated to the specified energy sources (e.g. oil-fired powerplants). 2 Including electricity from generation assets not owned by RWE we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2019, 3.6 billion kWh were purchased (previous year: 5.0 billion kWh), of which 1.5 billion kWh were from hard coal-fired power plants (previous year: 2.3 billion kWh). 78 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Unit 2019 2018 R&D costs1 € million 21 116 Proportion of women in the company2 % 12.8 11.2 Proportion of women in management positions3 % 15.8 15.3 Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high risk of corruption % 7.8 12.2 1 In accordance with the RWE Annual Report 2019, page 33. 2 Data for 2019 for RWE stand-alone including Operations acquired from E.ON, the data for 2018 encompass RWE stand-alone 3 Encompasses the top four management levels; from 2018, only RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG, RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Data for RWE including innogy – continuing operations and Operations acquired from E.ON. Environmental performance indicators Unit 2019 2018 Specific NOX emissions1 g/kWh 0.33 0.41 Specific SO2 emissions1 g/kWh 0.11 0.16 Specific dust emissions1 g/kWh 0.01 0.01 Ash1 thousand mt 4,197 6,344 Gypsum1 thousand mt 920 1,517 Primary energy consumption1, 2 million GJ 934 1,213 Water consumption1, 3 m3/MWh 1.43 1.53 CO2 emissions EU ETS4 million mt 87.1 116.9 CO2 emissions Scope 15 million mt 91.7 120.4 CO2 emissions Scope 26 8 , million mt 4.59 5.0 CO2 emissions Scope 37 million mt 187.2 188.7 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS9 mt/MWh 0.569 0.670 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 110 mt/MWh 0.599 0.684 Share of the Group’s power generation accounted for by renewable energy11 % 10.7 5.6 1 All plants were included which are covered by the environmental management of RWE. This comprises the plants of RWE stand-alone. 2 Fossil fuels used without biomass. 3 Difference between the water consumption of the plants less returns to rivers and other surface waters; up to 2015, excluding power plants with seawater cooling, including cooling-tower losses. 4 Plants which fall under the scope of the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) including figures for generation capacities which are not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2019, these plants emitted 1.3 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 2.0 million metric tons). This includes the plants of the RWE Group. 5 Scope 1: EU ETS amounts plus the emissions from plants which do not fall under the scope of EU ETS. The figures for CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in accordance with GHG Protocol) include the emissions of the RWE Group including innogy. 6 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties in innogy’s own grids. 7 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2. They are produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the production and distribution of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. Data for the RWE Group including innogy. 8 Calculation on the basis of the countries with principal share (2019: Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Slovakia; 2018: Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Hungary). 9 Data for the RWE Group including innogy – continuing operations. 10 Data for the RWE Group including the emissions of innogy. 11 Including Operations acquired from E.ON and innogy – continuing operations. 79 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Social performance indicators Ubit 2019 2018 Workforce1 FTE 19,792 17,748 Fluctuation rate2 % 7.3 5.5 Training days per employee (Germany)3 3.8 3.5 Health quota2 % 93.2 93.5 Work-related and commuting accidents3 LTIF 2.1 1.9 Work-related and commuting accidents of innogy SE LTIF 2.3 2.2 Fatal work-related accidents4 2 2 1 Employees of the RWE Group. 2 Data for RWE stand-alone. 3 Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of occupational accidents with at least one day off work for every one million hours worked); data for the RWE Group including reports known to us from third-party companies (subcontractors). 4 Data for the RWE Group 80 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Sustainability Information1 To RWE AG, Essen comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable disclosures denoted with “ ” in the Corporate Responsibility legal and regulatory requirements. Report of RWE AG, Essen (hereinafter: “the Company”), for the period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 Practitioner´s Responsibility (hereinafter: “Report”). Our engagement in this context relates solely to the disclosures denoted with the symbol “ ” Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion gekennzeichneten Angaben. on the disclosures denoted with “ ” in the Report based on the assurance engagement we have performed. Responsibilities of the Executive Directors Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an The executive directors of the Company are responsible for audit on external sources of information or expert opinions, the preparation of the Report in accordance with the princireferred to in the Report. ples stated in the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereinafter: “GRI-Criteria”). We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than the selection and application of appropriate methods of susAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued tainability reporting as well as making assumptions and estiby the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and permates related to individual sustainability disclosures, which form the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude with are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the execlimited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that utive directors are responsible for such internal control as causes us to believe that the disclosures denoted with “ ” in they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of the Company’s Report for the period from 01 January 2019 a Report that is free from material misstatement whether to 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material due to fraud or error. aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. Independence and Quality Control of the Audit Firm In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance We have complied with the German professional provisions engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of regarding independence as well as other ethical requireassurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected ments. depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perprofessional standards – in particular the Professional Code formed amongst others the following assurance procedures for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors and further activities: (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality ConQQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustrol 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute tainability organization and of the stakeholder engageof Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality ment control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 81 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Intended Use of the Assurance Report Report regarding the preparation process, the internal control system relating to this process and selected disWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed closures in the Report with the Company. The assurance engagement has been QQ Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement performed for purposes of the Company and the report is of the Report under consideration of the GRI-Criteria solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the QQ Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Report assurance engagement. The report is not intended to provide QQ Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding third parties with support in making (financial) decisions. Our data in the consolidated financial statements and in the responsibility lies solely toward the Company. We do not group management report assume any responsibility towards third parties. QQ Evaluation of the presentation of the disclosures QQ Inspection of samples of relevant documents and eviFrankfurt, 6 March 2020 dence PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Assurance Conclusion Michael Conrad ppa. Susanne Klages Based on the assurance procedures performed and Wirtschaftsprüfer assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our (German Public Auditor) attention that causes us to believe that the disclosures denoted with “ ” in the Company’s Report for the period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. 82 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Progress Report on the Global Compact 2019 With the signing of the ten underlying principles of the United The following table shows which concrete measures we have Nations Global Compact (UNGC) RWE has expressly commitimplemented and which achievements, as evidenced by key ted itself to upholding human rights and labour standards, to figures, we were able to demonstrate in the reporting period. promote environmental protection in their business activities It also illustrates how, by implementing the ten principles, we and prevent corruption. RWE supports the UNGC and wants are contributing to the objectives of the Sustainable Developto make a contribution to the worldwide implementation of ment Goals, relevant for us. its ten principles. They form the basis of the RWE Code of Conduct. Also we integrate them into our business processes and implement concrete actions for their enforcement. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Measures at RWE Goals Principles Goal/Target Measures Performance Indicators Principle 1: Diversity Management: ~ 16% Support for Diversity Office (p. 66) Proportion of women human rights Diversity Champions (p. 66) in management Exchange with the enei-network (p. 66) positions RWE Group Principle 2: MINT Women Initiative (p. 66) (p. 66) Elimination of human RWE Female Leader Initiative (p. 66) rights violations Women’s network at RWE and innogy (p. 66) Principle 6: 5.5: Ensure women’s full and RWE Code of Conduct: Elimination of effective participation and -S  tandards for the conduct between the employees discrimination equal opportunities for leaderthemselves (p. 61) ship at all levels of decisionmaking in political, economic RWE Social Charter: and public life; Establishment of ILO core labour standards Principle 7: Strategy to reduce the CO2 emissions: ~ 11% Precautionary Expansion of renewable energy (p. X) Share of Group’s environmental Optimisation of the power plant portfolio (p. XII) power generation by protection renewables (p. 78) Energy management -a  t RWE Generation und RWE Power in conformity with ISO 50001 (S. 47) 70% of the installed hard 7.1: By 2030, ensure universal Offer Flex2Market Model (p. 41) coal capacity in 2013 access to affordable, reliable removed from the and modern energy services; Research and development: grid or converted to Increasing the flexibility and efficiency of biomass consumption Principle 9: 7.2: By 2030, increase conventional plants (p. 42/43) (p. XII) Development and substantially the share of dissemination of renewable energy in the environmental global energy mix; technologies 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency; 83 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Measures at RWE Goals Principles Goal/Target Measures Performance Indicators Principle 1: RWE Code of Conduct: ~ 10% Support for -S  tandards for the conduct between the employees ratio of employees human rights themselves (p. 66) with disabilities at RWE in Germany Principle 2: RWE Social Charter: (p. 66) Elimination of human Establishment of ILO core labour standards rights violations 39 Pay and social benefits above the relevant places entry-level Principle 3: 8.5: By 2030, achieve full and national average qualification “I can do Ensuring freedom productive employment and it!” (“Ich pack’ das!”) of association decent work for all women and Supplier management : (p. 65) men, including for young peoAssessment and Review of suppliers for goods, Principle 4: ple and persons with disabiliplant components and services (p. III/IV) Abolition of all forms ties, and equal pay for work of -C  ounter Party Risk Assessment in procurement of of forced labour equal value; fuels (p. V) Principle 5: Membeship “Bettercoal” since 2012 Abolition of child labour Active in Committees (p. VI) Principle 6: Part of a delegation that visited Russia (p. VI) Elimination of discrimination Principle 7: Strategy to reduce the CO2 emissions: 51% Precautionary Optimisation of the power plant portfolio (p. XII) Reduction of annual environmental CO2 emissions from protection Environmental management: 2012 to 2019 (p. X/XI) in conformity with ISO 14001 (p. XII) Principle 9: 100% Development and Research and development: level of coverage dissemination of on facilitating use of lignite as a material (p. 43) environmental environmental 9.4: By 2030, upgrade inframanagement at RWE technologies structure and retrofit industries RWE Code of Conduct: stand alone (p. XIII) to make them sustainable, -C  ommitment regarding resources and use of with increased resource-use environmentally friendly technologies (p. XII) efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environSupplier management: mentally sound technologies Interrogation of environmentally relevant criteria and industrial processes, with in the course of prequalification (p. 60) all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities; Principle 7: Strategy to reduce the CO2 emissions: 51 % Precautionary Optimisation of the power plant portfolio (p. XII) Reduction of annual environmental CO2 emissions from protection 3malE Initiative (discovering, exploring and 2012 to 2019 (p. X/XI) experiencing energy) (p. 35, 68) Principle 8: 782 Initiatives to promote experiment kits were greater environmental loaned to schools and responsibility 13.1: Strengthen resilience nurseries (p. 68) and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries; 84 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Measures at RWE Goals Principles Goal/Target Measures Performance Indicators Principle 7: Environmental management: 100% Precautionary in conformity with ISO 14001 (p. XII) level of coverage environmental environmental protection Biodiversity Policy (p. 51) management at RWE stand alone (p. XIII) Principle 8: Biodiversity strategy for areas in the Rhineland Initiatives to promote Lignite Mining Region (p. 51) greater environmental responsibility 15.5: Take urgent and signifiRWE Code of Conduct: cant action to reduce the deg-C  ommitment regarding resources and use of Principle 9: radation of natural habitats, environmentally friendly technologies (p. XII) Development and halt the loss of biodiversity and, dissemination of by 2020, protect and prevent Supplier management: environmental the extinction of threatened Interrogation of environmentally relevant criteria technologies species; in the course of prequalification (p. 60) Principle 10: Compliance Management System: 100% Anti-corruption -C  ompliance officers inside Germany and in Feedback rate for the measures other countries (S. VII) management survey Review by a professional services firm (p. VIII) (p. VII) RWE Code of Conduct: Prohibits any form of corruption (p. VII) 16.5: Substantially reduce Group guidelines: corruption and bribery in all -O  rganisational regulations (double-checking (four their forms eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisation concepts and and licensing regulations) (p. VII) 85 Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial Report CR Report Content About the report GRI Index General disclosures Material topics Appendix Contact and imprint Publisher RWE Aktiengesellschaft Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany Contact persons Dr Jens Wiggershaus Dr Christine Negrini Tobias Heck Julia Brune Corporate Responsibility Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany Phone +49 201 12-15593 Email responsibility@rwe.com Editorial deadline 30 March 2020 The Report is available in English and German; both versions can be accessed via the Internet for download at www.rwe.com. Concept, text, layout and implementation in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich www.akzente.de Translation Tristam Carrington-Windo Stay in Dialogue responsibility@rwe.com RWE Aktiengesellschaft Altenessener Str. 35 45141 Essen Germany www.rwe.com
