CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2019 1 CONTACT If you have any questions or remarks regarding this report, we kindly invite you to contact us. Corbion nv P.O. Box 349 1000 AH Amsterdam The Netherlands Telephone: +31 20 590 69 11 E-mail: communications@corbion.com Website: www.corbion.com Registered office: Amsterdam Registered Amsterdam no. 33006580 2 CONTENTS At a glance ......................................................................... 3 How we safeguard long-term value ................ 42 Board of Management and Executive Committee ..... 42 Message from the CEO ............................................... 6 Supervisory Board .............................................................. 45 Corporate governance ...................................................... 47 Risk management............................................................... 56 Company highlights ...................................................... 9 Report of the Supervisory Board....................... 71 Report of the Board of Management.............. 10 Remuneration report................................................. 77 Who we are and what we do ................................ 11 The world around us .......................................................... 11 Our strategy 2018-2021: Creating Sustainable Financial Statements ............................................... 90 Growth* ................................................................................. 12 Sustainability ....................................................................... 14 Sustainability statements ................................... 154 Our value creation model.................................................. 18 Materiality and stakeholder engagement .................. 155 GRI Index ............................................................................. 166 Our performance.......................................................... 21 UN Global Compact .......................................................... 169 Business performance....................................................... 21 Financial performance ....................................................... 25 Other information...................................................... 170 Sustainability performance.............................................. 34 Group structure................................................................. 173 Five years in figures ......................................................... 189 3 Corbion annual report 2019 AT A GLANCE AT A GLANCE Corbion is a leading provider of sustainable ingredient solutions for food and biochemicals Corbion is the global market leader in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, and a leading company in emulsifiers, functional enzyme blends, minerals, vitamins, and algae ingredients. We develop sustainable ingredient solutions to improve the quality of life for people today and for future generations. For over 100 years, we have been committed to safety, quality, innovation, and performance. Drawing on our deep application and product knowledge, we work side by side with customers to make our cutting-edge technologies work for them. In manufacturing we have a long history of excellence in sustainable and resource-efficient production processes across four key areas: fermentation into organic acids and algae products, polymers, emulsifiers, and bakery blends. Corbion’s strategy and all aspects of our operations are built around advancing sustainability underpinned by high ethical standards, whether this relates to the management of our global supply chain, responsible procurement of our raw materials, or the safety and well-being of our people. In 2019, Corbion generated annual sales of € 976.4 million and had a workforce of 2,138 FTE. Corbion is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Two lines of business At Corbion we distinguish between two lines of business, each with a different set of characteristics: Ingredient Solutions and Innovation Platforms. These business units are supported company-wide by globally managed R&D, operations, and business support functions. Ingredient Solutions Our Ingredient Solutions business unit focuses on our core business: ingredients and solutions for food and biochemicals. Food We are a global supplier of food ingredient solutions for leading food manufacturers. We strive to be the leader in keeping food tasty, fresh, and safe from date of production to day of consumption. With our proven food solutions, we enable our customers to make conscious choices that grow their business in a sustainable way, reducing food waste, and creating affordable products (in the bakery, meat, beverage, confectionery, and dairy markets) that people love and can safely enjoy with their friends and family, just as we enjoy them with ours. AT A GLANCE Corbion annual report 2019 4 Biochemicals The inherent safety, sustainability, and performance of our products is what sets us apart, driven by a passion for finding better solutions and new opportunities for our customers. Our continuous focus on sustainable practices, our use of renewable feedstocks, and our rich heritage in lactic acid form the foundation for our biochemical applications in a wide array of industries, encompassing (agro)chemicals, resin adhesives, electronic components, pharmaceuticals, home & personal care products, and animal health & nutrition. We are constantly exploring opportunities to bring the benefits of our products and solutions to our customer's applications. Innovation Platforms Through our Innovation Platforms business unit, we develop new business platforms to deliver long-term value, applying disruptive technologies built on decades of experience in fermentation and industrial-scale manufacturing. Collaborating with like-minded partners we support our customers to make conscious choices, so they can create better, more sustainable products, based on renewable resources. We believe in a circular economy, where our innovations can help improve quality of life – both today and for future generations. Total Corbion PLA bv, our 50/50 joint venture with Total for the production and marketing of poly lactic acid (PLA) polymers and lactide monomers for bioplastic solutions, is functionally part of Innovation Platforms. The business unit also comprises our Algae Ingredients business and our longer-term development programs such as FDCA, a biobased building block with unique properties in (bio)polymers and a potential replacement for purified terephthalic acid (PTA), our gypsum-free lactic acid production process, and use of alternative feedstocks such as agricultural residues, to make lactic acid. Note: this annual report is based on the Creating Sustainable Growth 2018-2021 strategy and related business segmentation. On 9 March 2020, Corbion will announce its updated strategy for 2020-2025, including a revised business segmentation. 5 Corbion annual report 2019 AT A GLANCE Our global presence We market our products through a worldwide network of sales offices and distributors and have a global supply chain with manufacturing facilities in the US, Thailand, Brazil, the Netherlands, and Spain. Our innovation centers are located across the globe and our headquarters is based in the Netherlands. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Corbion annual report 2019 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8 August 2019 is a day I will never forget. It was my first day as CEO of Corbion and a day I had very much been looking forward to. Now, after several months on the job, I still enjoy every minute of it. I have travelled to all our locations and met many wonderful people – people with great ideas, an amazing sense of loyalty, and a strong drive to be successful. That drive has certainly been one of the forces behind the turnaround of our Bakery results this year; we experienced four quarters of growth in a row, which had not happened since 2016. Growth in Food was also driven by continued improvements, particularly in our natural preservation solutions in Meat. Our ability to help our customers create formulations and products that resonate with their target consumers, translated into above-average growth rates. One of the key drivers of Corbion's Creating Sustainable Growth strategy from the start has been the expansion of the Bakery business geographically by extending the North American Bakery solution provider model into Latin America. The acquisition of Granotec do Brazil in March of this year fits perfectly with this ambition. Granotec do Brazil greatly complements our capabilities and geographical footprint for providing sustainable ingredient solutions in this region, and has provided us with a platform from which to better serve our customers. In Biochemicals, although we experienced a significant downturn in our Electronics business, we are seeing early signs of stabilization. Algae Ingredients is largely behind expectations, as we continue working to scale up this business. This slower than expected progress triggered a noncash impairment, impacting net result by € -26.7 million. However, Corbion has demonstrated the value of algae in several high-value food and feed applications. In the coming years, we expect that the momentum we see building now will bear fruit. In November, we took an exciting step in that direction by entering into a partnership with Nestlé to develop the next generation of algaebased ingredients, which could open important avenues into large global markets. This year we saw strong momentum in PLA-related lactic acid sales as the Total Corbion PLA joint venture continued to develop beyond our expectations. It is great to see that after years of investing in this market, customer demand for bioplastics is really taking off. The growth in demand for lactic acid, the key ingredient for PLA, also prompted our decision to build a new lactic acid plant in Thailand to ensure sufficient capacity. As this new plant will be built using our innovative gypsum-free technology, the lactic acid produced will be at the highest sustainability standards and at industry leading low cost levels. We made a bold statement about our commitment to sustainability by pledging to cut our carbon emissions related to energy, key raw materials, and transport by 33% per metric ton of product by 2030 from a 2016 base year. The proposed target has received approval by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) following a thorough validation process. As a sustainable ingredients company, Corbion is already deeply involved in developing sustainable solutions that help our customers shrink their carbon footprint by reducing food waste and their use of fossil-based chemicals. But there is more to be done. We must all become leaders in climate action, and do all we can to inspire each other to make a sustainable difference. 7 Corbion annual report 2019 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In 2020, we will remain deeply committed to safety and further increase our investments and efforts in this area. Nothing is more important to us than providing a safe place to work for everyone and to show clear commitment to safety from the top – that is why within the Executive Committee a Safety Committee has been established. I would like to sincerely thank to all our employees for bringing their positive energy, inventive ideas, and collaborative spirit to work every day. Also, a big thank you to my predecessor, Tjerk de Ruiter, for his leadership in building such a tremendous company; I look forward to bringing Corbion to the next level in partnership with every member of our global team. Finally, I want to express my gratitude to all our stakeholders for supporting our values. It is the care, courage, collaboration, and commitment of our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, and shareholders that defines the character of this company and its unique promise. On behalf of the Executive Committee Olivier Rigaud MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Corbion annual report 2019 8 Executive committee Members of the Executive Committee From left to right: Marcel Wubbolts, CTO, Olivier Rigaud, CEO, Andy Muller, EVP Ingredient Solutions, Jacqueline van Lemmen, EVP Operations, Marc den Hartog, EVP Innovation Platforms, Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, CFO, Johan van der Hel, EVP Human Resources 9 Corbion annual report 2019 COMPANY HIGHLIGHTS COMPANY HIGHLIGHTS * For definitions of non-IFRS performance measures see page 170 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 2019 11 Corbion annual report 2019 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO The world around us We focus our resources and capabilities on addressing the global megatrends of population growth, food security, changing values, climate change, and resource scarcity while responding to evolving consumer needs and preferences. With our more than 100 years of experience and expertise in creating innovative solutions for our customers, we are well positioned to help address the impact of these trends. This will not only safeguard our commercial future, it will also benefit society at large. The demographic changes, including a growing middle class and an aging population, translate into a highly individualized and more demanding consumer population with increased awareness of food safety and transparency. Offering conscious consumer choices drives several of our innovation programs, such as clean-label alternatives and antimicrobial solutions. The increased awareness of climate change and resource depletion and the willingness to address those, create a need for our sustainable solutions. To create a future with sufficient resources for a growing population, the world needs to adopt circular systems, where material flows are recovered and re-used. Corbion's biobased products are inherently circular and critical enablers of the circular economy, as they reduce the use of fossil resources that cannot be replenished. A sustainable bioeconomy can only be realized if we consider the full value chain, from raw material sourcing to manufacturing, use, and end of life. Our biobased resources depend on agriculture, which is one of the largest contributors to both environmental and social impacts. Implementation of sustainable agriculture is key to maintain economic performance while minimizing the damage to the environment and creating thriving farming communities. The advancements in technology and, more specifically, biotechnology are key drivers for the development of our new platforms. They also function as new enablers in our continuous improvement programs in R&D and operations, where big data and manufacturing intelligence contribute to more efficiency, better insights, and improved safety performance. In executing our strategy we continue to be guided by our company compass which articulates our vision for the future and the role that Corbion envisions to play. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Corbion annual report 2019 12 Our strategy 2018-2021: Creating Sustainable Growth* Strategic initiatives Our ambition is to be the leading innovator in offering conscious choices for our customers through sustainable ingredient solutions uniquely tailored to create customer value. In order to accomplish this ambition, Corbion identified several initiatives to realize additional growth, on top of continuation of current business. Ingredient Solutions In our Food business we see a trend of customers reducing their in-house R&D capabilities. At the same time, they are expected to meet swift changes in demand that require adaptation of product formulations and their innovation rates to go up. This creates opportunities for Corbion to enhance our value as a supplier and to partner beyond the mere supply of ingredients. We can thus become a provider of solutions and demonstrate our capabilities to our customers keeping them competitive in the markets they operate in (solutions model). In Bakery, we will expand the market penetration of our already strong business in North America, by focusing on segments that have higher growth rates than average such as sweet goods, tortillas, and foodservice. Additionally, we will leverage our bakery knowledge and expertise and expand this business geographically, first by going into Latin America. In Meat, we aim to extend our current position as a leader in preservation to a wider range of solutions to increase our relevance to our customers in that industry. We will do this by gradually extending our toolbox with broader antimicrobial and antioxidant solutions. This will be done organically, potentially accelerated by acquisitions that enhance the product portfolio, formulation know how, and manufacturing assets with a first focus on North America. We will continue to selectively focus on other segments of the food industry where we have unique products and/or capabilities, such as acid sanding (confectionery), antimicrobial expertise (salad dressings), and fortification knowledge (beverages). In Biochemicals, we will continue to support industries with our lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, specifically when we can bring unique products and functionalities to the finished products. We will further leverage SENTIALL®, a versatile co-polymer platform that delivers specific, high-value functionalities such as adhesion or controlled release in a range of industries and applications. We will continue to deliver growth with ongoing projects in Medical Biomaterials, including enforced materials through FiberLive® and controlled drug release through our MedinCell joint venture, boosted by new innovations such as the resorbable polymer applications. Innovation Platforms Corbion's portfolio comprises various initiatives that are expected to make a meaningful contribution to our sales levels in the near future. Examples include PLA (through our joint venture with Total) and our Algae Ingredients platform that offers a range of oils and fats, of which an essential Omega-3 oil is being commercialized under the name of AlgaPrime™ DHA. In addition, our strategic innovation portfolio will continue to focus on programs to develop and commercialize biobased organic acids, such as FDCA and the development of gypsum-free lactic acid, and the use of alternative feedstocks in our production processes. * This annual report is based on the Creating Sustainable Growth 2018-2021 strategy and related business segmentation. On 9 March 2020, Corbion will announce its updated strategy for 2020-2025, including a revised business segmentation. 13 Corbion annual report 2019 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Application research, technology, and science We live in a rapidly changing world, where critical success factors include agility to respond to change, strong collaborative networks, and (open) innovation. Increasingly, business development is executed with partners in the value chain that rely on their suppliers for innovation and provision of R&D services. In addition, there is a strong desire in multiple markets to provide scientific evidence for functionality claims. Similarly, increased awareness in society and the marketplace of the burden we place on our planet has fueled the demand for science-based proof and solutions to reduce the environmental impact of manufacturing and use of products. Both the trend for collaborative innovation and the need for evidence of functionality and sustainability provide an opportunity for Corbion. In order to best capitalize on these opportunities Corbion’s R&D application development will have an increased focus on market needs, codevelopment with customers, and sales support with the aim of bringing agility and launching solutions earlier to the market. A Technology Transfer Group has been created, combining experts from R&D, Innovation Platforms, and Operations to improve technology transfer from R&D to Operations. Our Application Research, Technology and Science leadership team ensures we have the right capabilities to meet the needs of Corbion's running and future business. In our strategy for 2018-2021 the projected R&D spend is at 4% of net sales. Investments over strategy period Having established a leading global position in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, it is of strategic importance that we maintain a differentiated position. Increased demand for lactic acid, driven largely by its central role in PLA production, will lead us to building a new lactic acid plant that uses our gypsum-free production technology. Our Algae Ingredients business will also require further investment and we continue to improve existing as well as develop new products with this platform. Other technology investments have enabled us to enhance our readiness to use nextgeneration feedstocks such as second-generation sugars from agricultural residues as soon as they become available. In Ingredient Solutions, we will strengthen our workforce capabilities to advance key strategic initiatives, such as continuing to develop and implement our solutions model in Food, expanding our Bakery operations in Latin America, and delivering on our Medical Biomaterials and our Biochemicals initiatives. The strategy period also includes a major multi-year investment in a new Enterprise Resource Planning platform (SAP S/4HANA) which, in concert with the execution of various Excellence Programs, will help drive progress toward our strategic objectives. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Corbion annual report 2019 14 Sustainability At Corbion, sustainability is about operating our business in a way that enables us to meet the defining societal needs of our time, from food security and resource depletion to population growth, now and in the future. Sustainability is at the heart of what we do – and we work to demonstrate it every day across our entire value chain. Our strategy is aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Together, these goals serve as a global call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Corbion has chosen to focus on SDG2 (Zero hunger) and SDG12 (Responsible production and consumption) as the goals on which we believe we can create the most significant impact, given our footprint, the nature of our business, and the environment in which we operate. SDG2 focuses on achieving food security, improved nutrition, and sustainable agriculture. SDG12 is about moving toward a circular economy, with food waste reduction as a sub-target. Our sustainability framework highlights that Corbion creates solutions to improve people’s lives and reduce impacts on our planet, always in the most responsible way we can. Our key sustainability initiatives are responsible sourcing, responsible operations, and sustainable solutions. Innovation, transparency, and stakeholder engagement are critical to ensuring that we make visible, measurable progress in these initiatives, and that they continue to be aligned with stakeholder expectations. Last, but not least, engaged employees are essential to make it happen. For each key initiative, we have defined long-term aspiration goals for 2030, which serve as a source of inspiration and help direct long-term innovation. To ensure that we make visible progress towards these goals, we have complemented them with short-term 2020 targets. 15 Corbion annual report 2019 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Sustainability framework WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Corbion annual report 2019 16 Targets 1, 2) 2020 2030 Responsible sourcing Security of supply 100% 100% Supplier code > 90% 100% Cane sugar 3) 100% 100% Palm oil and primary oleochemicals 4,5) 100% 100% 7) Corn sugar (dextrose) 6) 95% 100% Soy oil and primary oleochemicals 6) 75% 100% 7) Wheat 6) 50% 100% Responsible operations Total Recordable Injury Rate < 0.75 < 0.25 Renewable electricity 50% 100% Landfill of by-products 0 0 Landfill of waste 0 SBT target: Reduction of Scope I, II, III emissions per metric ton of -33% product 8,9) Sustainable solutions Innovation projects assessed on sustainability 100% 100% Products covered by LCA 10,11) 50% 100% of products with environmental claim covered Products covered by PSM 12) assessment 100% of products with social claim covered 1 Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2 % are defined by quantity. 3 Quantity covered by Corbion's cane sugar code or Bonsucro certification. 4 Primary oleochemicals as defined by RSPO, including glycerin. 5 RSPO certified, using the Mass Balance model. 6 Supplier meets Corbion's responsible sourcing requirements specified in our supplier code and our sustainable agriculture policy, evaluated by a self-assessment questionnaire. Target only includes tier-1 suppliers that source directly from farmers. 7 2030 target includes secondary oleochemicals. 8 Scope III emissions of key raw materials and transport. 9 Compared to 2016 as base year. 10 By quantity; products manufactured at Corbion production sites. 11 LCA = Life Cycle Assessment. 12 PSM = Product Social Metrics. 17 Corbion annual report 2019 WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Guidance for 2019-2021: Creating Sustainable Growth The Creating Sustainable Growth strategy aims to deliver organic sales growth of between 3 and 6 percent annually. Key financial targets* • Ingredient Solutions: Net sales growth of 2-4% annually (1-3% in Food, 3-10% in Biochemicals), while maintaining EBITDA margin >19% and ROCE >20% annually throughout the period. Recurring capital expenditure is expected to be on average € 40 million annually. • Innovation Platforms: Net sales growth of >20% annually. EBITDA approaching breakeven in 2021. Recurring capital expenditure of € 20-30 million annually. • Corbion continues to target a net debt position/covenant EBITDA of 1.5x over the investment cycle, well below our covenants limit of 3.75x (RCF) or 3.5x (USPP) • Progressive regular dividend policy: We have the ambition to annually pay out a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend per share amount. • We aim to create a positive impact by growing our business in sustainable ingredient solutions and maximize our contribution to zero hunger and responsible production and consumption (SDG2 and SDG12). * Targets as reported on the November 2017 Capital Markets Day presentation when Corbion presented its Creating Sustainable Growth 2018-2021 strategy and related business segmentation. On 9 March 2020, Corbion will announce its updated strategy for 2020-2025, including a revised guidance. WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Corbion annual report 2019 18 Our value creation model The scheme below summarizes Corbion's value creation process and business model. It describes the resources we used in 2019 to carry out our business activities to produce innovative sustainable solutions that create value for our stakeholders. FUTURE FROM THE PAST Without the courage to try something new, there can be no progress. In the case of Corbion, advancing technology is often about having the courage to discover something new in the familiar. The art and science of fermentation is as old as civilization itself, as is the making of vinegar. As far back as 3000 B.C., the Babylonians fermented the fruit and sap of the date palm to make wine. With enough time and exposure to air, the natural metabolic process of fermentation continued on its own, transforming wine into vinegar. In other ancient cultures vinegar was used to create a sustaining drink for soldiers, to preserve fruits and vegetables, to prevent the infection of wounds, and to fashion a tonic for coughs. Vinegar may be the most versatile metabolite in the world, which is probably why it is still used in pickles, salad dressings, condiments, sauerkraut, and meat dishes. It’s a cleaner, a pesticide, a remedy for jellyfish stings, a meat tenderizer, even a flavoring and leavening agent, mold inhibitor, and shelf-life extender in baked goods. Undaunted by vinegar’s history, Corbion has chosen to be inspired by it. A natural for Corbion Fermentation is a core competency we’ve been building on since 1931, when we first began manufacturing lactic acid, another product of this natural process. Years of research and practical application have resulted in a highly sophisticated ability to leverage the power of vinegar. A growing number of manufacturers have embraced our Verdad® range of vinegar-based solutions, which help them overcome challenges in: meat, poultry and seafood; refrigerated foods; sauces, dressings and condiments; as well as baked goods. The portfolio offers label-friendly ways to control pathogens, extend shelf life, enhance flavor, and improve texture. When it comes to finding a food ingredient that combines the clean-label familiarity consumers want with the functionality our customers need, it’s hard to beat vinegar – an ingredient that is also a food. Familiarity meets functionality “People want safe foods with the freshness, flavors, and textures they love, but they also want to feel comfortable with how those foods are made,” says Ruud Peerbooms, Senior Vice-President of Food. “To deliver all that, manufacturers need the functionality they’re used to, but using ingredients that are familiar and non-threatening to consumers.” Initially, manufacturers often had to give up some of the functionality they were used to getting from conventional ingredients in order to create more label-friendly products. But Corbion set out to change that expectation. Today, we offer vinegar-based solutions that, in many cases, match the effectiveness of the industry’s traditional, synthetic solution. The growing role of vinegar as an important enabler of clean-label innovation prompted our decision last year to add in-house facilities for producing patented, non-GMO powdered vinegar at our Netherlands-based Gorinchem site. Before that, most vinegar used to create Corbion ingredients was produced externally. Combining our in-house capabilities with outside sources gives us a global production footprint and a more secure supply chain for powdered vinegar products. “With the market shifting substantially toward simpler ingredients, many of our customers have embraced vinegar as a key part of their strategy,” Ruud says. “Bringing much of our powdered vinegar production in-house helps us ensure continuity for those customers. It takes courage to invest. It takes courage to innovate. But that’s how we make things happen. It’s how we make a positive impact in the world. 21 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Business performance Ingredient Solutions Food In Food, Corbion is a global provider of value-adding ingredient solutions for leading food manufacturers. We partner with our customers to create delicious foods of consistent quality that are fully safe from the day they are made to the day they are enjoyed by the consumer. In the Bakery segment, we continued bringing new solutions that help our customers reduce the number of ingredients on their labels while improving the quality of their finished goods. We helped our customers discover the power of lactic acid to increase food safety in their supply chains. We also leveraged our expertise in antimicrobials, and our deep understanding of spoilage organisms and processes, to develop innovative, clean-label mold inhibitors that extend the shelf life of bakery products, keeping them fresh and tasty longer. In Latin America, we expanded our presence with the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil, a company with a strong presence in the bakery market in Brazil that will help us better support our key accounts throughout the region. Given the consolidation happening in the market, this acquisition better positions us to compete. We continued to grow our business focused on natural preservation in Meat and Foods such as salads, dips, hummus, and other chilled foods. Combining our application expertise with an indepth understanding of food spoilage enables us to grow beyond our traditional markets. By broadening our portfolio, we are reaching into new markets, such as poultry and food service, with new applications. The Verdad Vinegars and Verdad Avanta solutions in our Verdad® range help our customers deliver safe, clean-label products with longer shelf life, which brings them greater cost efficiencies and reduced product waste. The clean-label movement and increased consumer focus on sustainability will have a shaping influence on future developments in Corbion’s food business. Our new solutions designed for meat harvesting provide an additional hurdle against deteriorating microbes in the harvest process for greater food safety effectiveness without impacting the taste or color of the meat. This reduces our customers’ reliance on synthetic chemicals while also reducing cost and food waste. In Confectionery, our solutions enable customers to differentiate their products in the market by delivering both distinctive flavors and consistent product quality. We work with leading confectionery manufacturers to jointly develop concepts around sourness and stability, including innovative sourness concepts in chocolate applications and chewing gums. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 22 Biochemicals In Biochemicals, we have always held a long-term view, aiming to improve life for people today, and for future generations. That means solving big problems, creating new opportunities, and redefining what is possible. We believe the solutions of greatest value to the world are the ones that deliver lasting value. In our experience at Corbion, those solutions usually materialize when we combine our strengths with partners who share our sense of urgency about making a difference. That is why co-creation is a cornerstone of our business. By combining our biotechnology with the market and/or application knowledge of complementary partners, we can create long-term, sustainable solutions that tackle the challenges of today and tomorrow. Our newly introduced SENTIALL® is a versatile co-polymer that delivers specific, high-value functionalities such as adhesion and controlled release. These functionalities enable our customers’ products to achieve required performance targets while reducing environmental impact through biodegradability. Unique benefits such as the controlled release of active ingredients and nutrients improve efficiency and/or reduce waste. These technologies are already used widely in our pharmaceutical and Medical Biomaterials businesses, but we have begun applying them in other industries like agrochemicals (to release nutrients in fertilizers or active ingredients in pesticides) and even in the construction industry, where we can now release selfhealing agents to repair cracks in concrete. SENTIALL®, as an enabler of the self-healing concrete application co-created with Green-Basilisk (a spin-off of Delft University of Technology), was named Bio-Based Product of the Year by Bio Market Insights in Amsterdam. Within Animal Health, we further expanded our ALOAPUR® range, which is designed to improve gut health in animals while reducing antibiotic usage. This offering combines Corbion product technology with our experience in antibacterial performance in the food industry. As the industry faces increasing pressure from both regulatory bodies and consumers to move away from the use of antibiotics, ALOAPUR® gives both our customers and farmers a viable, sustainable solution. In Agrochemicals, two products in our portfolio, PURASOLV® BL and PURASOLV® EL, are the first lactate ester solvents to achieve certification by the Organic Materials Review Institute (OMRI). This prestigious accreditation creates an opportunity for biopesticide manufacturers to develop certified organic formulations that meet the growing demand for organic produce across the world. Through OMRI certification, formulators will be able to gain faster approval from certifiers, giving them a more efficient route to market. In Medical Biomaterials, the strategy continues to be well aligned with the trends in the healthcare industry resulting in a continuation of growth of this business. Both in drug delivery and in orthopedics our portfolio keeps expanding and the close cooperation with our customers results in several new and exciting products benefiting patients all over the world. Innovation Platforms The Innovation Platforms business unit aims to build new business platforms that have the potential to deliver an additional 1-2% long-term sustainable net sales growth for Corbion and comprises the following platforms: • PLA Bioplastics business through the Total Corbion PLA joint venture and the lactic acid supplied to this joint venture; • Algae Ingredients; • Other innovation projects: a selected number of innovation programs, most notably FDCA and the lactic acid technology development program. 23 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE The innovation portfolio is managed through our disciplined stage-gate investment approach that provides a solid framework for resource allocation, program execution, cost control, and risk management. The platforms are developed with strategic partnerships to win in the market place and have been selected on their ability to be compatible with Corbion’s current feedstock, fermentation, and downstream processing capabilities. PLA Bioplastics business Total Corbion PLA joint venture During 2019, Total Corbion PLA, a technology leader in poly lactic acid (PLA) and lactide monomers, ramped up production of its new PLA plant in Rayong, Thailand. The 75,000 metric tons per annum (tpa) plant has been operational since the end of 2018 and the official Grand Opening ceremony took place on 9 September 2019 and was well attended by customers, government officials, senior representatives from both parent companies, and employees. The Grand Opening celebrated the start-up of the world’s second largest PLA plant, which increased the available global production capacity for this biopolymer by almost 50%. PLA bioplastics provide a valuable contribution toward the circular economy, being biobased and biodegradable and offering multiple environmentally-friendly end-of-life solutions. The lactic acid used to make PLA is supplied by Corbion, which produces the lactic acid from raw sugar from cane grown in Thailand. The Total Corbion PLA plant produces a wide range of Luminy® PLA resins, from standard PLA to innovative, high-heat PLA and PDLA. These products serve the needs of a global customer base, active in a wide range of markets, notably packaging, consumer goods, 3D printing, fibers, and automotive. In 2019 over 350 customers worldwide were served. On the same site Total Corbion PLA operates a 100,000 tpa lactide plant, which produces the monomer required for the production of PLA, and a 1,000 tpa PLA pilot plant, used for product development. Combined with Corbion’s lactic acid plant, located on the same site, this enables a fully integrated production chain from sugar to PLA. During the year under review, demand for PLA has surged and this positive development has resulted in a faster than anticipated ramp-up of production, emphasizing the need for additional lactic acid volumes. This has triggered a significant capital expansion project at Corbion in Rayong that mid 2020 will result in significantly higher output of lactic acid, supporting growth in PLA. Next to this, Corbion announced on 29 January 2020, it will start the construction of a new lactic acid plant which is expected to be operational in 2023. The growing demand for environmentally-friendly and sustainable plastics has driven demand for PLA across all regions, supporting healthy price levels and creating momentarily shortages. The joint venture aims to become the number one player in PLA. Besides the ongoing support for PLA application development and technical customer support, the joint venture has initiated a project to further support the various end-of-life options for PLA including R&D efforts in the areas of biodegradation and composting as well as chemical and mechanical recycling. Algae Ingredients In 2019, Algae Ingredients performed below expectations, as we continued working to scale up this business. Nevertheless, our focus on developing the market for AlgaPrime™ DHA, an Omega-3-rich, whole-algae ingredient, resulted in significant sales and volume growth. The ingredient, produced in Orindiúva, Brazil, allows farmers to enhance aquaculture and other animal nutrition applications responsibly. Our customer base has continued to expand, most notably in salmon feed applications. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 24 At the July SeaWeb Seafood Summit in Thailand, we shared that AlgaPrime™ DHA had been successfully trialed in shrimp feed from global seafood producer Thai Union Group PCL, enabling them to bring even more responsibly sourced and sustainably harvested shrimp to market. In October, we announced the selection of AlgaPrime™ DHA for use in the custom feed supplied by BioMar to Salmon Group, the largest network of local, family-owned fish farming and aquaculture companies, adding to the nearly 500,000 metric tons of feed containing AlgaPrime™ DHA BioMar sells in Norway. The following month, we entered a new phase for our AlgaVia® whole-algae protein ingredient by announcing our partnership with Nestlé to develop the next generation of microalgae-based ingredients. The collaboration will enable Nestlé to deliver sustainable, tasty, and nutritious plantbased products that provide a vegan source of protein, healthy lipids, and various micronutrients. The production of microalgae also offers low carbon, land, and water footprints. Other innovation projects FDCA Corbion has developed a proprietary process to produce 2,5-Furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), a versatile building block for (co)polymers, made from renewable resources with a reduced carbon footprint and enhanced performance. FDCA has the potential to replace purified terephthalic acid (PTA) in a variety of applications. For instance, FDCA can be polymerized into polyethylene furanoate (PEF), a high-value polyester with higher barrier, thermal, and mechanical properties when compared to PET. In 2019, significant progress was made in scaling the high-yielding biotransformation route and developing the downstream processing route, resulting in a proprietary process for converting hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to FDCA with unparalleled economy. We made progress in market and application development by collaborating with partners through joint development programs that included extensive sampling and pilot-scale production of polymer-grade FDCA, PEF pellets, and films. The versatility of FDCA and PEF is being demonstrated in trials underway for applications such as reusable hot-fill bottles for beverages and fibers. Given current interest in FDCA, scalable and economical production of HMF has become a priority for the next stage in the development of this 100% renewable building block. Having reached this point in the exploration of a new business platform, judicious analysis is underway to determine the right next steps for Corbion and its stakeholders. Lactic acid technology development Following the successful validation of our new lactic acid process in 2018, we have moved to the engineering phase for a large commercial-scale plant and in January 2020 we announced the decision for the construction of that first-of-a-kind plant in Thailand, which is expected to become operational in 2023. Due to the recycling of processing chemicals and the elimination of gypsum as a by-product, lactic acid produced from this facility will not only come with the lowest carbon footprint compared to current technologies used, the production cost will also be significantly reduced. Succinic acid In 2019 we decided with BASF (our joint venture partner in Succinity) to terminate the biobased succinic acid joint venture activities, due to the weak global market adaptation of biobased succinic acid and the uncertainty around the longer-term potential thereof, and thus the lack of progress of the commercial development of biobased succinic acid. As a consequence, in good cooperation with BASF, the Succinity joint venture agreement has been terminated and the Succinity legal entity will be liquidated. 25 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Financial performance Key figures Millions of euros 2019 2018 Net sales 976.4 897.2 Operating result 61.3 87.9 Adjusted EBITDA 1) 145.9 131.6 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Earnings per share in euros 2) 0.44 0.93 Diluted earnings per share in euros 2) 0.43 0.92 Number of issued ordinary shares 59,242,792 59,242,792 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights 58,819,590 58,764,635 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 58,819,590 58,698,602 Price as at 31 December 28.12 24.46 Highest price in calendar year 29.96 29.74 Lowest price in calendar year 24.26 23.30 Market capitalization as at 31 December 3) 1,654 1,437 Other key data Cash flow from operating activities 114.4 99.5 Cash flow from operating activities per ordinary share, in euros 2) 1.94 1.70 Free cash flow 4) 9.6 11.9 Depreciation/amortization (in)tangible fixed assets 61.5 42.0 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 82.6 58.4 Equity per share in euros 5) 9.00 8.85 Regular dividend in euros per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.56 0.56 Ratios ROCE % 6) 9.9 11.0 Adjusted EBITDA margin % 7) 14.9 14.7 Result after taxes/net sales % 2.6 6.1 Number of employees at closing date (FTE) 2,138 2,040 Net debt position/covenant EBITDA 8) 2.0 1.6 Interest cover 9) 22.2 25.6 Statement of financial position Non-current assets 718.6 616.2 Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 326.8 302.5 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 161.4 140.2 Net debt position 10) 303.3 203.3 Other non-current liabilities 24.1 26.9 Provisions 27.5 28.1 Equity 529.1 520.2 Capital employed 11) 856.5 750.4 Average capital employed 11) 841.7 709.8 Balance sheet total : equity 1:0.5 1:0.5 Net debt position : equity 1:1.7 1:2.6 Current assets : current liabilities 1:0.9 1:0.7 OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 26 1 Adjusted EBITDA is the operating result before depreciation, amortization, impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets and after adjustments. 2 Per ordinary share in euros after deduction of dividend on financing preference shares. 3 Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the number of ordinary shares with dividend rights by the share price at the closing date. 4 Free cash flow comprises cash flow from operating activities and cash flow from investment activities. 5 Equity per share is equity divided by the number of shares with dividend rights. 6 Return on capital employed (ROCE) is defined by Corbion as adjusted operating result, including results from joint ventures and associates, divided by the average capital employed x 100. 7 Adjusted EBITDA margin % is adjusted EBITDA as defined above divided by net sales x 100 8 Covenant EBITDA is adjusted EBITDA as defined above, increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidiaries. 9 Interest cover is covenant EBITDA as defined above divided by net interest income and charges. 10 Net debt position comprises borrowings and lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, including third-party guarantees which are required to be included under the debt covenants. 11 Capital employed and average capital employed are based on balance sheet book values. 27 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Results Net sales Net sales in 2019 increased by 8.8% to € 976.4 million (2018: € 897.2 million), mostly due to a volume increase (3.4%), and a positive currency impact (4.3%), partly offset by a negative price/ mix effect (-0.9%). The acquisition of the remaining 49.9% of the SB Renewable Oils joint venture (as per 4 June 2018) and Granotec do Brazil (as per 1 April 2019) positively impacted net sales by 2.0%. Net sales 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 28 Full year 2019 compared to full year 2018 Total growth at Total constant Net sales growth Currency currency Acquisitions Organic Price/Mix Volume Ingredient Solutions 7.2% 4.0% 3.2% 1.8% 1.4% 1.4% 0.0% Food 10.0% 4.4% 5.6% 2.5% 3.1% 2.0% 1.1% Biochemicals -0.5% 3.0% -3.5% 0.0% -3.5% 0.0% -3.5% Innovation Platforms 36.7% 9.0% 27.7% 5.3% 22.4% -13.6% 41.5% Total 8.8% 4.3% 4.5% 2.0% 2.5% -0.9% 3.4% Raw materials The carbohydrates, soybean oil, and other raw material spend percentages are in line with previous year. In 2019 Corbion faced an increase in chemical prices in the first half year which softened in the second half. Raw materials break down EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA increased by 10.9% to € 145.9 million in 2019. A positive organic growth of 7.8% and a positive currency effect were partly offset by a negative acquisition effect. Ingredient Solutions saw its Adjusted EBITDA increase by 11.9% as a result of a positive organic growth of 6.5% and a positive currency effect of 4.2%. The EBITDA loss in Innovation Platforms increased to € -34.0 million (2018: € -29.2 million) mostly due to the consolidation impact of the acquisition of the remaining 49.9% interest in SB Renewable Oils as per June 2018. 29 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE € million 2019 2018 Net sales Ingredient Solutions 909.7 848.4 Food 685.8 623.4 Biochemicals 223.9 225.0 Innovation Platforms 66.7 48.8 Total net sales 976.4 897.2 Adjusted EBITDA Ingredient Solutions 179.9 160.8 Food 119.5 105.3 Biochemicals 60.4 55.5 Innovation Platforms -34.0 -29.2 Total Adjusted EBITDA 145.9 131.6 Adjustments 18.4 -2.1 Total EBITDA 164.3 129.5 Depreciation/amortization/ (reversal of) impairment (in)tangibles -103.0 -41.6 Total operating result 61.3 87.9 Adjusted EBITDA margin Ingredient Solutions 19.8% 19.0% Food 17.4% 16.9% Biochemicals 27.0% 24.7% Innovation Platforms -51.0% -59.8% Total Adjusted EBITDA margin 14.9% 14.7% Total Adjusted EBITDA excl. acquisitions/divestments, at constant currencies 141.9 131.6 Ingredient Solutions € million 2019 2018 Net sales 909.7 848.4 Organic growth 1.4% 1.7% EBITDA 181.2 160.9 Adjusted EBITDA 179.9 160.8 Adjusted EBITDA margin 19.8% 19.0% ROCE 22.2% 23.7% Average capital employed 595.3 518.6 Net sales in Ingredient Solutions, which encompasses Food and Biochemicals, increased organically by 1.4% in 2019, driven by growth in the Food business segment, while the Biochemicals business segment declined versus 2018 on an organic basis. The Adjusted EBITDA margin in 2019 increased from 19.0% to 19.8%. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 30 Business segment Food € million 2019 2018 Net sales 685.8 623.4 Organic growth 3.1% 0.9% EBITDA 119.7 105.5 Adjusted EBITDA 119.5 105.3 Adjusted EBITDA margin 17.4% 16.9% Net sales in 2019 increased organically by 3.1%. Bakery, the largest segment in Food, grew throughout the year. In Meat we see the shift in portfolio mix towards natural preservation solutions continuing, which translates into above average growth rates. In other markets (Beverages, Confectionery, Dairy), sales were stable compared to last year. The Adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 16.9% to 17.4%. Business segment Biochemicals € million 2019 2018 Net sales 223.9 225.0 Organic growth -3.5% 4.0% EBITDA 61.5 55.4 Adjusted EBITDA 60.4 55.5 Adjusted EBITDA margin 27.0% 24.7% Net sales in 2019 decreased organically by 3.5%. All markets declined except for Medical/Pharma. The biggest declines were in the Electronics segment due to a slowdown in the semiconductor markets, and in the Agrochemicals segment where our customers are in anticipation of a regulatory phase out of a category of actives. The Adjusted EBITDA margin 2019 in Biochemicals was significantly ahead of last year (27.0% versus 24.7%), mostly due to positive mix effects from the rapidly growing Medical/Pharma business. Innovation Platforms € million 2019 2018 Net sales 66.7 48.8 Organic growth 22.4% 84.9% EBITDA -16.4 -31.4 Adjusted EBITDA -34.0 -29.2 Adjusted EBITDA margin -51.0% -59.8% Average Capital Employed 246.4 191.2 Net sales in 2019 organically increased by 22.4%, mostly driven by increased lactic acid sales to the Total Corbion PLA joint venture, which continues to develop beyond our expectations. Despite significant growth in 2019, Algae Ingredients remained below earlier expectations throughout the year. 31 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Depreciation, amortization, and impairment Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets before adjustments amounted to € 60.9 million compared to € 42.0 million in 2018. Operating result Adjusted operating result decreased by € 4.6 million to € 85.0 million in 2019 (2018: € 89.6 million). Adjustments In 2019, total adjustments of € 20.2 million were recorded, consisting of the following components: 1. Loss of € 41.4 million related to an impairment in our Algae business. Our earlier estimate (29 January 2020) was a loss of approximately € 40 million 2. Gain of € 14.7 million related to a remeasurement of the anticipated contingent purchase price of SB Renewable Oils. 3. Gain of € 7.9 million as a result of a past service gain due to a change in indexation CSM UK pension scheme 4. Gain of € 3.5 million as a result of valuation of tax assets related to the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil 5. Loss of € 2.9 million related to restructuring costs 6. Loss of € 2.7 million related to a write-down of inventory in the US 7. Loss of € 0.7 million related to relocation and impairment costs as a result of the new warehouse in the US 8. Loss of € 1.0 million related to one-off bonusses 9. Loss of € 0.7 million as a result of acquisition costs of Granotec do Brazil 10. Loss of € 0.5 million related to legal costs 11. Tax effects on the above of € 3.5 million In reference to Adjustments 1 and 2: Despite significant sales growth in 2019, Algae Ingredients sales is developing slower than expected. Customer adoption of our key product, an alternative source of omega-3 fatty acids for the aquaculture industry, is taking longer than anticipated. Under IFRS, this generated a triggering event for an impairment test. The current carrying value of the assets has been impaired by € 41.4 million. The net impact on the 2019 Result after taxes amounts to € -26.7 million as the impairment loss is partly offset by a reduction in the value of the earn-out provision to our former SB Renewable Oils joint venture partner. Financial income and charges Net financial charges increased by € 1.4 million to € 14.6 million, mainly as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16. Taxes The tax charge on our operations in 2019 amounted to € 18.9 million compared to a charge of € 15.5 million in 2018. In 2019, the high effective tax rate of 42.3% after adjustments was mainly caused by the impairment as well as the operating losses of the Algae business in Brazil, in respect of which limited deferred tax assets were recognized. Excluding adjustments and the effects of the non-recognition of tax assets related to operating losses of the Algae business in Brazil, the normalized effective tax rate would have been 29.7%. For 2020 we expect a tax rate of approximately 30%. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 32 Statement of financial position Capital employed increased, compared to year end 2018, by € 106.1 million to € 856.5 million. The movements were: € million Movements related to the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil 40.6 Transition impact IFRS 16 28.4 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 82.6 Lease contract movements 45.4 Depreciation / amortization / impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets -103.0 Change in operating working capital 1.2 Change in provisions, other working capital and financial assets/ accruals 16.4 Movements related to joint ventures -2.4 Taxes -16.1 Exchange rate differences 13.0 Major capital expenditure projects in 2019 were investments related to lactic acid capacity expansion in Thailand and investments in our Algae plant in Orindiúva. Operating working capital (excluding movements related to the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil) increased by € 4.5 million. This increase is the balance of an operational increase of € 1.2 million and currency effects of € 3.3 million. Shareholders' equity increased by € 8.9 million to € 529.1 million. The movements were: • The positive result after taxes of € 25.8 million • A decrease of € 32.9 million related to the dividend for financial year 2018 • Positive exchange rate differences of € 14.4 million due to the translation of equity denominated in currencies other than the euro • Positive movement of € 5.3 million in the hedge reserve • Negative remeasurement effect of defined benefit arrangement of € 6.2 million • Net share-based remuneration movement of € 3.1 million • Negative tax effects € 0.6 million At year-end 2019 the ratio between balance sheet total and equity was 1:0.5 (2018 year-end: 1:0.5). Cash flow/Financing Cash flow from operating activities increased compared to year-end 2018 by € 14.9 million to € 114.4 million. This is the balance of the higher operational cash flow before movements in working capital of € 14.7 million a negative impact of the movement in working capital and provisions of € 3.9 million and lower taxes and interest paid of € 4.1 million. The cash flow required for investment activities increased compared to 2018 by € 17.2 million to € 104.8 million. Capital expenditures (€ 76.2 million) and the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil (€ 28.5 million) accounted for most of this cash outflow. 33 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE The net debt position at year end 2019 was € 303.3 million, an increase of € 100.0 million compared to year end 2018, mainly due to dividend payment, capital expenditures, the Granotec do Brazil acquisition, and the increase in working capital compared to 2018, partly compensated by the positive cash flow from operating activities before working capital and provisions. At year-end 2019, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.0x (end of 2018: 1.6x). The interest cover for 2019 was 22.2x (end of 2018: 25.6x). We continue to stay well within the limits of our financing covenants. Subsequent events On 29 January 2020, Corbion announced it will invest around US$ 190 million in a new lactic acid plant in Thailand with a capacity of 125,000 metric tons per annum, which will operate at the highest sustainability standards and lowest costs. Reservation and dividend policy Corbion’s reservation policy is aimed at creating and retaining sufficient financial capacity and flexibility to realize our strategic objectives while maintaining healthy balance sheet ratios. Corbion intends to add the profit (or charge the loss) to the company reserves after deduction of the proposed dividend on ordinary shares. Events potentially impacting our financing requirements such as acquisitions, divestments, reorganizations, or other strategic considerations can lead to adjustments in the reservation amount and the reservation policy. As regards Corbion’s dividend policy, the amount and structure of dividend on ordinary shares that the company will pay to its shareholders depend on the financial results of the company, the market environment, the outlook, and other relevant factors. The dividend policy is the ambition to pay out annually a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend amount per share (progressive regular dividend policy), subject to annual review of the outlook of the net debt /EBITDA ratio development. This review will be based on multiple criteria such as major investments, timing of M&A, or divestment initiatives. Dividend proposal A proposal to distribute a regular dividend in cash of € 0.56 per ordinary share (2018: € 0.56) will be submitted for approval to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on 11 May 2020. This represents 72% of our 2019 Adjusted Result after taxes. The dividend will be charged to the Corbion reserves. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 34 Sustainability performance Responsible sourcing 2030 2020 KPI Target 1,2) Target 1,2) 2019 7) 2018 % of raw materials assessed on security of supply (annually) √ 100% 100% 100% % of raw materials covered by generic supplier code √ > 90% 100% 99% % of cane sugar responsibly sourced 3)√ 100% 100% 100% 99% % of palm oil and primary oleochemicals responsibly sourced 4, 5)√ 100% 8) 100% 75% 41% % of corn-based dextrose responsibly sourced 6)√ 100% 95% 98% % of soybean oil and primary oleochemicals responsibly sourced 6)√ 100% 75% 34% % of wheat-based raw materials responsibly sourced 6)√ 100% 50% 84% 1 Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2 % are defined by quantity. 3 Quantity covered by Corbion's cane sugar code or Bonsucro certification. 4 Primary oleochemicals as defined by RSPO, including glycerin. 5 RSPO certified, using the Mass Balance model. 6 Supplier meets Corbion's responsible sourcing requirements specified in our supplier code and our sustainable agriculture policy, evaluated by a self-assessment questionnaire. Target only includes tier-1 suppliers that source directly from farmers. 7 Our recently acquired facility in Araucária (Granotec do Brazil) is not yet included in the reporting scope for the responsible sourcing KPIs. See Sustainability statements for more details. 8 2030 target includes secondary oleochemicals. √ Reviewed by external auditor A significant part of the environmental and social impact in our value chain is upstream of our own operations. To safeguard an overall positive environmental and social impact of our sustainable solutions, we need to ensure our raw materials are sourced responsibly. Our responsible sourcing strategy focuses on our agricultural raw materials, which are critical for the production of our natural, biobased solutions. A sustainable agricultural supply chain is essential for the communities in which we operate, as well as for our business. We focus on raw materials derived from sugarcane, soy, corn, wheat, and palm oil, which represent some 90% of our agricultural-derived raw materials by quantity. Farming of sugarcane and oil palm has been linked to a number of serious social and environmental sustainability risks. These include forced and child labor, hazardous labor conditions, conflict over land rights, loss of biodiversity, and deforestation. Implementation of sustainable agriculture is the only way to maintain economic performance while minimizing the damage to the environment and creating thriving farming communities. For soy, corn, and wheat, which we source from the US, the main areas of improvement relate to land use (biodiversity), soil health, water, greenhouse gas emissions, and farmer livelihoods. Corbion is not directly involved in the growing, harvesting, and processing of these crops. We therefore focus our efforts on our tier-1 suppliers that source directly from farmers, and partner with them to address social and environmental issues at farm level. Our approach focuses on continuous improvement toward the implementation of the relevant sustainability standard for each of these raw materials. 35 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion's approach to responsible sourcing We assess all of our raw materials on potential risks related to procurement, quality (including food safety), and sustainability in our security-of-supply assessment, which is updated annually. For each pillar, several criteria are rated to estimate the risk of supply issues. The risk assessment results in a high, medium, or low score for each raw material, by pillar. For all high-risk raw materials, mitigation plans are created. Mitigation actions include the recruitment of new suppliers, certification, and supplier engagement to better understand the situation. We require all our raw material suppliers to sign our supplier code for confirmation, or to demonstrate commitment to our code by compliance with company policies that embrace these standards. Our supplier code defines Corbion's expectations in respect of our suppliers meeting our responsible sourcing commitment. The code includes principles and criteria for business ethics, human rights and labor conditions, and environmental practices, based on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the eight fundamental conventions defined by the ILO, including freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 36 For cane sugar, we apply the Corbion cane sugar code, an extension of our supplier code with additional principles and criteria in respect of land rights, good agricultural practices, and biodiversity. It is based on the definitions for sustainable sugarcane and derived products as set out by Bonsucro. We have implemented procedures to verify that our suppliers meet these requirements, using self-assessment questionnaires and third-party audits. In case of noncompliance with core indicators of the cane sugar code, a corrective action plan is requested to effectively and promptly resolve the issue, within an agreed timeline. If the issue persists, Corbion may ultimately decide to terminate the relationship with the supplier in question. The audit frequency varies based on the findings of the initial audit and is annual in case of non-compliances with core indicators. By now, independent third-party audits have been conducted for over 70% of our cane sugar supply. Non-compliances with core indicators were related to storage of chemicals, lack of formal risk assessment, and lack of evidence that the maximum levels of agrochemicals per ha/year are not surpassed. We request our suppliers to focus on continuous improvement for any minor noncompliance. In 2019, some 16% of our total cane sugar consumption was Bonsucro certified. Our palm oil policy describes our requirements for responsible sourcing of palm, including no deforestation, no peat, and no exploitation. Corbion focuses on the implementation of the supply chain standard defined by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). All Corbion plants in the US are RSPO Chain of Custody certified and the majority of our palm oil and primary oleochemicals are now sourced Mass Balance (MB) RSPO-certified. We source palm oil and palm oil derivatives only from suppliers that are RSPO members working toward production or purchasing of certified sustainable palm oil. In 2019, we further increased our purchase of RSPO certified palm oil and primary oleochemicals and we are on track to meet our 2020 commitment. Our agriculture policy summarizes our vision for sustainable agriculture, including topics such as energy and climate, water, soil health, land use, biodiversity, agricultural chemicals, and nutrient management. We use self-assessment questionnaires to confirm that suppliers of corn, soy, and wheat meet Corbion's responsible sourcing requirements specified in our supplier code and are implementing sustainable agriculture practices as described in our sustainable agriculture policy. 37 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Responsible operations KPI 2030 Target 1) 2020 Target 1) 2019 2) 2018 Total Recordable Injury Rate < 0.25 < 0.75 0.83 0.86 Renewable electricity √ 100% 50% 58% 42% Landfill of by-products √ 0 0 4.6 kT 2.5 kT Landfill of waste √ 0 1.2 kT 2 kT Reduction of Scope I, II, III emissions (SBTi approved target) 3,4) 33% 12% 1 Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2 Our recently acquired facility in Araucária (Granotec do Brazil) is not yet included in the reporting scope for the responsible operations KPIs. See Sustainability statements for more details. 3 We report our emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol per metric ton of product. Our Science Based target includes Scope I emissions from direct production (from natural gas), Scope II emissions from purchased energy (electricity and purchased steam, market-based), and Scope III emissions related to key raw materials and transport. Our full Scope III emissions and biogenic emissions are reported in the Sustainability statements. 4 Compared to 2016 as base year. √ Reviewed by external auditor Corbion's manufacturing processes pose inherent risks to people, due to use of chemicals, high temperatures, and large-scale equipment, which explains why occupational health and safety is our highest priority. We use significant amounts of energy, water, and other resources, making resource efficiency and minimization of greenhouse gas emissions our main environmental focus areas. Environment, health, and safety Corbion aims to create a safe and healthy workspace with the goal of having zero incidents because we believe no job is so important that it cannot be done safely and with minimal environmental impact. We therefore operate with the greatest care for safety, health, and the environment for our employees and the communities we engage with. Our activities are supported by a management system that includes policies, procedures, training, and feedback, which ascertain that we comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations and act in accordance with our company standards and codes. Corbion leadership and employees are committed to achieving a zero-incident culture. Corbion fosters an open and transparent culture by encouraging all employees to report, amongst others, all near misses and events in order to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) framework clarifies the specific responsibilities of the local sites versus the global EHS platform. OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 38 EHS platform Despite our efforts we recorded 8 Lost Time Incidents (LTIs), which is the same absolute total as last year, but in relative terms slightly lower as we integrated Algae Ingredients in our reporting in the year under review. The total number of recordables was 23. Next to these, we reported and investigated three non-work-related incidents of which one fatality, 81 first-aid cases, more than 250 near misses, and over 5,000 unsafe observations. The overall Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) was 0.83, which is slightly better than last year (0.86). In order to make a next step in safety and come closer to our zero-incident ambition, we shall perform a Safety Culture Assessment in 2020, executed by an external consultant. To show clear EHS commitment from the top, within the Executive Committee a Safety Committee has been established which will meet quarterly and direct the EHS initiatives. The EHS platform leader is part of this committee. At the end of 2017 Corbion defined the 10 Corbion Safety Rules, based on an analysis of our injuries and near misses, as well as incidents in other companies. We started the roll-out in 2018, implementing several rules, continued in 2019 and the implementation will run well into 2020. Our employee absentee rate was 2.2% overall compared to 2.0% in 2018. In 2019 we started our transformation from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001. Blair and Rayong obtained their ISO 45001 certification, the other sites will follow in 2020 and 2021. Our five lactic acid manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 certified, representing about 70% of Corbion’s production volume. 39 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Zero waste In our lactic acid production process we generate significant quantities of valuable by-products, such as gypsum. Per metric ton of lactic acid, almost 2 tons of by-product are produced. The majority of these by-products are valorized, but occasionally they do end up in landfill. Our zerowaste ambition focuses on the reduction of waste by eliminating landfill of by-products by 2020 and eliminating landfill of all other general waste by 2030. Since the implementation of a new valorization option for gypsum at our lactic acid plant in the US in 2017, we have reduced landfilling of by-products to only 1% of the total volume. Compared to 2018, the landfilling of byproducts increased to 4.6 kT due to the increased production of lactic acid at our plant in Spain. At this site, we have not yet been able to find an outlet for all by-products, due to legislative barriers and due to the increased quantities. We do not expect to meet our 'zero landfill' target by 2020, because the lactic acid production at this site will further increase in the coming years until the start-up of our new lactic acid production plant in Thailand, while the regulatory approval for the preferred valorization route is taking longer than expected. We are committed to achieving our zero landfill target and have engaged external support to address the situation in Spain. Greenhouse gas emissions and renewable electricity Responsible operations also implies doing our part to prevent climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, as specified in the Paris Agreement. In 2019, Corbion has committed to reducing our CO 2 emissions related to energy, key raw materials, and transport by 33% per metric ton of product by 2030 from a 2016 base year. This target has been approved by the Science Based Target initiative. To fulfill this pledge, we have developed a roadmap, including the following actions, some of which are already in motion: • Transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2030. • Implement energy-saving projects at our manufacturing sites. • Select the most energy-efficient technology available when equipment is replaced. • Establish an R&D program to identify opportunities for heat integration, electrification, and recycling. • Partner with key raw material suppliers to jointly reduce CO 2 emissions. • Review the financial impact of greenhouse gas emissions through internal carbon pricing in capital expenditure and long-term R&D projects. Compared to the base year 2016, we already achieved an 12% reduction, mainly through the implementation of renewable electricity, which has step-wise increased since 2016. Sustainable solutions KPI 2030 Target 4) 2020 Target 4) 2019 5) 2018 % of innovation projects assessed on sustainability √ 100% 100% 89% % biobased raw materials 1 )√ 98% 98% % of products sold covered by LCA 1,2)√ 100% of products with environmental claim covered 50% 44% 37% % of products sold covered by PSM 3) 100% of products with social claim covered assessment 1 By quantity; products manufactured at Corbion production sites. 2 LCA = Life Cycle Assessment. 3 PSM = Product Social Metrics. 4 Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 5 Our recently acquired facility in Araucária (Granotec do Brazil) is not yet included in the reporting scope for the sustainable solutions KPIs. See Sustainability statements for more details. √ Reviewed by external auditor OUR PERFORMANCE Corbion annual report 2019 40 Corbion aims to create a positive impact on people and planet by growing its business in sustainable ingredient solutions. To achieve this, we need to understand the environmental and social impact of our solutions, we need to deliver on quality, and we need to ensure that our innovations are in line with our sustainability ambitions. Sustainability assessment of innovation projects To ensure alignment of our innovation projects with our sustainability ambitions, we assess new product and process development projects against the relevant material themes in our sustainability strategy. The assessment is integrated in our innovation stage-gate process and provides guidance to the project team on sustainability-related matters. This warrants that sustainability is an integrated part of the product and process design and that potential issues can be tackled at an early stage. The assessment is also used to identify sustainability benefits that can be included in the value proposition of the new product. Sustainability assesment at different stages of the innovation funnel 41 Corbion annual report 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE Biobased raw materials The majority of our finished goods are biobased, manufactured from renewable, agriculturederived raw materials. These products support the transition to a circular economy by offering an alternative for fossil-based resources, with reduced greenhouse gas emissions, toxicity, and waste generation. For non-food applications, the use of agriculture-derived raw materials can potentially compete with food production. For the current level of bioplastic production, land use is minimal and not competing with food 1 Over the next decades, world population will grow and global demand for crops for food and industrial applications is expected to increase. The use of next-generation feedstocks such as second-generation sugars from agricultural residues can help address this concern. Life Cycle Assessment Corbion uses Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) as a tool to understand the environmental impacts of a product from the extraction of resources to their use and end of life. To enable our customers to make conscious choices, we will perform cradle-to-gate LCAs for 50% of our products by 2020. Using this data, we can work side by side with customers to support them on the improvement of their environmental footprint and on the substantiation of their sustainability claims. In 2019, we published an article 2 about the life-cycle impact of poly lactic acid (PLA) produced from sugarcane in Thailand in the Journal of Polymers and the Environment and we increased the LCA coverage of our products to 44%. Product Social Metrics (PSM) assessment To make a positive impact on people, we need to understand how our business activities have a social impact throughout our supply chain and how they affect our stakeholders. In 2017 Corbion joined the Roundtable for Product Social Metrics, and together with the other Roundtable members, we developed a methodology for measuring social impacts, which is available in the Roundtable’s handbook. The handbook provides the framework, an overview of data collection tools, and a scoring approach to assess social impacts. In 2019, we conducted our first case study to evaluate the social impacts in the value chain of Corbion’s meat safety and extended shelf-life solutions. The assessment of this value chain confirmed that most topics examined were compliant with applicable standards or laws (neutral social impact), or score beyond compliance for both products (positive social impact) The absence of negative social impact in the supply chain strengthens the credibility of the positive social impact from product use. Quality We are committed to delivering high-quality solutions that safely meet our customer expectations and fulfill our customer promise through quality and manufacturing systems and processes. On a local level we operate in compliance with local regulations and legislation, while ensuring certifications are in place to meet customer and industry-adopted standards and requirements, such as ISO 9001, GFSI (BRC, FSCC22000), GMP+, GMP Pharma, FDA Pharma, Halal, Kosher, nonGMO, Organic, and FSMA. In addition we host customer audits predominantly from our international pharmaceutical customers and large food clients. These, and our self-assessment audits performed by our global quality platform, ensure that we continue to improve our operational standards for quality and food safety. In 2019, we maintained all certifications and our continued focus on customer complaint reduction led to a consolidation of the great reduction in complaints in 2018 and, on top of that, a further reduction, albeit a small one. 1 Whitepaper Sustainable sourcing of feedstocks for bioplastics Clarifying sustainability aspects around feedstock use for the production of bioplastics. Julia Lovett Total Corbion PLA, François de Bie Total Corbion PLA, Diana Visser – Corbion. 2 Morão, A. & de Bie, F. J Polym Environ (2019) 27: 2523. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10924-019-01525-9 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 42 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Board of Management and Executive Committee Mr. Olivier Rigaud CEO / Chairman Board of Management and Executive Committee Olivier Rigaud was appointed Chief Executive Officer at the extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in August 2019. His current term of office runs from 2019 – 2023. Before joining Corbion, Olivier Rigaud was Chief Executive Officer of Naturex, worked for Tate & Lyle, and started his career at Amylum. Olivier Rigaud holds the French nationality and was born in 1964. Mr. Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot CFO / member Board of Management and Executive Committee Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot was appointed Chief Financial Officer at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. His current term of office runs from 2018 – 2022. Before becoming CFO, Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot was SVP Finance at Corbion and served for seven years as CFO of Purac, a division of CSM. Prior to joining Corbion, he was divisional finance director for chemicals in the European region at Van Ommeren and, after the merger with Pakhoed, at Vopak. Prior to that, he held several technical and finance roles at Unilever. Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1963. 43 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Mrs. Jacqueline van Lemmen EVP Operations / member Executive Committee Jacqueline van Lemmen is Executive Vice President Operations since April 2017 and responsible for Corbion’s global operations. Before joining Corbion, Jacqueline van Lemmen was VP Operations for DSM Biobased Products and Services after holding the same position for DSM Food Specialties. Before that she held several mostly manufacturing-related positions in different countries for DSM. She started her career at ICI. Jacqueline van Lemmen holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1961. Mr. Marc den Hartog EVP Innovation Platforms / member Executive Committee Marc den Hartog is Executive Vice President Innovation Platforms since April 2017 and responsible for the business unit Innovation Platforms. From January 2015 until May 2017, Marc den Hartog was EVP Operations at Corbion. Before that, he was SVP Strategic Portfolio Management at Corbion and VP Asia Pacific within CSM's Bakery division. Prior to that, he held several positions in sales, marketing, and supply chain at Unilever and IOI Group Oils & Fats division Loders Croklaan. Marc den Hartog holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1972. Mr. Johan van der Hel EVP Human Resources / member Executive Committee Johan van der Hel is Executive Vice President Human Resources since January 2015 and globally responsible for Human Resources. Before joining Corbion, Johan van der Hel served as Group Director HR at VION Food Group. Before that, he held several international HR leadership positions at DSM. Johan van der Hel holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1964. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 44 Mr. Andy Muller EVP Ingredient Solutions / member Executive Committee Andy Muller is Executive Vice President Ingredient Solutions since January 2015 and responsible for the business unit Ingredient Solutions. Before joining Corbion, Andy Muller served as SVP Global Sales, Innovation and Marketing at DuPont. Before that, he held several other positions in marketing and sales within Sensient and DuPont Nutrition & Health, formerly Danisco. Andy Muller holds both the Argentinian and US nationality and was born in 1965. Mr. Marcel Wubbolts CTO / member Executive Committee Marcel Wubbolts is Chief Technology Officer since November 2016 and responsible for Corbion’s global science and innovation portfolio. Before joining Corbion, Marcel Wubbolts served as Chief Technology Officer at DSM. Before that, he held several other positions at DSM. He started his career at the Institute of Biotechnology at the ETH in Zürich. Marcel Wubbolts holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1963. 45 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Supervisory Board Mr. Mathieu Vrijsen Chairman Supervisory Board / Chairman Appointment and Governance Committee / member Remuneration Committee and Science and Technology Committee Mathieu Vrijsen was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2013. His current term of office runs from 2017 – 2021. Mathieu Vrijsen served as Senior Vice President Global Operations and Engineering at DuPont. Prior to that, he held various positions at DuPont. Currently, he serves as Chairman of Broadview Holding, Casco Phil, Belgium and the Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra of Belgium, and Board Member of the Antwerp Spring Festival. Mathieu Vrijsen holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1947. Mr. Rudy Markham Vice-Chairman Supervisory Board / Chairman Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee Rudy Markham was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2010. His current term of office runs from 2018 – 2020. Rudy Markham served as Executive Director and Chief Finance Officer at Unilever. Currently, he serves as Non-Executive Director of United Parcel Services, US, and Director of Leverhulme Trust, UK. Rudy Markham holds the British nationality and was born in 1946. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 46 Mrs. Liz Doherty Member Supervisory Board / member Audit Committee Liz Doherty was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2015. Her current term of office runs from 2019 – 2023. Liz Doherty served as CFO and Executive Director at Reckit Benckiser, UK and prior to that as CFO and Executive Director at Brambles, Australia. Currently, she serves as Non-Executive Director of Novartis, Switzerland, and as Supervisory Board member Royal Philips. She is also an advisor to Agrolimen, subsidiaries GB Foods and Affinity Petcare, Spain. Liz Doherty holds the British and Irish nationality and was born in 1957. Mr. Jack de Kreij Member Supervisory Board / Chairman Audit Committee Jack de Kreij was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2011. His current term of office runs from 2019 – 2021. Jack de Kreij served as Vice-Chairman Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Royal Vopak and prior to that in various management functions, as Senior Partner, and as Management Partner & Territory Leader of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Transaction Services Practice. Currently, he serves as Supervisory Board member of TomTom and of Royal Boskalis, and as Non-Executive Board Member of Oranjefonds. Furthermore, he is a member of the Advisory Council of YGroup Companies. Jack de Kreij holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1959. 47 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Mr. Steen Riisgaard Member Supervisory Board / Chairman Science and Technology Committee / member Remuneration Committee and Appointment and Governance Committee Steen Riisgaard was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. His current term of office runs from 2018 – 2022. Steen Riisgaard served as President & CEO of Novozymes. Currently, he serves as Chairman of Alk-Abello, Denmark, member of Århus University, Denmark, Chairman of Cowi Holding, Denmark, member of the Board of Novo Nordisk Foundation, Denmark, Vice-Chairman of Novo Holding, Denmark, Vice-Chairman of Villum Foundation, Denmark, and Chairman of Xellia, Denmark. Steen Riisgaard holds the Danish nationality and was born in 1951. Corporate governance We have designed our corporate governance structure to best support our business, meet the needs of our stakeholders, and comply with laws and regulations. This section provides an overview of our corporate governance structure and includes information required under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as amended and published on 8 December 2016 (the Code ), the Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports, the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive, and the Decree Disclosure Non-Financial Information. Structure Corbion nv (the company or Corbion ) is a Dutch public limited company with its registered office in Amsterdam. It acts as the (indirect) holding company for the Dutch and foreign operating companies of the company. The company's shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Corbion is an international holding company as described by Section 153, Subsection 3 under b, of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The large company regime therefore does not apply to the company. Corbion’s corporate governance framework is based on the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Code, the company’s Articles of Association, applicable securities laws, and the rules and regulations of Euronext Amsterdam. The company is organized in a so-called two-tier system, comprising a Board of Management, solely composed of executive directors, and a Supervisory Board, solely composed of nonexecutive directors. The Supervisory Board supervises the Board of Management and Executive Committee (which includes the Board of Management) and ensures that external experience and knowledge is embedded in the company’s conduct. The two boards are independent of each other and are accountable to the general meeting of shareholders of the company (the General Meeting of Shareholders ). HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 48 Board of Management/Executive Committee General The Board of Management (composed of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer) is entrusted with the management of the company. A number of key officers have been appointed to manage the company together with the Board of Management. The members of the Board of Management and these key officers together constitute the Executive Committee. For the purpose of this corporate governance section, where the Executive Committee is mentioned it also includes the Board of Management unless the context requires otherwise. The Executive Committee has been operational since 1 January 2015. With the set-up of this enhanced leadership team, Corbion is well positioned to drive a common agenda across the business, to set clear priorities, and to enhance the execution of its strategy. Members of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the members of the Executive Committee during 2019. The Supervisory Board and the Board of Management held several meetings in 2019 in relation to the review of the strategy. Next to members of the Board of Management, other members of the Executive Committee were invited to give presentations on their area of responsibility to the Supervisory Board and its committees. Under the chairmanship of the CEO, the members of the Executive Committee share responsibility for developing and executing the strategic plan for the company aimed at delivering long-term value creation, aligning and prioritizing (strategic) initiatives, determining the risk profile, and implementing strategic and operational policies. The Board of Management has ultimate responsibility for the company’s management and the external reporting and is answerable to shareholders of the company at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. In performing its duties, the Executive Committee is guided by the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise, taking into consideration the interests of the company's stakeholders. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, please refer to the Rules of the Board of Management/Executive Committee, which are available on Corbion's website. Composition and appointment The Board of Management consists of two or more members, which number is to be determined by the Supervisory Board. The CEO determines the number of members of the Executive Committee. The composition of the Executive Committee and brief resumes of its members are available under the sections How we safeguard long-term value/Board of Management and Executive Committee of the Annual Report. The members of the Board of Management are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The Supervisory Board is authorized at all times to suspend a member of the Board of Management. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Board of Management by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. 49 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Each member of the Board of Management is appointed for a maximum period of four years with the possibility of re-appointment for consecutive four-year terms in accordance with the Code. The other members of the Executive Committee are appointed, suspended, and dismissed by the CEO, subject to consultation with the Supervisory Board. Remuneration The remuneration for the individual members of the Board of Management is determined by the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board, and must be consistent with the policy thereon as adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The current remuneration policy applicable to the Board of Management was adopted by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2018, and is published on Corbion’s website. A full and detailed description of the composition of the remuneration for the individual members of the Board of Management is included in the section Remuneration report of the Annual Report. The remuneration for the other individual members of the Executive Committee shall be determined by the CEO, subject to consultation with the Supervisory Board. Conflict of interest Members of the Executive Committee must report any (potential) conflict of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall decide whether a conflict of interest exists. The member of the Executive Committee who has a (potential) conflict of interest shall not participate in discussions and decision-making on a subject or transaction in relation to which the member has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter into transactions in which members of the Executive Committee have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the company and/or to the relevant member(s) of the Executive Committee, require the approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with best-practice provision 2.7.4 of the Code, the company reports that in 2019 there were no transactions in which there was a conflict of interest with members of the Executive Committee that was of material significance and that required approval of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board General The Supervisory Board, acting in the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise and taking into account the relevant interests of the company’s stakeholders, supervises and advises the Board of Management and Executive Committee in performing their management tasks. From among its members, the Supervisory Board has appointed an Audit Committee, an Appointment and Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee, and a Science and Technology Committee. Corbion's Articles of Association require the approval of the Supervisory Board for certain major resolutions proposed to be taken by the Board of Management, including issuance of shares, repurchase of shares, reduction of the issued share capital, amendment of the Articles of Association, and significant changes in the identity or nature of the company or its enterprise. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board and its committees, please refer to the Rules of the Supervisory Board and the Charters of its committees, which are available on Corbion's website. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 50 Composition and appointment The Supervisory Board consists of three or more members to be determined by the Supervisory Board. The composition of the Supervisory Board and brief resumes of its members are available under the section How we safeguard long-term value/Supervisory Board of the Annual Report. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The Supervisory Board is authorized at all times to suspend a member of the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. Each member of the Supervisory Board is appointed for a maximum period of four years with the possibility of re-appointment for consecutive terms in accordance with the Code. The members of the Supervisory Board retire periodically in accordance with a schedule of resignation, which is available on Corbion's website. Conflict of interest Members of the Supervisory Board must report any (potential) conflict of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board (and the Chairman to the Vice-Chairman). The Supervisory Board shall decide whether a conflict of interest exists. The member of the Supervisory Board who has a (potential) conflict of interest shall not participate in discussions and decision-making on a subject or transaction in relation to which the member has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter into transactions in which members of the Supervisory Board have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the company and/or to the relevant member(s) of the Supervisory Board, require the approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with bestpractice provision 2.7.4 of the Code, the company reports that in 2019 there were no transactions in which there was a conflict of interest with members of the Supervisory Board that was of material significance and that required approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with best-practice provision 2.7.5 of the Code, the company reports that no transactions between the company and legal or natural persons who hold at least 10% of the shares in the company occurred in 2019. Diversity, values, and Code of Business Conduct Diversity Corbion has adopted a diversity policy for the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee in 2017. This policy – given the business environment in which Corbion operates – contains longerterm objectives for gender diversity and geographical diversity, the latter to reflect the majority of our business being in the Americas. 51 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE The gender diversity targets for the Supervisory Board are that at least one member should be female if the board consists of five members and that at least two members should be female if the board consists of six members. The first target applies as the current board has five members; Corbion complies with this target as Liz Doherty is a member of the Supervisory Board. On 5 December 2019, the Supervisory Board announced the nomination of Stefanie Schmitz as member of the Supervisory Board. On 10 February 2020, the Supervisory Board announced the nomination of Ilona Haaijer as Supervisory Board member. Subject to their appointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2020, the Supervisory Board shall consist of seven members of which three are female. Corbion shall then comply with its gender diversity targets for the Supervisory Board and the gender diversity target for Supervisory Boards as set by the Dutch Government. The geographical diversity target for the Supervisory Board is that at least one member of the Supervisory Board has (had) relevant Americas experience and/or exposure. Corbion complies with this target as Mathieu Vrijsen qualifies as such. The gender diversity target for the Executive Committee is that at least two members should be female if the committee consists of six or seven members. Corbion has one female member of the Executive Committee, Jacqueline van Lemmen, and does not comply with this target. In 2017, one position became vacant and that position has been filled by a female. In 2019 no positions became vacant. The geographical diversity target for the Executive Committee is that at least two members of the Executive Committee have (had) relevant Americas experience and/or exposure. Corbion complied with this target until August 2019 as Tjerk de Ruiter (CEO until August 2019) and Andy Muller qualify as such. Olivier Rigaud (CEO as of August 2019) does not qualify as such, although he has built up working experience in the Americas during his career. Next to the experience already available in the Executive Committee, this caters for sufficient Americas experience and/ or exposure in the Executive Committee. When positions in the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee become vacant or new positions are added, the company's diversity policy will be applied when selecting persons for appointment as member of the Supervisory Board or the Executive Committee. Values and Code of Business Conduct The Corbion values Care, Courage, Collaboration, and Commitment were introduced in 2018. In 2019 they have been implemented within Corbion amongst others by means of values workshops that were held worldwide. Together with the related Corbion behaviors, the values guide and underpin the business strategy of Corbion. They are incorporated in the relevant engagement and performance management policies and form the basis of our global training and development initiatives. Information about the effectiveness of, and compliance with, the Corbion Code of Business Conduct is available under the section Risk management/Business conduct program of the Annual Report. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 52 Shares and shareholder rights General Meetings of Shareholders The annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held within six months of the close of the financial year. Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders will be held as often as the Board of Management and Supervisory Board deem necessary. An extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will also be held if one or more shareholders who collectively represent at least ten percent of the issued capital submit a written request to this effect to the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board enclosing a detailed list of agenda items. If neither the Board of Management nor the Supervisory Board – which have equal powers in this matter – respond in such a way that this extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders can be convened within six weeks of the request, the applicants are at liberty to convene the meeting themselves and appoint a chairman. Meetings are convened by public notice or via Corbion's website and registered shareholders are notified by letter, at least forty-two days prior to the (extraordinary) General Meeting of Shareholders. If requests are received from shareholders who individually or collectively represent at least one percent of the issued capital to place items on the General Meeting of Shareholders agenda, these will be honored provided they are submitted to Corbion at least forty-five days prior to the date of the meeting. Pursuant to Dutch law, the record date for the exercise of voting rights and rights relating to General Meetings of Shareholders is set as the 28th day prior to the day of the meeting. Shareholders registered on such date are entitled to attend the meeting and to exercise the other shareholder rights (in the meeting in question) notwithstanding subsequent sale of their shares thereafter. This date will be published in advance of every General Meeting of Shareholders. Main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate to: • the appointment, suspension, and dismissal of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board; • approval of the remuneration policy for the Board of Management; • approval of the remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board; • the adoption of the annual Financial Statements and approval of dividends; • discharge from liability of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board; • issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders, and repurchase or cancellation of shares; • the appointment of the external auditor; • amendments to the Articles of Association; • approval of decisions of the Board of Management that would entail a significant change in the identity or character of Corbion or its business. Voting rights Shareholders have voting rights in proportion to the number of shares held and there are no restrictions on the voting rights on the company's shares. Each share is entitled to one vote. Subject to certain exceptions provided by Dutch law or the Corbion Articles of Association (as outlined below), decisions at the General Meeting of Shareholders will be taken by an absolute majority of the votes cast without a requirement for a quorum. 53 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE According to the Dutch law and the company's Articles of Association, the following decisions of the General Meeting of Shareholders require a larger majority or a quorum: • Unless proposed by all members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management, any resolution to amend the Articles of Association or to wind up the company, shall require a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast provided at least two-thirds of the issued capital is represented. • Any resolution to restrict or exclude the pre-emptive right in respect of ordinary shares or to designate the Board of Management, shall require a majority of at least two-thirds of the votes cast if less than half of the issued capital is represented at the meeting. • Any resolution to make a binding nomination for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management non-binding, shall require an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. If a nomination has been made non-binding, the General Meeting of Shareholders may only appoint a person other than the nominees by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. • Any resolution to suspend or dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management, shall require an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. • Any resolution to approve (amendments to) the remuneration policy of the Board of Management, shall require a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast. • Any resolution to approve (amendments to) the remuneration policy of the Supervisory Board, shall require a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast. Amendment of the Articles of Association Decisions to amend the Articles of Association of the company may only be taken at a General Meeting of Shareholders in which at least two-thirds of the issued capital is represented and by a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast, unless the proposal has been submitted by all members of the Board of Management in office with the collective approval of all members of the Supervisory Board in office, in which case the decision may be taken by an absolute majority of votes, regardless of the represented capital. Issuance and repurchase of shares At the 2019 annual General Meeting of Shareholders it was resolved to authorize the Board of Management, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue shares or grant rights to acquire shares in the company as well as to restrict or exclude the pre-emptive right accruing to shareholders up to and including 13 November 2020. This authorization is limited to a maximum of 10% of the number of shares issued as at 13 May 2019. Furthermore, an authorization was granted for another 10% of the number of shares issued as at 13 May 2019 in the event of mergers, acquisitions, and/or strategic alliances. Furthermore, at the 2019 annual General Meeting of Shareholders it was resolved to authorize the Board of Management, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to acquire shares in the company within the limits of the Articles of Association and within a certain price range up to and including 13 November 2020. This authorization is limited to a maximum of 10% of the number of shares issued as at 13 May 2019. External auditor An independent audit firm is appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The external auditor is responsible for auditing the Financial Statements of Corbion. On 25 May 2018, the General Meeting of Shareholders appointed KPMG Accountants N.V. as external auditor for the company for the financial year 2019. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 54 Capital structure As at 31 December 2019, 59,242,792 ordinary shares of € 0.25 each had been issued, including 423,202 ordinary shares held by Corbion. The ordinary shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. No restrictions apply to the transfer of shares. Substantial shareholdings Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht), the following notifications of capital interest in Corbion as at 31 December 2019 were reported: Capital interest Voting interest 1 NN Group N.V. 15.01% 2 Artemis Investment Management LLP 5.08% 3 Lansdowne Partners Limited 5.02% 4 RWC European Focus Master Inc. 5.01% 5 ASR Nederland N.V. 4.99% 6 J.O. Hambro Capital Management Limited 4.99% 7 Kabouter Management LLC 3.20% 8 Norges Bank 3.19% 9 Paradice Investment Management PTY 3.07% 2.44% 10 PrimeStone Capital LLP 2.96% 11 T. Row Price Group Inc. 2.85% 12 BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA/ BNP Paribas Asset Management Holding 2.82% 2.74% NB: As at 31 December 2019 Corbion had a capital interest of 0.71%. Compliance with the Code Corbion is committed to embedding the Code principles within the company, thereby abiding by the core concepts of good business practices, integrity, openness, and transparent and wellsupervised management. Important changes in the corporate governance structure are presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders for discussion. With the exception of the deviations outlined in the paragraphs below, Corbion endorses and adheres to the principles and best practices of the Code. With respect to best practice provision 3.1.2 vi of the Code, Corbion applies share ownership requirements instead of holding restrictions. The Supervisory Board believes that a mandatory share ownership leads to a more sustainable build-up and alignment of the interests of the members of the Board of Management and the shareholders. As long as a member of the Board of Management does not comply with the share ownership requirements, vested shares received under share plans will be kept in a restricted account and cannot be traded. Corbion departs furthermore with regard to the possible financing of income tax on vested shares under the share plan by allowing selling part of the vested shares in deviation of the share ownership requirements. 55 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE With respect to cancelling the binding nature of a nomination or dismissal (best practice provision 4.3.3), Corbion deviates as follows. The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. In contrast with the Code, no second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. In contrast with the Code, no second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The full text of the Code applicable to the company in 2019 can be viewed at: www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports/Corporate Governance Statement Section 2a of the Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports (Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud bestuursverslag) requires companies to publish a statement concerning their approach to corporate governance and compliance with the Code. The information required to be included in this corporate governance statement as described in Sections 3, 3a, and 3b of this decree is included in this Corporate governance section. The information on the company’s risk management and control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, as required by Section 3a sub a of this decree, can be found in the Risk management section. Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive The information required by the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive (Besluit artikel 10 overnamerichtlijn), to the extent applicable to the company, is included in this Corporate governance section and the notes referred to in this section, as well as the paragraph below. The contractual conditions of most of the company’s key financing agreements and notes issued (potentially) entitle the banks and noteholders respectively to claim early repayment of the amounts borrowed by the company in the event of a change of control over the company (as defined in the respective agreement). With respect to agreements entered into with members of the Board of Management that provide for payment upon termination of their employment following a public bid, please refer to the description of the remuneration policy on Corbion's website. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 56 Decree Disclosure Non-Financial Information Section 2 Subsection 1 of the Decree Disclosure Non-Financial Information (Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie) requires companies to publish a statement concerning non-financial information. The information required to be included in the management report as described in Section 3 of this decree, which is incorporated and repeated here by reference, can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: • A description of the business model of the company can be found in the section Who we are and what we do/Our strategy 2018-2021 • A description of the company’s non-financial key performance indicators relevant to the company’s activities can be found in the sections Who we are and what we do/Our strategy 2018-2021, Our performance/Sustainability performance, and Sustainability statements • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding environmental matters as well as the main risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Our performance/Sustainability performance • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding social and employee matters as well as the main risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Sustainability statements/Human capital • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding respect for human rights as well as the main risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Sustainability statements/Human rights • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding anticorruption and anti-bribery matters as well as the main risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section How we safeguard long-term value/Risk management/Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Risk management Framework Our approach to risk management Given the complexity of worldwide operations in various markets and jurisdictions, Corbion needs to ensure timely identification and effective management of all significant risks inherent to the execution of its strategy to support the realization of its objectives. Corbion has an enterprisewide risk management (ERM) program in place to preserve its reputation, assets, competitive edge, and profits. ERM is the process of systematically identifying, analyzing, evaluating, and addressing risks that may impact the achievement of Corbion's objectives. Our approach to risk management aims to achieve a reasonable level of assurance to realize our objectives, in line with the Enterprise Risk Management framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our approach aims to embed risk awareness and risk management at all levels of Corbion to ensure that decisions are taken with conscious evaluation of the inherent risks in relation to the risk appetite. Risk management is an integral part of running the business and therefore owned by line management (first line of defense). Our risk management approach covers strategic, operations, compliance, and reporting risks, which can be illustrated as follows. 57 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE The implementation of the main COSO framework elements is explained below. Control environment The control environment is the set of standards, processes, culture and structures that provide the basis for carrying out internal control across the organization. The Executive Committee sets the tone at the top regarding the importance of internal control including expected standards of conduct. An important principle of the control environment is the commitment of the Executive Committee to integrity and ethical values, which is demonstrated by the programs mentioned below. Business conduct / compliance Business conduct program Guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, our Code of Business Conduct (which is available in six languages) describes principles with respect to personal and business conduct, asset protection, employment standards, and our commitment to sustainability and sets out the expected standard of behavior of all Corbion employees. This Code serves as an umbrella for underlying policies which cover in more detail areas such as competition law, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, privacy, economic sanctions, and insider trading. Corbion has a network of regional Business Conduct Coordinators who support embedding of the Code of Business Conduct and the underlying policies in local operations. Besides this, they function as a local point of contact for management and staff. All HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 58 Corbion employees need to follow annually a mandatory training (either through e-learning or class room training) with respect to the Code of Business Conduct. In addition, selected groups of employees need to follow every two years mandatory e-learning trainings with respect to anticorruption and competition law. A breach of the Code of Business Conduct can lead to disciplinary actions, including termination of employment. Under the Corbion Speak Up Policy, Corbion employees are able to report (potential) violations of the Code of Business Conduct to their manager or a Business Conduct Coordinator. Next to that, the Corbion Speak Up Line, which is available 24/7 and operated by an independent service provider, allows employees to report issues anonymously. In 2019, Corbion launched its External Speak Up Helpline which is a dedicated channel available to Corbion’s external stakeholders (such as customers, suppliers, communities, distributors, and agents) where they can raise concerns about (suspected) violations of the Corbion Code of Business Conduct, Corbion's Supplier Code, Corbion's Cane Sugar Code or any applicable laws. In 2019, 26 complaints with respect to the Code of Business Conduct were reported, of which 20 had merits. Appropriate measures have been taken by management. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption For Corbion as a listed company operating worldwide, compliance with anti-bribery and anticorruption laws is key, given the consequences of non-compliance therewith. Our policy with respect to anti-bribery and anti-corruption is laid down in our Gifts, Entertainment, and Third-Party Payments Policy (which is available in six languages). This policy covers (i) prohibition of offering, authorizing, or accepting bribes, (ii) rules for how to deal with giving and receiving gifts and entertainment, and (iii) rules for how to deal with third-party payments (agents and distributors, facilitation payments, sponsorships, political contributions). At Corbion, we are committed to maintaining good relations with our customers, suppliers, and other business partners. In this context we acknowledge the business custom of exchanging small gifts and invitations to dinners or social activities in order to initiate, develop, or sustain good business relations. All Corbion colleagues should however ensure that the gifts and entertainment that we offer or receive are not, or could not be perceived as, a bribe. All Corbion colleagues as well as our agents, distributors, and other representatives are prohibited from offering, authorizing, or accepting bribes of any kind. Any gifts and entertainment must be for legitimate business purposes, of a reasonable value, and appropriate to the business relationship, and be given or accepted at an appropriate time. If the nominal value of a gift exceeds a certain threshold, prior approval of the employee's manager is required. Prior management approval is always required for entertainment (with the exception of business meals) and travel and overnight accommodation. Corbion has a procedure in place for engaging with agents and distributors. This means that due diligence questionnaires need to be filled out which are being assessed by the Legal & Compliance Department. Furthermore, higher management approval is required. The agent and distributor should sign an agency or distribution agreement and accept the Corbion anti-corruption/bribery clauses contained therein. Risk appetite Part of the control environment is the definition by the Executive Committee of the risk appetite of the company. Our risk appetite is the amount of risk we are willing to accept to achieve our strategic goals. This requires adequate understanding and awareness of potential risks and their magnitude within the company. The level of risk appetite is set by the Executive Committee. Our risk appetite can be summarized as follows. 59 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE The impact on EBITDA in millions of euros of a 1% change in net sales, costs, profit, and currency changes is reflected as follows. Approx. EBITDA impact (millions Change of euros) Net sales +1% / -1% +/4.6 Gross profit +1% / -1% +/3.1 Operating costs (= selling expenses + R&D costs + G&A expenses) +1% / -1% +/1.6 USD +1% / -1% +/1.2 YEN +1% / -1% +/0.2 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 60 Risk assessment As an integral part of the strategy review, the Executive Committee annually performs an entitywide risk assessment to assess the strategic risks, with a mid-year update for significant changes. Furthermore, risk assessment is an integral part of the project stage-gate methodology applied at Corbion for strategic initiatives and related investments. Derived from the strategic risks, the Executive Committee selects a number of key management activities with an increased focus in 2020 on further strengthening our control framework. This is discussed with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Operations, reporting, and compliance risks are considered throughout the organization, with ownership lying with the line organization (first line of defense). Risk committees have been established to monitor specific risks to stay within Corbion’s risk appetite (Treasury Risk Committee, Commodity Pricing Risk Committee). The financial reporting risks are assessed on a regular basis and the outcome of this assessment forms the input for the Corbion internal control framework on financial reporting (see paragraph Internal control systems). For more information on financial risk management and financial instruments see Note 26 of the Financial statements. 61 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Key risk areas The table below summarizes the top risks that have the focused attention of the Executive Committee to support the realization of the strategic targets. For each risk the table lists the potential impact as well as a summary of mitigation measures taken to address them. There may be other risks currently unknown to Corbion, or currently believed not to be material, which could ultimately have a major impact on Corbion's business, objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity, or capital resources. Corbion top risks Risk event Cause and potential impact Mitigation actions Strategic risks Algae Ingredients Algae-based ingredients for food and feed offer a Corbion’s strategy is to develop new algae-based business development promising plant-based solution with a view to the solutions with strong partners who have the power increasing sustainability concerns and the to increase market adoption. potentially reduced availability of resources currently used. The performance of the algae business is closely monitored on executive level to enable timely action Algae-based solutions, however, are in an early to support the realization of the strategic targets. stage of development. Significant efforts have to be made to reach the proper level of market adoption, For new algae-based solutions the same disciplined especially because animal-based alternatives are approach is followed as for business development in still more economical. general as described below. Business development Business development is one of the key drivers of Corbion is following a disciplined investment underperformance Corbion's Creating Sustainable Growth strategy. approach to these major business development Corbion is investing in new platforms of growth such initiatives through actions like: as PLA and FDCA, for which the pace of market strict project management approach supported by adoption is inherently uncertain given the early a well-established stage-gate development development stage of these initiatives. methodology; regular project status reviews with direct involvement at Executive Committee level; alignment of investment pace with market development; involvement of innovation / business partners to share business development risk and increase speed and likelihood of success. Business interruption Corbion embarked on a multi year (2017 – 2021) Corbion considers project CUBE as one of the key due to new ERP platform project to replace the existing ERP systems by a initiatives for change management which will be new, global ERP platform (project CUBE, based on implemented in the years to come. The project is SAP S/4HANA). As this new system addresses staffed with dedicated experienced project nearly all of the core transactional processes, such management (resources from both internal and transition if not prepared and/or managed well, external system integrator), applies strict project could lead to major business interruptions. governance procedures, and reports to an Executive Committee-led steering committee. After a careful preparation phase and rigorous testing phase, the new system is currently being implemented using a multi-year phased approach (region by region). The first implementation successfully took place in the second half of 2019 in Asia. Inability to find, develop, To execute the Creating Sustainable Growth Corbion has robust compensation and performance and retain skilled talent strategy, Corbion requires a pool of skilled talent. management processes in place. If Corbion in today's international labor market is not Succession planning is embedded in Corbion to able to attract and retain skilled talent, the ensure a strong pool of talent for the key positions. execution of the strategy may be delayed. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 62 Raw material and energy Failure to manage the price volatility risk of raw The inclusion of price formulas in contracts, frequent price volatility and materials, chemicals, and energy which cannot be monitoring of key materials and energy impact. availability directly passed on to customers due to market Overall raw material risks are mitigated by actively conditions or lack of contractual enforcement, may taking longer-term contract positions where result in adversely impacted gross margins. necessary, by sourcing from different locations/key raw materials, and in the longer run, by considering alternative or second-generation feedstocks. Our global procurement organization, with dedicated finance support, has developed adequate measures to secure contract positions and obtain financial instruments to minimize or delay exposure to cost fluctuations due to changing raw material prices that might impact our margins negatively. These measures include early warnings of possible impact on our organization and our customers. Furthermore, we have implemented a multiple-supplier sourcing policy for our most critical raw materials. Changing customer Our industry is inherently subject to uncertainties Corbion works closely with its customers to identify behavior toward food including evolving diets, reflecting perceptions with trends and develop the right portfolio of solutions to and changing product respect to health and sustainability issues, and address evolving trends. regulations in all subsequent policy responses (regulations). industries in which Corbion is well positioned having several biobased Corbion is active The wide range of industries Corbion is serving add solutions for emerging trends and to address to the complexity. changing product regulations. Operations risks Safety incidents Inherent health and safety hazards in our operations Safety is an integral part of new design and change and insufficient awareness of unsafe plant in product formulations and production processes. A conditions can lead to injuries or casualties and, new policy focused on safety core beliefs, followed potentially, a temporary plant shutdown. by participative workshops, and a program focused on life-changing safety rules, supported by elearning and awareness campaigns have been rolled out. In 2020 Corbion will continue the awareness campaigns, in addition to the roll-out of the ISO 45001 safety standards. Next to this we will start a program with an external consultant to assess our safety culture to further strengthen our safety performance. Corbion fosters an open and transparent culture by encouraging all employees to report, amongst others, all near misses and events in order to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance. Food safety Food safety is of utmost importance to Corbion. Corbion established comprehensive quality Customers need to fully trust the safety of our assurance and control processes to ensure food products. Any issue can have significant impact on safety and to track and trace our products in case of the reputation of the company and can result in any issue. Every site is certified for food safety. significant costs of resolving the issue (for example, in case of a major recall). Where possible, liability caps are included in contracts. A product liability insurance is in place to cover part of the risk. Business interruption An external hazardous event (floods, riots, fires etc.) Business continuity and crisis management plans or internal disruption (e.g. availability of critical spare including contingency sourcing are in place with parts, global supply chain complexity etc.) may ongoing evaluation, based amongst other things on result in a significant period of plant shutdown or highly credible incident identifications for each site. disruption and hence in delayed/non-delivery of our Furthermore, appropriate customer and supplier products to internal and/or external customers, agreements are in place to limit exposure whilst ultimately leading to adverse financial and leveraging supplies. Finally, residual risks are reputational consequences. adequately insured including assets and business continuity risks. 63 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Cybersecurity breach A breach of our IT security might lead to loss of We have implemented an IT governance structure information. including a dedicated corporate information security officer and an information security governance board. The IT general control framework has been updated including amended IT policies. On a frequent basis we perform penetration tests, helping us to identify and correct potential IT security weaknesses. The outcome of these tests helps us to further strengthen our IT security levels. In addition, we reduce our risk exposure by continuously raising IT security awareness with our people (e.g. through e-learning, communications). In 2019 we continued to have a strong IT control environment with our focus on timely application of patches, full implementation of multi-factor authentication, running a Security Operating Center, and segmentation of Corbion’s IT network. Confidential information Failure to protect sensitive information adequately All mitigation actions mentioned above under leakage due to limited physical protective measures, Cybersecurity breach help keep our sensitive inadequate user behavior, or potential cyberattacks information confidential. may result in loss of valuable or sensitive As an additional manual control, non-disclosure information such as trade secrets or intellectual agreements with third parties are in place. property. Compliance risks Non-compliance with Failure to timely detect and anticipate changes in a An adequate quarterly reporting system is in place, applicable tax laws wide variety of tax laws or in the application thereof we hold regular tax meetings, and review tax could adversely affect our ﬁnancial results. compliance of our operating companies. Our global tax control framework warrants compliance. Transfer pricing policy and documentation are in place as well. We seek the advice of external tax experts in compliance matters. Non-compliance with Failure to comply with (changing) laws and Global legal and regulatory compliance programs are legislative and regulations in the markets we operate in. Lack of in place, including related awareness trainings, and regulatory environment insight into and/or awareness of relevant laws and we monitor, review, and report on changes in laws regulations and their requirements may result in and regulations. We seek the advice of external suspension of activities, reputational damage, and experts in compliance matters. exposure to criminal and financial lawsuits. Reporting risks Volatility in currency Failure to manage volatility in the exchange rates of A hedging policy is in place to limit the impact of exchange rates a number of currencies versus the euro, especially volatility in foreign exchange rates. the US dollar, can have a significant impact on our financial results. Hedging the impact of the foreign currency translation risk is partly effectuated through matching with liabilities denominated in foreign currency. Our external debt is partly denominated in US dollars, which partly reduces the equity translation exposure we have against the US dollar. The exposure to transaction risks is partly hedged by offsetting the long/short foreign currency positions through a system of gradually selling and/ or buying these currencies to mitigate the impact of sudden volatility in these currencies. Non-compliance with Not informing our shareholders and other Corporate accounting policies are maintained and International Financial stakeholders in conformity with IFRS might lead to a made available via the Corbion intranet. Our global Reporting Standards lack of trust, reputation damage, a declining share control framework includes financial reporting (IFRS) price, and, possibly, legal claims. controls that warrant compliance with IFRS. For significant entities, the effectiveness is selfassessed every quarter. External best-in-class expert advice is used if/where necessary. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 64 Internal control systems Corbion applies the 3-lines-of-defense model for internal controls. The first line (line management) is responsible for the operational effectiveness of the internal control framework. The second line coordinates, advises, and monitors line management regarding their responsibilities for internal control. The third line is internal audit independently reviewing the control framework. Our internal control framework is not limited to the elements outlined below as these are a summary of controls implemented at local and corporate levels. We apply several control elements of which the effectiveness is self-assessed or monitored by the second and third lines of defense. Business control framework Business controls cover a broad range of policies, procedures, systems, and other measures. They provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency of our operational processes and ensure the output is as expected to support the realization of the company strategy and objectives. On entity level, important elements of the framework are the business planning process and management review. Business planning, budgeting, and management review Based on Corbion's strategy and plans, targets are set for the annual budget. After determining these budgets, the targets are rolled out to the responsibility areas (business units, operations, etc.) within Corbion. Quarterly updated estimates are made based on a forecast until the end of the year. Forecasts are specifically discussed between responsibility area leaders and the Executive Committee during quarterly business review meetings. The Executive Committee monitors business performance on a monthly and quarterly basis using a defined set of key performance indicators and reviews of actual results versus budgets, quarterly estimates, and the previous year. Local entities are visited frequently. Operational management meets at least once a month to discuss their business activities and related risks, the actual performance versus budget, and other significant matters in their respective areas. Legal and regulatory review Local management is responsible for compliance with laws and regulations. The Legal and Compliance Department is consulted by local management on an ongoing basis. Every six months, local management reports the main open legal issues with a potential gross exposure of each exceeding € 100,000 to Corporate Legal and Corporate Finance. Internal control framework on financial reporting General Corbion is committed to maintaining high-quality, reliable financial reporting, and a good control environment. All reporting entities assess the operational effectiveness of their financial closing and reporting processes, at mid-year and end-of-year, confirming compliance with the relevant guidelines and IFRS. This, together with the Letters of Representation, provides reasonable assurance on the integrity of our financial reporting. Self-assessment also includes tax governance and treasury internal controls. 65 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE During 2019, our main legal entities performed quarterly assessments of the design and implementation of their key financial process controls. Improvement recommendations based on audit and self-assessment findings are followed up by local management, the status of which is being monitored regularly by the Executive Committee. Letters of Representation Every six months, managing directors and finance directors of each reporting entity or, where applicable, other senior staff, provide a Letter of Representation to the Board of Management. This letter represents compliance with financial reporting and internal controls. Tax principles Corbion considers paying taxes an important part of our corporate social responsibility. Based on this, and derived from our Code of Business Conduct as part of our corporate governance structure, we have adopted the following tax principles. These tax principles deal with all different types of taxes which we are obliged to report and pay in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including taxes on profits, value added taxes, wage taxes, duties, and various other taxes. Business rationale/transfer pricing Corbion's tax strategy follows from and is aligned with the business strategy and objectives. Consequently, we aim to pay the appropriate amount of tax depending on where value is created in each of the jurisdictions we operate in, following the normal course of commercial activity, and in accordance with domestic and international rules and standards. All our intercompany transfer pricing and policies are based on the arm's length principle. Corbion abstains from setting up structures in countries on the EU list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions or in countries which have been designated as uncooperative tax havens by the OECD Committee on Fiscal Affairs. Relationship with tax authorities We seek to develop mutually respectful relationships with the various national tax authorities based on trust and transparency. To accomplish this we aim for an open and constructive dialogue with the various tax authorities on the basis of disclosure of all relevant facts and circumstances. Within this context, Corbion may negotiate advance tax rulings or advance pricing agreements on the tax treatment of specific transactions in order to obtain advance certainty on the relevant tax consequences. In the Netherlands we concluded a so-called tax covenant (“horizontal monitoring”) with the Dutch tax authorities. Such covenant entails that the tax authorities can rely on Corbion to provide upfront disclosure of all relevant information, while it allows Corbion to get upfront confirmation of applicable tax treatment. Tax governance Within the governance framework, the conduct of the group's tax affairs and the management of tax risks are delegated to the group's tax department with support and assistance from the group and local finance departments. The Audit Committee supervises the activities of the Board of Management with respect to the tax governance framework. Compliance We aim to act at all times in accordance with the letter and the spirit of all applicable tax laws in which we are guided by the relevant local and international standards. Compliance is monitored within a global tax control framework. Corbion complies with its statutory obligations and aims to file all required tax-relevant information with the appropriate tax authorities in a timely, transparent, and complete manner. Tax-related disclosures are made in accordance with the relevant domestic regulations, as well as applicable reporting requirements under IFRS. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 66 Insurance Insurance is an integral part of our risk management approach as it is an instrument to manage the financial consequences of risks. The choice to obtain external insurance cover depends on the cost efficiency of the instrument. The coverage of insurances is monitored and benchmarked regularly. IT general control framework An information technology general control (ITGC) framework is in place which ensures the proper management of IT governance in general, projects and programs, computer operations, and access management. From an IT security perspective, the Information Security Board (including senior management) sets the IT security roadmap. Risk-reducing initiatives in the past year included amongst others a company-wide security awareness program, multi-factor authentication, penetration tests, yearly disaster recovery plan testing of selected systems, and implementation of a security policy and a Security Operating Center. In addition, Corbion continued to strengthen the network segmentation. In case of data security incidents, the data breach committee is notified to ensure proper action and communication with authorities. Audit Internal audit Internal audit supports the organization in accomplishing its objectives by providing a systematic, disciplined approach for the evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of our internal control and governance processes. The Internal Audit Charter is approved by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Supervisory Board. The objective of internal audit is to provide a broad range of audit services designed to assist the Executive Committee in controlling the business operations. Internal audit evaluates risks and assesses that the controls in place are adequate to mitigate the risks identified by management, identifying best practices, and recommending improvement opportunities to management. The audit plan is prepared, discussed, and agreed with relevant stakeholders. The plan has a rolling character so changes in priorities may be applied and the audit plan is updated and discussed periodically at the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee. A summary of all audit reports and the follow-up of open internal audit items are reported to and discussed with the Executive Committee and Audit Committee on a regular basis. External audit Our external financial audit engagement ensures that our financial statements give a true and fair view of our financial position as at 31 December 2019 and of our result and our cash flows for the year then ended. In 2019 the external auditor reviewed the sustainability indicators marked with √ . Contrary to the audit of our financial statements, this review is only aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. 67 Corbion annual report 2019 HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Governance / risk management and responsibility statement Corbion has defined a governance model that identifies clear reporting and accountability structures in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Committee is responsible for: • identifying and analyzing the risks associated with Corbion's strategy and activities; • establishing the risk appetite, as well as ensuring that mitigating measures are being put in place; • the design, implementation, and operation of Corbion's internal risk management and control systems; and • monitoring the operation of the internal risk management and control systems and assessing the design and effectiveness thereof. The Board of Management discusses the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal risk management and control systems with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board annually. The Executive Committee carried out an assessment of the design and effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems, covering strategic, operations, reporting, and compliance risks. Elements that were taken into account included reports from the internal audit function and the external auditor, findings reported under one of our control frameworks, matters reported by the Legal Department, and reports received under our Speak Up Policy. The outcome of this assessment was that no major failings in the internal risk management and control systems were observed in the reporting year, and that no significant changes have been made to these systems. Corbion is continuously strengthening its internal risk management and control systems by various improvement initiatives; no major improvements have been identified for 2020. In 2020, concurrently with the roll-out of the new ERP system (SAP), Corbion will assess the impact of the SAP implementation for Corbion’s control framework and implement improvements where possible by optimally using the application controls of SAP. The findings of the assessment have been discussed with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Risk management statement Corbion’s risk management and internal control systems are designed to identify in a timely manner the risks inherent to our strategic, operations, compliance, and reporting objectives and to determine appropriate risk responses as described above. Risk management and actions taken in the year under review were reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Internal representations received from management, regular management reviews, evaluations of the design and implementation of our risk management and internal control systems, and business and Audit Committee reviews are an integral part of Corbion’s risk management approach. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute certainty as to the realization of strategic, operations, compliance, and reporting objectives, nor that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud, and noncompliance with laws and regulations. HOW WE SAFEGUARD LONG-TERM VALUE Corbion annual report 2019 68 On the basis thereof, and as explained in the section Risk management of the Annual Report, the Board of Management, with reference to best-practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, states that to the best of its knowledge: • the Annual Report provides sufficient insight into material failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems; • the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies; • based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and • the Annual Report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the Annual Report. Responsibility statement With reference to Section 25c Subsection 2 sub c of Chapter 5 of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht), the Board of Management states that to the best of its knowledge: • the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and earnings of Corbion and its group companies included in the Financial Statements; and • the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position of Corbion as at the balance sheet date, the developments during the financial year of Corbion and its group companies included in the Financial Statements, and a description of principal risks that Corbion faces. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2020 Board of Management Olivier Rigaud, Chief Executive Officer Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, Chief Financial Officer TOGETHER, MORE IS POSSIBLE The greatest value is lasting value. The most sustainable solutions deliver economic value while considering tomorrow. But sometimes what it takes to actually bring a breakthrough technology to life is having the right partner. Collaboration can make the difference. Corbion demonstrated the power of co-creation in dramatic fashion when we were presented with the Bio-Based Product of the Year Award by Bio Market Insights in April 2019 for our SENTIALL® biotechnology. SENTIALL is a versatile co-polymer platform that delivers specific, high-value functionalities such as adhesion or controlled release in a range of industries, encompassing pharmaceutical, biomedical, agrochemical, cosmetics, and household applications. In accepting the award, we were accompanied by our collaborators from Green-Basilisk, a spin-off of Delft University of Technology (TU Delft), with whom we co-developed an exciting application for the construction industry: self-healing concrete. An idea in need of a solution The concept was born when a team at TU Delft discovered how to manufacture a micro-organism that, when exposed to oxygen and water, would fill any cracks in concrete by converting substrates into limestone, thereby repairing those cracks automatically. Integrating this bacteria into virgin concrete, or applying it to cracks formed in existing concrete, would provide a means of “self-healing” in these structures. The team experienced technical challenges, however, when using the self-healing concrete in practice; during the making, pouring and curing of the concrete, the substrate used failed to survive the process. So TU Delft (and later, its commercial spin-out, Green-Basilisk) partnered with Corbion to explore substrate alternatives that might overcome the technical hurdles experienced with the initial prototypes. The solution was found in Corbion’s SENTIALL® controlled release technology, which provided a key component of the self-healing mechanism through an oligomer that releases the substrate when a crack occurs without affecting the setting time or the strength of the concrete. “Thanks to Corbion's contribution, the bacteria are only released when cracks appear in the concrete,” says Bart van der Woerd, managing director of Green-Basilisk. “When the coating breaks off, it immediately serves as food for the bacteria.” The result offers dramatic improvements in the durability of concrete structures, reduces costly maintenance and repairs, and helps to safeguard the integrity of tunnels, bridges, viaducts, and other structures affecting public safety. Just the beginning By actively co-creating with experts in diverse disciplines and industries, Corbion is adapting the capabilities of SENTIALL technology to deliver efficiencies and product lifespans never before possible through sustainable solutions of lasting value. By fine-tuning polymer architecture, SENTIALL can help yield specific properties such as flowability, adhesion, flexibility, toughness, or impact resistance. Controlled release may be triggered by many different mechanisms such as mechanical force, hydrolysis or melting, depending on the application. In other words, the SENTIALL biotechnology is as promising as our next partner’s market-shifting idea. “We do not focus on the end market, but actively look for partners who want to improve their products or make them more sustainable with our copolymers,” says Frederik Feddes, VicePresident of Biochemicals at Corbion. “When we combine our strengths and share a sense of urgency with the right partner, we can make things happen that never could before.” 71 Corbion annual report 2019 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Board of Management and Executive Committee in performing their management tasks and setting the direction of the business of Corbion. In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board is guided by the interests of the company and its stakeholders. The Rules of the Supervisory Board are available on Corbion's website. Overview 2019 After having served as CEO for five years, Tjerk de Ruiter handed over his responsibilities on 8 August 2019 to Olivier Rigaud, who was appointed as CEO by the shareholders for a term until May 2023. The Supervisory Board would like to express its gratitude to Tjerk de Ruiter who has led Corbion since 2014 and delivered great results not only in raising the performance of Corbion in terms of profitability and growth, but also in creating one culture from separate businesses. The Supervisory Board is delighted that Olivier Rigaud has joined Corbion, and is convinced he will be able to successfully lead Corbion through the next stage of its development as an innovative sustainable ingredient solutions company. From a financial perspective, 2019 was on the one hand a good year with a strong delivery of Adjusted EBITDA which showed an organic increase of 7.8% compared to 2018. In terms of organic sales growth, we saw an acceleration of the growth during the year which forms a solid basis for the coming years. On the other hand, the Algae Ingredients business performed below expectations resulting in a non-cash impairment. On 25 March 2019, Corbion announced that it had entered into an agreement with the shareholders of Granotec do Brazil to acquire full ownership of the company. Granotec do Brazil is a leading specialist in functional blends for the Brazilian bakery industry. This acquisition fits perfectly in our strategy of expanding the bakery business geographically by extending the North American Bakery solution provider model into Latin America. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Executive Committee and all Corbion employees around the world for their dedication, loyalty, and hard work in 2019. Composition of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board are Mathieu Vrijsen (Chairman), Rudy Markham (Vice-Chairman), Liz Doherty, Jack de Kreij, and Steen Riisgaard. Brief resumes of the members of the Supervisory Board are available under the section Corporate governance/Supervisory Board of the Annual Report. The profile and diversity policy of the Supervisory Board are available on Corbion's website. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Corbion annual report 2019 72 Jack de Kreij and Liz Doherty were re-appointed as members of the Supervisory Board at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 13 May 2019. Liz Doherty was appointed for a new term of four years, and Jack de Kreij for a new term of two years. On 5 December 2019, Corbion announced the nomination of Stefanie Schmitz as Supervisory Board member, subject to her appointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 11 May 2020. On 10 February 2020, Corbion announced the nomination of Ilona Haaijer as Supervisory Board member, subject to her appointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 11 May 2020. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the independence requirements referred to in best practice provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code have been fulfilled. Diversity and competence matrix for the Supervisory Board Mathieu Rudy Jack de Steen Vrijsen Markham Liz Doherty Kreij Riisgaard Diversity Nationality Dutch British British Dutch Danish Year of birth 1947 1946 1957 1959 1951 Gender M M F M M Competences Company | Geographical Listed company experience x x x x x Worked in businesses comparable to Corbion: (food) ingredients x x x and biochemicals International experience x x x x x Lived in other geographical area x x x Functional management General management x x x x x Strategy development x x x x x Commercial experience x Finance/IT x x x Internal audit x x Operations/Manufacturing x x R&D/Innovation x x x Human resources x x Sustainability x x x Governance/Compliance x x x x x Risk management x x x x x 73 Corbion annual report 2019 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Meetings of the Supervisory Board During the year under review the Supervisory Board held six regular meetings and three conference-call meetings. The Board of Management attended these meetings. In addition to these meetings, two conference-call meetings were held to discuss the succession of the CEO (without the presence of the Board of Management). The Supervisory Board also met regularly in the absence of the Board of Management to discuss, amongst others, developments in the financial results and the composition and functioning of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management. Members of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the members of the Executive Committee, business leaders, and members of corporate staff. The external auditor attended the meeting of 5 March 2019, at which the 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements were recommended for adoption by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the CEO and CFO either in person or by phone, for bilateral discussions about the progress of the company on a variety of matters. Attendance at the in-person meetings held in 2019 was almost 100%; Liz Doherty was not able to attend one meeting and she spoke separately with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board beforehand. Mathieu Vrijsen was not able to attend one meeting and he spoke separately with Rudy Markham, the Vice-Chairman, beforehand. Attendance at the conference-call meetings was also almost 100%. Rudy Markham and Steen Riisgaard were not able to attend one conferencecall meeting and spoke separately with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board beforehand. As in previous years all members of the Supervisory Board were able to make themselves sufficiently available to give adequate attention to the needs of Corbion. Activities of the Supervisory Board The discussions at the Supervisory Board meetings covered frequently recurring topics, such as reports of its committees, strategy, developments in financial results, business developments, quarterly interim management statements, acquisitions and divestments, key investments, annual budget, internal risk management and control systems, succession planning of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management, remuneration for the members of the Board of Management, corporate governance, investor relations, culture and values, the Financial Statements, and the Annual Report. In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil, the ERP migration project, the succession of Tjerk de Ruiter as CEO, and the appointment of Olivier Rigaud as new CEO. The Supervisory Board has been closely involved in the strategy review that was initiated by the new CEO, and resulted in the presentation of the updated long-term strategy at the Capital Markets Day in March 2020. The draft strategy update and the principal risks associated with it have been discussed in several meetings. Constructive discussions were held with the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board played an active role in challenging and testing the ideas of the Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee visited Corbion’s plants in Orindiúva and Araucária in Brazil and met with local management and other colleagues. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Corbion annual report 2019 74 Evaluation The Supervisory Board conducted a self-evaluation of its own functioning, the functioning of its committees, and that of its members. Included was also it’s relation to and with the Board of Management and its members. This was done by means of structured interviews with all members of the Supervisory Board. A report of the evaluation, including observations, recommendations and the implementation of the agreed 2019 attention areas, was discussed by the Supervisory Board. General observations are in line with previous years indicating an open and constructive interaction between members of the Supervisory Board focused on the business at hand and taking timely decisions when required. The Supervisory Board feels sufficiently informed and involved by the Board of Management, and is positive about the interaction and dynamics while the committees function as expected with experienced Supervisory Board members. The selfevaluation underlined the importance of aligned priorities between the Supervisory Board and Board of Management, especially in view of the updated strategy and the implementation thereof. Topics for the 2020 agenda are geared at safety, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the updated strategy and the key strategic projects and initiatives, providing further guidance and support to the Board of Management in the first year of implementing the updated strategy, monitoring the business progress of Algae Ingredients, top-line growth and plan for the further succession planning of the Supervisory Board. Given the CEO change in August 2019, the Board of Management has decided to conduct a self-evaluation of its own functioning and that of its members mid-2020. Committees of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has appointed from among its members an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, an Appointment and Governance Committee, and a Science and Technology Committee. The committees’ role is to prepare the decision-making of the Supervisory Board. The charters of the committees are available on Corbion's website. Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Jack de Kreij (Chairman) and Liz Doherty. In 2019 the Audit Committee met five times in the presence of the external auditor, the CFO, the VP Group Finance, and the Senior Director Internal Audit. Other heads of departments (e.g. Treasury, Tax, Legal, and IT) were invited when the Audit Committee deemed it necessary and appropriate. The Audit Committee also held private individual meetings with respectively the CFO, the Senior Director Internal Audit, and the external auditor. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2019 was 100%. The agenda at the Audit Committee meetings covered, amongst other subjects, annual and halfyear figures, interim management statements, accounting matters, IFRS changes, sustainability reporting, internal risk management and control systems, tax matters (including tax control framework), financing, treasury and insurance, pensions, IT (including cybersecurity), the ERP migration project, status of legal claims and litigations, status of the Business Conduct program, notifications received under the whistleblower procedure, preliminary discussions on the potential impairment of Algae Ingredients internal audit plan, the management letter, and reports of the internal and external auditors. Furthermore, several presentations by members of the Executive Committee and other representatives of the organization were held regarding certain key risks for Corbion. 75 Corbion annual report 2019 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The core task of the Audit Committee was to extensively review the financial reports and budget before consideration by the full Supervisory Board. Both Jack de Kreij and Liz Doherty continued to act as financial experts (as defined in clause 2.6 of the Charter of the Audit Committee). The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was reviewed as part of the 2019 overall evaluation of the Supervisory Board which confirmed that the Audit Committee continues to function in line with the requirements in this respect. The Audit Committee closely monitors the independence of the external auditor. It evaluates the performance of the external auditor on a yearly basis and where appropriate recommends to the Supervisory Board the replacement of the external auditor. Furthermore, the Audit Committee submits a proposal to the Supervisory Board with respect to the fees for all audit services to be performed by the external auditor as requested by the Board of Management. Appointment and Governance Committee The Appointment and Governance Committee consists of Mathieu Vrijsen (Chairman), Rudy Markham, and Steen Riisgaard. The Appointment and Governance Committee met five times in 2019 in the presence of the EVP Human Resources and the Company Secretary. The CEO was invited to join certain parts of these meetings. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2019 was almost 100%. Mathieu Vrijsen was not able to attend one meeting and he spoke separately with Rudy Markham, the Vice-Chairman, beforehand. In addition to these meetings, multiple conference-call meetings and informal meetings were held to discuss the succession of the CEO. The Appointment and Governance Committee discussed, amongst other subjects, the size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, the succession plans for the Supervisory Board (including transition periods) and members of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, the performance of the Board of Management and its members, talent management, succession planning for senior management, people strategy, culture and values, the profile of the Supervisory Board, and the diversity policy for the Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, as well as governance matters. Furthermore, the succession of the CEO was extensively discussed. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of Rudy Markham (Chairman), Mathieu Vrijsen, and Steen Riisgaard. The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2019 in the presence of the EVP Human Resources and the Company Secretary. The CEO was invited to join certain parts of these meetings. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2019 was almost 100%. Mathieu Vrijsen was not able to attend one meeting, and he spoke separately with Rudy Markham beforehand. In addition to these meetings, multiple conference-call meetings and informal meetings were held to discuss the succession of the CEO. The Remuneration Committee discussed, amongst other subjects, the remuneration report, the remuneration for the members of the Board of Management, the level of achievement of the 2018 Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) targets for the members of the Board of Management, the progress of the STIP 2019 targets and the targets of the running Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) programs, and the target setting for the STIP 2020 and the LTIP 2019-2022. The members of the Board of Management gave a view on their own remuneration and the remuneration levels of the Executive Committee were reviewed. Furthermore, the succession of the CEO was extensively discussed. The Remuneration Committee, having obtained the appropriate external advice, worked on a proposal for a new remuneration policy for the Board of Management, which will be submitted for approval at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2020. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Corbion annual report 2019 76 Science and Technology Committee The Science and Technology Committee consists of Steen Riisgaard (Chairman) and Mathieu Vrijsen. The Science and Technology Committee met three times in 2019 in the presence of the CTO, other members of the Executive Committee, and members of the R&D leadership team. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2019 was almost 100%. Mathieu Vrijsen was not able to attend one meeting. The agenda at these meetings covered, amongst other subjects, Science Based Targets, Corbion's innovation KPIs, the global strategic action plan for application research, technology, and science (ARTS), core technologies and competences, innovation portfolio overview for Innovation Platforms and Ingredient Solutions, and external technology trends. Financial Statements 2019 The Financial Statements prepared by the Board of Management for the financial year 2019 have been audited by KPMG Accountants N.V. The auditor’s findings on the Financial Statements have been discussed with the Board of Management, the Audit Committee, and the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has accepted the Financial Statements and recommends that they be adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The members of the Supervisory Board have signed the Financial Statements pursuant to their statutory obligation under Section 101 Subsection 2 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2020 Supervisory Board Mathieu Vrijsen, Chairman Rudy Markham, Vice-Chairman Liz Doherty Jack de Kreij Steen Riisgaard 77 Corbion annual report 2019 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Board of Management Remuneration policy and its implementation in 2019 To ensure Corbion’s development as a successful sustainable ingredient solutions company, the objective of the remuneration policy for the Board of Management is to create internationally competitive remuneration packages and employment conditions, which align the interests of the Board of Management with the strategic direction and horizon of the company, with a strong emphasis on performance-related pay and long-term value creation. The policy is in place since 2015 and was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in that same year. An update of the policy was approved at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2018. The full remuneration policy is available on our website www.corbion.com. This section describes how the remuneration policy has been implemented in 2019. The implementation of the remuneration policy contributes to long-term value creation, as the long-term incentive for the Board of Management is aimed at longer-term value creation in line with stakeholder interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. To ensure that short-term performance also leads to sustainable long-term value creation, the shortterm and long-term incentive performance metrics are aligned. In implementing the remuneration policy scenario analyses have been taken into consideration. Remuneration reference levels The total compensation levels (base salary, short-term incentive, long-term incentive) and pay mix are based on a combined reference group of comparable European biotechnology companies and Dutch general industry companies (AMX and smaller AEX). Every two years a reference check is performed to independently benchmark the total compensation levels with market levels; this was done for the first time in 2017. Based on this benchmark no major changes in remuneration levels and policies (pay mix, incentive design) were proposed. Base salary Members of the Board of Management are entitled to a base salary. Based on median market data the base salary for the CEO will be set between € 500,000 and € 600,000. For the CFO base pay is set between € 300,000 and € 400,000. The individual pay of the members of the Board of Management will be determined by the Supervisory Board within the boundaries of the aforementioned ranges (from time to time). There are no automatic annual increases in the base salary levels. As per 1 April 2019, the annual base salary for Tjerk de Ruiter (stepped down as CEO on 8 August 2019) amounted to € 600,000 and that for Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot (CFO) € 400,000. The annual base salary for the newly appointed CEO, Olivier Rigaud (CEO as of 8 August 2019) amounts to € 550,000. REMUNERATION REPORT Corbion annual report 2019 78 Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a short-term incentive. The STIP rewards operational execution and is aimed at strengthening and growing the Corbion business. It is determined by the following targets: EBITDA, earnings per share (EPS) (both as defined in the policy), and sustainability. EBITDA will account for 70% of the total STIP, EPS for 20%, and the remaining 10% will be determined by sustainability. A range of 30% around each performance target (or such lower percentage as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set annually to determine the actual payout. The STIP payout at target level is set at 50% of base salary for the CEO, and 40% for the CFO. For 2019, the Supervisory Board applied the range of 30% for actual payout as follows: the threshold level was set at 85% and the maximum level at 115% for each target. An actual payout level of 128.1% has been achieved for the EBITDA target, 0% for EPS, and 100% for sustainability in the year under review. This has led to a total payout of 99.7% of the at-target STIP for both Tjerk de Ruiter and Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot as well as for Olivier Rigaud on a pro-rata basis. The Supervisory Board has decided to use its discretionary authority in accordance with the remuneration policy to grant to Olivier Rigaud an additional 5% cash pay-out over 2019 (pro-rata) based on successfully initiating and proposing the new strategy and preparing the implementation thereof. The Supervisory Board has decided to use its discretionary authority in accordance with the remuneration policy to apply for Tjerk de Ruiter a minus 5% cash pay-out over 2019 (pro-rata) due to the Algae Ingredients business performing below expectations. Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The long-term incentive for the Board of Management is aimed at longer-term value creation in line with stakeholder interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. To ensure that short-term performance also leads to sustainable long-term value creation, the LTIP performance measurements are fully aligned with the STIP: EBITDA will account for 60% and EPS for 20% of the LTIP. In addition, 20% of the LTIP is determined by relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) as compared to a specific TSR peer group. The CEO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 100% of base salary. The CFO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 80% of base salary. Meeting the performance target(s) will result in an LTIP payout at target level. A range of 50% around the performance target(s) (or such lower percentage as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set for the EBITDA and EPS performance to determine the actual payout. For TSR performance, threshold payout is set at reaching the 8th position in the peer group. Based on independent analysis by a leading bank in the Netherlands the TSR performance of Corbion versus the TSR peer group will be assessed after the three-year performance period. The number of conditionally granted but not yet vested shares as per 1 January 2019 for each of the members of the Board of Management is as follows. 79 Corbion annual report 2019 REMUNERATION REPORT Shares awarded, not vested per 1 January Name, position Specification of the plan 2019 T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO) LTIP 2016-2019 27,404 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 13,951 O. Rigaud, CEO T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO) LTIP 2017-2020 23,585 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 11,772 O. Rigaud, CEO T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO) LTIP 2018-2021 23,576 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 12,259 O. Rigaud, CEO For the LTIP shares conditionally granted under the 2016-2019 plan to Tjerk de Ruiter and Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, an actual payout level of 61% has been achieved for the EBITDA target, 79% for EPS, and 100% for TSR as Corbion ranked 4th in the peer group. This has led to a total payout of 72.4% of the at-target LTIP for both Tjerk de Ruiter and Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot. The number of vested shares received by Tjerk de Ruiter is 19,840 representing a value of € 555,123 at the time of vesting (with a vesting price of € 27.98). The number of vested shares received by Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot is 10,101 representing a value of € 282,626 at the time of vesting (with a vesting price of € 27.98). The members of the Board of Management used the option of selling shares to finance the income tax due on the vested shares. The number of performance shares conditionally granted to Tjerk de Ruiter in 2019 (possible vesting in 2022) is 22,762 representing a value of € 600,006 at the time of the grant (with a grant price of € 26.36). The number of performance shares conditionally granted to Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot in 2019 (possible vesting in 2022) amounts to 12,140 representing a value of € 320,010 at the time of the grant (with a grant price of € 26.36). The number of performance shares conditionally granted to Olivier Rigaud in 2019 (possible vesting in 2022) is 20,865 representing a value of € 550,000 at the time of the grant (with a grant price of € 26.36). The overview below shows the number of conditionally granted but not yet vested shares as per 31 December 2019 for each of the members of the Board of Management, the grant price of the granted shares, and the remaining vesting period. REMUNERATION REPORT Corbion annual report 2019 80 Shares awarded, not vested per 31 December Vesting Name, position Specification of the plan Grant price 2019 date T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO) LTIP 2017-2020 24.38 23,585 May 2020 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 11,772 O. Rigaud, CEO T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO)* LTIP 2018-2021 25.45 17,027 May 2021 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 12,259 O. Rigaud, CEO T. de Ruiter, CEO (former CEO)* LTIP 2019-2022 26.36 8,852 May 2022 E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO 12,140 O. Rigaud, CEO 20,865 *Pro rata entitled to LTIP grant Benefits allowance As a consequence of the use of executive assignment agreements, the company does not provide benefits such as pension (individual retirement), medical or life insurance, or a company car, to members of the Board of Management. That is why each member of the Board of Management is provided with a benefits allowance. This is a fixed annual amount of € 200,000 for a CEO with an international background and € 150,000 for the CFO, to cover the cost of these expenses. Other compensation Tjerk de Ruiter is entitled to a special incentive of € 500,000 per year. This incentive bridges part of the compensation gap between the United States and the Netherlands. The payout will be in cash, under the obligation to purchase Corbion shares for the full net amount. It is subject to a lock-up period ending one year after his Board term ends, for whichever reason. In 2019, an amount of € 500,000 has been paid to Tjerk de Ruiter. Overview remuneration The total annual remuneration for the Board of Management in 2019 amounted to € 3.7 million including STIP over 2019 (2018: € 5.5 million). The table below shows the amounts which the respective member of the Board of Management (i) received/was entitled to in 2019 (base salary, STIP, benefits allowance, relocation costs) and (ii) received/was entitled to in 2019 by way of vesting (LTIP, special incentive). 81 Corbion annual report 2019 REMUNERATION REPORT Special Base Benefits share Other Thousands of euros Year salary STIP LTIP allowance award compensation Relocation Total T. de Ruiter* 2019 600 284 555 200 500 2,139 2018 594 256 1,040 200 1,697 500 4,287 E. van Rhede van der Kloot 2019 398 160 283 150 991 2018 382 133 555 138 1,208 O. Rigaud** 2019 275 151 100 30 556 2018 Total 2019 1,273 595 838 450 500 30 3,686 Total 2018 976 389 1,595 338 1,697 500 5,495 * CEO until 8 August 2019, thereafter Advisor to the Supervisory Board. ** As of 1 July 2019 in service The ratio between the fixed remuneration (base salary and benefits allowance) versus the variable remuneration (STIP, LTIP, and other compensation) is for Tjerk de Ruiter 37% versus 63%, for Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot 55% versus 45%, and for Olivier Rigaud 67% versus 33%. REMUNERATION REPORT Corbion annual report 2019 82 The table below shows the remuneration costs based on the applicable IFRS standard and do not necessarily reflect the actual amounts paid. Other SharePostlongShort-term based employment term Termination IAS 24.17 category employee benefits payments benefits benefits benefits Total Base Pension Other Termination Thousands of euros 2019 salary*** STIP LTIP benefits benefits benefits O. Rigaud ** 410 151 135 696 E. van Rhede van der Kloot 558 160 428 1,146 Total Board of Management 968 311 563 1,842 T. de Ruiter * 811 784 875 2,470 Total former Board of Management 811 784 875 2,470 Total remuneration (former) Board of Management 1,779 1,095 1,438 4,312 Other SharePostlongShort-term based employment term Termination IAS 24.17 category employee benefits payments benefits benefits benefits Total Base Pension Other Termination Thousands of euros 2018 salary*** STIP LTIP benefits benefits benefits T. de Ruiter 804 756 245 1,805 E. van Rhede van der Kloot 530 133 125 788 Total Board of Management 1,334 889 370 2,593 * CEO until 8 August 2019, thereafter Advisor to the Supervisory Board. ** As of 1 July 2019 in service *** Base salary also includes social security contributions and compensation, mainly allowances for expenses 83 Corbion annual report 2019 REMUNERATION REPORT The total remuneration for each (former) member of the Board of Management complies with the remuneration policy for the Board of Management, as it fits within the boundaries of this policy and no deviations from this policy have been applied. Members of the Board of Management are on the payroll of Corbion nv; they did not receive remuneration from a subsidiary or another company whose financials are consolidated by Corbion nv. Corbion does not grant loans, advances, or guarantees to members of the Board of Management. Corbion did not revise or clawback any variable remuneration. No severance payment has been made to members of the Board of Management. Internal pay ratios and five years performance overview In line with good corporate governance practices regarding remuneration policies, Corbion measures on a yearly basis the internal pay ratios within the company. More specifically, Corbion has calculated the pay ratio of the Board of Management to the average company employee. For the Board of Management, the total remuneration cost (based on IFRS) is used (this is change as previously the paid compensation was used). The average remuneration of all Corbion employees is calculated as the total remuneration of all Corbion employees on IFRS basis (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) divided by the average number of Corbion employees on an FTE basis. The average number of FTEs is calculated on a monthly basis. The average remuneration of all Corbion employees in 2019 amounted to € 81,934 (2018: € 77,185). For Olivier Rigaud (who was appointed as CEO as of 8 August 2019), the pay ratio (based on his annualized remuneration) to the average employee is 16.6 and for the CFO it is 14.0 (2018: 10.2). For Tjerk de Ruiter (CEO until 8 August 2019) the pay ratio to the average employee is 30.1 (2018: 23.4). When applying the former calculation method (which was based on actual amounts paid to the Board of Management), the pay ratio for Tjerk de Ruiter would be 29.9 (2018: 61.7) and for the CFO 13.8 (2018: 17.4). The overview below shows, for the last five financial years, the total remuneration (based on IFRS) of the former CEO (given that the current CEO only started in August, information regarding the former CEO is used) and CFO, the average remuneration of all Corbion employees, the internal pay ratios, and the EBITDA and EPS of Corbion. REMUNERATION REPORT Corbion annual report 2019 84 Name, position 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 T. de Ruiter, (Former) CEO (A) 2,285 2,280 (0%) 2,273 (0%) 1,805 (-21%) 2,470 (37%) E.E. Rhede van der Kloot, CFO (B) 787 896 (14%) 989 (10%) 788 (-20%) 1,146 (45%) Average salary employee (C) 84 85 (1%) 82 (-3%) 77 (-6%) 82 (6%) Internal pay ratio (A/C) 27.3 26.9 27.6 23.4 30.1 Internal pay ratio (B/C) 9.4 10.6 12 10.2 14 Adjusted EBITDA 150.3 170.1 (13%) 164.1 (-4%) 131.6 (-20%) 145.9 (11%) EPS 1.3 1.74 (35%) 1.46 (-16%) 0.93 (-36%) 0.44 (-53%) Shares in the capital of the company As at 31 December 2019, Corbion had a capital interest of 0.71%, amounting to 423,202 shares. In 2019, Corbion has neither issued new shares nor repurchased shares for the LTIP programs for the Board of Management and (senior) management and there are no intentions for that in 2020. 85 Corbion annual report 2019 REMUNERATION REPORT Share plans for employees Corbion has an LTIP program for (senior) management, consisting of around 64 employees. The long-term incentive is measured over a performance period of three calendar years. The LTIP financial measurements are the same as for the Board of Management: EBITDA will account for 60% and EPS for 20% of the LTIP. In addition, 20% of the LTIP is determined by relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) as compared to a specific TSR peer group. For certain groups of employees, 30% of the total LTIP is not performance related and is only restricted to continued employment for three years. The number of conditionally granted but not yet vested shares as per 1 January 2019 for the employees jointly is as follows. Shares awarded, not vested per 1 January Specification of the plan 2019 LTIP 2016-2019 69,954 LTIP 2017-2020 77,819 LTIP 2018-2021 81,207 For the LTIP shares conditionally granted under the 2016-2019 plan to the employees jointly, an actual payout level of 61% has been achieved for the EBITDA target, 79% for EPS, and 100% for TSR as Corbion ranked 4th in the peer group. This has led to a total payout of 72.4% of the attarget LTIP for the employees jointly. As 30% of the total LTIP is not performance related and is only restricted to continued employment for three years, the actual payout for Senior Management is 80.7%. The number of vested shares received by the employees and Executive Committee members jointly is 53,972 representing a value of € 1,510,136 at the time of vesting (with a vesting price of € 27.98). The number of performance shares conditionally granted to the employees jointly in 2019 (possible vesting in 2022) is 85,817 representing a value of € 2,262,136 at the time of the grant (with a grant price of € 26.36). The overview below shows the number of conditionally granted but not yet vested shares as per 31 December 2019 for the employees jointly, the grant price of the granted shares, and the remaining vesting period. Shares awarded, not vested per 31 December Specification of the plan Grant price 2019 Vesting date LTIP 2017-2020 24.38 75,320 May 2020 LTIP 2018-2021 25.45 78,272 May 2021 LTIP 2019-2022 26.36 83,263 May 2022 Corbion annual report 2019 86 Remuneration for the Supervisory Board Total remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board in 2019 amounted to € 0.4. million (2018: € 0.4 million). Each member of the Supervisory Board receives an annual base fee of € 50,000; the ViceChairman receives € 60,000 and the Chairman € 70,000. For membership of the Audit Committee an additional fee of € 10,000 applies, and for the Chairman € 15,000. Members of the Appointment and Governance Committee, Remuneration Committee, or Science and Technology Committee receive an additional € 7,000 in fee; the fee for the Chairman of these committees amounts to € 9,000. In addition, members receive reimbursement of expenses. Breakdown remuneration Supervisory Board Short-term IAS 24.17 employee category benefits *) Total Committee Thousands of euros Year Base fee fee M.F.J.P. Vrijsen, Chairman (Chairman Appointment and Governance Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Science and Technology Committee) 2019 70 23 93 2018 70 23 93 R.H.P. Markham, Vice-Chairman (Chairman Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2019 60 16 76 2018 60 16 76 M.E. Doherty (member Audit Committee) 2019 50 10 60 2018 50 10 60 J.P. de Kreij (Chairman Audit Committee) 2019 50 15 65 2018 50 15 65 S. Riisgaard (Chairman Science and Technology Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2019 50 23 73 2018 50 23 73 Total 2019 280 87 367 Total 2018 280 87 367 Members of the Supervisory Board are neither entitled to variable remuneration nor to shares in the company or any option rights relating thereto. The total remuneration for each (former) member of the Supervisory Board complies with the remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board, as it fits within the boundaries of this policy and no deviations from this policy have been applied. Members of the Supervisory Board are on the payroll of Corbion nv.; they did not receive remuneration from a subsidiary or another company whose financials are consolidated by Corbion nv. Corbion does not grant loans, advances, or guarantees to members of the Supervisory Board. CARE-DRIVEN INNOVATION Since the 1960s, Corbion has steadily grown its expertise in polymerization and purification, applying it in the production of patient-friendly biomedical applications. As our knowledge has deepened over time, the benefits we deliver to patients and health care systems have taken on entirely new dimensions. It began with sutures. Creating resorbable polymers delivered as monoor multi-filaments enabled surgeons to close wounds with material that would gradually be absorbed by the body without the added step of suture removal after healing. That business has grown increasingly sophisticated in terms of product offerings and processing technique options. In the 1980s, our ability to fine-tune the building blocks of various PURASORB® polymers led to the creation of controlled release drug delivery systems that enable consistent, appropriate dosage over days, weeks, or months through an implant or a single injection. “Over time, the medical industry has come to recognize and value our degree of expertise in this area,” says Menno Lammers, Vice-President of Medical Biomaterials. “We are known as a trusted collaborator committed to delivering the highest quality products.” New capabilities For years now, Corbion has produced the resorbable polymers to make biodegradable screws, pins, and plates used by surgeons to immobilize bone fractures. While the implants stay in place long enough for bone tissue regeneration to take place and healing to occur, they slowly break down and are absorbed by the body, eliminating a second surgical procedure to remove the devices. Such Corbion products have helped countless patients heal with fewer invasive procedures and reduced trauma. But their relatively low inherent strength and minimal load-bearing capacity has limited the scope of their use to small bone fractures and special cases where patients could go for an extended period of time without standing. The application scope will soon become largely extended, when we bring to market FiberLive®, a patented composite material combining resorbable glass fibers with resorbable polymers and a coupling agent to form the strongest fully resorbable material ever made. Like our other resorbable implant materials, the FiberLive® composite degrades as new bone tissue develops, but initially, it provides load-bearing strength up to six times greater than cortical bone, which is comparable to the strength of metal. Patients will not only avoid secondary surgeries to remove implants, they will also be back on their feet much sooner. Benefits all around Faster healing, consistently delivered medication, fewer complications, less trauma – all contribute to a better health care experience for medical patients, thanks to Corbion expertise. But patients aren’t the only ones who benefit from our technology. The overall health care system realizes cost savings by reducing the number of surgical procedures required. Prescription drugs are used more efficiently and accurately. Patient outcomes are improved by enabling precision care. Our customers – medical device manufacturers – are able to deliver greater, cost-saving value, and improved results to their customers. All of these benefits grew out of a single area of expertise and a shared desire to make a difference. “It is amazing how far caring and a really strong core competency can take you,” Menno says, “when you keep using it to invent, create, and discover new value.” 89 Corbion annual report 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2019 91 CONTENTS Consolidated financial statements ................. 92 22. Borrowings .................................................................. 130 Consolidated income statement .................................... 92 23. Other non-current liabilities .................................... 130 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.. 93 24. Other current liabilities............................................. 131 Consolidated statement of financial position ............. 94 25. Acquisitions and disposals ...................................... 131 Consolidated statement of changes in equity............ 95 26. Financial risk management and financial Consolidated statement of cash flows......................... 96 instruments........................................................................ 133 27. Related-party transactions ..................................... 139 28. Share-based compensation .................................... 142 Notes to the consolidated financial 29. Off-balance sheet commitments .......................... 144 statements ..................................................................... 97 30. Events after balance sheet date........................... 144 1. Accounting information................................................ 97 2. Accounting principles.................................................... 97 Company financial statements ........................ 145 3. Consolidated income statement adjustments ..... 111 4. Segment information .................................................. 112 Company statement of financial position .................. 145 5. Payroll and social insurance ...................................... 114 Company income statement ......................................... 146 6. Depreciation/amortization/ impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets ................................................. 114 Notes to the company financial 7. Financial income and charges ................................... 115 statements ................................................................... 147 8. Taxes............................................................................... 115 General ................................................................................ 147 9. Earnings per ordinary share....................................... 116 31. Financial fixed assets ............................................... 148 10. Property, plant, and equipment ............................. 117 32. Deferred tax................................................................ 149 11. Leases .......................................................................... 118 33. Receivables ................................................................. 149 12. Intangible fixed assets ............................................. 119 34. Cash and cash equivalents ..................................... 149 13. Investments in joint ventures and associates ... 121 35. Equity............................................................................ 149 14. Other non-current financial assets ....................... 121 36. Other non-current liabilities .................................... 149 15. Inventories................................................................... 121 37. Interest-bearing current liabilities ......................... 150 16. Receivables ................................................................. 121 38. Non-interest-bearing current liabilities ................ 150 17. Cash and cash equivalents ..................................... 122 39. Provisions .................................................................... 150 18. Equity............................................................................ 122 40. Off-balance sheet commitments .......................... 150 19. Provisions .................................................................... 124 41. Personnel..................................................................... 150 20. Long-term employee benefits ................................ 125 42. Audit fees .................................................................... 151 21. Deferred tax................................................................ 128 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 92 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement Millions of euros Note 2019 2018 Net sales 4 976.4 897.2 Costs of raw materials and consumables -484.7 -442.6 Production costs -196.8 -141.6 Warehousing and distribution costs -61.2 -55.0 Cost of sales -742.7 -639.2 Gross profit 233.7 258.0 Selling expenses -67.9 -61.4 Research and development costs -48.1 -40.0 General and administrative expenses -79.1 -69.3 Other proceeds 3 22.7 0.6 Operating result 61.3 87.9 Financial income 7 3.8 3.6 Financial charges 7 -18.4 -16.8 Results from joint ventures and associates 13 -2.0 -4.9 Result before taxes 44.7 69.8 Income tax expense 8 -18.9 -15.5 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Result attributable to non-controlling interests Result attributable to equity holders of Corbion nv 25.8 54.3 Per ordinary share in euros 9 Basic earnings 0.44 0.93 Diluted earnings 0.43 0.92 93 Corbion annual report 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Millions of euros Note 2019 2018 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement Foreign operations – foreign currency translation differences 18 17.2 16.6 Net investment hedge – net movement 18 -2.8 -5.5 Hedge reserve 18 5.3 -2.1 Taxes relating to other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement 18 -0.6 -0.1 Total other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement 19.1 8.9 Other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement Remeasurement defined benefit arrangements 20 -6.2 1.0 Taxes relating to other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement -0.1 Total other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement -6.2 0.9 Total comprehensive result after taxes 38.7 64.1 Comprehensive result attributable to non-controlling interests Comprehensive result attributable to equity holders of Corbion nv 38.7 64.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 94 Consolidated statement of financial position Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Assets Property, plant, and equipment 10 368.2 368.9 Right-of-use assets 11 64.8 Intangible fixed assets 12 172.9 139.2 Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 16.6 18.7 Long-term employee benefits 20 18.2 4.5 Other non-current financial assets 14 67.2 62.3 Deferred tax assets 21 10.7 22.6 Total non-current assets 718.6 616.2 Inventories 15 163.2 152.7 Trade receivables 16 124.2 119.6 Other receivables 16 37.3 20.9 Income tax receivables 2.1 9.3 Cash and cash equivalents 17 45.7 47.1 Total current assets 372.5 349.6 Total assets 1,091.1 965.8 Equity and liabilities Equity 18 529.1 520.2 Borrowings 22 113.0 133.0 Lease liabilities 11 55.9 1.1 Long-term employee benefits 20 7.9 7.6 Deferred tax liabilities 21 13.4 17.0 Other non-current liabilities 23 24.1 26.9 Total non-current liabilities 214.3 185.6 Borrowings 22 169.8 116.2 Lease liabilities 11 10.3 0.1 Provisions 19 6.2 3.5 Income tax payables 4.3 3.2 Trade payables 94.3 87.8 Other current liabilities 24 62.8 49.2 Total current liabilities 347.7 260.0 Total equity and liabilities 1,091.1 965.8 95 Corbion annual report 2019 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share premium Other Retained Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note Share capital reserve reserves earnings Total As at 1 January 2018 14.8 55.2 64.3 355.0 489.3 Result after taxes 2018 54.3 54.3 Other comprehensive result after taxes 2018 8.9 0.9 9.8 Total comprehensive result after taxes 2018 8.9 55.2 64.1 Cash dividend -32.9 -32.9 Share-based remuneration transfers 28 -4.0 2.1 -1.9 Share-based remuneration charged to result 28 1.6 1.6 Transfers to/from Other reserves 18 0.2 -0.2 Total transactions with shareholders -2.2 -31.0 -33.2 As at 31 December 2018 14.8 55.2 71.0 379.2 520.2 Result after taxes 2019 25.8 25.8 Other comprehensive result after taxes 2019 19.1 -6.2 12.9 Total comprehensive result after taxes 2019 19.1 19.6 38.7 Cash dividend -32.9 -32.9 Share-based remuneration transfers 28 -1.9 1.0 -0.9 Share-based remuneration charged to result 28 4.0 4.0 Transfers to/from Other reserves 18 -0.1 0.1 Total transactions with shareholders 2.0 -31.8 -29.8 As at 31 December 2019 14.8 55.2 92.1 367.0 529.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 96 Consolidated statement of cash flows Millions of euros Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Adjusted for: ● Depreciation/amortization of (in)tangible fixed assets 6 61.5 42.0 ● Reversal of impairment of property, plant, and equipment 10 -0.4 ● Impairment of fixed assets 10/12 41.5 ● Result from divestments of fixed assets 0.2 -0.1 ● Result from past service gain due to change in indexation CSM UK pension scheme -8.0 ● Reversal contingent liability -14.8 ● Share-based remuneration 4.0 1.6 ● Financial income and charges 7 14.6 13.2 ● Results from joint ventures and associates 13 2.0 4.9 ● Taxes 8 18.9 15.5 Cash flow from operating activities before movements in working capital and provisions 145.7 131.0 Movement in provisions -8.5 -2.1 Movements in operating working capital: ● Trade receivables -2.6 -7.2 ● Inventories -3.5 -15.2 ● Trade payables 4.9 9.5 Movements in other working capital -8.1 1.1 Cash flow from business operations 127.9 117.1 Interest received 0.5 0.7 Interest paid -10.0 -8.7 Tax paid on profit -4.0 -9.6 Cash flow from operating activities 114.4 99.5 Cash flow from investment activities Acquisition of group companies 25 -28.5 0.5 Investment joint ventures and associates -0.9 -16.1 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 1.3 Investment other financial assets -6.2 -37.0 Repayment other financial assets 5.7 23.8 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets -76.2 -60.1 Divestment of (in)tangible fixed assets 1.3 Cash flow from investment activities -104.8 -87.6 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from interest-bearing debts 40.0 41.0 Repayment of interest-bearing debts -9.6 -12.4 Payment of lease liabilities -9.5 Paid-out dividend -32.9 -32.9 Cash flow from financing activities -12.0 -4.3 Net cash flow -2.4 7.6 Effects of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 1.0 1.4 Increase/(decrease) cash and cash equivalents -1.4 9.0 Cash and cash equivalents at start of financial year 47.1 38.1 Cash and cash equivalents at close of financial year 17 45.7 47.1 97 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Accounting information General Corbion is the global market leader in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, and a leading company in emulsifiers, functional enzyme blends, minerals, vitamins, and algae ingredients. The company delivers high-performance sustainable ingredient solutions made from renewable resources and applied in global markets such as food, home & personal care, animal nutrition, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and bioplastics. Its products add differentiating functionality to a wide variety of consumer products worldwide. Corbion is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and listed on Euronext Amsterdam. These consolidated financial statements cover the year 2019, which ended at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2019. The consolidated financial statements drawn up by the Board of Management have been approved by the Supervisory Board on 6 March 2020. They will be presented to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption on 11 May 2020. The Supervisory Board will give a preliminary recommendation regarding the consolidated financial statements to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Reported amounts Unless stated otherwise all amounts in the financial statements are reported in millions of euros. Exchange rates of main currencies in euros Average exchange Average exchange Exchange rate Exchange rate rate 2019 rate 2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 US dollar 1.12 1.18 1.12 1.15 Japanese yen 122.02 130.40 122.19 125.85 Brazilian real 4.42 4.31 4.51 4.44 Thai baht 34.76 38.16 33.47 37.05 2. Accounting principles Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Corbion nv have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 98 New and amended standards adopted by the group In 2019, Corbion applied all the new and amended standards and interpretations published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), if and insofar as these applied to Corbion and were effective as at 1 January 2019. The main effective change applied by Corbion at 1 January 2019 is: IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16, published in January 2016, establishes a revised framework for determining whether a lease is recognized on the (consolidated) statement of financial position. It replaces existing guidance on leases, including IAS 17. IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019. It sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17. From a lessee perspective, at the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognize a liability to make lease payments (“lease liability”) and an asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term (“right-of-use asset”). Lessees will be required to separately recognize the interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset. Lessees will also be required to remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events (such as a change in the lease term or lease payments). The amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability is recognized as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Corbion applies IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective transition approach. As a result, IFRS does not require restated comparative figures to be presented. On adoption of IFRS 16, the group recognized lease liabilities in relation to leases which had previously been classified as “operating leases” under the principles of IAS 17 Leases. These liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate as of 1 January 2019. The lessee’s weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 January 2019 was 3.7%. Minimum lease payments under operating leases as of 31 December 2018 31.9 Relief options: for leases of low-value assets -0.4 for short-term leases -0.6 Operating lease obligations as of 1/1/2019 (undiscounted) 30.9 Operating lease obligations as of 1/1/2019 (discounted) 28.4 Liabilities from finance leases as of 31 December 2018 1.2 Lease liabilities recognized as at 1 January 2019 29.6 The recognized right-of-use assets relate to the following type of assets. Land 0.2 Buildings 22.8 Machinery and equipment 1.4 Other assets 5.2 29.6 99 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted; however, Corbion has not yet adopted the new or amended standards in preparing these consolidated financial statements. The following amended standards and interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on Corbion’s consolidated financial statements. • Amendments to References to Conceptual Frameworks in IFRS standards • Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS 3) • Definition of Material (Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8) • IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Consolidation The consolidation includes the financial data of Corbion nv and its group companies (together “Corbion”). All inter-company receivables, debts, and transactions have been eliminated. Group companies are companies in which Corbion nv exercises control. The results of acquisitions and divestments are recognized from the moment that control is obtained or transferred. Control is achieved when Corbion: • has power over the investee; • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and • is able to use its power to affect the investee’s returns. Corbion reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. When Corbion loses control over a group company, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the group company, and any related non-controlling interests and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former group company is measured at fair value when control is lost. Foreign currency The consolidated financial statements are in euros. The euro is Corbion nv’s functional and presentation currency. The functional currency is the currency of the primary environment where the group company operates and may therefore differ from one company to another. Transactions in other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date. Any monetary assets and liabilities resulting from such transactions are translated at the exchange rates as at the balance sheet date. Any exchange rate differences are recognized in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income (OCI) as qualifying cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. The assets and liabilities of consolidated foreign group companies and the long-term foreigncurrency loans, which have been taken out to finance these subsidiaries, are converted to euros as at the balance sheet date, taking taxes into account. The subsequent currency translation differences are incorporated in the translation reserve in equity. The results of the foreign group companies are translated to euros on the basis of average exchange rates. The difference between net profit on the basis of average exchange rates and net profit on the basis of the NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 100 exchange rates as at the balance sheet date is incorporated in the translation reserve in equity. The same applies to exchange rate differences arising from borrowings and other financial instruments if they hedge the currency risk related to net investments. If a foreign operation is divested or scaled down the associated cumulative currency translation differences are recognized as result in the income statement. Property, plant, and equipment Land, buildings, machinery and equipment, and other operating assets are valued at the acquisition price or the cost of production, subject to straight-line depreciation calculated over the estimated economic life, the estimated residual value, and any accumulated impairment losses. The cost of production includes the cost of materials and direct labor and an attributable part of the indirect costs. Land is not depreciated. Grants are deducted from the acquisition price or the production costs of the assets to which the grant relates. Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to Corbion. Depreciation methods, useful lives, and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. Leased assets and liabilities At inception of a contract, the group assesses whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration, in which case it is classified as a lease. The group recognizes a right-of-use asset (lease asset) and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to restore the underlying asset, less any lease incentives received. The lease asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset, considered to be indicated by the lease term. The lease asset is periodically adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability and impairment losses (if any). The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of outstanding lease payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, Corbion uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method and is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate or if the group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension, or termination option. A corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-ofuse asset with any excess over the carrying amount of the asset being recognized in profit or loss. Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment and vehicles and all leases of lowvalue assets are recognized on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. 101 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is valued at cost less impairment. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually – or more often if there are indications for impairment. Impairment is the amount by which the book value of the goodwill of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, being the higher of (a) value in use and (b) fair value less cost to sell. The value in use is the present value of the cash flows which the unit is expected to generate. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. If impairment is incurred, the impairment is charged to the income statement. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. When an entity or activity is sold or closed down the goodwill allocated to the entity or activity is included in the calculations for the result of the sale. Customer base The customer base comprises the part of the paid acquisition sum which, upon acquisition, is allocated to the value of the acquired customer base. It is valued at fair value as at the acquisition date and amortized using a straight-line method over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from the customer base are recognized in selling expenses. Brands and licenses Brands and licenses comprise the part of the paid acquisition sum which is allocated to the value of the acquired trademarks and product licenses. Brands and licenses are valued at fair value as at the acquisition date and subject to straight-line amortization calculated over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from brands and licenses are recognized in selling expenses. Research and development costs Research and development costs comprise the part of the paid acquisition sum which is allocated to the value of the acquired research and development costs. These costs are valued at fair value as at the acquisition date. Own research costs are not capitalized, but charged to the income statement. Own development costs are capitalized if the appropriate criteria are met. Research and development costs are valued at cost and amortized using a straight-line method over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from research and development costs are recognized in research and development costs. Other intangible fixed assets Other intangible fixed assets consist primarily of capitalized or acquired third-party software and licenses and directly attributable personnel costs. Other intangible fixed assets are valued at historical cost if capitalized or at fair value if acquired and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life. Software and licenses amortization charges are recognized in general and administrative expenses. Emission rights are not recognized in the statement of financial position as cost is zero. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 102 Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill At each reporting date an assessment is made whether there is any indication that non-current assets may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs is estimated. Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, Corbion also tests an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or an intangible asset not yet available for use for impairment annually by comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and the asset’s value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement to the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. In subsequent years, an assessment is made whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is recognized in operating result as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. Investments in joint arrangements and associates Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations arise where Corbion has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Joint ventures arise where Corbion has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore equity accounts for its interest. Associates are entities over which Corbion has significant influence but not control, generally involving a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but is not control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Corbion’s share of the net assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates for group reporting purposes to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of Corbion. Unrealized gains on transactions between Corbion and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of Corbion’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. 103 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred taxes Deferred taxes concern tax loss carry forward and liabilities and assets arising from temporary differences between the tax bases and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred taxes are determined using tax rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realized or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognized if and insofar that it is likely that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference and tax loss carry forward can be utilized. Tax assets and liabilities are netted when there is a legal right and the intention to offset. Deferred tax assets and liabilities with the same term and relating to the same fiscal unities and same tax authority are offset against each other. Inventories Inventories of raw materials, consumables, technical materials, and packaging are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out) and net realizable value. Inventories of work in progress and finished products are stated at the lower of production cost and net realizable value. Total cost of production includes payroll costs and materials and an attributable part of the indirect production costs. Financial instruments Recognition and initial measurement Trade receivables and debt securities issued are initially recognized upon origination. All other financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognized when Corbion becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without a significant financing component) or financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price. Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at amortized cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”) – debt investment, at FVOCI – equity investment, or at FVTPL. Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition unless Corbion changes its business model for managing financial assets, in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change in the business model. A financial asset is measured at amortized cost if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: • it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows; and • its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. A debt investment is measured at FVOCI if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: • it is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets; and • its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 104 On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not held for trading, Corbion may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in the investment’s fair value in OCI. This election is made on an investment-by-investment basis. All financial assets not classified as measured at amortized cost or FVOCI (see above) are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets. On initial recognition, the group may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortized cost or at FVOCI, as at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise. Financial assets at FVTPL are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gains and losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognized in profit or loss. Financial assets at amortized cost are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The amortized cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in profit or loss. Debt investments at FVOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income calculated using the effective interest method, foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. On derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. Equity investments at FVOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are recognized as income in profit or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income and never reclassified to profit or loss. Classification and subsequent measurement of financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortized cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-for-trading, if it is a derivative, or designated as such on initial recognition. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value and net gains and losses, including any interest expense, are recognized in profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognized in profit or loss. Derecognition Financial assets Corbion derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or when it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction through which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred or through which Corbion neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of the financial asset. If, however, Corbion enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognized in its statement of financial position, but retains either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognized. 105 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial liabilities Corbion derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. Corbion also derecognizes a financial liability when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are substantially different, in which case a new financial liability based on the modified terms is recognized at fair value. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the carrying amount extinguished and the consideration paid (including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed) is recognized in profit or loss. Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the group currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Corbion holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency and commodity risk exposures. Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the host contract is not a financial asset and certain criteria are met. Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or loss. Corbion designates certain derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the variability in cash flows associated with highly probable forecast transactions arising from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodities, and certain non-derivative financial liabilities that hedge the foreign exchange risk associated with a net investment in a foreign operation. At inception of designated hedging relationships, Corbion documents the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. Corbion also documents the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, including whether the changes in cash flows of the hedged item and hedging instrument are expected to offset each other. Cash flow hedges When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedge reserve in equity. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is recognized in other comprehensive income is limited to the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, determined on a present value basis, from inception of the hedge. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. When the hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial item such as inventory, the amount accumulated in the hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge reserve are included directly in the initial cost of the non-financial item when it is recognized. For all other hedged forecast transactions, the amount accumulated in the hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge reserve are reclassified to profit or loss for the period(s) in which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 106 If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. When hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is discontinued, the amount that has been accumulated in the hedge reserve remains in equity until, for a hedge of a transaction resulting in the recognition of a non-financial item, it is included in the non-financial item’s cost on its initial recognition or, for other cash flow hedges, it is reclassified to profit or loss for the period(s) in which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, the amounts that have been accumulated in the hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge reserve are immediately reclassified to profit or loss. Net investment hedges When a derivative instrument or a non-derivative financial liability is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge for a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion, for a derivative, of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument or, for a non-derivative, of foreign exchange gains and losses is recognized in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve within equity. Any ineffective portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative or foreign exchange gains and losses on the non-derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The amount recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment upon disposal of the foreign operation. Equity Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognized as an equity deduction, net of tax. The price paid for repurchased shares (treasury shares) is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to the holders of ordinary shares is recognized as a liability upon approval of the profit appropriation by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Corbion runs share plans for the Board of Management and Senior Management. The fair value of the right to shares on the date of allocation is recognized in the income statement as payroll costs over the vesting period of the awards with a corresponding increase in equity. Pension and other post-employment benefits Pension and early-retirement schemes A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate pension plan or insurance company and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. 107 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For defined benefit retirement benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable), and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), are reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past-service costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorized as follows: • Service cost (including current-service cost, past-service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements) • Net interest expense or income • Remeasurements The first two components of defined benefit costs are presented in profit or loss. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past-service costs. The retirement benefit obligation in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. A liability for a termination benefit is recognized at the earlier of when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit and when the entity recognizes any related restructuring costs. Corbion accounts for its multi-employer defined benefit plan as if it were a defined contribution plan for the following reasons: • Corbion is affiliated to an industry-wide pension fund and uses the pension scheme in common with other participating companies. • Under the regulations of the pension plan, the only obligation these participating companies have towards the pension fund is to pay the annual premium liability. Participating companies are under no obligation whatsoever to pay off any deficits the pension plan may incur. Nor have they any claim to any potential surpluses. Other long-term employee benefit commitments The other long-term employee commitments relate mainly to anniversary commitments, pastservice commitments, conditional incentive plans, and health insurance. These provisions are recognized on the basis of estimates that are consistent with the estimates used for the defined benefit obligations. However, all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the income statement immediately. Provisions Provisions relate to a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the amount of which is uncertain but can be estimated reliably and of which it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flow at a pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessments of time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. A provision for reorganization is recognized after Corbion has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or been announced publicly. A provision for a legal claim is recognized if a reliable estimate can be made of the expected NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 108 outcome of the claim, measuring the claim as a weighting of all possible outcomes against their probabilities. A provision for an onerous contract is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived from the contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfilling its terms and conditions. Unless the possibility of an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is remote, a contingent liability is disclosed at the balance sheet. Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Upon sale or settlement of interest-bearing liabilities any profits or losses are directly recognized in the income statement. Segment reporting An operating segment is an entity that engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses. All operating segments are reviewed regularly by the Board of Management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess their performance for which discrete financial information is available. Net sales Net sales comprises the proceeds of goods delivered to third parties less discounts and valueadded tax. Revenue from the sale of goods in the normal course of business is recognized at a point in time when the performance obligation is met and based on the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to the performance obligation. The transaction price is the amount of the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods to the customer. The consideration expected by the company may include fixed and/or variable amounts which can be impacted by sales returns, trade discounts, and volume rebates. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when control of the asset is transferred to the buyer and only when it is highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur as uncertainties related to a variable consideration have been resolved. Costs of raw materials and consumables Costs of raw materials and consumables relate to the cost of consumption of raw materials, consumables, and packaging materials. Costs of raw materials and consumables are recognized in the income statement when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods sold have been transferred to a party outside the group. These costs include the purchase price of all raw materials, consumables, and all directly attributable costs. Production costs Production costs are the costs relating to production operations. Warehousing and distribution costs Warehousing and distribution costs relate to the costs of warehousing and transport, including transport insurance. Selling expenses Selling expenses relate to the costs of marketing and sales. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses relate to the costs of administration, management, and IT. 109 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial income and charges Financial income comprises interest income on cash and cash equivalents and interest income on loans to other parties. Interest income is recognized in the period to which it relates, using the effective interest method. Financial charges comprise interest expenses and exchange differences on borrowings, leases, impairments of available-for-sale assets, and other financial expenses. All borrowing costs are recognized in the income statement using the effective interest method. Income taxes Tax on the result is calculated on the basis of the result before taxes, taking account of untaxed profit elements, nonand part-deductible costs, and fiscal facilities. The prevailing nominal tax rates are applied. Non-recoverable withholding taxes on foreign dividends are taken into account. Taxes in the income statement for the year comprise current and deferred taxes. Taxes are recognized in the income statement unless they relate to items directly recognized in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected tax rate payable on the taxable income for the year, using statutory tax rates at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Cash flow statement The consolidated cash flow statement is drawn up using the indirect method. The items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of the financial position have been adjusted for changes that do not impact cash inflow and outflow in the reporting year. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the average foreign exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case cash flows are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions. Critical accounting estimates and judgments Corbion makes use of accounting estimates and judgments. Described below are the estimates and judgments as at the balance sheet date that carry a substantial risk of a material adjustment to the book value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. Acquisitions Corbion has a process in place to identify all assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible fixed assets. The judgments made in identifying all acquired assets, determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact the results of operations. Estimated fair values are based on information available around the acquisition date and on expectations and assumptions of anticipated discounted cash flows that have been assessed as reasonable by Corbion. Goodwill impairment Every year, Corbion tests the goodwill based on the higher of fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use method. The value in use is calculated on the basis of estimates and judgments of the expected cash flows which are discounted on a WACC basis. For a description of the main estimates, valuation assumptions, and a sensitivity analysis of the applied assumptions see Note 12. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 110 Valuation and impairment testing (in)tangible fixed assets (In)tangible fixed assets are tested for sustained impairment if there is an indication of possible impairment, for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or if an intangible asset is not yet available for use. A key factor is the recoverable amount which is calculated on the basis of estimates and assumptions of anticipated discounted cash flows, on the one hand, and an estimate of the fair value less cost to sell, on the other. Pension and early-retirement schemes Actuarial calculations are used to determine provisions for group personnel arrangements and net receivables or obligations from group pension plans. These calculations use assumptions in respect of future developments in salary, mortality, staff turnover, return on investments et cetera. Changes to these estimates and assumptions can lead to actuarial gains and losses which are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. For more information on the applied assumptions see Note 20. Taxes Corbion is subject to various tax systems across the world. Estimates and judgments are used to determine the tax items in the financial statements. Interpretation differences in tax liabilities are also taken into account. For more information on taxes see Note 21. 111 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. Consolidated income statement adjustments The adjusted consolidated income statement for financial years 2019 and 2018 (non-IFRS financial measures) can be presented as follows. 2019 2018 Adjusted IFRS Adjusted IFRS figures Adjustments figures figures Adjustments figures Net sales 976.4 976.4 897.2 897.2 Costs of raw materials and consumables -482.2 -2.5 -484.7 -442.0 -0.6 -442.6 Production costs -160.7 -36.1 -196.8 -142.1 0.5 -141.6 Warehousing and distribution costs -61.2 -61.2 -55.0 -55.0 Gross profit 272.3 -38.6 233.7 258.1 -0.1 258.0 Selling expenses -67.4 -0.5 -67.9 -61.4 -61.4 Research and development costs -40.6 -7.5 -48.1 -39.3 -0.7 -40.0 General and administrative expenses -79.3 0.2 -79.1 -67.8 -1.5 -69.3 Other proceeds 22.7 22.7 0.6 0.6 Operating result 85.0 -23.7 61.3 89.6 -1.7 87.9 Less: depreciation/amortization/impairment (in)tangible fixed assets 60.9 42.1 103.0 42.0 -0.4 41.6 EBITDA 145.9 18.4 164.3 131.6 -2.1 129.5 Depreciation/amortization/impairment (in)tangible fixed assets -60.9 -42.1 -103.0 -42.0 0.4 -41.6 Operating result 85.0 -23.7 61.3 89.6 -1.7 87.9 Financial income 3.8 3.8 3.6 3.6 Financial charges -18.4 -18.4 -16.8 -16.8 Results from joint ventures and associates -2.0 -2.0 -11.7 6.8 -4.9 Result before taxes 68.4 -23.7 44.7 64.7 5.1 69.8 Taxes -22.4 3.5 -18.9 -15.6 0.1 -15.5 Result after taxes 46.0 -20.2 25.8 49.1 5.2 54.3 Adjustments relate to material items in the income statement of such size, nature, or incidence that, in the opinion of management, require disclosure. These items include amongst others writedowns of inventories to net realizable value, reversals of write-downs, impairments, reversals of impairments, additions to and releases from provisions for restructuring and reorganization, results on assets sold, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and any other provision being formed or released. The group only makes adjustments for items when the aggregate amount of the events per line item of the income statement exceeds a threshold of € 0.5 million. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 112 In 2019, total adjustments of € 20.2 million were recorded, consisting of the following components: 1. Loss of € 41.4 million related to an impairment in our Algae business. 2. Gain of € 14.7 million related to a remeasurement of the anticipated contingent purchase price of SB Renewable Oils. 3. Gain of € 7.9 million as a result of a past service gain due to change in indexation CSM UK pension scheme. 4. Gain of € 3.5 million as a result of valuation of tax assets related to the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil. 5. Loss of € 2.9 million related to restructuring costs. 6. Loss of € 2.6 million related to a write-down of inventory in the US. 7. Loss of € 0.7 million related to relocation and impairment costs as a result of the new warehouse in the US. 8. Loss of € 1.0 million related to one-off bonusses. 9. Loss of € 0.7 million as a result of acquisition costs of Granotec do Brazil. 10. Loss of € 0.5 million related to legal costs. 11. Tax effects on the above of € 3.5 million. In 2018, total adjustments of € 5.2 million were recorded, consisting of the following components: 1. Gain of € 9.6 million as a result of measuring at fair value the 50.1% equity interest in SB Renewable Oils held before the business combination. 2. Loss of € 2.7 million related to write-down of inventory in the SB Renewable Oils joint venture. 3. Loss of € 0.6 million related to write-down of inventory due to an incident in a third-party warehouse. 4. Loss of € 0.4 million as a result of acquisition costs of SB Renewable Oils. 5. Gain of € 0.6 million related to the sale of an unused piece of land in Italy. 6. Gain of € 0.4 million related to partial reversal of previously recorded impairment of the Kansas Avenue powder blending plant. 7. Loss of € 0.8 million related to a remeasurement of the anticipated contingent sales price of the subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. 8. Loss of € 0.7 million related to an onerous contract provision. 9. Loss of € 0.3 million due to restructuring provision. 10. Tax effects on the above of € 0.1 million. 4. Segment information For its strategic decision-making process Corbion distinguishes between Ingredient Solutions and Innovation Platforms. For IFRS segmentation purposes Ingredient Solutions has been segmented into two further businesses, Food and Biochemicals. In the Food segment, we are a global supplier of food ingredient solutions for leading food manufacturers. We strive to be the leader in keeping food tasty, fresh, and safe from date of production to day of consumption. With our proven food solutions, we enable our customers to make conscious choices that grow their business in a sustainable way, reducing food waste and creating affordable products (in the bakery, meat, beverage, confectionery, and dairy markets). 113 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the Biochemicals segment, the inherent safety, sustainability, and performance of our products is what sets us apart, driven by a passion for finding better solutions and new opportunities for our customers. Our continuous focus on sustainable practices, our use of renewable feedstocks, and our rich heritage in lactic acid form the foundation for our biochemical applications in a wide array of industries, encompassing (agro)chemicals, resin adhesives, electronic components, pharmaceuticals, home & personal care products, and animal health & nutrition. We are constantly exploring opportunities to bring the benefits of our products and solutions to our customer's applications. Our Innovation Platforms business unit creates new business platforms to deliver long-term value, applying disruptive technologies built on decades of experience in fermentation and industrialscale manufacturing. Collaborating with like-minded partners we support our customers to make conscious choices, so they can create better, more sustainable products, based on renewable resources. We believe in a circular economy, where our innovations can help improve quality of life – both today and for future generations. Total Corbion PLA bv, our 50/50 joint venture with Total for the production and marketing of poly lactic acid (PLA) polymers and lactide monomers for bioplastic solutions, is functionally part of Innovation Platforms. The business unit also comprises our Algae Ingredients business and our longer-term development programs such as FDCA, a biobased building block with unique properties in (bio)polymers and a potential replacement for purified terephthalic acid (PTA), our gypsum-free lactic acid production process, and use of alternative feedstocks such as agricultural residues, to make lactic acid. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment information by business area Ingredient Innovation Corbion total Food Biochemicals Solutions 1) Platforms operations 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Income statement information Net sales 685.8 623.4 223.9 225.0 909.7 848.4 66.7 48.8 976.4 897.2 Adjusted operating result 84.1 79.4 48.2 43.7 132.3 123.1 -47.3 -33.5 85.0 89.6 Adjustments to operating result 0.5 0.6 -1.1 -0.1 -0.6 0.5 24.3 -2.2 23.7 -1.7 Operating result 83.6 80.0 49.3 43.6 132.9 123.6 -71.6 -35.7 61.3 87.9 Alternative non-IFRS performance measures Adjusted EBITDA 119.5 105.3 60.4 55.5 179.9 160.8 -34.0 -29.2 145.9 131.6 Adjustments to EBITDA 0.2 0.2 1.1 -0.1 1.3 0.1 17.1 -2.2 18.4 -2.1 EBITDA 119.7 105.5 61.5 55.4 181.2 160.9 -16.9 -31.4 164.3 129.5 Ratios alternative non-IFRS performance measures EBITDA margin % 17.5 16.9 27.5 24.6 19.9 19.0 -25.3 -64.3 16.8 14.4 Adjusted EBITDA margin % 17.4 16.9 27.0 24.7 19.8 19.0 -51.0 -59.8 14.9 14.7 1 Includes Food and Biochemicals segments Corbion generates almost all of its revenues from the sale of goods. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 114 Information on the use of alternative non-IFRS performance measures In the above table and elsewhere in the financial statements a number of non-IFRS performance measures are presented. Management is of the opinion that these so-called alternative performance measures might be useful for the readers of these financial statements. Corbion management uses these performance measures to make financial, operational, and strategic decisions and evaluate performance of the segments. The alternative performance measures can be calculated as follows: • EBITDA is the operating result before depreciation, amortization, and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets. • EBITDA margin is EBITDA divided by net sales x 100. Segment information by geographical region Net sales Non-current assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 The Netherlands 109.0 101.9 175.2 166.4 Rest of Europe 67.1 69.2 23.1 22.0 North America 565.2 529.7 248.2 201.5 Other countries 235.1 196.4 176.0 136.9 Corbion total operations 976.4 897.2 622.5 526.8 The above information is based on the geographical location of the assets. Non-current assets exclude those relating to financial instruments, deferred tax assets, and post-employment benefit assets. 5. Payroll and social insurance 2019 2018 Payroll 145.2 127.6 Pension expenses – defined benefit pension plans -7.2 0.5 Pension expenses – defined contribution pension plans 9.9 8.4 Other social insurance 15.9 13.8 Share-based remuneration 4.0 1.6 Total 167.8 151.9 6. Depreciation/amortization/ impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets 2019 2018 Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment 53.3 35.8 Amortization of intangible fixed assets 8.2 6.2 Impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets 41.5 -0.4 Total 103.0 41.6 115 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. Financial income and charges 2019 2018 Interest income -3.4 -3.1 Interest charges 8.7 8.1 Exchange rate differences 4.0 3.1 Recycling of exchange rate differences from translation reserve -0.3 Interest expense on defined benefit pension plans net -0.4 0.1 Unwinding of contingent consideration 4.1 4.5 Interest expense on lease liabilities 1.4 Other 0.2 0.8 Total 14.6 13.2 8. Taxes 2019 2018 Current tax 14.3 12.3 Current tax (previous year adjustments) -2.0 -1.0 Deferred tax 6.6 4.2 Tax charge (income) 18.9 15.5 Reconciliation of result before taxes and tax charge 2019 2018 Result before taxes 44.7 69.8 Applicable tax charge at average statutory tax rate 6.3 17.9 Income not subject to tax -6.7 -3.4 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 3.0 Effect of the reversal of tax assets 15.2 1.0 Currency effects 1.6 Changes in tax rates -0.1 Other effects -0.6 -2.9 Tax charge (income) 18.9 15.5 Average tax rate on operations 42.3% 22.2% The average statutory tax rate is the average of the statutory tax rates in the countries where Corbion operates, weighted on the basis of the result before taxes in each of these countries. The difference between these rates for 2019 (14.1%) and 2018 (25.6%) is caused by the 2019 impairment related to Brazil as this is a high-tax country (34% corporate tax rate). The partial release of the contingent liability which was recorded as a result of the impairment resulted in income not subject to tax under the provisions of the participation exemption (impact € -3.7 million). NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 116 Expense not deductible for tax purposes consists of negative results of participations which are non-deductible under the participation exemption (impact € 1.6 million) as well as the effect of non-deductible costs in multiple jurisdictions (impact € 1.5 million). The effective tax rate is impacted significantly by the impairment in Brazil as no deferred tax asset has been recognized for the resulting deductible temporary difference (impact € 12.0 million). In addition, minimal deferred tax asset has been recognized for the tax losses incurred in 2019 in Brazil (impact € 2.1 million). The impact of currency effects (€ 1.6 million) is caused by reporting entities which have a tax reporting currency which deviates from their functional currency. Other effects include adjustments in respect of current year events and the impact of changes to relevant regulations, facts, or other factors compared to those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in previous years (impact € -0.6 million). The realization of deferred tax assets depends on the expected future profitability. Deferred tax assets are not recognized if it is not probable that a tax benefit can be realized. Breakdown of the tax charge recognized in equity 2019 2018 Tax liability due to loan-related exchange rate differences -0.7 0.6 Tax liability due to hedge results of financial instruments 1.3 -0.5 Tax charge due to remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 0.1 Tax charge (income) recognized in equity 0.6 0.2 9. Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit available for holders of ordinary shares by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares in Corbion nv. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit available for holders of ordinary shares by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares in Corbion nv adjusted for the effects of potential exercise of share rights by the Board of Management and Senior Management. 2019 2018 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Profit available for holders of ordinary shares (A) 25.8 54.3 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares (B) 58.8 58.7 Plus: ordinary shares related to share rights 0.6 0.6 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares after dilution (C) 59.4 59.3 Per ordinary share in euros Basic earnings (A/B) 0.44 0.93 Diluted earnings (A/C) 0.43 0.92 117 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10. Property, plant, and equipment Machinery and Other fixed Under Land Buildings equipment assets construction Total 1 January 2018 Acquisition prices 17.4 159.8 570.6 51.1 26.2 825.1 Cumulative depreciation/impairments -74.2 -435.0 -35.9 -545.1 Book value 17.4 85.6 135.6 15.2 26.2 280.0 Movements Capital expenditure 0.7 6.4 39.2 46.3 Divestments -0.2 -0.9 -1.1 Exchange rate differences 0.6 2.8 1.9 -0.1 0.6 5.8 Acquisition of group companies 0.2 23.1 29.0 20.5 0.5 73.3 Depreciation -6.8 -23.1 -5.9 -35.8 Impairment reversal 0.4 0.4 Other 0.1 4.9 22.1 2.8 -29.9 Net movement in book value 0.7 23.5 30.6 23.7 10.4 88.9 31 December 2018 Acquisition prices 18.1 181.3 621.2 69.9 36.6 927.1 Cumulative depreciation/impairments -72.2 -455.0 -31.0 -558.2 Book value 18.1 109.1 166.2 38.9 36.6 368.9 Movements Capital expenditure 1.2 0.8 65.2 67.2 Divestments -0.2 -0.2 Exchange rate differences 1.1 3.6 2.1 1.6 8.4 Acquisition of group companies 1.0 5.4 1.9 0.1 8.4 Depreciation -7.3 -27.3 -7.8 -42.4 Impairment -35.4 -5.6 -41.0 Other -0.2 2.8 35.9 4.8 -44.4 -1.1 Net movement in book value 1.9 4.5 -21.6 -7.7 22.2 -0.7 31 December 2019 Acquisition prices 20.0 195.2 669.0 71.6 58.8 1,014.6 Cumulative depreciation/impairments -81.6 -524.4 -40.4 -646.4 Book value 20.0 113.6 144.6 31.2 58.8 368.2 Depreciation rates 2.5 4% 6.7-12.5% 20-50% In 2019 the following impairment was recorded: A partial impairment of € 41.0 million (recorded partly in the Machinery and equipment category and partly in the other fixed assets category) related to our Algae business (part of the Innovation platforms segment) on our Brazil and US based tangible fixed assets based on a reassessment of volume development and timing due to slower than expected Algae ingredients market. The impairment has been recorded on the income statement line items 'Production' (€ 35.0 million) and 'Research and development costs' (€ 6.0 million). The pre-tax discount rate used for the Brazil based assets is 16.3% (post-tax 12.6%). A terminal NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 118 growth rate of 1.8% has been applied. The recoverable amount estimate (based on value in use) of the projected cash flows underlying the impairment calculation amounts to € 46.4 million and is sensitive to various assumptions, especially the volume and price development. The recoverable amount of the US based assets was valued on market data and fair value less cost of disposal reports from external valuators and amounts to € 9.0 million. In 2018, no impairment was recorded. An impairment reversal of € 0.4 million was recorded related to the sale of the Kansas Avenue powder blending plant. The Other category relates to transfer of leased assets from Property, plant and equipment to right-of-use assets as a result of the implemenation of IFRS 16. It also relates to transfers from Under construction to other categories within Property, plant, and equipment. 11. Leases Right-of-use assets Machinery and Other fixed Land Buildings equipment assets Total Book value 1 January 2019 Recognition of right-of-use assets on initial application of IFRS 16 0.2 22.8 1.4 5.2 29.6 Additions 43.1 2.5 45.6 Exchange rate differences 0.2 0.2 0.4 Acquisition of group companies 0.1 0.1 Depreciation -7.8 -0.8 -2.3 -10.9 Net movement in book value 0.2 58.3 0.6 5.7 64.8 Book value 31 December 2019 0.2 58.3 0.6 5.7 64.8 Lease liabilities The maturity of the lease liabilities is as follows. As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Current 10.3 0.1 Non-current 55.9 1.1 Total lease liabilities 66.2 1.2 The comparative 2018 lease liabilities comprise finance lease liabilities accounted for under the IAS 17 lease accounting standard. Corbion's main leases are contracts for office locations, warehouses, and leased vehicles (the main category in Other fixed assets). Some property leases contain extension options exercisable by Corbion. Corbion assesses at the lease commencement date whether it is reasonably certain that the extension options will be exercised. Corbion reassesses whether it is reasonably certain that the extension options will be exercised if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within its control. As at 31 December 2019, potential future cash outflows of € 70.5 million (undiscounted) have not been included in the lease liability because it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended. Lease payments are in substance fixed and the group had no leases with variable lease payments. 119 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case for leases in the group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security, and conditions. 12. Intangible fixed assets Other intangible Customer Brands and Development fixed Goodwill base licenses costs assets Total 1 January 2018 Acquisition prices 61.7 17.5 33.5 52.1 34.8 199.6 Cumulative amortization/impairments -2.9 -11.9 -7.5 -20.7 -26.3 -69.3 Book value 58.8 5.6 26.0 31.4 8.5 130.3 Movements Capital expenditure 1.9 10.2 12.1 Acquisition of group companies 0.1 0.1 Exchange rate differences 2.5 0.1 0.2 0.1 2.9 Amortization -2.0 -0.5 -1.8 -1.9 -6.2 Net movement in book value 2.5 -1.9 -0.3 0.2 8.4 8.9 31 December 2018 Acquisition prices 64.4 18.0 33.9 54.1 45.4 215.8 Cumulative amortization/impairments -3.1 -14.3 -8.2 -22.5 -28.5 -76.6 Book value 61.3 3.7 25.7 31.6 16.9 139.2 Movements Capital expenditure 2.4 12.9 15.3 Acquisition of group companies 18.4 8.0 26.4 Exchange rate differences 0.7 -0.2 0.1 0.6 Amortization -2.7 -0.5 -2.1 -2.9 -8.2 Impairment -0.4 -0.4 Net movement in book value 19.1 5.1 -0.5 -0.1 10.1 33.7 31 December 2019 Acquisition prices 83.8 26.0 34.1 56.5 52.3 252.7 Cumulative amortization/impairments -3.4 -17.2 -8.9 -25.0 -25.3 -79.8 Book value 80.4 8.8 25.2 31.5 27.0 172.9 Amortization rates 7 20% 5 10% 5 33.3% 33.3% Goodwill impairment test Goodwill is allocated to Corbion's cash generating units identified as the operating segments. The Food and Biochemicals operating segments represent the levels to which company goodwill is allocated for the purposes of impairment testing. The Innovation Platforms unit does not contain any goodwill. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 120 Key reasons for this approach are: • It represents a non-arbitrary, reasonable, and consistent basis for the allocation of goodwill. • The allocation is in line with the expected synergies at the time of an acquisition with benefits for more than one entity. • The allocation represents the lowest level where goodwill is monitored by the Board of Management, while not being larger than the operating segments. Breakdown of the book value of the goodwill by segment As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Food 78.2 59.1 Biochemicals 2.2 2.2 Total operations 80.4 61.3 The recoverable amount of both segments is determined using a value-in-use method. The main assumptions used are derived from the financial and business plans for 2020 which have been approved by the Board of Management. From 2021 onwards a stable growth of 1% is taken into account in combination with a relatively constant cost structure. The future cash flows are discounted on the basis of the WACC before tax. Overview of the WACC used As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 pre-tax post-tax pre-tax post-tax Food 8.2% 6.6% 9.2% 7.1% Biochemicals 8.5% 6.9% 9.3% 7.3% In addition, sensitivity analyses have been carried out in respect of the assumptions using: • A terminal value growth of 0%. • A discount rate of +1%. Both assumptions applicable at the same time would not lead to any impairment. Given the above assumptions and the outcome of analyses, the Board of Management has concluded that the value in use of both segments is not lower than the book value of the segments including goodwill. The majority of the brands and licenses consist of assets not yet available for use. Impairment testing other intangible fixed assets An impairment of € 0.4 million was recorded related to our Algae business (part of the Innovation platforms segment) on our US based development costs based on a reassessment of volume development and timing of the expected Algae related sales. 121 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13. Investments in joint ventures and associates 2019 2018 Joint ventures Joint ventures Carrying amount of interests 16.6 18.7 Share of total profit and loss -2.0 -4.9 14. Other non-current financial assets As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Contingent consideration receivable as a result of sale Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited 6.1 Loans granted to joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv 62.1 55.7 Other 5.1 0.5 Total 67.2 62.3 The book value of the long-term receivables does not significantly deviate from the fair value. 15. Inventories As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Raw materials, consumables, technical materials, and packaging 43.6 38.5 Work in progress 8.7 11.9 Finished product 119.5 106.9 Impairment provision -8.6 -4.6 Total 163.2 152.7 16. Receivables As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Trade receivables 125.5 121.1 Impairment provision -1.3 -1.5 Total trade receivables 124.2 119.6 Other receivables 28.7 15.5 Derivatives 1.5 Prepayments and accrued income 7.1 5.4 Total other receivables 37.3 20.9 Total receivables 161.5 140.5 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 122 The credit risk associated with trade receivables is managed by local finance managers. Periodically, each entity reports the expired credit terms and movements in the provisions for trade receivables to the Board of Management. The maximum credit risk in respect of trade receivables is € 125.5 million (2018: € 121.1 million). Trade receivables are not interest-bearing and generally have an average term of credit of 30-90 days. The group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. Breakdown of expired credit terms (net off impairment provision) Total < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days > 90 days Food 13.1 10.5 1.5 0.5 0.6 Biochemicals 4.3 3.4 0.5 0.2 0.2 Innovation Platforms 1.2 1.0 0.1 0.1 Total 18.6 14.9 2.1 0.7 0.9 Movements in trade receivables impairment provision 2019 2018 As at 1 January -1.5 -1.7 Additions/releases 0.2 -0.1 Use 0.3 As at 31 December -1.3 -1.5 The additions to/releases from the trade receivables impairment provision are recognized as selling expenses. 17. Cash and cash equivalents As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Cash and bank balances 45.7 47.1 Short-term deposits Total 45.7 47.1 18. Equity Share capital As at 31 December 2019, the authorized share capital totaled € 45.5 million, consisting of 182 million ordinary shares with a nominal value of € 0.25 each. Movements in number of issued shares Ordinary shares As at 1 January 2019 59,242,792 As at 31 December 2019 59,242,792 123 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in number of shares with dividend rights Ordinary shares As at 1 January 2019 58,764,635 Share-based remuneration 54,955 As at 31 December 2019 58,819,590 Movements in treasury stock ordinary shares Number As at 1 January 2019 478,157 Share-based remuneration -54,955 As at 31 December 2019 423,202 As at 31 December 2019, Corbion had a treasury stock of 423,202 ordinary shares at its disposal with a nominal value of € 0.25 each (representing 0.71% of the total share capital issued). Treasury stock shares have no dividend rights. Other reserves Movements in legal reserves Translation Development Share plan reserve Hedge reserve costs reserve Total As at 1 January 2018 28.2 -0.9 31.4 5.6 64.3 ● Net investment hedge Exchange rate differences foreign currency loan -5.5 -5.5 Tax effect 1.4 1.4 ● Translation difference Foreign group companies 16.6 16.6 Tax effect -2.0 -2.0 ● Cash flow hedge 0.0 Fluctuations in fair value derivatives -2.1 -2.1 Tax effect 0.5 0.5 ● Share-based remuneration charged to result 1.6 1.6 ● Share-based remuneration transfers -4.0 -4.0 ● Movement in capitalization of development costs 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2018 38.7 -2.5 31.6 3.2 71.0 ● Net investment hedge Exchange rate differences foreign currency loan -2.8 -2.8 Tax effect 0.7 0.7 ● Translation difference Foreign group companies 17.2 17.2 ● Cash flow hedge 0.0 Fluctuations in fair value derivatives 5.3 5.3 Tax effect -1.3 -1.3 ● Share-based remuneration charged to result 4.0 4.0 ● Share-based remuneration transfers -1.9 -1.9 ● Movement in capitalization of development costs -0.1 -0.1 As at 31 December 2019 53.8 1.5 31.5 5.3 92.1 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 124 In specific circumstances legal reserves must be created in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The legal reserves comprise the translation reserve, hedge reserve, and development cost reserve. In case a legal reserve has a negative value no payments can be made from the retained earnings up to the level of the negative value(s). The positive legal reserves as at 31 December 2019 amount to € 86.8 million. A reserve for non-transferable profits is not applicable as Corbion has no restrictions to transfer profits from its operations in the different countries. Nature and purpose of reserves Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as the effective portion of any foreign currency differences arising from hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. Hedge reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges pending subsequent recognition in profit or loss as the hedged cash flows or items affect profit or loss. Development cost reserve The development cost reserve comprises a statutory reserve for capitalized development expenditure in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code. Share plan reserve The share plan reserve comprises all movements in equity-settled share-based remuneration plans. 19. Provisions As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Reorganization and restructuring 1.2 1.4 Other 5.0 2.1 Total 6.2 3.5 Movements in provisions Reorganization and restructuring Other Total As at 1 January 2019 1.4 2.1 3.5 Addition charged to result 2.4 4.5 6.9 Release credited to result -0.3 -0.1 -0.4 Withdrawal for intended purpose -2.2 -1.5 -3.7 Exchange rate differences -0.1 -0.1 As at 31 December 2019 1.2 5.0 6.2 Other The other provisions relate mainly to loss-making contracts, legal disputes, and other litigation risks. 125 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. Long-term employee benefits As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Net defined benefit asset -18.2 -4.5 Net defined benefit liability 6.3 5.8 Other long-term employee benefit commitments 1.6 1.8 Total -10.3 3.1 Net defined benefit assets and liabilities Net defined benefit assets and liabilities relate to post-employment defined benefit arrangements. Other long-term employee benefit commitments Other long-term employee benefit commitments relate mainly to anniversary commitments, conditional incentive plans, and health insurance. Main characteristics of the defined benefit plans Corbion sponsors defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and the U.K. Both plans are closed schemes and based on final pay. Further, Corbion sponsors a legal severance payment plan in Thailand. All plans have been established in accordance with the legal requirements of the countries involved. The defined benefit plans are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the entity. The board of the pension fund is composed of an equal number of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The plans typically expose the group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, and longevity risk. • Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high-quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan assets falls below this rate, it will create a plan deficit. Currently the plans have a relatively balanced investment in mainly equity securities and debt instruments. • Interest rate risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partly offset by an increase in the return on the plan's debt investments. • Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan's liability. The defined benefit obligation as per year-end consisted for the vast majority of the UK plan and is summarized below: • The Normal Retirement Age (NRA) is 65; however, Section 1 members are able to take their benefits in respect of pre 1 October 2003 service unreduced from age 60. • Pensions in deferment increase in line with statutory revaluation with the exception of pre 1 October 2003 benefits for Section 1 members, which have an underpin linked to the level of pension increases in payment (which are linked to Retail Price Index (RPI)). • Pensions in payment increase in line with RPI capped at 5% for benefits in respect of pre 1 January 2006 service and RPI capped at 2.5% for benefits in respect of post 31 December 2005 service. For this scheme a recovery plan has been agreed under which Corbion will make lump sum funding payments of GBP 2.5 million in 2020 and GBP 2.6 million in 2021. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 126 The strategic investment policy of the scheme can be summarized as follows: • A strategic asset mix with 50% in return-seeking assets and 50% in matching (bond-type) assets. • The return-seeking asset portfolio comprises a mix of equity investments and diversified growth funds. • Interest rate and inflation risks are managed through the use of liability-driven investments and corporate bonds of an appropriate duration. • Currency risk is managed by implementing a 50% currency hedge on the global equity holding. The average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2019 is 23 years. Breakdown of the amounts recognized in respect of defined benefit pension plans in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income 2019 2018 Current service costs 0.5 0.5 Net interest expense -0.4 0.1 Past-service costs 0.3 Past-service gain -8.0 Total pension costs recognized in income statement -7.6 0.6 Remeasurements net defined benefit liability Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in interest income) -8.2 5.7 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions -3.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 15.3 -3.8 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from experience adjustments -0.9 0.1 Total pension costs recognized in other comprehensive income 6.2 -1.0 Total -1.4 -0.4 Breakdown of the amounts recognized in the statement of financial position As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Present value of defined benefit obligations 87.5 78.6 Fair value of plan assets -99.4 -77.3 Funded status -11.9 1.3 Restrictions on assets recognized Net liability -11.9 1.3 127 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in defined benefit obligation 2019 2018 As at 1 January 78.6 86.7 Current service costs 0.5 0.5 Interest charges 2.2 2.5 Pension payments -4.2 -4.6 Remeasurement (gains)/losses Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions -3.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 15.3 -3.8 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from experience adjustments -0.9 0.1 Past-service gain -8.0 Past-service costs 0.3 Exchange rate differences 3.7 0.2 As at 31 December 87.5 78.6 Movements in fair value of plan assets 2019 2018 As at 1 January 77.3 83.0 Interest income 2.6 2.4 Pension payments -4.2 -4.6 Contributions from the employer 11.4 2.3 Remeasurement gains/(losses) Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in interest income) 8.2 -5.7 Exchange rate differences 4.1 -0.1 As at 31 December 99.4 77.3 The actual return on plan assets was € 10.8 million in the year under review (2018: € 3.3 million negative). In 2019, a past service gain was recorded due to a change in indexation for the CSM UK pension scheme. For the same scheme, an additional one-time deficit contribution of GBP 7.5 million was agreed in 2019. The investment strategy is based on the composition of the obligations of the pension schemes. Based on Asset Liability Management models analyses have been performed on a regular basis to define the investment portfolio. At year-end the asset allocation was as follows. Plan asset classes As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Quoted equity securities 5.9 12.7 Unquoted equity securities 12.0 Quoted debt securities 80.2 10.8 Unquoted debt securities 0.8 Quoted other securities 13.3 41.0 Total assets 99.4 77.3 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 128 The main weighted average actuarial assumptions 2019 2018 Discount rate 2.2% 3.2% Pension growth rate 1.8% 3.1% Sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption Discount rate 0.50% (8.7) 9.9 Pension growth rate 0.50% 6.2 (5.7) The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. To calculate the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method is applied (calculation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) which is also used to calculate the pension liability recognized within the consolidated statement of financial position. The anticipated contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in the coming year will amount to € 3.5 million. 21. Deferred tax Breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities 2019 2018 Deferred tax liabilities 17.0 12.1 Deferred tax assets -22.6 -22.7 As at 1 January -5.6 -10.6 Tax charge in income statement 6.6 4.2 Translation differences foreign group companies 1.1 0.6 Tax charge movements in equity 0.6 0.2 As at 31 December 2.7 -5.6 Deferred tax liabilities 13.4 17.0 Deferred tax assets -10.7 -22.6 As at 31 December 2.7 -5.6 129 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities by type As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant, and equipment -6.2 25.8 -5.7 11.6 Intangible fixed assets -2.2 10.7 -2.8 11.1 Current assets/liabilities -19.3 0.6 -4.4 2.9 Tax loss carry forward -4.7 -15.3 Provisions -2.5 -3.0 Financial instruments 0.5 -34.9 37.6 -31.2 25.6 Netting 24.2 -24.2 8.6 -8.6 Total -10.7 13.4 -22.6 17.0 The short-term part of deferred tax assets, after write-down and netting with the short-term part of deferred tax liabilities, amounts to € 2.6 million (2018: € 6.3 million). Breakdown of deferred taxes due to tax loss carry forward As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Total tax loss carry forward 155.3 206.0 Tax loss carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset -139.0 -146.5 Tax loss carry forward qualified as deferred tax asset 16.3 59.5 Average tax rate 28.8% 25.7% Deferred tax asset 4.7 15.3 Expiry dates of tax losses carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Less than 1 year 0.1 Within 5 years 0.2 0.3 Between 5 and 10 years 1.7 1.7 10 years or longer No expiry date 137.0 144.5 Tax loss carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset 139.0 146.5 Breakdown of the tax charge arising from deferred tax assets and liabilities in the income statement by type 2019 2018 Property, plant, and equipment 12.9 1.5 Intangible fixed assets 0.7 1.3 Current assets/liabilities -17.2 -1.7 Tax loss carry forward 9.8 3.0 Provisions 0.5 0.4 Exchange rate differences loans 0.7 -0.6 Financial instruments -0.8 0.4 Rate changes -0.1 Total 6.6 4.2 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 130 22. Borrowings Non-current borrowings Effective interest % Average term in years As at As at As at As at As at As at 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Private placement 111.5 122.0 4.17 4.18 6.0 6.4 Other debts 1.5 11.0 4.17 4.08 1.1 2.1 Total 113.0 133.0 Weighted average 4.17 3.50 5.9 5.7 The weighted average term has been calculated on the basis of the remaining terms of the individual loans. Repayments on the above amounts are due within five years (€ 1.5 million) and after five years (€ 111.5 million). Fair value of the main long-term loans Balance sheet Balance sheet value as at Fair value as at value as at Fair value as at 31-12-2019 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2018 Private placement 111.5 114.9 122.0 120.4 Other debts 1.5 1.5 11.0 11.0 Current borrowings Effective interest % As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Owed to credit institutions 147.2 107.0 0.93 0.75 Private placement 13.4 4.64 Other debts 9.2 9.2 4.17 4.17 Total 169.8 116.2 Weighted average 2.29 1.02 23. Other non-current liabilities As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Contingent considerations 16.8 26.9 Deferred consideration related to the Granotec do Brazil acquisition 7.3 Total 24.1 26.9 The contingent consideration decreased as a result of the remeasurement of the anticipated contingent purchase price of SB Renewable Oils. 131 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24. Other current liabilities As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Accruals and deferred income 38.5 33.1 Taxation and social security 4.8 1.5 Pension liabilities 2.6 2.7 Derivatives 1.6 Other financial accruals 5.5 5.5 Other payables 11.4 4.8 Total 62.8 49.2 25. Acquisitions and disposals Acquisition 2019 On 25 April 2019, Corbion acquired 100% of the shares and voting interests in Granotec do Brazil, a leading specialist in functional blends for the Brazilian bakery industry. which consists of two legal entities. The company is headquartered in Araucaria, Paraná State, Brazil, employs around 120 staff, and operates a production facility and a development center. Details of the purchase consideration, net assets acquired are as follows Preliminary acquisition figures Granotec do Brazil Property, plant, and equipment 8.5 Intangible fixed assets 8.0 Inventories 4.2 Receivables 4.7 Cash 1.4 Borrowings -3.4 Trade creditors -3.0 Other liabilities -0.1 Identifiable assets minus liabilities 20.3 Cash 29.9 Holdback amounts 8.8 Total consideration 38.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition 18.4 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil as the consideration paid effectively included amounts for the benefits of expected synergies, revenue growth, and future market development. These benefits are not recognized separately from goodwill because they do not meet the recognition criteria for identifiable intangible assets. The goodwill is expected to be (partly) deductible for tax purposes. The table below shows the pro-forma result of Corbion if the acquisition had been made as at 1 January 2019. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 132 Pro-forma adjustment Corbion full-year effect Pro forma Corbion Net sales 976.4 6.3 982.7 Result after taxes 25.8 -0.1 25.7 For the eight-month period ended 31 December 2019, the acquisition contributed € 15.4 million in revenue and € 0.9 million in profit to Corbion's results. Acquisition 2018 On 4 June 2018, Corbion announced that it had completed the acquisition of Bunge Limited's 49.9% stake in the SB Renewable Oils joint venture. SB Renewable Oils operates a facility in Brazil, specializing in the production of algae ingredients, such as Omega 3 rich oil, for aquaculture and animal feed. Corbion now is 100% owner of the plant in Orindiúva, which employs around 170 staff. Details of the purchase consideration, net assets acquired are as follows Acquisition figures Pro-forma adjustment Corbion full-year effect Pro forma Corbion Net sales 897.2 3.8 901.0 Result after taxes 54.3 -7.4 46.9 Corbion recognized a gain of € 9.6 million as a result of measuring at fair value its 50.1% equity interest in SB Renewable Oils held before the business combination. The gain is included in the line Results from joint ventures and associates in the income statement. Contingent consideration A 5-year earn-out provision starting in 2021 has been agreed to. This earn-out is based on sales of AlgaPrime DHA, with a maximum amount payable of $ 55.0 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of $ 20.0 million (€ 17.0 million) was estimated calculating the present value of the future expected cash flows. The estimates are based on a discount rate of 17.2%. The table below shows the pro-forma result of Corbion if the acquisition had been made as at 1 January 2018. SB Renewable Oils Property, plant, and equipment 73.3 Intangible fixed assets 0.1 Inventories 6.0 Receivables 14.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 Borrowings -48.2 Other payables -6.3 Identifiable assets minus liabilities 39.7 Remitted loan receivable 3.4 Contingent consideration 17.0 Valuation of previously held 50.1% stake in SB Renewable Oils 19.3 Total consideration 39.7 133 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the seven-month period ended 31 December 2018, the acquisition contributed € 5.5 million in revenue and € 4.5 million in loss to Corbion's results. The pro-forma calculation in the table above is based on the actual reported revenues by the joint venture before the acquisition in 2018 and includes an adjustment loss of € 5.5 million related to a write-down of inventory. 26. Financial risk management and financial instruments Risk management framework Corbion's activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks including currency, interest rate, commodity, liquidity, capital, and credit risk. The treasury department identifies and manages these risks, except the commodity risk which is managed by procurement. Treasury operates within a framework of policies and procedures which have been approved by the Board of Management. The treasury policy may change on an annual basis due to market circumstances and market volatility. Corbion uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging exposure mainly to the commodity, currency, and interest rate risks arising from the company's sources of finance and business. Corbion has a Treasury and a Commodity Risk Management Committee meeting periodically to review treasury and commodity activities and compliance with both policies. Currency risk Corbion is active on the international market, which means that it is exposed to risks arising from currency fluctuations, particularly in the US dollar, Brazilian real, Japanese yen, and Thai baht. Foreign currency exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities, and net investments in foreign operations. Translation risk Corbion is subject to foreign exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries' income, assets, and liabilities into euros in the consolidated financial statements. To protect the value of future foreign cash flows, Corbion partially mitigates the foreign exchange exposure by applying natural hedging, meaning capital employed in foreign operations is financed using the country’s currency in order to avoid fluctuations due to translation effects. US dollar translation effects on the operating result are partially hedged by the interest paid on the US dollar loan. Currency fluctuations particularly in the US dollar can have a material effect on Corbion’s income statement. Corbion has policies in place that monitor these risks and mitigation actions are discussed in the Treasury Committee. Transaction risk The currency transaction risk arises in the course of ordinary business activities. Corbion's exposure to exchange rate movements in commercial operations is mainly related to EUR/USD, THB/YEN, and EUR/YEN. Corbion uses forward currency contracts and currency swaps in order to hedge risks arising from purchase and sales deals and/or commitments from current purchase and sales deals. Transactions that are highly probable are hedged and included in cash flow hedge accounting. Other reasonably probable transactions are partially hedged. For practical reasons a specific limit is defined for each currency. Hedge accounting is being applied to these contracts, so any unrealized fluctuations in the fair value are deferred in the hedge reserve of equity until the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in the result. All forward currency contracts expire within a year. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 134 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments to exchange rate changes A 10% weakening of the euro against the Japanese yen would decrease equity by € 1.1 million, while the net result would not be significantly impacted. Interest rate risk Corbion's interest rate risk arises primarily from its debt. Corbion has an interest rate policy aimed at reducing volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed rate instruments. Currently Corbion's interest rate exposure has been fully fixed (4.17% on average) for all of Corbion's long-term debt (€ 113.0 million) for a period of on average 5.9 years. Sensitivity analysis to changes in market interest rate Assuming the same mix of variable and fixed interest rate instruments, an interest rate increase by 50 basis points versus the rates on 31 December 2019 with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease of € 0.2 million in the net result and no movement in equity. Commodity risk Corbion uses commodity derivative contracts to reduce the risk of price fluctuations in the main commodities used, being gas and sugar. Corbion entered into commodity derivative contracts to hedge the variable price risk of the main commodities used. The fair value of these contracts was an asset of € 1.2 million as at 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: liability of € 1.3 million). Hedge accounting is applied for the major part of these commodity derivative contracts. Further analysis can be found in the section on hedge transactions. The majority of the commodity derivative contracts expires within a year. Sensitivity analysis If the purchase price of the involved commodities would increase by 10%, profit and loss would be impacted by € 0.1 million. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of Corbion not being able to obtain sufficient financial means to meet its obligations in time. Corbion actively manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and the availability of committed borrowing capacity. Corbion manages cash flow based on cash flow analysis for the next 12 months. The committed credit facilities at Corbion’s long-term disposal amounted to € 300 million as at 31 December 2019. Corbion also has a private placement of $ 140 million with American institutional investors. To provide insight into the liquidity risk the table below shows the contractual terms of the financial obligations (converted at balance sheet date), including interest paid. The table below analyzes Corbion’s financial obligations which will be settled on a net basis, according to relevant expiration dates, based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual expiration date. The amounts shown are contractual non-discounted cash flows. 135 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Between 1 and 5 Less than 1 year years More than 5 years Total As at 31 December 2019 Private placement 18.7 18.6 116.3 153.6 Owed to credit institutions 148.3 148.3 Lease liabilities 12.2 36.2 34.5 82.9 Contingent liability 5.0 17.4 7.2 29.6 Other debts 9.4 1.5 10.9 Trade payables 94.3 94.3 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 62.8 62.8 Total 350.7 73.7 158.0 582.4 As at 31 December 2018 Private placement 5.2 31.9 118.3 155.4 Owed to credit institutions 108.1 108.1 Financial lease commitments 1.2 1.2 Contingent liability 25.7 27.1 52.8 Other debts 10.1 11.1 21.2 Trade payables 87.8 87.8 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 49.2 49.2 Total 260.4 69.9 145.4 475.7 Credit risk management Credit risk consists of the losses that would be recognized if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. In respect of disbursed loans, other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents the maximum credit risk equals the book value. In respect of derivatives it equals the fair value. Given the credit rating that it requires of its partners Corbion has no reason to assume that they will not honor their contractual obligations. Based on today's insights, the actual credit risk is limited. Capital risk management Corbion manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Corbion group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximizing return to stakeholders through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of Corbion consists of net debt (borrowings as detailed in Note 22) offset by cash and cash equivalents (as detailed in Note 17). 2019 2018 Private placement 124.9 122.0 Revolving credit facility 147.2 107.0 Lease commitments 66.2 1.2 Other debts 10.7 20.2 Total financial liabilities part of net debt 349.0 250.4 Cash and cash equivalents -45.7 -47.1 Net debt 303.3 203.3 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 136 Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Revolving credit Private placement facility Leases Other debts Total As at 1 January 2019 122.0 107.0 1.2 20.2 250.4 Financing cash flows 40.0 40.0 Repayments -10.9 -9.6 -20.5 New lease commitments 74.7 74.7 Exchange rate differences 2.9 0.1 0.1 3.1 Other 0.2 1.1 1.3 As at 31 December 2019 124.9 147.2 66.2 10.7 349.0 The Corbion Treasury Committee reviews the capital structure of Corbion on a quarterly basis. As part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The main covenants for the credit facility and the U.S. private placement are: • The ratio of net debt position divided by Covenant EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets, excluding adjustments, increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidiaries) may not exceed the factor 3.75 (RCF) or 3.5 (USPP). • A minimum interest cover (Covenant EBITDA divided by net interest income and charges) of 3.5 These external conditions were met in 2019 as well as in 2018. Corbion targets a net debt/ Covenant EBITDA ratio of 1.5x over the investment cycle. Ratios at year-end 2019 2018 Net debt position/Covenant EBITDA 2.0 1.6 Interest cover 22.2 25.6 Financial instruments Valuation of financial instruments Corbion measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements: • Level 1: Fair value measurements based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2: Fair value measurements based on inputs other than Level 1 quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). • Level 3: Fair value measurements based on valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Breakdown valuation of financial instruments 31 December 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives ● Foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 ● Commodity swaps/collars 1.2 1.2 Total 1.5 1.5 137 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Breakdown fair values financial instruments 31 December 2019 Balance sheet value Fair value Financial fixed assets ● Loans, receivables, and other 67.2 67.2 Receivables ● Trade receivables 124.2 124.2 ● Other receivables 28.7 28.7 ● Prepayments and accrued income 7.1 7.1 Cash ● Cash other 45.7 45.7 Interest-bearing liabilities ● Private placement -124.9 -128.3 ● Owed to credit institutions -147.2 -147.2 ● Other debts -10.7 -10.7 Non-interest-bearing liabilities ● Trade payables -94.3 -94.3 ● Other payables -62.8 -62.8 Derivatives ● Foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 ● Commodity swaps/collars 1.2 1.2 Total -165.5 -168.9 Fair values are determined as follows: • The fair value of financial fixed assets does not significantly deviate from the book value. • The fair value of receivables equals the book value because of their short-term character. • Cash and cash equivalents are measured at nominal value which, given the short-term and risk-free character, corresponds to the fair value. • Market quotations are used to determine the fair value of debt owed to private parties, credit institutions, and other debts. As there are no market quotations for most of the loans the fair value of shortand long-term loans is determined by discounting the future cash flows at the yield curve applicable as at 31 December. • Given the short-term character, the fair value of non-interest-bearing liabilities equals the book value. • Currency and interest rate derivatives are measured on the basis of the present value of future cash flows over the remaining term of the contracts, using the bank interest rate (such as Euribor) as at the reporting date for the remaining term of the contracts. The present value in foreign currencies is converted using the exchange rate applicable as at the reporting date. • Commodity derivatives are measured on the basis of the present value of future cash flows, using market quotations or own variable market price estimations of the involved commodity as at the reporting date. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 138 Derivatives Hedge transactions The amount of € 1.5 million in hedge reserve (see Note 18) relates to the hedging of risks arising from future purchase and sales deals and/or commitments from current purchase and sales contracts amounting to € 64.9 million. The amount of € 53.8 million in translation reserve (see Note 18) relates to currency fluctuations in respect of the net investments in foreign operations less the currency fluctuations of the corresponding net investment hedges. In case of divestment of a net investment in a foreign operation, the corresponding net impact of the currency fluctuations is moved from the translation reserve to the income statement. In the past year no cash flow hedges were terminated due to changes to the expected future transaction. No ineffective parts were recorded in respect of the net investment hedge and cash flow hedge. 139 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Breakdown of fair values, maturities, and qualification of derivative financial instruments for accounting purposes Short < 1 year Long > 1 year As at As at As at As at 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Derivatives receivables/ (liabilities) used as hedge instrument in cash flow hedge relations: Foreign exchange contracts 0.3 -0.3 Commodity swaps 1.6 -3.0 Derivatives receivables/ (liabilities) used as hedge instrument in fair value hedge relations: Foreign exchange contracts Commodity swaps -0.2 1.7 Total derivatives in hedge relations 1.7 -1.6 Derivatives receivables/ (liabilities) not used in a hedge relation with value change through income statement: Commodity swaps -0.2 Total derivatives through income statement -0.2 0.0 Total derivatives 1.5 -1.6 27. Related-party transactions Remuneration policy Board of Management For more information on the remuneration policy see the Remuneration report. For more information on share-based payments see Note 28, Share-based compensation. Breakdown of the number of conditionally granted shares per member of the (former) Board of Management At target' number Maximum number outstanding as at outstanding as at Year of Granted in 31-12-2019 31-12-2019 vesting O. Rigaud 2019 20,865 31,298 2022 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 2017 11,772 17,658 2020 2018 12,259 18,389 2021 2019 12,140 18,210 2022 T. de Ruiter 2017 23,585 35,378 2020 2018 17,027 25,541 2021 2019 8,852 13,278 2022 Total as at 31 December 2019 106,500 159,752 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 140 Breakdown of the movements in the number of shares conditionally granted to members of the (former) Board of Management Maximum number Maximum number outstanding as at Maximum number Vested Expired outstanding as at 31-12-2018 granted in 2019 2019 2019 31-12-2019 O. Rigaud 31,298 31,298 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 56,974 18,210 10,101 10,826 54,257 T. de Ruiter 111,848 13,278 19,840 31,089 74,197 Total 168,822 62,786 29,941 41,915 159,752 Breakdown remuneration (former) Board of Management Other SharePostlongShort-term based employment term Termination IAS 24.17 category employee benefits payments benefits benefits benefits Total Base Pension Other Termination Thousands of euros 2019 salary 1) STIP LTIP benefits benefits benefits O. Rigaud (as from 1 July 2019) 410 151 135 696 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 558 160 428 1,146 Total Board of Management 968 311 563 1,842 T. de Ruiter (CEO until 8 August 2019, thereafter Advisor to the Supervisory Board) 811 784 875 2,470 Total former Board of Management 811 784 875 2,470 Total remuneration (former) Board of Management 1,779 1,095 1,438 4,312 Other SharePostlongShort-term based employment term Termination IAS 24.17 category employee benefits payments benefits benefits benefits Total Base Pension Other Termination Thousands of euros 2018 salary 1) STIP LTIP benefits benefits benefits T. de Ruiter 804 756 245 1,805 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 530 133 125 788 Total Board of Management 1,334 889 370 2,593 1 Base salary also includes social security contributions and compensation, mainly allowances for expenses. The tables above show the costs based on the applicable IFRS standard and do not necessarily reflect the actual amounts paid. Compensation of key management personnel The table below specifies the remuneration of the Executive Committee (ExCo), comprising the Board of Management members as listed above and the additional ExCo members who are not part of the Board of Management. 141 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Thousands of euros 2019 2018 Short-term employee benefits 5,705 4,466 Share-based payments 2,771 911 Post-employment benefits 92 85 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Breakdown remuneration Supervisory Board ShortOther IAS term SharePostlong24.17 employee based employment term Termination category benefits 1) payments benefits benefits benefits Total Committee Pension Other Termination Thousands of euros Year Base fee fee LTIP benefits benefits benefits M.F.J.P. Vrijsen, Chairman (Chairman 2019 70 23 93 Appointment and Governance Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Science and Technology Committee) 2018 70 23 93 R.H.P. Markham, Vice-Chairman 2019 60 16 76 (Chairman Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2018 60 16 76 M.E. Doherty (member Audit 2019 50 10 60 Committee) 2018 50 10 60 J.P. de Kreij (Chairman Audit 2019 50 15 65 Committee) 2018 50 15 65 S. Riisgaard (Chairman Science and 2019 50 23 73 Technology Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2018 50 23 73 Total 2019 280 87 367 Total 2018 280 87 367 1 Excluding expenses No loans or advance payments or any guarantees to that effect have been made or issued to the members of the Supervisory Board. None of the members of the Supervisory Board have shares in the company or any option rights relating thereto. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 142 Other related-party transactions Transaction values for the year ended Balance outstanding at year-end 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sales Joint ventures 53.1 38.8 5.0 3.6 Purchases Joint ventures 6.6 7.5 0.6 0.0 Others Joint ventures Sale of Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited 0.7 6.1 Loans 62.1 55.7 28. Share-based compensation Share-based remuneration arrangements: Board of Management A share plan is in place for the Board of Management. The (former) members of the Board of Management have a total of 159,752 unvested share rights in the company as at 31 December 2019 (2018: 166,822). The nominal amount of the shares (€ 0.25 per share) which are claimable under unvested share rights equals € 39,938 per that date. The program was introduced in 2015, as part of the new remuneration policy agreed to by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) on 22 May 2015, aimed at longer-term value creation in line with shareholders’ interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. The targets consist of the following components: 60% of the LTIP is determined by EBITDA, 20% by Earnings Per Share (EPS), and 20% of the LTIP depends on relative TSR as compared to a specific TSR peer group. Each year members of the Board of Management are entitled to a conditional grant of Corbion shares. There are two target levels for this incentive: one applies to the CEO and one to the CFO. The CEO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 100% of his base salary. The CFO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 80% of the base salary. The total number of conditionally granted shares is determined by dividing the “at target” amount applicable for the respective Board member (as a percentage of base salary) by the share price. The share price is defined as the average closing price of the Corbion share during the last full calendar quarter preceding the conditional grant of shares. At the beginning of the performance period, targets for the LTIP are set by the Supervisory Board for the three-year performance period as follows. • A target based on EBITDA, a threshold (minimum) and a range around the performance target to determine the actual payout for 60% of the LTIP. • A target based on EPS, a threshold (minimum) and a range around the performance target to determine the actual payout for 20% of the LTIP. • The TSR performance is benchmarked against the TSR performance of Corbion’s TSR peer group and the relative ranking determines the actual payout for another 20% of the LTIP. 143 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Meeting the performance target(s) results in an LTIP payout at target level. A range of 50% around the performance target(s) (or lower as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set for the EBITDA and EPS performance to determine the actual payout. There is no payout below the low end of the range and no additional upside above the top end of the range. For the TSR performance, threshold payout is set at meeting the eighth position in the peer group. Target payout is achieved at the fourth and fifth position in the peer group and maximum payout is achieved at reaching the first and second position in the peer group. Movements in number of unvested shares of the (former) Board of Management (at maximum) Vested and expired in Year of allocation Total as at 31-12-2018 Allocated in 2019 2019 Total as at 31-12-2019 2016 62,033 62,033 2017 53,036 53,036 2018 53,753 9,823 43,930 2019 62,786 62,786 Total 168,822 62,786 71,856 159,752 Valuation model and input variables The fair value of the non-market-based components of the above-mentioned performance-related shares allocated in 2019 was € 28.22 per share (2018: € 27.72). The fair value of the marketbased components of the above-mentioned performance-related shares allocated in 2019 was € 32.61 per share (2018: € 32.36). The fair value of the market-based components is estimated by using the Black & Scholes model and the assumptions set forth below. 2019 2018 Risk-free interest rate 0.00% 0.00% Expected dividend gains Expected volatility in share price 23% 24% Term 3 years 3 years Share-based remuneration arrangements: Senior management An equity-settled plan similar to the program for the Board of Management exists for senior management. Movements in number of unvested shares of senior management Vested and expired in Year of allocation Total as at 31-12-2018 Allocated in 2019 2019 Total as at 31-12-2019 2016 109,106 109,106 2017 121,461 8,481 112,980 2018 182,395 28,884 153,511 2019 130,882 130,882 Total 412,962 130,882 146,471 397,373 Certain members of management receive a package of Corbion shares worth 9.5% of fixed salary (commitment award). The acquired shares shall be held in a separate blocked account until the end of their employment at Corbion. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 144 Movements in number of blocked commitment award shares Total as at 31-12-2018 Allocated in 2019 Released in 2019 Total as at 31-12-2019 Total 6,019 6,019 29. Off-balance sheet commitments Capital commitments The capital expenditure commitments not yet incurred amounted to € 11.3 million for (in)tangible fixed assets as at 31 December 2019 (2018: € 10.2 million). Contingent commitments Guarantees Third-party guarantees amounted to € 3.7 million as at 31 December 2019 (2018: € 59.7 million). No significant future losses are expected from these guarantees. Other Corbion is subject to a U.S. tax audit which could potentially lead to a tax exposure of which it is not practicable to provide information on the financial effect or the timing thereof. The outcome of the U.S. tax audit could have an impact on the Corbion's consolidated financial statements for a particular period. 30. Events after balance sheet date On 29 January 2020, Corbion announced it will invest approximately $ 190 million in a new 125,000 metric tons lactic acid plant in Thailand, operating at the highest sustainability standards and lowest costs. 145 Corbion annual report 2019 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company statement of financial position Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Assets Financial fixed assets 31 771.9 514.8 Deferred tax assets 32 1.1 12.5 Total non-current assets 773.0 527.3 Receivables 33 43.9 238.7 Tax assets 11.3 6.5 Cash and cash equivalents 34 2.2 4.0 Total current assets 57.4 249.2 Total assets 830.4 776.5 Equity and liabilities Ordinary share capital 14.8 14.8 Share premium reserve 55.2 55.2 Translation reserve 53.8 38.7 Hedge reserve 1.5 -2.5 Development costs reserve 31.5 31.6 Share plan reserve 5.3 3.2 Retained earnings 367.0 379.2 Equity 35 529.1 520.2 Non-current liabilities 36 111.5 121.9 Total non-current liabilities 111.5 121.9 Interest-bearing current liabilities 37 186.7 132.1 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 38 3.1 2.0 Provisions 39 0.3 Total current liabilities 189.8 134.4 Total equity and liabilities 830.4 776.5 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 146 Company income statement Millions of euros 2019 2018 General and administrative expenses -3.4 -1.3 Operating result -3.4 -1.3 Financial income 6.2 13.2 Financial charges -9.7 -9.5 Results from subsidiaries and associates 33.4 51.2 Result before taxes 26.5 53.6 Taxes -0.7 0.7 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Social security included in the income statement is rounded to zero for 2019 as well as 2018. 147 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General The separate financial statements of Corbion nv ( the company ) are drawn up in accordance with the principles referred to in Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. A list has been filed at the Amsterdam Trade Register setting out the data on the group companies as required under Sections 2:379 and 2:414 of the Dutch Civil Code. Corbion is registered with the Dutch Commercial Register under number 33006580. Basis of preparation By using the option in Section 2:362 (8) of the Dutch Civil Code the same accounting principles (including the principles for recognizing financial instruments as equity or debt) have been applied in the separate financial statements and the consolidated financial statements. Participating interests in group companies Participating interests in group companies are accounted for in the company financial statements according to the equity method. Refer to the basis of consolidation accounting policy in the consolidated financial statements. Result of participating interests The share in the result of participating interests comprises the share of the company in the result of these participating interests. Results on transactions involving the transfer of assets and liabilities between the company and its participating interests, on the one hand, and between participating interests, on the other, are eliminated to the extent that they can be considered as not realized. For an overview of any events after the balance sheet date, reference is made to Note 30 of the consolidated financial statements. For an overview of related-party transactions, reference is made to Note 27 of the consolidated financial statements. NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 148 31. Financial fixed assets As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Participations in group companies 721.6 487.5 Loans to group companies 50.3 27.2 Other 0.1 Total 771.9 514.8 The balance of participations in group companies and loans to group companies is positive in all participations of Corbion nv. Amounts owed to or by group companies are long-term. 2019 2018 Movements in participations in group companies As at 1 January 487.5 396.9 Paid-in capital 329.1 62.0 Acquisition group company 22.7 Result group companies 33.4 51.2 Dividend group companies -162.3 -31.6 Exchange rate differences 10.4 8.2 Other 0.8 0.8 As at 31 December 721.6 487.5 Movements in loans to group companies As at 1 January 27.2 233.4 Exchange rate differences -0.3 7.9 Disbursements 28.0 Repayments -4.6 -214.1 As at 31 December 50.3 27.2 149 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32. Deferred tax As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Tax loss carry forward 1.0 12.4 Provisions 0.1 0.1 Total 1.1 12.5 33. Receivables As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Owed by group companies 42.4 237.8 Other receivables 1.5 0.9 Total 43.9 238.7 34. Cash and cash equivalents The cash and cash equivalents were available and payable without notice in 2019. 35. Equity See Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. For an overview of the legal reserves see Note 18. 36. Other non-current liabilities As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Owed to credit institutions 111.5 121.9 Total 111.5 121.9 See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 150 37. Interest-bearing current liabilities As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Owed to credit institutions 160.6 107.0 Owed to group companies 26.1 25.1 Total 186.7 132.1 38. Non-interest-bearing current liabilities As at 31-12-2019 As at 31-12-2018 Other debts and accruals and deferred income 3.1 2.0 Total 3.1 2.0 39. Provisions Reorganization and restructuring Other Total As at 1 January 2019 0.3 0.3 Withdrawal for intended purpose -0.3 -0.3 As at 31 December 2019 40. Off-balance sheet commitments Contingent liabilities Under Section 2:403 of the Dutch Civil Code the company accepts liability for the debts incurred by Dutch group companies. The relevant declarations have been filed for perusal at the office of the relevant trade register. Fiscal unity Corbion nv and a number of subsidiaries in the Netherlands are part of fiscal unities for purposes of corporate income tax and value added tax. The companies which are part of a fiscal unity are jointly and severally liable for their liabilities. 41. Personnel On average, three employees were employed by Corbion nv working in the Netherlands during 2019 (2018: two employees). For information on remuneration see Note 27. 151 Corbion annual report 2019 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42. Audit fees Total fees charged by the auditor can be specified as follows. KPMG Accountants KPMG Thousands of euros nv 2019 Other 2019 Total 2019 Total 2018 Audit of the financial statements 584 242 826 749 Audit-related services* 58 25 83 59 Non-audit services Total 642 267 909 808 * Relates to assurance report on sustainability Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2020 Supervisory Board Mathieu Vrijsen, Chairman Rudy Markham, Vice-Chairman Liz Doherty Jack de Kreij Steen Riisgaard Board of Management Olivier Rigaud, CEO Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, CFO NO ONE-HIT WONDER Writing the sequel to a best-seller can be more challenging than creating the original hit. Corbion's Innovation Platforms took on that challenge, however, and has been hard at work on the next chapters in the AlgaPrime™ DHA story. Our groundbreaking product is clearly helping the aquaculture industry respond to the world’s growing demand for novel sources of omega-3 fatty acids. AlgaPrime™ DHA has been embraced by salmon farmers, providing a cost-effective, sustainable way to reduce their reliance on wildcaught forage fish as a source of omega-3s in salmon feed. BioMar, the leading innovator in sustainable aquaculture feeds, has incorporated it in well over 500,000 tons of fish feed for Norwegian salmon farmers since 2016, and more recently, our solution has proven to be an outstanding alternative for shrimp farmers as well. While these early successes have been both exciting and encouraging, it’s still too soon to know just how the AlgaPrime™ DHA narrative will play out. After all, starting up an entirely new line of business that introduces a novel solution to the market is hardly without risk. Such entrepreneurial ventures rarely develop at a predictable pace; they call on us to keep asking ourselves, “What’s the best way forward from here?” Following the customer’s lead “Our customers want to increase omega-3 levels in the fish they raise while reducing their dependence on fish oil,” says Karel Bierman,Head of Animal Nutrition who leads the commercial team. “To accomplish that, they want to be able to increase their usage levels of our product, but higher inclusion levels of AlgaPrime™ in its current powder form is limited in the fish feed pellets. So, we developed a new liquid delivery system in order to meet the customer’s unique specifications.” Efforts are underway to apply AlgaPrime™ DHA in other areas, including pet food and feed for livestock and chickens, to name a few. But the priority is responding to the needs of our aquaculture customers, who see algae-based omega-3s as crucial to their future. “There is so much we can do with the Algae Ingredients platform, but we can’t – and shouldn’t – try to do everything at once,” says Karel. “We chose to focus on delivering value where our customers have the greatest need in a way that accelerates our path to profitability.” The result: A synergistic solution What was originally a brown, biomass powder can now also be delivered in liquid form. AlgaPrime™ DHA will be suspended in rapeseed oil, a non-GMO, plant-based oil. The oil suspension enables customers to include higher doses of our product in the feeds they produce by spraying it on the exterior of already-formed fish feed pellets. The new product line being built at Orindiúva began production in November 2019. The new AlgaPrime™ DHA will have greater density than our current offering, so shipping will be more cost-efficient – a timely added advantage, given the distances involved in providing the solution to salmon farmers in Norway and other customers as far away as Southeast Asia. “We’re taking a great product and making it even better,” says Maarten Campman, General Manager of Algae Ingredients. “The new AlgaPrime™ DHA gives our customers a proprietary solution that’s easier to work with, lets them use higher levels of our ingredient, delivers the oxidative stability they need, and at the same time, provides Corbion with enhanced competitiveness and a path for growth.” The improvements this next-generation product delivers tell the aquaculture industry we’re committed to helping them grow sustainably… and that our stories are worth telling for years to come. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS 2019 155 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Materiality and stakeholder engagement The foundation of our sustainability strategy is the materiality matrix, which we use to set priorities and ensure that we take a focused approach. A materiality analysis is about the identification of key issues that are important to our stakeholders and our strategy. The materiality matrix visualizes the results of this analysis, by plotting the relevant social, environmental, governance, and economic issues as a function of their importance to stakeholders (vertical axis) and Corbion's strategy (horizontal axis). The materiality matrix was generated in 2017 using an in-depth methodology (see Figure 1) and resulted in the identification of nine material themes. These nine themes have a high impact on our strategy and are considered important by the majority of our stakeholders. These themes are the basis of our sustainability framework. The materiality assessment is updated at least every three years, as input for our strategy updates. The graph below shows the upper-right section of Corbion's materiality matrix, highlighting the nine material themes. Materiality matrix SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 156 Material themes, definition, link to sustainability strategy The table below lists the material themes, definitions, boundaries, management approach, and the link with Corbion's sustainability framework and strategy. Material theme Sustainable supply chain Definition Responsible sourcing of raw materials, taking into account business ethics, human rights, labor conditions, the environment, agricultural practices, land rights, land use, and biodiversity. Management approach • Sustainability criteria embedded in our security-of-supply assessment • Generic supplier code that states mandatory requirements on, amongst others, business ethics, human rights, labor conditions, the environment, and responsible procurement • Specific policies for our key raw materials focusing on continuous improvement toward the implementation of the relevant sustainability standard for each of these raw materials • Participate in relevant multi-stakeholder initiatives • Collaborate with strategic suppliers to reduce our Scope III emissions Boundaries Corbion's supply chain Link with sustainability framework Responsible sourcing Material theme Occupational health and safety Definition Provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, contractors, and visitors. Management approach • Record all incidents and implement corrective and preventive measures • OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 certification for all our manufacturing sites Boundaries Corbion's own operations Link with sustainability framework Responsible operations Material theme Resource efficiency Definition Efficient use of raw materials, energy, and water in Corbion's facilities. Reduce, re-use, and recycle waste. Reduce Corbion's own carbon footprint. Management approach • Valorize by-products • Waste reduction programs • Design out waste for new manufacturing processes • Transition to renewable electricity • Energy-saving projects at manufacturing sites • Selection of the most energy-efficient technology available when equipment is replaced • R&D program to identify opportunities for heat integration, electrification, and recycling • Review the financial impact of greenhouse gas emissions through internal carbon pricing in capital expenditure and long-term R&D projects Boundaries Corbion's own operations Link with sustainability framework Responsible operations Material theme Product environmental impact Definition Impact of Corbion's products on end-users' ecological footprint. Management approach • Sustainability assessment integrated in our innovation stage-gate process • Quantify the impacts on people and/or planet for products with a sustainability value proposition (Life Cycle Assessment) 157 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Boundaries Corbion's own operations and supply chain (cradle to gate) Link with sustainability framework Sustainable solutions Material theme Renewable raw materials Definition The use of renewable raw materials instead of finite fossil-based resources. Corbion's contribution to the transition to a circular economy with a reduced dependency on fossilbased fuels. Management approach • Strategic innovation portfolio focused on the development and commercialization of biobased organic acids • Innovation program for the use of alternative feedstocks in our processes Boundaries Corbion's value chain Link with sustainability framework Sustainable solutions Material theme Safe, affordable, and healthy food; prevent food waste Definition Contribution of Corbion's food ingredients to safe, affordable, and healthy food and to the prevention of food waste. Management approach • Provide food safety solutions that enable our meat customers to produce safe food • Provide preservation solutions that help our customers deliver products with longer shelf life, which in turn enables them to reduce food waste and deliver affordable products to markets in which consumer spending power is limited • Leverage our expertise in food spoilage and food safety to serve more segments of the food industry, such as salads, dips, hummus, and other chilled foods • Provide solutions for healthy food, such as ingredients for salt reduction in meat Boundaries Corbion's downstream value chain Link with sustainability framework Sustainable solutions Material theme Product quality and performance Definition Deliver products that consistently meet specifications and deliver the expected performance. Management approach • Ensure certifications are in place to meet customer and industry-adopted standards and requirements • Internal audits by our global quality platform to ensure that we continue to improve our operational standards for quality and food safety Boundaries Corbion's supply chain and own operations Link with sustainability framework Sustainable solutions Material theme Transparency Definition Transparency on raw material sourcing, product environmental impact, sustainability performance, and clear labeling of food ingredients. Management approach • Global policies on quality, safety, the environment, and social aspects • Supplier code and specific raw material codes provide transparency on the criteria that Corbion applies for the sourcing of raw materials • Participation in CDP, EcoVadis, and other relevant stakeholder questionnaires and reporting initiatives • Reporting and assurance of sustainability KPIs in Annual Report • Provide stakeholders with insight on the SDG2+12 impact of our products SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 158 Boundaries Corbion's value chain Link with sustainability framework Transparency Material theme Innovation Definition Development and commercialization of new products, product applications, and processes. Management approach • Commercial excellence program to further professionalize the way we engage with customers • Operational excellence program to drive continuous improvement across Corbion • R&D excellence program to continuously improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our science and to stay on top of emerging technologies to identify risks and opportunities Boundaries Corbion's value chain Link with sustainability framework Innovation External recognition CDP CDP runs a global disclosure system that enables companies, cities, states, and regions to measure and manage their environmental impacts, with a focus on climate change, water security, and deforestation. CDP has committed to aligning its questionnaires with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Corbion has been participating in the CDP Climate Change and Supply Chain programs since 2016 to provide transparency on how we manage risks and opportunities related to climate change. In 2019, we made our submission public for the first time. We started participating in the Forests questionnaire in 2018. Program Corbion score Sector average Global average Climate change / General B C C Climate change/ Supplier engagement A C C Forests / Palm oil BC C Forests / Soy C C C EcoVadis EcoVadis sustainability ratings and scorecards assess the environmental and social performance of companies. The assessment framework covers 21 sustainability criteria (from CO 2 emissions to human rights and business ethics) aligned with GRI, Global Compact, and ISO 26000. Corbion received the Gold rating in the 2019 EcoVadis CSR assessment. Our full EcoVadis sustainability profile is available on the Corbion website. 159 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Sustainability governance The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for sustainability and decides on the strategy and targets. We use a sustainability dashboard with qualitative and quantitative indicators, to monitor our progress with the strategic sustainability initiatives. The dashboard is reviewed by the Board of Management each quarter and is discussed with the Executive Committee at least twice a year. The Director of Sustainability reports to the CTO and drives the implementation and reporting of the strategic initiatives. Accountability for managing sustainability initiatives and delivering against targets lies with the relevant businesses and functions. This responsibility is anchored in business targets and personal targets at various levels in the organization. Corbion's sustainability sounding board, which includes representatives from all Corbion business units and functions, advises the Director of Sustainability and the CTO on the sustainability strategy and specific initiatives. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures guidelines The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established to improve transparency of and for the financial sector and businesses on the risks and opportunities of climate change. Corbion provides transparency on the effects of climate change through the annual CDP questionnaire and has this year for the first time submitted a public response. CDP has aligned its questionnaires with the TCFD guidelines. A summary of disclosures on the TCFD Guidelines’ key aspects of Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics & Targets can be found below. More detailed information can be found in the CDP Climate Change survey. Governance Under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer, the members of the Executive Committee have the overall responsibility for sustainability and decide on the strategy and targets. There is also a specific climate Steering Committee (SteerCo) consisting of the CEO and CTO. The SteerCo meets quarterly with the relevant business partners from Procurement, Operations, R&D, and Sustainability. Strategy For Corbion, sustainability and climate change offer opportunities and are drivers for innovation. As we are a biobased company using 98% biobased raw materials and have a relatively low carbon footprint, we have not identified any climate-specific transition or physical risks in the short (< 1 year), medium (2-4 years), or long (4-15 years) term that have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business. We have, however, identified several areas for opportunities, especially in relation to the transition toward a low-carbon economy. Examples include PLA (through our joint venture with Total) and our Algae Ingredients platform. We are still defining our approach to performing scenario analysis to test the resilience of our strategy. Risk management Climate-related risks are assessed in our formal risk identification process (see Risk management). As long as no material climate-related risks are identified in this process the sustainability department will keep monitoring for changes. Any changes in the climate risk assessment are communicated to the Board of Management through quarterly meetings with the SteerCo. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 160 Metrics and targets Corbion discloses its Scope I, II, and III emissions (see Sustainability statements/Natural capital/ Greenhouse gas emissions and CDP). For internal planning purposes Corbion uses a carbon price of €50/t CO 2e. The remuneration policy for the Board of Management includes bonusses for the CEO and CFO linked to sustainability targets. In 2019, Corbion has committed to reducing its CO 2 emissions related to energy, key raw materials, and transport by 33% per ton of product by 2030 (base year: 2016). This target has been approved by the Science Based Target initiative, confirming that our current emission reduction plans are in line with the Paris Agreement to keep global warming well below 2 ⁰C. Reporting policy We used the GRI Standards core option as a basis for our 2019 report. The selection of topics included in the report is based on a materiality assessment (see Materiality and stakeholder engagement). The environmental and social results for the material topics in this report cover all entities that belong to the scope of the consolidated financial statements except for our facility in Araucária (Granotec do Brazil), as this site has only recently been acquired and the integration thereof in our sustainability reporting is ongoing. Our joint venture Total Corbion PLA is excluded. The scope of the environmental data includes Corbion's manufacturing sites. Offices and R&D laboratories are not included, except for our R&D laboratories and offices located at our Gorinchem and Totowa manufacturing sites. Data is collected from various reporting systems. For each KPI, data reporters and data reviewers are defined, either at site level or at corporate level. The data reporter is responsible for the annual reporting of the data via the central reporting systems and for document retention and record-keeping related to this data. The data reviewer (from Finance) is responsible for the validation of the reported data. Site-specific data is consolidated and reviewed at corporate level by Finance and the Sustainability team. The review includes a comparison to data from previous years and a review of changes that could have impacted the results, such as improvement projects. In case of uncertainties, data estimation may be required, which is validated during review. We strive to continuously improve the data collection process and the reliability of the data. Significant changes that impact comparability including changes in measurement methods are explained in footnotes. The KPIs related to responsible sourcing, responsible operations, and sustainable solutions have been reviewed by external auditors (marked by √ ). 161 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Natural capital Our environmental policies and the principal environmental risks for our business operations and value chain are described in the Sustainability chapter sections on Responsible sourcing and Responsible operations. Our resource-efficiency KPIs measure the performance of all of our operations on energy usage, water consumption, waste and by-product generation, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Category Unit 2019 5) 2018 Production volume √ kT 499 481 Energy √ Electricity (renewable) GJx10^3 397 227 Electricity (non-renewable) GJx10^3 285 317 Natural gas, purchased steam (nonGJx10^3 renewable and renewable) 2,513 2,221 Biogas (renewable) GJx10^3 23 27 Total GJx10^3 3,219 2,792 Energy intensity √ Total, specific GJ/T 6.45 5.81 GHG emissions √ Scope I kT CO 2 equiv 101 94 Scope II (market based) kT CO 2 equiv 68 83 Scope II (location based) kT CO 2 equiv 96 101 Scope III kT CO 2 equiv 907 761 Biogenic emissions 1) kT CO 2 equiv 34.33 5.40 Scope I, specific T CO 2 equiv /T 0.20 0.20 Scope II, specific (market based) T CO 2 equiv /T 0.14 0.17 Scope II, specific (location based) T CO 2 equiv /T 0.19 0.21 Scope III, specific T CO 2 equiv /T 1.82 1.60 Water consumption 2)√ Total m3x10^3 4,318 3,807 Total, specific m3/T 8.64 7.92 Waste (total 3)) √ Recycled kT 21.13 23.00 Incinerated kT 2.03 2.10 Landfilled kT 1.20 2.00 Total kT 24.35 27.10 Waste (hazardous) √ Recycled kT 0.58 0.51 Incinerated kT 0.09 0.01 Landfilled kT 0.04 0.03 Total kT 0.71 0.55 By-products 4) √ Recycled kT 452 429 Incinerated kT 0 0 Landfilled kT 4.61 2.50 Total kT 456 431 1 Restated due to data quality improvement. 2 Biogenic emissions are mainly related to indirect emissions from purchased renewable energy and direct emissions from algae fermentations, the consumption of biogas, and waste water treatment. 3 Sum of the water withdrawn from rivers, aquifers, rainwater reservoirs, municipal water supplies, including purchased steam. 4 Sum of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which we discard or intend to discard, or are required to discard. 5 Valuable by-products generated in the production of lactic acid. 6 Our recently acquired facility in Araucária is not yet included in the reporting scope for the Natural capital KPIs. √ Reviewed by external auditor SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 162 Greenhouse gas emissions We report our emissions in carbon equivalents from cradle to gate in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This includes Scope I emissions from direct production (for natural gas), Scope II emissions from purchased energy (for electricity and purchased steam), and Scope III emissions related to purchased goods and services 1 , fuel and energy-related activities, upstream and downstream transportation, waste generated in operations 2 , business travel, and employee commuting. The chart below shows which Scope III activities have the most significant GHG emissions, offer the greatest opportunities for reduction, and are the most relevant to our ambition to reduce our carbon footprint in line with the Paris Agreement. In 2019, we have included the GHG emissions from waste generated in operations in our reporting scope and we have improved the completeness of the reporting on purchased goods by including emissions related to packaging and outsourcing. Compared to 2018, our total emissions increased due to an increase in the total production volume. Our specific Scope I emissions remained constant. For Scope II, our market-based specific emissions decreased by 18%, due to the increased use of renewable electricity. Seven out of twelve Corbion sites are now 100% powered by renewable electricity, which increases our global coverage to 58%, ahead of our 2020 target (50%). Our Scope III emissions are not directly comparable to the Scope III emissions reported for 2018, due to the inclusion of additional categories (waste, packaging, and outsourcing) and the inclusion of our facility in Orindiúva. When comparing on the same basis, our specific Scope III emissions decreased by some 2%.The biogenic emissions for 2019 include the indirect biogenic emissions from the renewable energy used at our facility in Orindiúva, which was not included in the reporting scope for 2018. Our Orindiúva facility uses renewable electricity and steam generated from the incineration of bagasse at the neighboring sugar mill. 1 For 2019 including packaging and outsourcing, which was not included in 2018 2 Not included for 2018 163 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Greenhouse gas emissions in Corbion's value chain Human capital Inclusion and employee engagement Corbion is fully committed to including the opinions and insights of its employees and investing in their further development. At Corbion we strive to create an effective and high-performing organization with engaged, inclusive, and diverse teams where our employees can unleash their passion, pride, and talent to create sustainable growth now and well into the future. To underpin this further and provide a “compass” for all interactions of our employees within and outside our company, we have communicated and implemented the Corbion values Care, Commitment, Collaboration, and Courage worldwide – in addition to the already existing Corbion behaviors. To ensure we embed the above into Corbion and support our people in the best ways possible, the following principles are leading within Corbion: • Attract, develop, and retain our employees based on diversity, competences, strengths, and leadership potential required for current and future positions. • Offer challenging (new) career opportunities and encourage and support opportunities for further business and personal growth in the job, in projects, and with training. • Reward delivery of performance based on an internationally competitive remuneration framework. • Provide an inclusive work environment which leads to an increasingly engaged and involved workforce. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 164 In 2019 we agreed on our Inclusion and Diversity policy which will be communicated and rolled out in 2020. We also continued our global review and succession planning of our talent, with the aim of establishing a stronger succession pipeline by ensuring quality and timely succession of critical positions. In addition, we implemented a global standard for the onboarding of new employees ensuring that they will not only be familiarized quicker with their new environment but also understand better the culture, values, and behaviors to successfully contribute within Corbion. Priority was especially given to the onboarding and integration of the employees of the acquired company Granotec do Brazil. The year under review saw the continued realization of several global training initiatives in the areas of sales, leadership, and management skills. Achieving an optimal level of employee engagement and the creation of a culture focused on continuous performance and innovation are key success factors. This year was characterized by the implementation of the results of the fourth employee engagement survey conducted late 2018 (response rate of 94%) and impact planning to enhance the implementation of improvement areas. The outcome shows, once again, a rise in our engagement levels also in comparison with external benchmarks. The four key Corbion behaviors (set clear direction, make the difference, focus on customers, and deliver through teamwork) have been integrated in our performance management system and leadership development programs to fully support the implementation and realization of our Creating Sustainable Growth strategy. Human rights We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the key conventions of the International Labor Organization, the OECD guidelines, and we are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We integrate these principles into our policies and our business activities. Our Code of Business Conduct covers amongst others child and forced labor, discrimination, and freedom of association. All of our sites are assessed through Sedex and regularly audited (4-Pillar Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit). Through our supplier code and our cane sugar code, we expect our suppliers to respect human rights in their operations. See Responsible sourcing for more information on these codes and the governance thereof. 165 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Workforce profile FTE of employees 2019 % of workforce 2019 FTE of employees 2018 % of workforce 2018 Total workforce 2,138 2,040 By region Asia 230 11% 223 11% EMEA 642 30% 625 31% Latin America 392 18% 319 16% North America 874 41% 873 42% By unit Business units 716 33% 733 36% Ingredient Solutions 490 68% 491 67% Innovation Platforms 226 32% 242 33% R&D 81 4% 100 5% Operations 1,137 53% 1,017 50% Support functions 204 10% 190 9% By gender Number of employees Number of employees Female 562 26% 532 26% Male 1,604 74% 1,536 74% By employment contract Number of employees Number of employees Full time 2,016 93% 1,922 93% Part time 150 7% 146 7% The total number of FTEs has increased in 2019 due to further focus on the strategy implementation (requiring specific competences) and the acquisition of Granotec do Brazil. Labor practices Collective bargaining agreements # of employees % of workforce Total employees with agreements 985 45% To ensure high-level employee-management interaction and responsible labor practices, we have joint management-worker health & safety committees on all production locations with formally elected employee representatives. In Thailand, the Election Welfare Committee has a formal quarterly meeting with employer representation by labor law to jointly review the welfare and working conditions. The members of the Election Welfare Committee are all employees’ representatives. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct reflects our strong commitment to responsible labor practices. All Corbion employees are paid a living wage. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 166 GRI Index General standard disclosures Indicator Description Location in report 102-1 Name of the organization Corbion 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corbion at a glance 102-3 Location of the organization's headquarters Amsterdam 102-4 Number of countries operating Corbion at a glance 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Corbion at a glance, How we safeguard long-term value 102-6 Markets served Corbion at a glance 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization Corbion at a glance, Company highlights 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability statements 102-9 Supply chain Responsible sourcing 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Financial statements 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Risk management 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact 102-13 Memberships of associations www.corbion.com/about-corbion/sustainability 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Sustainability statements 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour How we safeguard long-term value 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability statements, How we safeguard long-term value 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Sustainability statements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability statements 102-42 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability statements 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability statements 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Group structure 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability statements 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability statements 102-48 Restatements of information Sustainability statements 102-49 Changes in reporting Sustainability statements 102-50 Reporting period 1 January – 31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 20 March 2020 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report communications@corbion.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Sustainability statements 102-55 GRI content index Sustainability statements 102-56 External assurance Sustainability statements 167 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Specific standard disclosures Indicator Description Location in report Material topic – Resource efficiency GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible operationsSustainability statements GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability statements 302-3 Energy intensity Sustainability statements GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope I) Sustainability statements 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope II) Sustainability statements 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope III) Sustainability statements 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability statements GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability statements Material topic Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible operationsSustainability statements GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Responsible and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities operationsSustainability statements Material topic Product quality and performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible operationsSustainable solutions GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety There were no incidents impacts of products and services of non-compliance in 2019. Material topics which Corbion reports according to own indicators Material topic Sustainable supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible sourcing Own indicators • Raw materials assessed on security of supply Responsible sourcing • Raw materials covered by generic supplier code • Responsibly sourced cane sugar • Responsibly sourced palm oil and primary oleochemicals • Responsibly sourced corn-based dextrose • Responsibly sourced soybean oil and primary oleochemicals • Responsibly sourced wheat-based raw materials Material topic Resource efficiency GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible operations Own indicators • Renewable electricity Responsible • Total weight of by-products of lactic acid production operationsSustainability • Total weight of by-products disposed, by disposal method statements • Water consumption SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS Corbion annual report 2019 168 Indicator Description Location in report Material topic Product environmental impact GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Responsible operations Own indicators • Innovation projects assessed on sustainability Sustainable solutions • Products covered by Life Cycle Assessment Material topic – Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Business performance Material topic – Safe, affordable, and healthy food GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Business performance Material topic – Transparency GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Sustainability statements Material topic – Renewable raw materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Sustainable solutions Own indicators Biobased raw materials Sustainable solutions 169 Corbion annual report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS UN Global Compact Corbion is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to aligning our operations and strategies with these ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We will continue to support the principles and communicate our progress in terms of practical actions and outcomes. Olivier Rigaud, CEO, Corbion United Nations Global Compact Reference List Topic Principle Reference Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection How we safeguard long-term valueResponsible rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and sourcingResponsible operationsSustainability Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights statementsCorbion Code of Business ConductCorbion abuses. Supplier CodeCorbion Cane Sugar Code Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; How we safeguard long-term valueResponsible Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and sourcingResponsible operationsSustainability Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of statementsCorbion Code of Business ConductCorbion employment and occupation. Supplier CodeCorbion Cane Sugar Code Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; How we safeguard long-term valueResponsible Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental sourcingResponsible operationsSustainability responsibility; and statementsCorbion Code of Business ConductCorbion Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Supplier CodeCorbion Cane Sugar CodeWho we are environmentally-friendly technologies. and what we do AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its How we safeguard long-term valueCorbion Code of corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Business ConductCorbion Supplier CodeCorbion Cane Sugar Code OTHER INFORMATION Corbion annual report 2019 170 OTHER INFORMATION Alternative performance measures (APM) In this report, Corbion has included certain non-IFRS financial information. This information is presented to assist in making appropriate comparisons with prior periods and to assess the operating performance of the business. Corbion uses these measures to assess the performance of the business and believes that the information is useful to users of the financial information. The non-IFRS financial measures do not have a standardized meaning prescribed by the IASB, therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers. The table below gives an overview of the alternative performance measures used and their definitions. APM Definition EBITDA The operating result before depreciation, amortization, and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets. Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA as defined above after applying adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA margin % Adjusted EBITDA as defined above divided by net sales x 100. Adjusted EBITDA excluding acquisitions and divestments, Adjusted EBITDA as defined above excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestments, based on at constant currencies prior year currency rates. Covenant EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA as defined above increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidiaries. Organic EBITDA growth Adjusted EBITDA as defined above versus prior year excluding impact of acquisitions and divestments and excluding currency impact. Organic sales growth Sales versus prior year excluding impact of acquisitions and divestments and excluding currency impact. Adjusted operating result Operating result after adjustments. Adjusted result after taxes Result after taxes after adjustments. Interest cover Covenant EBITDA as defined above divided by net interest income and charges. Net debt position Interest-bearing debts and lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, including third-party guarantees which are required to be included under the debt covenants. Capital employed The sum of equity, non-current liabilities, interest-bearing current liabilities, and lease liabilities minus cash and cash equivalents. Average capital employed Average of the quarterly average capital employed in the reporting period. Market capitalization Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights multiplied by the share price at period end. Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities plus cash flow from investment activities. Return on capital employed Adjusted operating result as defined above, including results from joint ventures and associates, (ROCE) divided by the average capital employed x 100. Adjustments Adjustments relate to material items in the income statement of such size, nature, or incidence that, in the opinion of management, require disclosure. These items include amongst others write-downs of inventories to net realizable value, reversals of write-downs, impairments, reversals of impairments, additions to and releases from provisions for restructuring and reorganization, results on assets sold, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and any other provision being formed or released. The company only makes adjustments for items when the aggregate amount of the events per line item of the income statement exceeds a threshold of € 0.5 million. 171 Corbion annual report 2019 OTHER INFORMATION The table below gives a selection of the APMs used versus the most directly comparable IFRS measure. € million 2019 2018 Operating result 61.3 87.9 Depreciation, amortization, and impairments 103.0 41.6 EBITDA 164.3 129.5 Adjustments to EBITDA Past-service gain due to change in indexation CSM UK pension scheme -7.9 Restructuring costs 2.9 0.3 Acquisition costs 0.7 0.4 One-off bonuses 1.0 Onerous contract provisions 0.6 Legal fees 0.5 Incidental write-down of inventory 2.6 0.6 Profit on sale of land -0.6 Valuation of tax assets -3.5 Remeasurement contingent purchase price SB SB Renewable Oils -14.7 Remeasurement contingent sales price Total Corbion PLA 0.8 Total adjustments to EBITDA -18.4 2.1 Adjusted EBITDA 145.9 131.6 Operating result 61.3 87.9 Adjustments to operating result Adjustments to EBITDA -18.4 2.1 Impairments 42.1 Reversal of previous recorded impairment -0.4 Total adjustments to operating result 23.7 1.7 Adjusted operating result 85.0 89.6 Net result 25.8 54.3 Adjustments to result after taxes Total adjustments to operating result 23.7 1.7 Gain fair value remeasurement SB Oils -9.6 Loss related to write-down inventory SB Oils 2.8 Tax effects on above adjustments -3.5 -0.1 Total adjustments to result after taxes 20.2 -5.2 Adjusted result after taxes 46.0 49.1 Cash flow from operating activities 114.4 99.5 Cash flow from investment activities -104.8 -87.6 Free cash flow 9.6 11.9 Equity 529.1 520.2 Borrowings 282.8 249.2 Lease liabilities 66.2 1.2 Other non-current liabilities 24.1 26.9 OTHER INFORMATION Corbion annual report 2019 172 € million 2019 2018 -/Cash and cash equivalents -45.7 -47.1 Capital employed 856.5 750.4 Borrowings 282.8 249.2 Lease liabilities 66.2 1.2 -/Cash and cash equivalents -45.7 -47.1 Net debt position 303.3 203.3 173 Corbion annual report 2019 OTHER INFORMATION Group structure As at 31 December 2019 Nature of business Proportion of ordinary shares Name held by the group (%) Principal subsidiaries Argentina Purac Argentina S.A. Operating company 100 Brazil Corbion Produtos Renovaveis Ltda. Operating company 100 Corbion S.A. Nutrição e Biotecnologia Operating company 100 Corbion S.A. Tecnologia para a Industria Alimentícia Operating company 100 Putac Sínteses Indústria e Comercio Ltda. Operating company 100 China Corbion Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Operating company 100 France Corbion France SAS Operating company 100 India Corbion India PL Operating company 100 Japan Corbion Japan K.K. Operating company 100 Mexico Purac Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Operating company 100 The Netherlands Corbion Group Holdings bv Holding company 100 Corbion Group Netherlands bv Holding company 100 Corbion PLA Holding bv Holding company 100 Corbion SB Oils Holding bv Holding company 100 Expalkan V bv Holding company 100 Purac Biochem bv Operating company 100 Poland Purac Polska Sp. z o.o. Operating company 100 Singapore Purac Asia Pacific PTE Ltd. Operating company 100 Spain Purac Bioquímica S.A. Operating company 100 OTHER INFORMATION 174 Nature of business Proportion of ordinary shares Name held by the group (%) Thailand Purac (Thailand) Limited Operating company 100 United Kingdom Expalkan II Closed Scheme Ltd. * Pension funding company 100 United States Corbion America Holdings Inc. Holding company 100 Corbion America Subholdings Inc. Holding company 100 Caravan Ingredients Inc. Operating company 100 Corbion Biotech Inc. Operating company 100 Purac America Inc. Operating company 100 Joint ventures The Netherlands CM Biomaterials bv, Gorinchem Operating company 50 Total Corbion PLA bv, Gorinchem Operating company 50 Bioprocess Pilot Facility bv, Delft Operating company 31.1 Icos Cleantech Early Stage Fund II bv, Badhoevedorp Operating company 23.3 Dutch Technology Fund I bv, Badhoevedorp Operating company 11.1 * Expalkan II Closed Scheme Ltd. (registration number 08559472) is exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 by virtue of Section 479A. 189 Corbion annual report 2019 OTHER INFORMATION Five years in figures Millions of euros 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Continuing operations* Net sales 976 897 892 911 918 Operating result 61 88 122 127 109 Adjusted EBITDA 1) 146 132 164 170 150 Result after taxes 26 54 85 104 80 Earnings per ordinary share in euros 2) 0.44 0.93 1.46 1.74 1.29 Diluted earnings per ordinary share in euros 2) 0.43 0.92 1.44 1.72 1.28 Cash flow from operating activities 114 100 118 123 110 Cash flow from operating activities per ordinary share, in euros 2**) 1.94 1.70 2.03 2.06 1.79 Depreciation/amortization (in)tangible fixed assets 62 42 45 50 46 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 83 58 49 51 68 Adjusted EBITDA margin % 3) 14.9 14.7 18.4 18.7 16.4 Result after taxes/net sales % 2.6 6.1 9.5 11.4 8.7 Total operations Statement of financial position Non-current assets 719 616 498 467 470 Current assets 327 303 295 316 246 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 161 140 129 147 135 Net debt position 4) 303 203 162 98 62 Provisions 28 28 24 39 31 Equity 529 520 489 499 488 Key data per ordinary share Number of issued ordinary shares 59,242,792 59,242,792 59,242,792 57,862,037 59,904,209 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights 58,819,590 58,764,635 58,620,564 57,365,098 59,420,763 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares ** 58,819,590 58,698,602 58,097,383 58,433,493 60,380,489 Price as at 31 December 28.12 24.46 27.00 25.43 22.32 Highest price in calendar year 29.96 29.74 29.39 25.65 22.91 Lowest price in calendar year 24.26 23.3 23.15 17.92 12.7 Market capitalization as at 31 December 1,654 1,437 1,583 1,459 1,326 Earnings in euros ** 0.44 0.93 1.46 1.74 1.29 Diluted earnings in euros ** 0.43 0.92 1.44 1.72 1.28 Other key data Cash flow from operating activities 114 100 118 123 110 Depreciation/amortization (in)tangible fixed assets 62 42 45 50 46 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 83 58 49 51 68 Number of employees at closing date (FTE) 2,138 2,040 1,794 1,684 1,673 Number of issued financing preference shares 2,279,781 2,403,781 Equity per share in euros 5) 9.00 8.85 8.35 8.36 7.89 Regular dividend in euros per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.43 Additional dividend in euros per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.44 0.42 Ratios Net debt position/EBITDA (for covenant purposes) 6) 2.0 1.6 1.0 0.6 0.4 Interest cover 7) 22.2 25.6 24.4 23.0 25.5 Balance sheet total : equity 1:0.5 1:0.5 1:0.6 1:0.6 1:0.6 Net debt position : equity 1:1.7 1:2.6 1:3 1:5.1 1:7.9 Current assets : current liabilities 1:0.9 1:0.7 1:0.6 1:0.5 1:0.4 OTHER INFORMATION Corbion annual report 2019 190 * The previous years have not been restated for discontinued operations later on. ** Only the preceding year has been restated for stock dividend. 1 Adjusted EBITDA is the operating result before depreciation, amortization, impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets and after adjustments. 2 Per ordinary share in euros after deduction of dividend on financing preference shares. 3 Adjusted EBITDA margin % is adjusted EBITDA as defined above divided by net sales x 100. 4 Net debt position comprises interest-bearing debts less cash and cash equivalents, including third-party guarantees which are required to be included under the debt covenants. 5 Equity per share is equity divided by the number of shares with dividend rights. 6 Covenant EBITDA is adjusted EBITDA as defined above, increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidiaries. 7 Interest cover is covenant EBITDA as defined above divided by net interest income and charges. Investor Relations Dividend According to the Corbion Articles of Association, the Board of Management shall decide subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board which part of the profit is to be reserved. The remaining profit shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide upon a proposal by the Board of Management with the approval of the Supervisory Board to pay dividends to shareholders from the distributable equity. In terms of dividend policy, Corbion’s ambition is to pay out annually a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend amount per share (progressive regular dividend policy). For 2019, the dividend proposal is a regular dividend in cash of € 0.56 per ordinary share (2018: € 0.56). Proposed appropriation of profit Millions of euros 2019 2018 Result after taxes 25.8 54.3 Proposed addition to the reserves -7.1 21.4 Available for cash dividend to holders of ordinary shares 32.9 32.9 Regular cash dividend of € 0.56 (2018: € 0.56) per ordinary share with a nominal value of € 0.25 32.9 32.9 Share information 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights x 1,000 as at 31 December 58,820 58,765 58,662 60,141 59,421 Market capitalization in millions of euros as at 31 December 1,654 1,437 1,583 1,459 1,326 Highest share price 29.96 29.74 29.39 25.65 22.91 Lowest share price 24.26 23.3 23.15 17.92 12.7 Share price as at 31 December 28.12 24.46 27 25.43 22.32 Average daily turnover of shares 1,138,349 86,888 170,440 142,677 196,700 191 Corbion annual report 2019 OTHER INFORMATION Trends in share price Financial calendar* 30 April 2020 Publication of the interim management statement first quarter 2020 11 May 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 13 May 2020 Ex date 14 May 2020 Record date 19 May 2020 Dividend payable for 2019 7 August 2020 Publication of half-year figures 2020 2 November 2020 Publication of the interim management statement third quarter 2020 19 May 2021 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders * subject to change OTHER INFORMATION 192 Contact information The Investor Relations and Media sections of the company's website www.corbion.com contain up-to-date financial information about Corbion. For more information, please contact: Analysts and investors: Jeroen van Harten, Director Investor Relations +31 (0)20 590 6293, +31 (0)6 2157 7086 Press: Tanno Massar, Director Corporate Communications +31 (0)20 590 6325, +31 (0)6 1158 9121 Contact If you have any questions or remarks regarding this report, we kindly invite you to contact us. Postal address Corbion nv P.O. Box 349 1000 AH Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel. +31 20 590 69 11 E-mail communications@corbion.com Website www.corbion.com Registered office: Amsterdam Registered Amsterdam no. 33006580
