Communication on Progress 2019 2020 Revolutionize Agriculture Industry with Access to Capital & Technology Innovation Company Background CROWDE, founded in 2016, is an CROWDE has a lending platform to connect smallholder farmers to agriculture-focused ﬁntech platform which ﬁnancing access, in which we develop a robust credit scoring engine provides one-stop solution to farmers: a based on their historical experiences in farming, current farm condition, ﬁnancing ecosystem that puts capital to grow, and farmer's plan including budgeting for the upcoming project. This technology is closely being listed and monitored by OJK, Indonesia's create employment, and support local ﬁnancing service authority and Indonesia's ﬁntech association. communities. Beyond connecting to ﬁnancing, CROWDE provides the farmers with steady input products, farming expertise, and access to market. CROWDE has point-of-sale embedded in agri supply shops in rural areas Furthermore, CROWDE aggregates the to help farmers getting their capital in input form such as fertilizers, seeds, and optionally pesticides. This technology also help the small shops to much-needed agri data to support agribusiness digitized their transaction and inventory to be able to better manage their decision making. business. By providing access to ﬁnancing, agri-monitoring, and end-to-end supply & CROWDE has Farmer Assistance app where farmers getting access to market support, CROWDE envisions to be the ﬁnancing and agri knowledge to support their projects and get access to biggest agriculture ﬁntech platform in (especially new) market so they can detach themselves from loan shark Indonesia, with the missions to improve who bought their produces with extremely low price. ﬁnancial inclusion, provide sustainable impact to farmers nationwide, and making farmers invest better in their businesses. CROWDE collects agri-data in which we can have lenders appetite, product trends, farmer behaviours, and supply-demand data then use it to support better agri decision making in the future projects. Human Rights CROWDE really protects its employees from human rights abuses and ensures that employees get their human rights. During pandemic, CROWDE was required to work from home by maximizing the use of technology and other media to Principle 1 Businesses should support and continue to be able to coordinate all work and express respect the protection of complaints related to their duties, also everything that internationally proclaimed human happened in our ofﬁce that lead to abuses and injustice. rights CROWDE upholds the rights of employees by providing salaries according to standards and allowances, freedom of Principle 2 Business should make sure they are opinion, and obtaining security while working, both for not complicit in human rights abuses themselves and their work documents. On agricultural land, CROWDE provides salaries to agricultural workers, both male and female. CROWDE minimizes the salary gap between male and female workers so that in the future there is no gap in wages and salaries between the two of them are equal. Labour Standard Principle 3 Business should uphold the CROWDE employs its employees regardless of gender. All job freedom of association and the promotions are carried out based on employee performance so effective recognition of the right every employee has the same opportunity. CROWDE has to collective bargaining established policies covering standard labor such as salaries, allowances, leave and permits, and matters relating to employee Principle 4 Business should uphold the welfare. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. in agribusiness, CROWDE applies a minimum price limit for a commodity to stabilize the price that should be received by Principle 5 Business should uphold the farmers. For example, in the commodity chili, CROWDE sets a elimination of all forms of forced minimum standard at the price of IDR 10,000 per kilo, even and compulsory labor. though the price of chili is falling, farmers will still get IDR 10,000 per kilo. Meanwhile, if the price increases, CROWDE will follow Principle 6 Business should uphold the the market price to improve the welfare of farmers. CROWDE elimination of discrimination in does not apply a forced labor system for labor in agriculture. respect of employment and occupation. Farmers and their workers have working hours as they normally do. CROWDE also does not impose restrictions on women farmers to propose projects and become CROWDE partners. Environment The availability of gallons, cutlery, and the obligation to bring your own drinking bottles are CROWDE's efforts to contribute to Principle 7 Business should support a reducing plastic waste. CROWDE has also implemented precautionary approach to digitization in almost all documents to minimize paper usage. environmental responsibility. The use of technologies greatly impacts work efﬁciency and effectiveness without wasting paper. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater On agricultural land, CROWDE has SOPs for cultivation environmental responsibility. according to the type of commodity to achieve maximum productivity. SOPs also function to control pesticides and Principle 9 Business should encourage the chemical elements that are used so that they are not excessive development and diffusion of and are able to reduce the intensity previously used by farmers. environmentally friendly Currently, CROWDE is carrying out Impact Research with the technologies. topic Climate Resilience in Agriculture to ensure that farmers are willing and able to transform into sustainable agriculture. In addition, CROWDE also uses the Internet of Things (IoT) to control water levels in the soil and seeks to carry out risk mitigation to be able to apply weather-based insurance. Anti-Corruption Transaction and cash ﬂow activities need to include invoices or supporting documents as evidence of each transaction. Every transaction and cash ﬂow activity, CROWDE is supervised by the Financial Services Authority (OJK) and AFPI. CROWDE also emphasized the rule that if an employee commits Principle 10 Business should work against corruption, he will be immediately ﬁred. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption is also enforced on agricultural land through a document that cannot be less. This anti-corruption effort was also carried out by CROWDE by channeling capital to farmers by means of a cashless mechanism in the form of agricultural inputs so that farmers could not misuse the capital they had obtained. Each project is also audited by authorized parties. Measurement of Outcomes So far, 100% of employees and partners get their human rights. There have been no reports related to violence and injustice from employees. In agriculture, each partner farmer has an increase of 5% per cycle or 15% per year. and 88.24% of farmers stated that CROWDE is more farmer friendly compared to other access to capital they have chosen. Access to capital is a human right that must be upheld, because all human beings have the right to be ﬁnancially independent. Women have been empowered in ofﬁce jobs with 38% of the employees being women and 62% being men. 100% of employees are paid a salary including paid interns. While in agriculture, CROWDE partners with 81.4% male farmers and 18.6% female farmers. As we can see from the age range, 37.04% of CROWDE farmers are 46 55 years old, which means that our agriculture is faced with the difﬁculty of regenerating farmers to the younger generation. Measurement of Outcomes During a pandemic, 100% of ofﬁce document exchanges are done digitally to reduce paper usage. In agriculture land, the number of failed projects has decreased by 51%. CROWDE will provide loans to projects that pass a predetermined minimum score. Project analysis is based on budget plans and real conditions in the ﬁeld, such as agricultural land conditions, irrigation access, surrounding land conditions, and access to agricultural land. 100% of transaction activities have followed the established regulations from OJK and AFPI. Meanwhile, in agriculture, 100% of farmers who have submitted projects have complete documents. 9 out of 10 farmers use the cashless system because it is safer and more effective for farming. Digital use for cashless management has reached 65%. 8 out of 10 farmers have been able to manage their ﬁnances better after joining CROWDE and 7 out of 10 farmers have access to ﬁnancial literacy. In Supporting the Increasing 5% of income Increasing harvest production that’s successfully sold by 700% in one year 118 new farmers who managed to kick-start their own business UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, REAFFIRMATION Sept 15th, 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to conﬁrm that CROWDE reafﬁrms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Yohanes Sugihtononugroho Chief Executive Ofﬁcer worth the struggle
