Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 1/43 Table of Contents E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 7 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES 23 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 26 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 31 05 SELECTED EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN HAGER GROUP 34 “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2/43 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Blieskastel, June 2020 What will the future bring? Nobody knows. Yet at Hager Group we have chosen to anticipate the future by calculating risks and seizing our opportunities proactively. For example, our company projects have a longer-term approach, our current one is coming to its five-year end and the next one is an ever longerterm projection over ten years. We invest in our employees and their training, in energy efficiency and future technologies, in fair trade relations and we work actively to continuously improve our eco-balance sheet. Maybe we are giving up more profit in the short term, yet we remain convinced that this is the way to achieve sustainable success for the future, together. Indeed, at Hager Group our ambition is to transform and grow in the long term rather than maximising profits in the short term. Making money is, of course, something that we have to and want to do, but what counts is how we go about it. We want to do things properly for the right reasons by adopting an ethical approach when interacting with employees, partners and suppliers, and by continuously reducing our ecological footprint and developing more energyefficient solutions for our customers. This is even more true since the beginning of 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world. Who could have predicted its impact? At Hager Group we continue to take the situation very seriously and are acting according to our values of courage, integrity and authenticity. Our priorities are to limit as much as possible the propagation and impact of the virus with clear measures and adapt our activity accordingly to protect our employees, customers and partners. Markets, technological standards and customers’ needs are changing faster than ever before, therefore, we need to be reactive when establishing innovative and digital solutions that are ethical, environmentally-friendly and lower in energy consumption. If we are good, fast and ahead in the field we can play a more active part in shaping sustainable progress than ever before. Never before has innovation been so important to drive a cleaner, greener and brighter future. With E3, our approach for sustainable development, we act ethically, caring for people, and we respect the environment by taking into account our planet’s limited resources in our business activities, offering our customers energy-efficient solutions. In April 2007, over thirteen years ago now, we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact, the voluntary business initiative supervised by the United Nations to foster Corporate Social Responsibility. With this document we renew our commitment and contribution as a committed signatory. Daniel Hager, CEO Hager Group “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3/43 HAGER GROUP, CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY… Our values are not negotiable, we believe in respecting people and our environment. Corporate Social Responsibility is more than just words. E3 – HAGER GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH “As a family-owned company it is in our nature to be sustainable.” With increasing globalisation and diminishing natural resources, we must consider the consequences of our actions. The need for greater corporate responsibility and shaping a sustainable future is increasing. At Hager Group, we want to move forward in such a way that we leave a clean bill of health for future generations. As a family-run company with strong values, we act today to ensure our long-term success for tomorrow. One way we do this is by investing in our employees and their skills development, as well as optimising our eco-balance and developing solutions that are more energy efficient. Thinking and acting for the long term helps us systematically avoid risks and take advantage of entrepreneurial opportunities earlier and with greater intensity. Although the maxim of sustainability is inherent in everything we do, we have focused on particular sustainable activities in our approach that we call E3. E3 – Ethics, Environment & Energy is a firmly established approach, easily accessible to our employees, customers & suppliers in French with English and/or German subtitles. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4/43 “There are challenging times ahead for us all. To help protect our planet’s resources, the current energy landscape is being transformed. We are changing the way we think about traffic, buildings and infrastructure, we all want to live safer, more comfortable and, above all, more sustainable lives. By exploring together new technologies & innovative ways of working, we are developing future-focused solutions for our customers, partners and all those who believe in progress.” Daniel Hager CEO, Hager Group. E for Ethics: Ethical principles determine how we act towards our customers, colleagues and society. Our diversity ambition target is more than 15% of women in leading management and expert positions, which we have achieved. A group-wide Integrity Alert System Let’s Talk is in place to whistle blow on any practices deemed dubious. E for Environment: We aim to make our environmental footprint as neutral as possible by optimising the use of energies and resources, avoiding hazardous substances, and limiting emissions and waste. Implementing life-cycle thinking revolutionises the way we consider product development, resource use and our ecological footprint. Today, we recycle internally 80% of our plastic waste and several products contain post-consumer recycled materials. E for Energy: We offer value to people and their assets through safe, smart, eco-friendly and energyefficient products, solutions and services for both their living & working environments. Contributing to the energy transition, we optimise the use of energy via environmentally friendly pioneering solutions. With the acquisition of E3/DC, a company specialised in energy storage, Hager Group completes its integrated energy management system offer. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5/43 Hager Group Sustainability Policy We commit to: protecting our employees from physical injury and preserving their long-term health. protecting the environment, avoiding pollution and optimising the consumption of natural resources, including energy. ensuring availability of adequate information, financial and human resources to ensure continuous improvement. complying with all applicable legal requirements and other requirements to which the organisation subscribes, as a minimum standard, when developing products and running activities. complying with the requirements set by internal standards referring to ISO 45001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and improving processes for managing Health & Safety, Environment & Energy, with a focus on excellence. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6/43 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We at Hager Group support and respect human rights through our daily activities by providing safe and healthy working conditions and by ensuring non-discrimination in personnel practices. > Assessment, policy and goals: Diversity Diversity (n. f. Latin: diversitas, atis): character which is varied, diverse. Applied to companies, is the variety of human profiles that may exist within (country of origin, region, neighbourhood, patronymic, culture, age, gender, physical appearance, disability, sexual orientation, qualifications, etc. ...). This definition highlights a reality today: every company is faced with diversity and the challenges it represents. Hager Group has chosen to encourage diversity by seeing it as an advantage. Since our beginnings, we quickly established ourselves in different local regions and abroad, seeking to capitalise on this asset. In an interconnected world, success often boils down to human diversity. In our company, this diversity gives rise to an entire spectrum of talent, experience and perspectives. Diversity thus plays a significant role when it comes to innovative strength and strategic foresight. It ensures well-rounded decisions, fresh ideas and new perspectives that Hager Group can harness to tap into new growth potential. With over 70 nationalities and a huge range of cultural backgrounds, languages and lifestyles, we already boast a highly diverse workforce. Our first Diversity Manager was appointed in 2012 and in order to underline our commitment to non-discrimination in all its forms, Hager France signed the Diversity Charter, alongside 3900 companies, in January 2019. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7/43 “Beyond a humanistic approach, we believe that diversity is essential for us to be successful in our various markets. Proper management of diversity at all levels of our organisation and in cooperation with our partner networks is now more than ever a genuine lever to support our business.” > Implementation: We are operating in a global, multicultural, multigenerational & diverse world; to achieve success diversity is approached from four different angles in all we do. Multicultural approach We work in an increasingly international environment with colleagues from all over the world. Transversal projects and processes throughout the group necessitate a better understanding of cultural & linguistic differences. To facilitate our work numerous training sessions are in place to help us better understand & work efficiently with our colleagues from all around the world. Gender Balance 41% of our staff are female & 59% male. 18.4% of all (middle/top) management & expert positions are held by women, which is above our 15% minimum target. HR maintain a sensible & pragmatic approach to gender balance when appointing new colleagues. Our business approach on gender equality is to allow women to grow & access positions. Inclusion At Hager Group, disability is not considered as inability, rather a different kind of ability to be integrated into & enhance the work place. On a regular yearly basis over 150 colleagues in France are registered within RQTH (Reconnaissance en Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé) and over 250 with a RQTH, declared invalidity or an IPP (Incapacité Permanente Partielle – permanent partial incapacity). Inter-generational approach We act fairly in working relationships be they between young trainees, employees with few or many years’ experience and seniors. This approach aims to bring employees together in purposeful, mutually beneficial work to promote greater understanding & respect between generations and contributes to the growth of the company. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8/43 Corporate Social Responsibility & community activities > Assessment, policy and goals: Corporate Social Responsibility is an integral part of how we conduct our business at Hager Group, make decisions and set our priorities. Our corporate social responsibility approach is based on the 30 articles of the United Nations Charter of Human Rights, the standards of the International Labour Organisation and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We ensure that our suppliers and partners respect a number of rules on human rights and labour law. That is how we aim for a balanced and safe competitive environment and broad international diversity. This approach not only increases the motivation of our employees, but also the loyalty of our customers and our partners, at home and abroad. > Measurement of outcomes: Hager Group responds to the Covid-19 worldwide health crisis: since start 2020, with the global context of Covid-19 and the ensuing world health crisis, Hager Group has mobilised worldwide; actions and initiatives have been set up to help colleagues, suppliers, partners and those in difficulty. Below is a small selection. #TogetherStronger Hager Group Fundraiser giving to people in need People globally are suffering from the consequences of the current health crisis. Our belief is that it is our responsibility at Hager Group to help the most vulnerable; now more than ever solidarity and generosity are important. The #TogetherStronger campaign was born from an initiative called Innovation Challenge set up internally in April 2020 whereby colleagues were asked to think out of the box about how they could reduce the effects of the health crisis as every day, Hager Group seeks to protect and build a brighter future #TogetherStronger is a fundraising campaign to benefit several Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) that work to reduce the consequences of Covid-19, in the short & medium term. The NGOs meet the needs of the most vulnerable communities, with solutions for care, food and other necessities. All Hager Group employees are invited to participate and make a donation, our goal is to reach a total of 30,000 euros of donations in one week! The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation will contribute up to 15,000 euros. The following NGOs have been chosen. Hygiene and care for the most vulnerable with the International Rescue Committee IRC intervene in affected areas with the most vulnerable communities, limiting the spread of the coronavirus and providing care, protecting health workers, ensuring the continuity of emergency programmes in more than 40 countries around the world. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9/43 Feeding those who no longer have access to resources with FoodBanking Network The pandemic situation, strict confinement and economic downturns, world hunger has been exacerbated. Many people are no longer able to work and therefore no longer have the resources to buy food. People who had never asked for help are now doing so. This fund helps to feed entire families until the economy picks up again. Emergency aid on different fronts with Global Giving This mixed fund supports various projects: sending doctors & nurses into the field, providing medical equipment to hospitals, delivering essential products to vulnerable people in confined towns & refugee camps, feeding children who depend on school meals as their only source of nutrition, supporting hygiene awareness actions, etc. Hager Group employees offering solidarity in exceptional situations In response to health emergencies Hager Group employees have shown reactivity, pragmatism and solidarity. The three initiatives below in China, Poland and Great Britain embody Hager Group values of authenticity, courage and integrity, and strengthen ties with local communities where we operate. In China at the end of January 2020, in Huoshenshan and Lei Shenshan in Wuhan province, two emergency hospitals were built in 10-12 days. Less than 24 hours after construction of the hospital began, an emergency task force was set up at Hager China. The objective was to send donations to the new hospital so that it would be equipped as soon as it opened. In addition to the medical protection equipment, 100 miniature circuit breakers (MCBs) and 2,000 moulded case circuit breakers (MCCB) were transported directly from our stock in Guangdong to the province of Wuhan, a thousand kilometres away. In Poland, every year we support local medical institutions. Examples are the Hospice and Centre for Disabled Children based in Tychy as well as the Silesian Centre of Heart disease in Zabrze. In relation to the coronavirus, our employees have adapted their assistance to the needs expressed by these institutions: protection equipment and disinfectant gels have been delivered to them. To engage more closely with the local community, employees decided to support two additional hospitals; Tychy and Poznań hospitals. These facilities, which are specifically dedicated to Covid-19 patients, have received 83 special communication devices to enable people in hospital isolation rooms to communicate with the outside world. In Great Britain, in March 2020, the National Health Service announced the construction of seven temporary Nightingale hospitals, providing a total of over 7,600 beds, with each project completed from start to finish in less than two weeks. For the Nightingale Cardiff (Wales) project, the supplier initially selected could not provide sockets in time. However, 3,000 of these specific sockets were available within our stock in Telford (England). The warehouses were opened on a public holiday to provide Hager sockets as quickly as possible and support the fight against Covid-19. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10/43 Donations of personal protective equipment for health actors In the face of the pandemic healthcare workers are on the front line. In many countries, caregivers need equipment to protect themselves and others, to limit the spread of the virus. Employees are sensitive to this issue and have taken action in many countries. They have reacted quickly, with pragmatism and solidarity. In total, Hager Group donated more than 13,000 masks (surgical and FFP2), gloves, hydro-alcoholic gel and protective gowns. To date, this material has been distributed in France, Spain, Poland and China, as close as possible to production sites. German colleagues are preparing to distribute 10,000 additional masks to local hospitals before the summer. Some details: Spain, in April 2020, Hager Industrial at La Roca in Spain donated 3,000 FPP2 masks and 5,000 gloves to the Hospital General de Granollers (the closest hospital to the La Roca site). France, masks and protective clothing were distributed to ARS (Agence Régional de Santé) a local health association that delivers to hospitals in the Grand Est region of France. Masks and gel were donated to ABRAPA, another association that provides support to senior citizens. Protection kits (masks, gowns, gel, gloves) were also given to a local association for handicapped blind people; this material in stock on-site was given in March as a priority to those in need, rather than equip our factory workers. One rainbow, one smile #ChaseTheRainbow Many children and their grandparents were and continue to be separated since the Covid-19 outbreak. To counterbalance the sense of isolation & loneliness, as well as responding to the needs to stay connected with families, even at a distance, Hager Group invited colleagues and their children to create a worldwide wave of rainbows by way of pictures to brighten up retirement homes. Hager Group Corporate Communications team collected and sent these pictures to retirement homes close to our production sites. This wave of rainbows has helped to Strengthen ties with the local communities, one of the many concepts at the heart of our family business values. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11/43 Hager Group creates a solidarity fund for employees When economic conditions are difficult, it is normal for companies to want to be able to provide solutions. Every day, Hager Group seeks to protect the company and its employees whilst continuing to build the future. This attitude is rooted in our values and the company's crisis management strategy, as such, to protect the employees most affected by the economic situation a hardship solidarity fund was created in April 2020. Our management team, with the support of the social partners at the European Works Council, has created a solidarity fund of one million euros in support of our employees most economically weakened by the coronavirus-related situation. This fund has been created because in some countries, at some sites, activity has been halted or reduced. Salary compensation systems vary around the world and are sometimes non-existent. Hager Group continues to supporting employees in this difficult period. The scheme is funded by freezing 2020 salary increases for the company's 130 top managers. The sum is supplemented by the group to reach a total of one million euros. This solidarity fund will be managed jointly by the management team and the European Works Council, together they define the conditions and modalities of access to the fund. Staying healthy and in touch during Covid-19 The physical and mental health of employees is important to Hager Group. Since the start of the outbreak, local Human Resources and Health & Safety teams have been in constant contact with employees, guiding them through this difficult period. Hager Group Tips is a series of articles and videos published internally, to provide targeted advice on how to live through a period of change, be it on site or working from home. The tips range from postural recommendations when sitting at a desk all day, the value of taking regular pauses, the benefits of mediation and even recommendation to have regular virtual coffee breaks with colleagues to maintain social contact. From March to June, there were at least two publications of this nature per week to keep up the contact with employees. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 12/43 Ensuring the safety of our employees, customers and partners Hager Group has implemented stringent measures to protect its employees while continuing to satisfy its customers and partners. Masks and disinfecting gel is made available to those on site where working from home is not an option. In France for our employees over 40,000 reusable masks have been distributed to date in additional to other health and safety measures in place. Each employee has to date received 10 reusable made-in-France masks. These masks replace the disposable ones originally distributed, thus reducing impact on the environment. At the Obernai site, there was even a sewing workshop set up to make in-house masks. Over 100 masks are made on a daily basis. The workshop is set up in Hager Forum, tables have been organised respecting social distancing, the material used complies to standards. The final product is even embossed with the group logo. Hager Group Runners: recognising extraordinary behaviour to the benefit of other. Hager Group Runners was set up to celebrate initiatives taken by colleagues during these difficult times. Hager Group strategy to come out of the crisis stronger is RUN (Responsible. Uninterrupted. Net situation), hence RUNners. The idea is to nominate a colleague(s) or department who have gone the extra mile to help others. Actions speak louder than words. To date over 20 individuals and departments have been nominated for their efforts and performance. One of the Runner nominees is Pascal Christmann. (Also see page 29.) “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 13/43 Pascal was nominated by his manager as a major player in the fight again Covid-19. Pascal and team are dedicated and committed to health and safety on all French sites for employees since February 2020. Pascal and team have been involved in drawing up distancing instructions & training documentation on return to the sites, mask management, drawing up specific protection measures in workshops and offices, specific work instructions and on-site reception facilities for external companies & visitors, audits. Conduct and best Health and Safety practices were established groupwide. Throughout confinement and beyond, Pascal and his team were on-site providing careful guidance to those present and assistance for a gradual return on-site post-confinement. The Obernai company restaurant was requisitioned for temperature taking, mask distribution and instruction giving on the new social distancing system set up. 10 volunteers helped colleagues upon their arrival on site; temperatures were taken and masks given no exceptions. Live talks accessible to all A series of on-line talks were organised in April and May 2020 with the objective of providing advice and tactics from experts on how to survive and adapt in times of crisis. These live-talks were available to colleagues, partners and anyone else interested. They remain available on line on hagergroup.com Health, a holistic approach with Manish Pole: Manish Pole, an Indian yoga and mindfulness meditation teacher shared six tips based on mind-body harmony for a strong immune system. He was a guest at Hager Group 2019 Management Summer School, following up on this he reiterated in 2020 his expert advice for physical and mental well-being by advocating paying special attention to sleep, diet and exercise. From a mental health perspective he recommends meditation, gratitude and volunteer work. Manish also showed our employees how to use their breathing to regain peacefulness or energy, as breathing plays a central role to connecting mind and body. Adapting to change with Caspar Craven: more than 500 people from around the world followed Caspar Craven’s live talk on 7th May 2020. Caspar, an entrepreneur, manager, yachtsman, father of three and international speaker, has over 30 years’ experience in managing teams and critical situations. He shared with Hager Group ways to adapt to this new world and how to discover new opportunities as well as maintain our mental health at work and at home. He shared both his experience and his key tactics to be resilient and adapt in times of crisis. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 14/43 Developing resilience with Denis Mourlane: who is one of the most recognised experts in Germany. He trains and coaches people and organisations on how to develop resilience. In the past, he has worked with our employees and recently has shared with us some important tips to not only survive but thrive given the unexpected and unique situation caused by the coronavirus. We asked him several questions: What is resilience? How can we develop it? What good practices can we adopt? He summarised his answers in a 3-minute interview. What exactly is resilience? “By resilience we mean first and foremost the ability people have to cope with setbacks in life. Beyond that, and this is especially interesting at the moment, it is also the ability to deal with situations of uncertainty. People with a pronounced resilience succeed in such situations by remaining realistically optimistic, calm and goal-oriented.” How can we develop it? “Resilience is a kind of psychological immune system that you can strengthen, just like your physical immune system. If you pay attention to your basic physiological needs in the physical area, such as hydration, a balanced diet and exercise, you do your physical immune system a lot of good. You strengthen it. Similarly, you can strengthen your psychological immune system and your resilience, by paying attention to your basic psychological needs.” What good practices can we adopt? “Probably the most important strategy of all is to focus on what you can influence. This can be related to the crisis, for example, keep a safe distance to people, wear a mask or help those in need, but it can also be completely independent of that. Working from home where I can carry out my professional duties and care for my home and those in it, these are things I can influence. I therefore see myself as being self-effective.” “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 15/43 France Hager Forum (France) various activities to promote exchanges, share experiences and stimulate sustainable development Hager Forum is a 6,500 m² open, collaborative space, where visitors can meet, exchange, train, innovate and shape their future with Hager Group. To continue to grow and achieve its objectives, Hager Group has undertaken an ambitious process to change its corporate culture. At Obernai, in the heart of the largest industrial site in the group, Hager Forum embodies this new culture through the experience it provides to all who visit. Trend Sessions & Conferences for all The future of architecture, how can we shape the city of tomorrow? By Van Bo Le-Mentzel On 29th November 2019 we explored the future of architecture with Van Bo Le-Mentzel, a famous architect who experiments innovative ways to address urban housing challenges and reimagine how we use public space. Energy transition: a Climate for Change by Gabrielle Walker. During a Trend Session on September 30th, strategy expert Gabrielle Walker approached the subject of the energy transition during a 45-minute talk. She explored this topic by pointing out the urgency of the issue, and focused on two sectors which can do a lot by changing a little, namely buildings and transport. Her credo is “We have to get really serious right now!” Gabrielle shares her optimistic view on how the world could be a better place in the coming years if the climate crisis is taken seriously. Preventing sleep disorders Whether you work in a workshop or an office, whatever your age: we all need sleep! Our very own occupational health specialists showed colleagues how to better manager sleep via conferences, workshops and info stands during a two-day information session about preventing and curing sleep disorders on 16th and 17th October 2019 at Hager Forum. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 16/43 when! when!* a feminine network for inspiration, sharing experience and solidarity at Hager Group for meeting and exchanging ideas, contributing to women’s personal & professional development and valorising them in the workplace. The network, to which all Hager Group colleagues, both men and women, are welcome, has been active since October 2017. This grass-root initiative has strong support at all levels of the company. A few examples of what happened with when! in 2019/2020 Public speaking coaching: 10 active members of the when! network benefited from a public speaking workshop with the coach Romain Habig. Breathing, posture, eye contact, tone, sentence length and stage fright management were discussed to provide tools to contribute to personal and professional development. Celebrating International Women’s Day: 150 employees and external companies took part in the International Women's Rights Day where the theme of gender relationships in business was addressed. The humourist Karen Chataîgner introduced the subject with her lecture ‘Stand-up through humour: ordinary sexism and the company’. This was followed by a round table discussion with representatives of various women's business networks in the region (when! from Hager Group, Woman In Leadership from Merck, SNCF au féminin, Elles bougent and Énergies De Femmes from ÉS). ModernD: Hager Group D&I department enabled employees (via the when! network) to get a sneak preview of the new IT tools that will be gradually deployed for the entire group. In the Hager Forum, 61 people had presentations of OneDrive, Office365, OneNote, the new Intranet, new mailboxes, .... 3 When! Cafés during confinement: to maintain a link with when! members virtual when! coffee breaks were set up. They are a continued opportunity to share experiences, state of mind and best practices. Speed dating mentoring #5: the 5th edition of speed dating mentoring where mentors and mentees can meet in ‘fast’ mode took place start 2020; 4 new duos were created with all participants finding a mentor or mentee. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 17/43 Germany Long Night of Industry 2019 The ninth edition of The Lange Nacht der Industrie (Long Night of Industry) took place in the Saarland on 24th September 2019; once again Hager Group Blieskastel took part, welcoming a total of 100 visitors. It was all about answering the questions: What exactly does Hager Group do? What training opportunities does the company offer? How does work in a family business differ from work in any other? Young people as well as some of the site's employees took the opportunity to get to know the factory at an unusual hour and from an unusual perspective. ‘My first day in industry’ was the motto of the evening, which trainees, interns, students and trainees prepared together with other employees of Hager Group. Young Talents from Hager Group accompanied the visitors to four stations where colleagues presented day-to-day work and the fascinating aspects of working for Hager Group. One part of the visit was to a technical training workshop, where instructors and trainees presented their professions and skills. The next stop was in Logistics, which is responsible for the transport and handling of products and materials. In the commercial department, functions were presented to the visitors by apprentices, students and Human Resources Development representatives in a role play. There was also a tour of the production facilities and the section of the factory where Hager Group products are manufactured. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 18/43 Italy Hager Lumetal continues to work with Servizi FVG and Il Giglio, both of which are associations involved in social projects to help disabled people. Il Giglio in particuar is involved in social projects to aid the recovery and social integration of physically and mentally disabled people. Job placements for the socially disadvantaged: contracts for packaging services and assembly of printed products from Rivalta Scrivia site to the Tassano Inserimenti Lavorativi Consortium have been made. The sales network also outsources to the same Consortium preparation of promotional materials. The Tassano Consortium in Sestri Levante is a group of ‘type B’ Social Cooperatives that manage and promote the job placement of the socially disadvantaged, in particular people with disabilities. Activities are carried out with the agreement of the former province of Genoa. At Christmas time, all Italian Hager Group companies, made an overall donation of 10,500 Euro in favour of a pool 5 different charities. The chosen charities are active in the fields of child care, cancer research and social aid. Hager Lumetal: a team of employees participated in the ‘24x1ora’, a relay race for charity to raise money for an Association for the prevention of rare diseases. Other Hager Group companies in Italy also made a contribution to the Telethon. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 19/43 Malaysia In Malaysia, according to statistics from The Ministry of Defence, around 5,000 military personnel retire each year, in parallel to this the country has a target in 2020 that 35% of the population be skilled. Training, correct professional orientation and placement in the private sector can empower ex-military, allow them to remain active and contribute the country and its industry. As such, the Malaysian Prime Minister, is encouraging the private sector to aid the government and support programmes such as PERHEBAT that ensure the wellbeing of veterans of the Malaysia Armed Forces. Perbadanan Hal Ehwal Bekas Angkatan Tentera (PERHEBAT), the Armed Forces Ex-Servicemen Affairs Corporation, an agency and training centre was established in 1994 to develop, manage and conduct skill training for the retiring and retired army personnel. PERHEBAT provides resettlement training for retiring personnel to inculcate knowledge, skills and work experience to enable them to adjust to their new civilian life. As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility, Hager Malaysia collaborates with PERHEBAT by way of technical workshops. Mr. Dahari Mat Sin from the Technical Support Department at Hager Engineering Malaysia participated for two consecutive days on 9th to 10th October 2019. Day 1 was in depth technical knowledge on low voltage electrical protection systems, it also covered the latest electrical technologies and respective international (IEC) and local (MS) standards as well as knowledge-sharing on common mistakes in designing electrical protection systems. Day 2 was a practical workshop to better understand design and installation of distribution boards according to MS IEC 60364. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 20/43 Poland Run&Fun @ Berker Poland Project Run&Fun took place in 2019. The idea is for Hager Group & Berker Poland employees to take part in a triathlon. All kilometres, run, skated, walked, cycled or swam are counted and converted into a sum of money. After a full year of sporting events and 1717 kilometres later, employees celebrated their achievement and chose a charity organisation to help. Christmas gift for children Since 2015, employees of Berker Polska sp. z o.o., have prepared yearly Christmas packages for children from families requiring social help. The action has become so popular, that children who benefit regularly are already asking early autumn ask when they can write letters to Father Christmas. With the help of Michal Skrzypczak who is in charge of the organisation of this initiative, Christmas 2019 saw almost 50% of Berker Polska sp. z o.o. employees participating; the focus for employees was to make the children’s dream become a reality by replying to their letters as best as possible. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 21/43 Responsible purchasing at Hager Group > Assessment, policy and goals: As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact we aim to promote the principles of sustainable development among our suppliers. From the selection of our suppliers, which involves ethical work and environmental protection criteria, to signing a purchase contract, involving a commitment from the supplier to comply with the terms of Hager Group's sustainable growth and ethical trade policy, we encourage our suppliers to be active in rolling out their socially responsible business approach. > Implementation: Hager Group stands for high standards in brand quality, reflected in our procurement activities. We are very careful in choosing suppliers and apply a range of selection criteria. Any supplier wanting to work with us must recognise our core values used in our own business: professionalism, fast response times and a high level of customer focus. Hager Group fully supports the OECD initiative of 2013, ‘Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas’, which is in line with our values and our sustainable development commitment. Hager Group requests that its suppliers comply with Hager Group’s Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trading Policy, that includes the request to source materials needed for their operations solely from socially responsible vendors. In particular, the signing of our ‘Conflict mineral position Hager Group’ document to determine if their components contain tin, tungsten, tantalum and/or gold, is mandatory. For more details about our sourcing policy, click here. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 22/43 02 LABOUR – PRINCIPLES Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Occupational Health & Safety > Assessment, policy and goals: At Hager Group, employee health and safety are vital issues. Beyond compliance with the applicable regulations and the financial aspects of the costs of workplace accidents or occupational illnesses, it is not ethically acceptable for an individual’s mental or physical health to be permanently or temporarily affected by their professional activity. Providing employees with a safe workplace, environment and working conditions is a core value at Hager Group, which places the company’s men and women at the heart of its concerns. This is an integral part of our commitment to sustainable development, and more specifically to the ethical aspect contained within E3. > Implementation: Hager Group’s European Works Council, in agreement with the company’s Top Management, has put in place a committee made up of elected members of staff whose goal is to notify management in the event of any serious issues or the appearance of major risks to the health and safety of individuals or to the environment. In the context of this mission, this committee is tasked with carrying out monitoring visits of the company’s sites. > Measurement of outcomes: A shared health and safety indicator for the group was put in place in 2009: this is known as the frequency index. This measures the number of workplace and travel accidents resulting in stoppages of one day or more per 1,000 people (Hager Group employees or temporary staff) per year. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 23/43 Health & Safety Certifications > Assessment, policy and goals: OHSAS 18001 & ISO We do our utmost to uphold the international standards such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO throughout Hager Group’s industrial and other sites. > Measurement of outcomes: In 2019: 16 production sites and 4 Area Distribution Centres certified to ISO 14001. 19 production sites and 4 Area Distribution Centres certified OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. 21 production sites and 4 Area Distribution Centres certified to ISO 9001. 6 sites certified to ISO 50001. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 24/43 > Measurement of outcomes: Several actions were implemented at the various Hager Group sites; some examples from Italy, are listed below, where we are compliant with the activities and programs of the Italian Standard 231 for all Hager Group Italy-based companies. Free influenza vaccinations given to all AB Plast and Hager Lumetal employees. Training provided on the safety system for AB Plast employee representatives and Health & Safety Manager. Training provided on safety issues for Hager Lumetal employee representatives, emergency teams and all staff. Yearly audit completed for the Environment & Safety complying to the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System) and ISO 14001 Standards at Hager Lumetal. Extension of the Emergency Team and relevant training courses provided regarding first aid and fire prevention at Hager Lumetal. Updated training courses provided on safety issues for Atral Italia employee representatives. Updated training courses provided on fire extinguishing at Atral Italia. Yearly audit for Quality Certification according to Standard ISO 9001:2015 at Atral Italia. Updated fire extinguisher training courses provided for Hager Bocchiotti employees. Updated first aid training course provided at Hager Bocchiotti. At Hager Bocchiotti, renewal of fire extinguishing system ‘CPI’ for the plant and offices in Arenzano. At Hager Bocchiotti, renewal of the Environment UNI EN 14001:2015 and Security 18001 OHSAS Certifications; Quality System SQ 9001:2015 At Hager Bocchiotti many specialised training courses provided, such as: defibrillator BLSD (Basic Life Support & Defibrillation) update, training update for specific workers, job training in suspected or confined pollution environments, PAV/PES electrical risk training (Person Adequately Warned to Electrical Safety), operational instructions and PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) training, safety training for Managers, PPE procedure training, training for the use of the stairs, operational control procedures, confined space training. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 25/43 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies The following commitments form our approach for sustainability. At Hager Group, we: want to be a corporate citizen and a responsible employer care for people act for the protection of the planet put ethical behaviour at the centre of all we do with our customers, partners, suppliers & employees contribute, with our solutions to a more efficient use of energy in buildings. For further E3 (Ethics, Environment and Energy) details, consult pages 4 6 of this report. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 26/43 > Assessment, policy and goals: In line with our E3 approach and Global Compact’s principles to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Hager Group undertakes both internally and externally to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies that reduce our carbon footprint. As a family-owned company, social responsibility is a matter close to our hearts. > Implementation: Hager Group's employees have played a significant role in our company's success with the professionalism and commitment they have shown. The future of Hager Group depends on its employees, so with this in mind, priorities have been set for 4 different areas: improving safety and creating good working conditions, supporting internal advancement, developing competencies and increasing employability, promoting diversity, respecting and supporting ethical principles. “We do not inherit the earth from our parents; we borrow it from our children.” Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, a French writer, aviator and poet. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 27/43 > Measurement of outcomes: Sustainable development at the forefront: old fridges become distribution boards 85% of Hager polymer flush-mounted electric distribution boards now contain recycled polystyrene notably from old fridges! In Europe, 65 million tons of plastic are produced each year, yet only 27 million are collected annually, of which 31% are recycled, the rest is either buried or incinerated. Hager Group, has been developing initiatives to reduce or reuse plastic waste generated in its injection and extrusion processes. In 2018 a circular economy pilot project was launched, its objective being rather than use new raw material, use WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) recycled materials. The two plastic parts chosen are both common to our different distribution board ranges. In 2019, the Sustainable Development department and group engineers turned to the environmental organisation ESR for help about WEEE recycling and also organise the collection & recycling of waste material for electric and electronic equipment in France. ESR also helped identify companies capable of recycling the material needed; Galloo Plastics in northern France, was selected. “Now, all our flush-mounting containers are industrially produced using the recycled polystyrene from Galloo Plastics.” Norma Navarro, Sourcing Manager Spain. “Our annual consumption of recycled polystyrene is more than 200 tons, which will enable us to accordingly reduce our environmental impact by 284 tons of CO2 equivalent/year this represents 284 Paris-New York round trip flights!” Guntram Kerschowski, plastics processing expert at Hager Group. Since mid-2019, this polystyrene from old fridges is used where distribution boards are produced La Roca del Vallés in Spain and Blieskastel in Germany. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 28/43 Our distribution boards now contain 33% recycled plastic. “Our aim is now to introduce objectives for our ecological product design strategy to promote the use of recycled materials, potentially starting at the design of certain parts. In the future, we want to expand the use of recycled post-consumer plastics, ideally sourced from WEEE, to other parts.” Skander Hassayoune, Sustainable Development engineer. Hager Group Eco-Awards Every year Hager Forum in Obernai hosts an event to discover the latest projects adopt an eco-responsible approach. In 2019, three projects were entered for Hager Group Operational Excellence Awards due to take place in March 2020. The award ceremony did not take place due to the world health crisis and results are still pending. The Eco-projects already set up are: Building Management System project: Saverne & Bischwiller factories Energy Management Analysis Project Improve Natural Light with roof light replacement and cleanse project France Encouraging the use of local transport Hager Group in Obernai continues to participate in funding a local bus to avoid employees taking their personal vehicles. The bus runs between the sites and from the sites to the train station and town centre. Pascal Christmann, in charge of Health, Safety and Environment in France comments that “every effort we make to reduce our carbon footprint helps, for example our company promotes working from home, this has a positive impact on the environment. During confinement in March to May of 2020 and the encouraged use of working from home our carbon footprint is even lower this year.” Guaranteeing security Preparation of ISO 45 001 Certification for Health and Security Management at the work place (Management de la Santé et Sécurité au Travail). The first steps to certification were done via ‘virtual audits’ in April and May 2020 as the site was partially closed due to confinement. Setting up of rotating monthly site visits by managers to ensure health and safety regulations & recommendations are respected. There were 308 visits in 2019. This helped reach a record of 204 consecutive days without accidents. Instalment of 10 recharging stations for electrical vehicles. Environment & Energy economy results for 2019 Recertification of ISO 50 001 – Energy Management. 39.06% reduction in gas consumption to heat same surfaces and volumes compared to 2018 figures. 11.58% reduction in of compressed air consumption. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 29/43 Germany A path into the future with the Smart Metering Summit in Germany The Metering Point Operation Act was adopted three years ago; in the context of this law, digitalisation and the energy transition, intelligent solutions for measuring energy consumption are clearly needed. Many companies and industries have already installed modern measuring equipment, tested smart measuring systems, redesigned processes and developed new business models. The first Smart Metering Summit was held in 2017, 2019 saw Hager Group hosting a new edition. Smart systems to link our solutions to energy providers: Hager Group hosted an event for German Smart Metering experts and together with partners Theben AG and Lackmann GmbH presented the Smart Metering System. Theben is the specialist for the Smart Meter Gateway, Lackmann for modern and smart electricity meters and Hager for metering cabinets and the technical centre. The 80 or so participants at the event exchanged views and followed the talks by the industry associations ZVEI, FNN and VDE. Energy providers Rheinenergie Cologne, EnBW Karlsruhe and EGT Triberg with EWS Schönau were also at the event to share their experience, solutions for the current network grid and answers questions about energy distribution. Industry-renowned law firm BBH provided answers on the legal implications of the Energy Industry Act & Metering Point Operation Act. Digitisation in the energy market is inevitable: Marco Sauer of the ZVEI made it clear right from the start of the event; digitisation in the energy market is inevitable. Further confirmation and impetus was provided by Jürgen Blümer, who presented the standardisation roadmap for the start of the Metering Point Operation Act. Representatives of Theben spoke about the necessity of having a secure supply chain. Colleagues from Lackmann then focused on smart solutions for Smart Metering. Achim Jager, Business Development Manager from Hager Group Market area in Germany spoke about the new VDE application rule, turning the meter into a technical centre and how a home energy management system can be the answer to many open questions about the limited home connection performance in the network. REACH Regulations Hager Group requires its suppliers to declare the presence or not in their supplied goods of one or more of the latest substances added to the SVHC list (substance of very high concern). This declaration concerns good provided with and beyond Europe. Yearly screening tests are carried out by a third party laboratory on randomly chosen products to confirm that they don’t contain hazardous substances over the regulatory thresholds. At Hager Group we endeavour to not use these substances of high concern in our existing products and all new projects do not contain any of them. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 30/43 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption initiatives > Assessment, policy and goals: What is the right thing to do? What is not right? Where do you draw the line? Doing business globally entails many challenges, particularly when working in diverse cultures where ‘appropriate’ business conduct can vary widely and in countries where enforcement of national or international standards may be weak. Therefore adherence to the company’s Ethics Charter must be observed. In a business environment, making the right choices becomes increasingly more complex and more important. It is important that new and current employees be guided through our company values and understand our Ethics Charter which makes it very clear what is expected behaviour of a Hager Group employee. Our Ethics Charter is a reference framework based on our values, providing an authoritative guideline for an upright, reliable yet successful way of doing business. > Implementation: Hager Group has set out its company values and philosophy in its own Code of Ethics. In addition to obeying the law and treating competitors fairly, it also covers complex problems. For example can I accept a supplier’s invitation to a symposium with a stay in a luxury hotel? Is the gift of a pen tantamount to bribery? Hager Group firmly believes that only those whose actions are moral and trustworthy will benefit in the long term. To apply these principles to the daily lives of employees, 80% of executives will be receiving online and face to face ethics training by end 2020. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 31/43 > Measurement of outcomes: Let's Talk, our Integrity Alert System Hager Group’s success depends on the trust it inspires in its stakeholders. The key to this trust is our integrity. All our employees and executives are expected to live our values and ethical principles and conduct business accordingly. In our culture of openness, we encourage all employees, customers, business partners and the general public to raise their genuine concerns, to ask for advice and guidance when facing difficult ethical issues, but also to point out unacceptable behaviours and demands, without fear of retaliation. The system Let’s Talk is available for all Hager Group employees. Additionally, all our external partners (temporary workers, customers, suppliers, other business partners) can use it. Treat others as you would like to be treated. We all expect to be treated fairly and well and for business to be executed the same way. This implies acting in an ethical manner and letting the appropriate people know if someone might not be doing so. Lack of integrity and subsequent misconduct can threaten the sustainable development of an entire company. Ethical Sourcing As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, when we select our suppliers we take into account their working conditions and environmental standards. Every partner has to pledge their commitment to our Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trade Policy, which lays down our principles with regard to environmental protection, human rights, working conditions and business ethics. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 32/43 Mandatory business ethics training set up at group level Our group is growing in a constantly changing world. In the context of globalisation, the world population and consumption levels are increasing, draining natural resources, damaging the planet and causing environmental problems and social troubles. Governments and world institutions are reacting to these issues; they are developing new guidelines and passing new legislation. All this impacts companies directly. Besides public institutions, our other Stakeholders also have strong impacts on our activity. Our customers have new requirements: Hager Group should embody a clean image and live sustainable values such as business ethics, the respect of human rights, or health and safety at the workplace. As an example, Rexel evaluates our CSR performance every two years. An Ethics in business module 1 was set up in 2019, its aim being to make aware all members of Hager Group of the dangers of corruption and the importance of ethics in the business world. “Business ethics do not contradict business development, on the contrary, they go hand-in-hand; there is no sustainable business development without sound business ethics.” Daniel Hager, CEO Hager Group. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 33/43 05 SELECTED EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN HAGER GROUP Fun day out for youngsters at SOS Children's Villages rather than gifts for management Seven years ago, at Hager Group we decided to support a charitable cause and treat children in need to a fun day out rather than spend the money on gifts to management teams present at our annual Symposium. This tradition has developed over the years since 2013, we now invite the boys and girls from three SOS Children's Villages in the immediate vicinity of our locations to a day out. Over the years, the youngster have been to for example Amnéville Zoo and a discovery museum called Le Vaisseau in Strasbourg. End October 2019, 122 boys and girls from the SOS Children's Villages in Obernai in France and Eisenberg & Merzig in Germany enjoyed a trip to Europa Park in Rust; almost 40 parents came along too. There was a voucher for all the children to redeem in one of the Europa Park shops so they could take home a souvenir of their day with Hager Group. “I could never have made this trip possible for my children without the support of Hager Group,” thanked a single mother who lives and works as a trainee in the SOS Children's Village. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 34/43 Peter und Luise Hager Foundation > Assessment, policy and goals: As a family-run company, it is part of Hager Group’s culture to be aware of its responsibility. This means taking responsibility for employees and their families as well as the sustainable protection of the environment and natural resources, and above all, social responsibility. The founders are convinced that it is important to give something back to society in return for its commercial success. Such a commitment reflects the Hager family culture, integrity and their values. > Implementation: The PHLS Peter und Luise Hager Foundation – (from the German Peter und Luise Hager Stiftung) was established in December 2010 to support projects in the fields of science and research, protection of the environment, culture, child development and education and social care. Many of the projects are located near Hager Group sites and therefore benefit the people who live and work in close proximity to the company. The name of the foundation is also fitting; Peter and Luise are the parents of Dr. Oswald and Hermann Hager, together they founded the company. > Measurement of outcomes: Intercultural summer camp at Spohns Haus For the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation, it is important to give the young participants the opportunity to come into contact with many different cultures at a young age. The summer camp at the ‘Spohns Haus Ecological School Camp’, organised by the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation, is considered Germany’s biggest youth exchange project between Poland, Ukraine and Germany. Held for 13th time and organised by the foundation for 7th time, the camp has now become a real tradition for many boys and girls whose parents are employed at the Hager Group. Many of the young people come back year after year to the camp in Gersheim near Saarbrücken during the school holidays. In summer 2019, there were roughly 50 participants. From early to mid July 2019, the 13 to 18 year-olds had the chance to share many different experiences. The programme included a graffiti workshop with an artist and day trips to Heidelberg and Paris. There was also a tour of the Blieskastel site, after which the young people could visit the training workshop with the apprentices. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 35/43 Afrikaprojekt Dr Schales e.V. The Peter und Luise Foundation has been supporting the Dr. Schales Africa project in Zimbabwe since the beginning of 2020. The association’s two main projects are better health at St. Lukes's Hospital in Lupane/ Zimbabwe and promoting school education in the catchment area of the hospital. The health project includes the expansion of the infrastructure, medical staff, medical equipment and medication. St. Luke’s Hospital helps poor people in the area up to 400 kilometres of North Matabeleland. The hospital has 250 beds and 3,000 children are born there every year. The education project primarily involves the expansion of the infrastructure of 15 schools with approximately 6000 pupils. Within the framework of a sponsorship fund, pupils are supported with school fees, school clothing, school meals and, if necessary, medical care. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 36/43 Festival Perspectives Originally an experiment conducted in 1978 as a French festival in Saarbrücken, the Festival Perspectives has become a very successful cultural event. Every year, the Franco-German festival offers an ambitious bilingual programme of dance and theatre: wide-ranging, multidisciplinary and suitable for any audience. Another particular feature are the unusual venues such as former industrial sites, public squares and streets which create a unique atmosphere. The festival has been managed by Sylvie Hamard since 2008. In November 2018, she was awarded the Prix de l’Académie de Berlin for her outstanding contribution towards stimulating and intensifying Franco-German cultural relations. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 37/43 Perspectiva Promoting exchange, expanding competencies Almost 30 percent of all young people between the ages of 15 and 24 living in Brazil have no job. They are unemployed and thus, unfortunately, without prospects in many cases. The Peter und Luise Hager Foundation launched the Perspectiva project in 2016 to encourage them and to show them that it is worth fighting against this and to educate themselves further. After the project had enjoyed great popularity among young Spaniards over the past three years, this year the foundation decided to make it possible for Brazilian graduates to exchange ideas with or rather in European companies. Hfm Saar Summer School Since 2016, the HfM University of Music Saar organises a yearly Summer School with the support of the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation. The focus is on intensive, practical cooperation with experienced professionals. Talented youngsters from Germany and other European countries are invited to apply for the academies. The innovative concept of the HfM University of Music Saar puts a strong emphasis on the promotion of talented young musicians. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 38/43 Music project, A la Rueda Rueda, Colombia As of January 2020, the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation supports the educational project for early musical education of the non-profit foundation A la Rueda Rueda in Montería, Colombia. The project is aimed specifically at children and young people in Montería who, due to their parents' unemployment, housing conditions and lack of educational offers in the region, would have an uncertain future without such extracurricular activities. Participating in the programme provides children with a leisure activity and a life project. The project strengthens the level of training and a children's band for 120 children has been formed. New instruments will gradually be included to reinforce and enrich the sound and the interpretative capacity of the students. The aim is to juxtapose both classical and popular works to expand the children’s and their families’ musical culture. Project sponsor Ana Maria Arteaga Campos is a former Hager Group employee who lives in Colombia and is the interface between the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation and the foundation A la Rueda Rueda. Due to the current circumstances, the children participate in virtual classes. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 39/43 KuBa Workshops, Saarbrücken Since 2017, the Peter und Luise Hager Foundation supports the annual Easter and summer workshops at the Cultural Centre at the Eurobahnhof (for short KuBa). In a playful way, children and young people aged 12 to 18 can learn more about their own particular talents and strengthen their self-esteem outside of everyday school life. Some of the workshops offered: Song factory: with the help of an musician and composer young people can compose their own songs. Screen printing: together with an artist and printing professional, the groups develop their own motif and learn how to develop a print template from it. Afterwards they print with light, screen and colour on T-shirts, fabric bags and paper. Video short film: from the idea to the conception, shooting and post-production, the groups developed their skills and creativity independently. Graffiti: step by step the teenagers learnt how to handle the material, improve basic typographic knowledge, design their own sketch, prime their wooden plate and spray their motif. An experienced graffiti artist showed them how everything works. Hager Group employees’ children can participate in the workshops free of charge. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 40/43 Blue Mountains World Heritage Institute, Australia Due to the bushfires end 2019 start 2020, and the resulting destruction of forests and ecosystems, the Peter und Luise Foundation support a reforestation project in Australia. After consultation with Ross Magee, Managing Director Hager Pacific, the Board of Directors has decided to support the work of the Blue Mountain World Heritage Institute in Australia with a 30,000 € donation. The funds will be used to directly support the Bushfire recovery program which will focus on the Upland Swamps and the impacted fauna and flora across the Blue Mountains World Heritage area. It will allow the Institute to expand their Climate Change Monitoring program which supports the efforts of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Blue Mountains City Council to better understand the impacts of the recent fires on the World Heritage area. The donation will also aid longer term management changes that will be needed to prevent further catastrophic fires in the future. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 41/43 Third Meister-Gründerpreis For the third time, the non-profit Peter und Luise Hager Foundation is awarding the ‘MeisterGründerpreis’ (Master Founder Award). The biennial Meister-Gründerpreis awards 10,000 Euro to each of the three prize winners. Applications are open to registered master electricians in the electrical trade who have been self-employed since 1st January 2015 with their own business or as business founders. The current patron is the Prime Minister of the Saarland, Tobias Hans. The Meister-Gründerpreis is the legacy of our Hager Group founders to the industry; the foundation uses it to reward and strengthen the master electrician as the founder of a new business. In addition to economic facts, the evaluation criteria for the award are entrepreneurial spirit, people management and training strategy as well as the integration of the company in the community. “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 42/43 Follow Hager Group: “Sustainability is the key to our long-term success and inherent in everything we do.” Daniel Hager, CEO. Hager Group Communication on Progress 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 43/43
