USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUST N. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MOR FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUST N. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MOR FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUST N. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MOR FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO INABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASH USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUST N. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MOR FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR THREE COMMITMENTS EDITORIAL Just over a year after the launch of Go for Good, our label for more sustainable fashion, it is clear that the movement is well under way. Our in-house label brings together nearly 600 brands both within our stores and online, and offers over 12,000 products that ensure substantial environmental, social or local benefits. More than 700,000 customers bought Go for Good products in 2019, which demonstrates the interest in the path that Galeries Lafayette has embarked upon. This year was devoted to consolidating the approach, p. 10 – 13 given that following its successful launch it was important to show that it was not a one-off operation but that a fundamental shift had been implemented. The challenge has been taken up, since on its 1st anniversary in Responsible and socially inclusive September 2019, Go for Good recorded an increase in the number of brands and certified products of more than employer 20%. This was also apparent in the extension of the label to other brands of the Galeries Lafayette Group. La Redoute and Louis Pion joined Go for Good this year, for both their p. 14 – 17 own brand products and the brands they accept on their platforms. Actor An important step was also taken with the adoption of objectives for 2024 with the clear and ambitious target of of ecological transition developing the range of products and services that we offer to our customers. Go for Good has shown that another type of fashion is possible, with the formulation of these objectives, Galeries Lafayette has implemented a paradigm p. 18 – 21 shift designed to change fashion for good. Beyond Go for Good, our commitment to responsible Showcase trade also permeates all of our initiatives, as will be seen from this report through, among other things, our for sustainable fashion commitment to gender equality, the donation of unsold products to associations, the reduction of our energy consumption or support for urban agriculture and clean transport. A set of concrete measures that help effect a positive change in our business, that I invite you to discover in this report. Philippe Houzé Chairman of the Executive Committee Galeries Lafayette Group 3 THE GALERIES LAFAYETTE GROUP CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE ­DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Group fully supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and uses this roadmap as a guide for its own actions. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a call from the United Nations to meet the global challenges of building a better, more sustainable ­ f uture for everyone by 2030. The Galeries Lafayette Group’s Sustainable Development strategy contributes to 12 of these 17 goals. Each pillar of the Sustainable Development strategy directly A fashion specialist with stores in 290 stores and e-commerce sites. or indirectly participates in different goals, as shown by the the hearts of cities, the Galeries The Group maintains a historical, diagram below: Lafayette Group is a benchmark emotional link with its customers, player in omnichannel retail in something that is evident at all its France and around the world, physical or digital outlets, offering spreading the influence of the French the very best in retail and design. As Art de Vivre a leading private employer in France with 14,000 employees, the Galeries t h r o u g h i t s b r a n d s: G a l e r i e s Lafayette Group identity is expressed 3 5 8 10 Responsible L afay et te, BHV MAR AIS, L a t h r o u g h i t s f o u n d i n g v a l u e s: and socially Good health Gender Decent work Reduced and well being equality and economic inequalities Redoute*, Galeries Lafayette-Royal passion for customer service, bold inclusive growth Quartz Paris, Louis Pion, BazarChic, innovation, collective commitment employer Eataly and Mauboussin*. Thanks to and a taste for excellence. its solid architectural heritage and culture of innovation, the Galeries 7 9 11 13 Lafayet te Group welcomes over * La Redoute and Mauboussin are not included in Actor Affordable and Industry Sustainable Climate action the scope of the actions and data presented in this of ecological clean energy innovation and cities and 60 million visitors every day to its report transition infrastructure communities 1894 € 4.5 bn A 100% 1 8 12 14 15 Showcase No Decent work Responsible Life Life below water Galeries Lafayette founded by in retail sales for sustainable poverty and economic growth consumption and production on land Théophile Bader family group fashion 290 95% A major shareholding in the groupe Carrefour stores of jobs located in France 4 5 OUR SUSTAINABLE OUR 2024 OBJECTIVES DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION +25 % of products with 100% of new brands listed from 2024 Go for Good branding will have a Go for Good offer A showcase +200 100% for sustainable fashion Guarantee the exemplary nature of our own brands. Become an ­ambassador for responsible fashion young committed fashion brands of the Galeries Lafayette own brand that by highlighting products and services ­ upported and distributed in-store s meet sustainable criteria and production that make fashion more sustainable. and online of a new line that is 100% traceable ­Encourage responsible design by young on demand brands and start-ups. An actor of ecological transition Support the transformation of cities towards more sustainable transport and buildings. Promote the circular economy. Resale or recycling A loyalty programme Contributing a portion ­solutions for all products encouraging Go for Good of profits generated by Responsible and socially inclusive purchased in-store and purchases thanks to the Go for Good products to employer second-hand and rental payment of additional projects that support more services encouraging ­bonus points sustainable fashion Promote staff development, quality of life at work, ethics and the circular economy diversity. Be a committed stakeholder in society through diverse and participative socially inclusive activities. 6 7 THE HIGHLIGHTS OF 2019 August → Launch of the “Changeons ©Bee_nfluencer 2019/2020 de mode” campaign with more than 600 partner brands to celebrate the first anniversary of the – Fondation de France Go for Good movement. Signature of the Fashion ↑ MaRCH ↑ June Pact at the G7 in Biarritz. First vote by the public in connection with the La Redoute joins Go for Good × Ulule programme to elect their favourite Go for Good. ↑ DEcember committed young brand and ensure that it is supported by Galeries Lafayette. Operation La Ruche de Noel in partnership with Bee’nfluencer, the ­Fondation de France’s ­influencer bee, to raise awareness about the disappearance of bees and to raise funds to ­protect them. MaY → © Estelle Poulalion Launch of a collection ↑ September and recycling service for perfume bottles in Galeries Participation in the first Impact fair, the Who’s Next fair Lafayette stores. dedicated to sustainable fashion. Galeries Lafayette and Louis Pion, winners of the LSA La Conso awards, have joined forces with Go for Good in the “Responsible ­Purchasing” and “Best CSR Product” categories. 8 9 RESPONSIBLE AND SOCIALLY INCLUSIVE PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY commitment is also reflected in work on sexism, with the signing of the EMPLOYER #StOpE charter against everyday sexism in companies in December In 2019, particular emphasis was 2019, which makes this issue a 2019 KEY FIGURES placed on gender equality issues, major area of commitment over the in order to make it a strong focus next few years. int e r n a lly a n d ex t e r n a lly in a company where 65% of managerial positions are held by women. The gender equality index thus showed #StOpE Charter Against Everyday an increase of 11 points in one year, reaching 92/100. The company also decided to support the Fondation 35% +2,000 92/100 des Femmes, a reference structure Sexism signed in France for women’s rights and of vacancies filled employees took part in gender equality against violence against women, in by ­internal mobility the 3 Learn for Good ­index score the creation of the Cite Audacieuse, ­training courses on organic the first French venue dedicated cotton, recycled materials to promoting gender equality. This and French manufacturing DEVELOPING was marked by digitalisation as 50 4 5.3% e-learning modules from the training E­ MPLOYEE ­POTENTIAL catalogue were made freely available, including 3 initial training capsules signature of the #StOpE associations ­benefiting of employees The development of employees, their on Go for Good criteria to train sales charter against everyday from the voluntary with ­disabilities skills as well as their career path, is a advisers in selling points for clients sexism in companies ­donation from salary fundamental focus of our action as a on organic cotton, recycled materials responsible employer. and Made in France. In 2019, 83% of This issue is particularly important in employees underwent training. the company, as 34% of managers joined the company as an employee Go for Good E-Learning Capsule or supervisor and more than one third of vacant positions are filled via internal mobility. This is facilitated 148 145,000 110,000 by a training policy supported by an in-house Academy that offers both regular job training and tailorskills sponsorship unsold non-food items meal equivalents donated made teaching programmes, like the ­missions donated to associations to associations one carried out in 2019 for Eataly Paris Marais employees. The year 10 11 PROMOTING POSITIVE FASHION FOR EVERYONE Awareness-raising workshop for Group employees, led by the Un Regard 2019 was marked by an overhaul of the policy, to be as close as possible to the issues of sustainable fashion and embody positive fashion for everyone. As such, two new partnerships have been signed, with Casa 93, which offers pour toi Association free training on fashion and design without a degree requirement, and “Un Regard pour toi” which offers shopping experiences to visually impaired people. A positive fashion for everyone must also suppor t the fashion industry ecosystem – as with the “Where the Rain Falls” project conducted with the NGO CARE, which supports 100 small cotton producers who have converted to more environmentallyfriendly production methods that are resilient to climate change. The logic of coordinating partnerships INCLUDE ALL DIVERSITIES as close as possible to the activity and employees has persisted and has been strengthened through In addition to gender equality, the measures such as voluntary Galeries Lafayette group is committed donation from salaries allowing to all forms of diversity, a source of them to make a monthly micro The inter-company race wealth and creativity. Our diversity is donation directly from their payslip. demonstrated by the fact that over Product sponsorship took the form 100 nationalities are represented of more than 145,000 items and “Together” in the company. To be a success, 110,000 meal equivalents donated diversity must also mean inclusion. to the associations Dons Solidaires, 5.3% of the Group’s employees Emmaüs Défi and A.N.D.E.S. Project have a disability and more than 100 sponsorship has enabled projects employees have been supported for able -bodied and disabled to be carried out at the heart of the in maintainin g emp l oym ent in employees, or the organisation of store, such as the Emmaüs Défi popline with the company’s Disability a “Handi’Engagée” day at all the up sales corner at Galeries Lafayette Policy. This policy also involves Galeries Lafayette and BHV MARAIS Haussmann in October 2019. Lastly, regular internal awareness activities sites for over ten years. skills sponsorship strengthens ties such as par ticipation for the between employees and partner second consecutive edition in the associations with 148 missions intercompany race “To gether” completed by employees. 12 13 ACTOR INNOVATING TO ENSURE MORE VIRTUOUS LOGISTICS OF ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION Delivery by bicycle in inner urban For several years now, all our stores 2019 KEY FIGURES in Ile de France have been supplied by NGV trucks, thus enabling a Paris to BHV Marais Rivoli 90% reduction in particles harmful to health. Since 2019, the Galeries Lafayette stores in Strasbourg and Luxembourg have also used this delivery method. All orders from the galerieslafayette.com e-commerce it possible to reduce packaging waste site are also delivered by partners but also to improve truck filling and -9.4% 100% -50% of fset ting 100 % of the carbon emissions linked to delivery. In therefore reduce the number of deliveries. In order to test new zero reduction in e­ nergy of electricity from reduction in the amount order to go further on the subject, emission mobility, Galeries Lafayette consumption for r­ enewable sources in of paper consumed the use of kraft paper envelopes is also par ticipating in a pilot the ­Galeries Lafayette our Galeries Lafayette (vs 2017) was successfully tested this year on hydrogen mobility project with Akuo ­Haussmann store and BHV Marais stores 50,000 e-commerce orders, making Energy, Atawey and JCDecaux. between 2018 and 2019 in France HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS (more than 10,000 bottles collected over the year), collection of watches ADOPT MORE RESPONSIBLE of fered by Louis Pion (11,000 ­CONSUMPTION HABITS watches collected in 2019), as well 10,000 11,000 11 as occasional operations (bed linen, Supporting customers to encourage toys, school bags, kitchen utensils, perfume bottles watches collected from sales of old decoration them to consume more responsibly etc.). recycled Louis Pion customers items from our stores throughout their customer journey for recycling to charities is an integral part of a responsible store approach. In addition to the selection and signage of products with the internal Go for Good label (see p. 19), this is reflected in the paperless ticket, the proposal for sustainable bags (more than 28,000 tote bags made in France from +18,000 100% 3,200 sqm recycled textiles sold in 2019). The collection and recycling systems made available to customers are textile deposits to be of store deliveries in of vegetable garden on also part of this approach collection recycled by our in-store ­Ile-de-France using NGV the roofs of our stores of textiles in all Galeries Lafayette customers stores (more than 18,000 deposits in 2019), collection of perfume bottles 14 15 IMPROVING s t o r e h a s a d o p t e d a n e n e r gy THE ENVIRONMENTAL management approach and has therefore renewed its ISO 50 001 ­FOOTPRINT OF STORES certification this year. These actions have led to a 4.3% overall decrease Elimination of plastic packaging on Absolument Maison products Galeries Lafayette has been working in the Group’s energy consumption in for a number of years to improve one year and a nearly 10% decrease the environmental per formance in that of the Galeries Lafayette of b uil din gs, with a p o licy of Haussmann store. The supply of environmental certification of new electricity covered by certificates of s to re s b as e d o n t h e BREE A M guarantee of renewable origin from label and the implementation of a the Department Stores Branch since responsible site construction charter 2016 has also reduced the carbon laying down environmental criteria footprint of energy consumption by for renovation works. Centralised 66%. The Galeries Lafayette Group Technical Management systems has been committed too, for over have been deployed to reduce 5 years, to urban agriculture with the energy consumption of stores 3,200 sqm of vegetable gardens on and warehouses, and systematic the roofs of our stores operated by replacement by LEDs during store the Sous les Fraises start-up. remodelling has been implemented. The Galeries Lafayette Haussmann ENCOURAGE RECYCLING OF RESOURCES The Galeries Lafayette Group strives sales of former store decor elements, to conduct its business by reducing have given a second life to nearly its consumption of resources on a 10,000 items while donating more daily basis and by promoting the than €20,000 to associations. recycling of any waste produced. The consumption of paper used in the creation of catalogues, the largest item of consumption, was thus halved between 2017 and 2019, while the use of recycled paper in catalogues increased to 95%. Plastic packaging was also eliminated for BROC GL for the use of resources Absolument Maison’s own-brand bed linen in 2019 (opposite). The Group is also seeking to implement circular economy solutions, whether for foodstuffs or decorations. The Sous les Fraises Too Good To Go solution, deployed in 2018, saved 9,166 meals this year by selling them at a reduced price at the end of the service. Broc GL sales, 16 17 SHOWCASE The Good Spot on the 3rd floor of the Galeries Lafayette Haussmann store FOR SUSTAINABLE FASHION 2019 KEY FIGURES 243 793,000 20 social audits carried out items of Go for Good own-brand Go for Good at own-brand suppliers own brand sectors (organic cotton, linen, cashmere and ­recycled nylon, etc.) GO FOR GOOD, opening of permanent 100% Go for +40,000 1 3 THE GALERIES LAFAYETTE Good corners dedicated to emerging brands in the Galeries Lafayette stores GROUP LABEL FOR MORE and the expansion of this movement online votes to support Responsible Jewellery pilot plants for a level the committed young Council certification alert system on working ­SUSTAINABLE FASHION to two Galeries Lafayet te group brands in the Galeconditions brands: Louis Pion and La Redoute. ries Lafayette × Ulule Launched in September 2018 at The anniversary of the first year of ­programme Galeries Lafayette, the Go for Good existence of Go for Good, which was label continued to expand throughout celebrated with Vivienne Westwood 2019. This internal label aims to as guest of honour, there were speed up transformation in the fashion nearly 600 brands and 12,000 items nearly industry by rigorously selecting distinguished by the label, an increase 600 3 and reporting to customers those of nearly 20%. On this occasion, brands pillars environment local social and health products that have a lower impact ambitious objectives for 2024 were on the environment, supporting local laid out in respect of the development production or contributing to social of the sustainable service products 8.4% of the offer 6 fashion food home development. With more than 500 (see p.7), thus committing Galeries sectors accessories jewellery beauty brands and 10,000 items at its launch, Lafayette to a change in its overall in-store Go for Good had sent a strong signal model. Go for Good was also awarded to the entire industry that change is two prizes at the LSA La conso +12,000 3 on the way and that sustainability S’engage awards, in the Responsible top oeko-tex® organic made in and desirability can go hand in Purchasing and Best CSR Product items standard cotton France criteria 100 hand in fashion. 2019 was devoted categories for the Go for Good Louis to consolidating the label, with the Pion range. 18 19 Pièce Marque Propre 100% traçable Galeries Lafayette Fashion Pact signatories gathered in Paris in October 2019 and home Go for Good products were COMMITTED sold in 2019, representing a two-fold ENCOURAGE INNOVATION OWN BRANDS increase in volumes in one year. To AND ­ACCELERATE go even further, 100% traceable TRANSFORMATION The Group has always sought to be a supply chains from raw materials to pioneer in respect of its own brands, stores continue to be created. The Group is also working more by monitoring product manufacturing broadly to accelerate changes in conditions and by developing the * Initiative for Compliance and Sustainability. A multi-­ the sector towards more sustainable use of more sustainable materials sector initiative bringing together 47 brands aimed at improving working conditions in global supply chains. fashion, by engaging not only with or production processes. Based on young brands but also with other its participation in the ICS* since stakeholders in the sector. With 2003, the Group’s approach to regard to young brands, first of all, This approach has also resulted in the preventing and controlling risks of via the Lafayette Brand Booster participation in a number of sectoral breaches of Human Rights is based which supports committed brands, initiatives launched in 2019 to change on contractual obligations and the but also via the Ulule programme the face of fashion: per formance of social audits at w hi c h r ewa r d s p o p u l a r y o u n g • The Fashion Pact, a coalition of own brand suppliers (234 audits in start-ups with a grant and expert companies in the sector to work 2019). In addition, the use of more coaching, or via participation in the on climate, biodiversity and ocean sustainable materials such as organic Plug and Play Fashion for Good issues; cotton, European linen, cashmere or accelerator dedicated to technological • Paris Good Fashion, an initiative recycled nylon is developing rapidly. innovations throughout the textile and aimed at making Paris the capital of More than 700,000 ready-to-wear leather production chain. sustainable fashion; • Participation in the Impact event, the first Who’s Next fair dedicated to these issues. 20 21 OUR VALUES Passion for customer service Bold innovation Collective commitment Taste for excellence 22 23 OR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE S SHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE ORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAIN OR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE S SHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE ORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAIN OR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE S SHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHION. FOR ABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE FASHIO USTAINABLE FASHION. FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE www.groupegalerieslafayette.com www.goforgood.com Printed on 100% recycled paper certified FSC Recycled. ­Printing ­realised in an establishment employing disabled people.
