SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 03 INTRODUCTION 03 CEO’s introduction 04 About CANPACK 05 CANPACK’s approach to sustainability 06 Policies and standards 07 Sustainability awards 09 CARE 10 Only zero accidents will do 12 We respect the rights and dignity of all of our employees 17 Opportunities for young people and women 19 Helping people in need 21 SUSTAIN 22 We comply with global standards of environmentally responsible operations 25 Water stewardship 26 Environmental awareness programmes and our carbon footprint 27 Responsible use of raw materials and energy 29 RECYCLE 30 We design and manufacture fully recyclable packaging 31 Our aim is zero waste to landfill 32 Improving recycling rates of beverage cans 33 SUMMARY 34 Materiality Analysis 35 CONTACT INTRODUCTION 3 CEO’S INTRODUCTION At CANPACK, we work hard to “create that feeling” for the brands we work with. At CANPACK, we work hard to “create that (KPIs) reporting system, which enables us ROBERTO feeling” for the brands we work with. This goes to continuously monitor and improve our VILLAQUIRAN beyond the look and feel of our packaging sustainability performance. solutions. One feeling that’s becoming CEO CANPACK increasingly important to create is that our In Autumn 2019, we signed up to the ten Group clients and their consumers feel they have principles of the UN Global Compact. This made a sustainable decision by choosing demonstrates our commitment to creating to work with us or by choosing to use our a sustainable business that can play a part products. On account of this I am proud, in helping to achieve the UN’s ambitious on behalf of the entire CANPACK Group, to Sustainable Development Goals. CANPACK introduce our first sustainability report. has always been a responsible company, but this is the first time we have published our Over the last two years, we have worked progress against these far-reaching goals. hard to set up a structured sustainability management system. We launched our These are only the first of many steps on our CANPACK Global Sustainability Policy in 2019, sustainability journey. In the future, we hope which revolves around three sustainability to collaborate even more with our business pillars: CARE, SUSTAIN, and RECYCLE. partners, clients, suppliers, and competitors to play our part to make the entire industry In accordance with these pillars, we have even more sustainable. put a variety of sustainability activities into practice across all of our sites, which are Kraków, September 2020 described in more detail within this report. An important milestone has been the launch of our sustainability key performance indicators INTRODUCTION 4 ABOUT CANPACK CANPACK Group has its roots in Poland. From our headquarters in Kraków, we have been operating in the metal and glass packaging market for 30 years. Over time, our company has evolved into friendly, modern packaging solutions, able to a modern capital group and has become supply top-quality primary packaging on time, a leading manufacturer in the beverage wherever it’s needed. We employ almost packaging industry in Central and Eastern 8,000 people worldwide, in production sites Europe. We have also constantly strengthened for aluminium beverage cans, a wide range our market position in Western Europe, of welded steel cans for the food industry, Asia, Africa, South America, and recently glass bottles, crown corks, and aerosol cans, announced our entry into the US (the world’s as well as packaging for the chemical and largest market for aluminium beverage cans). cosmetic industries. Today, CANPACK S.A. is the main entity of the The foundations of CANPACK Group’s growth CANPACK Group, and thanks to continuous are strong, trust-based relationships with investment in world-class equipment and both large multinational beverage producers know-how, we have increased the range of and strong local market players. These packaging and services we offer. We are the relationships are defined by our set of values leading global producer of environmentallywhich includes Safety, Quality, Integrity, Teamwork, Respect and Innovation. “ “ We are the leading global producer of environmentally-friendly, modern packaging solutions. INTRODUCTION 5 CANPACK’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY A commitment to sustainable development lies at the heart of the company’s business strategy and corporate culture. By thinking and acting in a sustainable Our three sustainability pillars, CARE, manner, we recognise our responsibility as SUSTAIN and RECYCLE, provide the an employer, packaging producer, business framework for our goals and reflect the partner and community member. This allows expectations of our stakeholders. In order to us to develop our business responsibly provide practical guidance to our employees and contribute to economic growth, while and suppliers for each of these pillars, we respecting environmental and social needs. have implemented guidelines and policies that set out clear objectives and describe the roles and responsibilities for everyone working for, or with, CANPACK. INTRODUCTION 6 POLICIES & STANDARDS As a global business we either exceed or work in-line with local laws and regulations. In countries where legislation is in an early The most important, from the perspective of development phase or where norms are not sustainability, are: widely implemented, we still recognise our responsibility to protect the environment, • CANPACK Group Sustainability Policy natural resources and human health, along • CANPACK Group Code of Conduct with the quality and safety of our products. • Integrated Management System Policy To ensure higher standards, our plants have been implementing and certifying the • CANPACK Group Global Environmental following management systems: and Health & Safety Policy • Global Trade Compliance Policy • Environmental: ISO 14001 standard • Global Anti-Corruption Policy • Energy: ISO 50001 standard • Risk Management Policy • Occupational Health and Safety: • CANPACK Group Data Protection Policy OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 standard • Security Policy • P  roduct/Food Safety: • CANPACK Group Supplier Code of Conduct BRC/FSSC 22000/ISO 22000 standard • Purchasing Procedure and related • Quality: ISO 9001 standard procedures: Internal Procedure of • Carbon footprint: ISO 14067 standard Procurement and Cooperation Office – Suppliers’ Audits, Procedure on Entering Our integrated management system is the Suppliers into Suppliers’ List. key to the successful implementation of the policies and procedures that set the CANPACK Management regularly reviews framework for our activities. the efficiency of implemented systems and makes sure that our policy goals are known, understood, and observed by all employees. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Facilities ISO 14001 certified % 48 52 Facilities ISO 50001 certified % 4 4 H&S certification (ISO 45001 / OHSAS 18001 / others) % 39 48 Employees who have signed CANPACK Code of Conduct % 100 100 CANPACK production sites covered with carbon footprint calculation % 100 100 INTRODUCTION 7 SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS We are extremely proud of the external recognition we have received for the work we have done to become a better, more sustainable business. These awards demonstrate our commitment confirm that we really do base activity on our to conduct business in an environmentally CARE, SUSTAIN and RECYCLE pillars. Prizes and socially responsible manner. They also we are particularly proud of include: SILVER RATING BY ECOVADIS BEST SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING FOR SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS CEE (2020) PERFORMANCE (2019) For our outstanding commitment to This places CANPACK in the top 2% of employees, communities and the companies in the metal manufacturing environment. These are great results, but industry and was driven by higher scores we are determined to achieve even more. than in the previous year for all assessed By constantly raising our standards and categories: Environment, Labour and Human improving our results, we’ll not only be a more Rights, Ethics and Sustainable Procurement. responsible business, we’ll also play our part in creating a more sustainable industry. FAIR COMPANY (2020) GREEN COMPANY (2020) This defines our company as a CSR Leader, In recognition of our measures to reduce and takes account of our involvement in the total environmental impacts of our charity and sponsorship activities, and activity and for our social responsibility confirms our responsibility as a producer, programmes conducted by the company in employer and community member. the field of ecology. INTRODUCTION 8 CARE 9 CARE We take care of our employees and our communities. Our first sustainability pillar, CARE, defines the elimination of all forms of forced and our responsibilities to our employees and compulsory labour. local communities. It includes health and Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the safety; protection of human rights; prevention effective abolition of child labour. of discrimination, corruption, forced labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the and child labour; as well as community elimination of discrimination in respect of engagement. The activities undertaken by employment and occupation. CANPACK within this pillar are consistent with Principle 10: Businesses should work the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) against corruption in all its forms, including principles and reflect our contribution to the extortion and bribery. implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established by UN Member States in 2015. ALLOCATION OF SDGs ALLOCATION OF UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold “ We strive to not only have safe and accident “ free workplaces, we also want CANPACK to be a company that supports good health and well-being. CARE 10 ONLY ZERO ACCIDENTS WILL DO In order to ensure a safe working environment for all our employees, we have implemented a variety of health and safety measures. These include detailed health and safety The best example is our plant in India, risk assessments, the provision of personal which was awarded with Platinum status protective equipment (PPE) and regular by the Indian Green Building Council safety inspections of our equipment. We (IGBC) for providing a healthy workplace have put in place procedures to anticipate to its employees. Following the principle of health and safety risks related to changes of ‘Safety First’, we always put the health of operation as well as handling of chemicals our employees first. In the face of any health and hazardous substances procedures, all threat, even if it is not directly related to of which are translated into the languages our activity, we will make quick responsible spoken by our employees. decisions, implement protection measures and provide employees with safe working To promote a healthy workplace, we have conditions. implemented preventative measures for stress and noise, such as silencers and All relevant employees are trained on health noise cabins. We strive to not only have safe and safety risks and good working practices and accident free workplaces, we also want on a regular basis and undergo topic-specific CANPACK to be a company that supports online training. These health and safety good health and well-being. training programmes are extended to any subcontractor working on our premises. To safeguard the health and safety of our employees, all aspects are overseen by a Joint Health and Safety Committee. “ All relevant employees are trained on health “ and safety risks and good working practices on a regular basis and undergo topic-specific online training. CARE 11 During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have working at home for some and implemented multiple measures at our staggering shifts for others, limiting facilities to protect our employees. These travel for all, temperature screening all measures include increasing sanitation employees, and following standards within our facilities, limiting the number established by the World Health of employees gathering in our canteens, Organization relating to personal limiting visitors to our sites, encouraging hygiene and social distancing. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Employees trained on health and safety issues % 100 100 Health and safety risk assessment conducted % 100 100 Impacted employees with PPE (personal protective equipment) % 100 100 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.77 1.59 Average number of hours of safety training per employee hr 4.72 10.09 CARE 12 WE RESPECT THE RIGHTS AND DIGNITY OF ALL OF OUR EMPLOYEES We are aware that the success of CANPACK rights issues, and, most importantly, they are is strongly dependent on teamwork, so we’ve encouraged to report any concerns. created a culture and work environment that embraces diversity, fosters inclusion, Any incidents can be brought to our attention and offers development for our employees. through our whistleblower mechanism or The protection of human and labour rights by approaching an immediate supervisor/ lie at the heart of our commitment to being manager, the HR department, health and a responsible business. Through internal safety inspectors, employee representative training courses, our management and body (work councils) or the CANPACK ethics employees are made aware of human officer. RIGHT TO LIFE AND HEALTH RIGHT TO PRIVACY We believe it is imperative that our employees CANPACK guarantees the right to privacy are protected from injuries, noise and dust through a systematic data protection and IT by means of PPE and by providing them with security plan. To prevent any breaches of access to medical care. We also believe we confidential information, security risk have a duty to protect the communities we assessments, as well as audits of control serve. For example, we have put dust filters procedures, are carried out on a regular basis. and silencers on our production facilities to CANPACK has also implemented a record protect the local environment. And because retention schedule, an incident response we are primarily a manufacturer of food and procedure, and rolled out awareness courses beverage packaging, we ensure that all of which include phishing training to ensure third the packaging we make adheres to the party data is protected from unauthorised strict standards as set out in ISO 22000. disclosure. The whistleblower system can also be used to report any breaches of privacy. CARE 13 RIGHT TO MARRY AND RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF FORM A FAMILY THOUGHT, CONSCIENCE AND RELIGION At CANPACK we strongly promote the right to CANPACK has a diverse international team. We marry and form a family. In recognition of this, work hard to ensure that our working conditions we organise events for families and children promote diversity and strive to create the such as picnics, children’s days, sports environment where people of different ethnic, events and other family meetings. cultural and religious backgrounds can thrive. RIGHT TO WORK CANPACK is one of the major employers within the packaging industry, employing nearly 8,000 people in 19 countries across four continents. Alongside providing job opportunities, the company encourages career development through many paths. We carry out an annual individual performance assessment and the training needs identified are set out in a tailored career plan. Every employee is given the opportunity to partake in skills development programmes as well as internal international work placement opportunities in order to help them develop professionally. CARE 14 RIGHT TO ENJOY JUST AND RIGHT TO FORM AND JOIN FAVOURABLE CONDITIONS TRADE UNIONS AND THE OF WORK RIGHT TO STRIKE In accordance with the guidelines set out by CANPACK strives for transparency by building the International Labour Organization (ILO), a dialogue with employees and consulting on CANPACK ensures that every employee issues that affect them. All employees have can enjoy just and favourable working the right to represent their own interests, conditions. These include flexible working, including the ability to form and join trade compensation for extra or atypical working unions, which is fully guaranteed by law. hours, a transparent remuneration process, as well as a bonus scheme based on company performance. To help our employees keep a good work-life balance, we provide a system of benefits that supports and promotes physical, cultural and tourist activities. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Human rights impact assessment performed % 100 100 Employees receiving 24 hours rest within a timeframe of 7 consecutive days % 100 100 Granting of paid annual vacation % 100 100 Granting of special remuneration / time off for overtime worked % 100 100 Employees receiving social benefits (health care, childcare allowance etc.) % 88 100 Average number of hours of skill development training per employee hr 15.48 12.73 Data protection procedure implemented % 100 100 CARE 15 NON-DISCRIMINATION In order to manage our human resources in a responsible and honest way, we have implemented Global Grading, which is a standardised method of classifying jobs across a global company. We map jobs, not people, in relation to one another, with vertical and horizontal checks. We intend to create Grading Maps for all CANPACK businesses and keep them updated regularly. CANPACK’s Pay Philosophy is a reflection of CANPACK’s core values – we treat equally employees who perform the same work At CANPACK we have introduced proactive with comparable results (Integrity) and pay measures to make sure our employees are a competitive salary, adjusted to the local aware of, and protected from, discrimination. market (Respect). Our bonus system depends on team objectives and results (Teamwork). We During the recruitment phase, all candidates pay discretionary rewards for innovations and receive a detailed description of the recruitment savings (Innovation), and a salary adequate to process which clearly communicates that high-quality work (Quality). applicants of any social, cultural and religious background are welcome to apply. We do our Employees are made aware of our activities best to integrate employees with disabilities through dedicated anti-discrimination and ensure equal work opportunities for all awareness training, and are encouraged to members of staff by providing accessible toilets, use our whistleblower ‘Speak-Up line’ in case accommodation, transport infrastructure and of any transgressions. All whistleblowers are work equipment. given full anonymity and immunity. NO CHILD AND FORCED LABOUR At CANPACK we condemn any form of child or forced labour. We perform risk assessments to identify operations exposed to potential child or forced labour. Other measures include sitespecific guidelines, instructions and systems to prevent the entry of underage persons into our factories. We constantly monitor our organisational structure and supply chain, and audit our internal processes regularly to prevent any form of exploitation. Child and forced labour, slavery and human trafficking are also part of our awareness training programme. Any incidents can be reported through our whistleblower mechanism. CARE 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES To prevent any form of corruption or Anti-competitive practices are not tolerated bribery, CANPACK undertakes periodic risk at CANPACK. assessments as well as regular audits of our accounting and purchasing transactions. Similar to our anti-corruption programme, we regularly include anti-competitive The company has a specific approval practices in our periodic risk assessments, procedure for sensitive transactions such audit our control procedures, undertake as gifts, entertainment and vendor relations. employee training and encourage any Before going into business with a third party, bad practice to be reported through our an extensive anti-corruption due diligence whistleblower mechanism. In addition, we process takes place, which complies with provide our employees with clear competitor the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) interaction guidelines, covering aspects guidelines. Any misconduct can be reported such as participation in trade associations through our whistleblower process, which is or business meetings and competition law communicated through our anti-corruption guidelines. and bribery training programme which is mandatory for every employee to attend. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Employees trained on discrimination and diversity % 100 100 Employees trained on child labour, slavery and human trafficking % 100 100 Employees trained on business ethics (corruption, IT security, anti-competitive practices) % 100 100 Business ethics risk assessment performed % 100 100 Age admission check performed % 100 100 CARE 17 OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND WOMEN At CANPACK we believe education is the key to fostering sustainable values at a young age. To fulfil our obligations as a good corporate and supports the professional development citizen, CANPACK has set up various of local communities. A good example is in environmental and social awareness projects Thakarwadi village, India, where we have at our sites across the world. In Poland, built 200 rainwater collection systems to for example, CANPACK is involved in the protect local communities from some of ‘Business vs Smog’ project to educate and the negative effects of climate change. In promote the value of a clean environment Maharashtra, we have also launched a waste and natural resources. sorting plant which not only provides jobs for the local community, but also supports the Education plays a very important role in development of the circular economy. accelerating sustainable development, and this has been highlighted as one of the Additionally, we support local farmers by SDGs. In order to support this belief, we have offering training programmes in soil and “WE STRIVE TO UNDERSTAND THE DIFFICULTIES AND CHALLENGES THAT COMMUNITIES IN MANY OF OUR LOCATIONS ARE TRYING TO MEET.” supported various school and educational water conservation, and we have undertaken projects in India aimed at providing good several tree planting projects. learning conditions. These include access to libraries, mobile science laboratories, In the Netherlands, as in India, we use our sanitary facilities, playgrounds, sports potential as an employer to support the local equipment and drinking water. community and provide it with a chance to work in fair conditions. Landscaping for our We have also funded projects which equip 9 hectares site in Helmond is done by people students with the soft skills necessary to who feel excluded from the labour market apply for jobs. In Poland, CANPACK provided through an organisation named Senzer. scholarships for students of the Jagiellonian University Faculty of Law and Administration We strive to understand the difficulties in Kraków to partake in a student exchange and challenges that communities in programme in Kiev and offered summer many of our locations are trying to meet. internship programmes at our headquarters CANPACK is open to cooperation and we in Kraków. are ready to use our position to help those in need. CANPACK Romania participated in Our company contributes to the improvement ‘Zambetele lor conteaza’ raising money for 25 of living conditions in the areas we operate disadvantaged children from Berceni village. CARE 18 In the municipalities of Maracanaú and We also support the local football team in Itumbiara in Brazil, we are proud to have Vyshgorod, Ukraine. supported the most vulnerable in the community. Support has included donating In the face of the global COVID-19 crisis, we toys, clothing and personal hygiene products now pay even more attention to the needs to orphanages, providing food baskets for and concerns of local communities and make hospitals and making financial donations to every effort to provide them with our support. elderly people on a low income. The important CANPACK has not only donated masks, antithing to note about these projects is that bacterial gel, disinfectants, medical equipment CANPACK’s own employees help deliver these and food, but the technical capabilities of our campaigns. By giving up our own time to help R&D department have enabled us to produce others, we are able to make a real difference. protective shield masks using 3D printing. Our company contributes to the promotion As a company we advocate gender equality. of a healthy lifestyle and physical activity, We have organised empowerment sessions especially among children and young for women and self-help groups in India, and people. In Morocco, we are a member of for many years financially supported a female the Association Sportive de l’Amitié de basketball team and basketball training Casablanca, where we donated money for programme for girls. And in Morocco, CANPACK a digitisation project. In Poland, we sponsor cooperates with ‘Terre des Femmes’ on a three sports academies: the Wisla CANPACK female empowerment programme to support Academy, the CANPACK Okocimski Brzesko the development and independence of women. Academy and the Cracovia Hockey Academy. CARE 19 HELPING PEOPLE IN NEED In 2015, we set up the CANPACK Foundation to make a lasting difference to society. By working with other institutions and ACTIVITIES FOR THE DISABLED organisations, we have been able to e.g. an educational trip for the students of effectively support many different projects Special Branch School in Bydgoszcz, and ‘Team including: A’ project for people with Asperger’s syndrome with Superpower Foundation in Kraków HEALTHCARE LOCAL INITIATIVES e.g. the ‘Make it before disease’ project in Brazil, the Association of Women with e.g. The ‘Hydro rehabilitation’ project in a Oncological Problems in Brzesko, and nursing home in Orzesze, and the purchase the purchase of medical equipment for of medical equipment for fire brigades in the oncology and haematology wards Rzezawa and Jaworsko of the University Children’s Hospital of Kraków We are extremely proud that the Foundation’s activities are often initiated by our employees, SPORT who are socially active volunteers and are able to quickly organise action to help local e.g. the ‘We train with passion’ project with communities. Under the ‘Time for Volunteering’ the Children’s Football Academy Association programme, we promote the activity of our in Dębica, and the ‘Brzeska Dycha’ with the employees who, thanks to financial support, Jakub Sports Club in Brzesko were able to implement original social help projects last year. Furthermore, our CULTURE AND EDUCATION employees are involved in providing children with Christmas gifts, participating in sporting e.g. the ‘Bet on Family’ project with the activities, promoting an active lifestyle, as Culture Center in Brzesko, and the ‘Lesson of well as showing mutual support by organising patriotism with Pilecki’ project with the Power fundraisers for their colleagues who are in of Joy Association in Jodłówka difficult life situations. INTRODUCTION 20 SUSTAIN 21 SUSTAIN We look after our environment. Our second sustainability pillar, SUSTAIN, ALLOCATION OF SDGs drives company-wide procedures and activities with the aim of reducing our environmental impact. Our strategy revolves around following best practice examples in this area, complying with global environmental standards, water stewardship, carbon footprint management, as well as efficiency in the use of energy and materials. ALLOCATION OF UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. “ “ As a manufacturer of packaging products, we strive to minimise our impact on the environment as much as possible. SUSTAIN 22 WE COMPLY WITH GLOBAL STANDARDS OF ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS As a manufacturer of packaging products, we strive to minimise our impact on the environment as much as possible. We not only comply with the laws and rating, we received a silver medal for our regulations of the countries we operate in, social and environmental activities. We but also adhere to internationally recognised also report our carbon footprint annually voluntary standards. We have implemented to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). To ISO 14001 standard environmental ensure compliance with these standards management systems throughout our throughout our supply chain, we conduct operations. And our plant in Scunthorpe sustainability risk assessments covering not in the UK has implemented an ISO 50001 only our own operational boundaries, but energy management system. In 2020, also our suppliers. when EcoVadis carried out a sustainability SUSTAIN 23 This activity helps us to identify any potential In Brzesko, Poland, and Tocancipá, risks to our sustainability efforts and helps Colombia, we installed devices to increase us put mitigation measures in place. the concentration of VOCs in the waste gas, Furthermore, all CANPACK plants are obliged which are used to heat the inlet gas as a result to set internal environmental targets related of the autothermal reaction. Thanks to the to five KPIs: electricity consumption, thermal high concentration of organic compounds, energy consumption, water consumption, there is no need to supply any additional waste generation and waste recycling. energy from natural gas to afterburn VOCs. This significantly reduces the consumption We actively implement global standards and of natural resources. the best environmental practices in our production activity. We are always open to new technologies and are looking for improvements that At our Volokolamsk aluminium cans could help us reduce the negative impact production plant in Russia, we are testing of our activities on the environment and a BioReactor to reduce volatile organic human health. compounds (VOC) and intend to implement this solution across the CANPACK Group if the test results are positive. We expect this solution will significantly reduce gas consumption and NOx emissions. “ We are always open to new technologies and are looking for improvements that “ could help us reduce the negative impact of our activities on the environment and human health. SUSTAIN 24 A great example is the Automated Warehouse, Collaboration with our suppliers to launched in Hämeenlinna, Finland, where advance our sustainability agenda has traditional gas forklifts have been replaced by become increasingly important over recent electric AGVs. This optimisation reduces gas years. For instance, a dedicated in-house “WE ENCOURAGE OUR SUPPLIERS TO REDUCE THEIR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.” consumption by 90%, decreases emissions sustainability team is responsible for and provides safer working conditions, training CANPACK buyers and suppliers on reducing the risk during the handling and sustainability challenges. We particularly storage of finished goods, packaging and encourage our suppliers to partake in the chemicals. CDP supply chain programme in order to help them to reduce their greenhouse gas We also implement other solutions in the field emissions. of logistics management, striving to ensure efficient, environmentallyand economicallyAs part of our terms and conditions, all friendly transport of our goods. suppliers are required to sign our CANPACK Supplier Code of Conduct which sets At CANPACK’s plants in Finland and in the out our expectations on how to conduct Netherlands we use High Capacity Trucks socially and environmentally responsible (HCTs), which thanks to the new design of business. To guarantee suppliers adhere the transport vehicle space can hold up to 42 to our guidelines, our sustainability team pallets of beverage cans. The HCTs reduce regularly assesses and audits suppliers on the number of long-distance vehicle runs, their sustainability practices (69% of our reducing the negative impact of transport on suppliers were audited on CSR issues over the environment and society. the period 2017-2019). KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Employees trained on environmental issues % 100 100 Buyers trained on sustainability issues % 100 100 Facilities with environmental management system implemented % 100 100 SUSTAIN 25 WATER STEWARDSHIP Water management at CANPACK has two main goals: to decrease water consumption and to increase water quality. We address consumption through employee awareness programmes and innovative technology. At our plant in Dubai, we use advanced water metering systems, and we have a rainwater collection system at our plant in Novocherkassk, Russia, which enables us to reuse water in our production processes. We also run water community programmes which include installing ponds and rainwater wells to facilitate rainwater harvesting. In Brazil, we have improved water quality with infrastructures such as water and wastewater treatment stations, and in India, we have implemented a zero liquid discharge system. We also regularly undertake water testing to prevent contamination of groundwater and provide our employees with water quality training. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Total water consumption m3 1,828,977 2,447,207 Water treatment % 100 100 SUSTAIN 26 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT CANPACK works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to prevent the negative effects of climate change. Through active measuring, monitoring and residual greenhouse gas emissions in India, reporting of the carbon emissions generated we have set up a tree planting programme to by our business operations, we have taken sequester carbon dioxide. the first steps to reduce our carbon footprint. In 2019, 70% of electricity in Polish CANPACK Some of the reduction measures plants located in Brzesko, Bydgoszcz, Dębica, implemented include the production of Tarnów and Orzesze came from renewable renewable energy through solar panels, energy sources. The current agreement with the purchasing of renewable energy at the electricity supplier stipulates that in 2020 several of our sites, the optimisation of how all electricity used in the above-mentioned we use our machines (e.g. pump usage), plants will have guarantees of origin from and an employee awareness programme renewable sources. A similar contract is in on energy conservation. To offset any place for the production plant in the UK at Scunthorpe. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 CDP rating score D C Total carbon footprint mt CO2 eq. 4,373,548 4,440,552 Renewable electricity share % 24 28 SUSTAIN 27 RESPONSIBLE USE OF RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY At CANPACK we continuously work on improving our raw material efficiency. By thinning the sidings of steel packaging, from waste heat instead of conventional fuel aerosol packaging, crown corks, and the sources. Thanks to regular monitoring of thickness of aluminium can walls, we can our consumption levels through meters and substantially reduce the amount of material regular energy audits, we ensure continuous needed to manufacture our products without improvement of our energy efficiency. compromising the quality or performance of our containers. Thanks to advanced We also consider energy saving issues at equipment, we have also been able to the planning and design stages of launching reduce our varnish consumption by precisely new plants. However, our efforts in the field measuring the distribution of internal varnish. of environmental protection and saving natural resources go beyond the production Investments in equipment upgrades have process. For example, at Helmond in the increased our energy efficiency and reduced Netherlands, we provide our employees our fossil fuel energy consumption. An with free charging of electric cars in 8 increasing number of CANPACK plants have permanent charging spots, and encourage been equipped with photovoltaic systems them to use innovative and sustainable on factory roofs. Further upgrades have technological solutions. As a result, more included LED lighting throughout our sites of our employees are now using electric/ and regular flushing of our heating systems hybrid cars. Although our total energy to improve performance. consumption is increasing because of the dynamic growth of CANPACK, for several At our site in Orzesze, Poland, we have been years in a row we have managed to reduce using a heat recovery system to generate both the average electricity and thermal compressed air for the production of bottles energy consumption per product. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Total electricity consumption MWh 517,912 581,566 Total thermal energy consumption MWh 953,751 1,010,112 INTRODUCTION 28 RECYCLE 29 RECYCLE The Circular Economy. Our third sustainability pillar, RECYCLE, Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the describes our responsibility towards our development and diffusion of environmentally products at every stage of their lifecycle. friendly technologies. For many years now, CANPACK has been carrying out the collection of aluminium ALLOCATION OF SDGS cans and educational programmes that encourage recycling, with the aim of supporting a circular economy. ALLOCATION OF UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. “ We recognise “ our responsibility towards the implementation of the circular economy. RECYCLE 30 WE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE FULLY RECYCLABLE PACKAGING It is CANPACK’s declared goal to advance regenerated at the end of their service life. To the circular economy – a more sustainable advance the circular economy, we focus on alternative to the traditional linear packaging made of permanent materials which economy which is based on the paradigm can be recycled over and over again, namely: of ‘take-make-dispose’. aluminium, steel and glass. We also require our aluminium suppliers to provide data on the In a circular economy, resources are kept in recycled content in delivered materials with the use for as long as possible, the maximum final goal of decreasing the primary materials value is extracted from them whilst in used for production. use, and materials are recovered and KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Average recycled content of aluminium can* % 51 52 Average recycled content of glass bottle % 49 58 * The Recycled Content in aluminium cans is based on the average data sent to CANPACK Group by its suppliers. Differences in methodologies used by suppliers for calculations may influence the final result. Given numbers are not verified by any third party. RECYCLE 31 OUR AIM IS ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL Due to the nature of our production process, oversees recycling initiatives at our site there. waste is unavoidable. Therefore, we have All food waste generated in our plants in India implemented work processes and waste is recycled and used as compost in agriculture. management plans to provide guidance on how to reduce, recycle and re-use waste. In our plant in Vyshgorod, Ukraine, we have an initiative to cooperate with fillers and With the help of waste management training other packaging manufacturers in order and waste audits, we ensure that these to implement widespread, separate waste guidelines are adhered to. We even have a collection. Another very important step we dedicated waste management team in India have taken is to set internal reduction targets – the Civic Response Team (CRT) – who related to waste generation and landfill. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Total amount of waste mt 84,225 100,876 Waste recycled % 92 91 Waste management plan implemented at production sites % 96 100 RECYCLE 32 IMPROVING RECYCLING RATES OF BEVERAGE CANS CANPACK’s commitment to sustainability extends beyond our manufacturing process and focuses on the whole lifecycle of our products. We are particularly active in the lifecycle of ECC is to make sure that each and every management of our base product – the can will have a chance for a second life. It aluminium beverage can. We run dedicated is not a typical educational campaign – it companies in Poland and Romania to collect aims to create a magical experience for used cans from the market and prepare consumers and help them be a part of the them for efficient recycling. circular economy. Our company is also a committed member We believe that increasing recycling rates of the ‘Every Can Counts’ (ECC) programme, is a task for many stakeholders, so we are which is running activities in 19 countries in actively involved in industry initiatives to Europe to promote can recycling to millions support local governments in setting up of consumers every year. The ultimate goal proper collection schemes. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR UNIT 2018 2019 Weight of collected used beverage cans in Poland and Romania mt 22,576 22,907 “ We are actively involved in industry initiatives to support local governments in setting up proper collection schemes. “ SUMMARY 33 SHARED AMBITIONS This report is our first attempt to systematically describe our sustainability management system. Informed by the insights, requirements final consumers, suppliers (who we closely and ambitions of various stakeholders, cooperate with to reduce our Scope 3 we have been able to not only implement greenhouse gas emissions), our employees, a comprehensive sustainability strategy governments, and local communities near ourselves, but also to cooperate with others our sites. to promote sustainability within the industry. Thanks to this input, we have been able to The stakeholders we have been working with refine our sustainability strategy to meet the over the last few years include our clients, needs and requirements of all those united by our shared products and business. SUMMARY 34 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The structure and content of our three-pillar sustainability strategy – and ultimately of this report – has been influenced by several factors. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we made sure to address all 10 Principles set out by the UNGC. We regularly undergo the EcoVadis sustainability rating, so we also included the criteria that we are being assessed on. To incorporate the view of our stakeholders, we have conducted an online survey and in-depth interviews with our clients and employees. Our final selection is therefore a combination of all three sets of criteria. UN GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 We recognise that sustainability is a dynamic journey and that we need to be able to adapt to changing circumstances. We therefore invite all our stakeholders to remain in active dialogue with us about sustainability. CANPACK S.A. 1 Jasnogórska Street 31-358 Kraków Poland Follow us at: canpack.com | linkedin.com/company/canpack-group
