Connecting ­sustainably Sustainability Report 2019 2 Facts & figures Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Facts & figures 70.6 million € 5.41million Passengers in FRA support for 1.5% more than the previous year the region More than 23,600 Around 306 employees as at 31 December 2019 500 electric vehicles destinations in 98 countries in use Around Over 40,600 lamps, of which more than 60% 120 thousand departing pieces of baggage have been converted to LED technology on peak days Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Content 3 Our vision: From Frankfurt to the world. We are Europe’s best Foreword 4 ­airport operator and set standards worldwide. In focus: Climate protection 6 Climate protection map 8 How can aviation and climate protection go together? 10 Ecologically and economically responsible action 14 Investing in renewable energies 18 Airports are hubs for growth and mobility. The success of Frankfurt Airport along with Energy efficiency and climate protection in focus the company’s expertise at this site form the across the Group 20 basis for the further development of our ­international investments. Whether it comes Fraport international 22 to climate change or digitalization: we ­develop forward-looking concepts to meet Our Group 24 increasingly complex requirements. As a Responsibility 30 service-oriented provider, we focus on our Sustainability program 36 customers. And we make a promise: Our key topics Governance 46 Economic enhancement 58 Employees 68 Community 74 Gute Reise! Environment 82 We make it Key figures 88 happen About this report 90 Imprint 91 4 Foreword Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Dr. Stefan Schulte, Anke Giesen, Chairman of the Executive Director Dr. Pierre Dominique Prümm, Michael Müller, Executive Board Retail and Real Estate Executive Director Aviation and Dr. Matthias Zieschang, Executive Director Labor Executive Director Controlling and Infrastructure ­Relations Finance Foreword Dear Reader, Airports are of great interest to the general public and are Labor Organization (ILO). The UN Agenda 2030 provides the ­regularly the focus of socio-political debates. As an airport basis for making global economic progress in line with social ­operator, Fraport often finds itself at the crossroads of a wide justice and within the ecological limits of our planet. As a range of demands. For many of our stakeholders, maintaining ­signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are particularly global connectivity is paramount. Other stakeholders are ­committed to the objectives of Agenda 2030 and the ­concerned with issues surrounding the Group’s value creation ­Sustainable Development Goals. and its competitiveness as well as maintaining and creating secure, attractive jobs. Global challenges such as climate change are seen as a relevant issue by a number of stakeholders. In ­addition, the company has a responsibility to the region, “Responsible corporate governance and which comes with operating an international hub. As you can see, we deal with an extremely diverse range of concerns. ethical action are our top priorities.” Even against the background of the coronavirus pandemic we Dr. Stefan Schulte do not lose sight of our responsibilities. At the Fraport Group, we have undertaken to comply with the internationally recognized codes of conduct: the principles of the We are convinced that the company’s scope of action can UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational only be secured by consistently including non-economic Enterprises, and the Core Labor Standards of the International aspects in management processes. This already has a long Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Foreword 5 t­ radition at Fraport. Environmental protection has been one renewed once again. We were awarded Prime Status by the of our c­ orporate principles since 1972, and it has always ­sustainability rating agency ISS-oekom research. We again played an important role in day-to-day operations as well as in received the Airport Carbon Accreditation by Airports Council the ­planning and implementation of expansion projects. International. We have even been addressing the issue of noise since the 1960s. The Aviation Noise Commission was established in 1966; at the time, such measures were voluntary and not yet required by law. “We are introducing new technologies to In Frankfurt, the Aviation Noise Commission was the first body of its kind in the world, in which representatives of our airport, meet diverse customer requirements.” Deutsche Lufthansa and other airlines, air traffic control, the Anke Giesen local municipalities, and the competent authorities discussed measures to reduce aircraft noise and made practical proposals for its implementation. For example, the German Aviation Noise Act, which came into effect in 1971, was largely based We have published a sustainability report documenting our on the technical work performed at Frankfurt Airport. developments since 2005. In addition, the report also provides information on our strategies with which we ensure the economically, ecologically, and socially stable development of the Fraport Group in the long term. For sustainable development “With our energy management, we are also means continuous improvement. Since 2015, we have also published a separate GRI Report. Both reports serve as a progimproving efficiency and reducing ress report for the implementation of the ten principles of the energy costs.” UN Global Compact. Dr. Matthias Zieschang At this point, we would like to thank our over 23,600 employees who have made our Group what it is today: economically ­successful, sustainable, and viable for the long term. And we continue to work to keep our company viable. At Fraport AG, In order to systematically record the Airport’s environmental we have been able to steadily reduce our CO2 emissions in performance, we decided to introduce an environmental managerecent years even as passenger numbers increase. We have set ment system in the 1990s which can be verified by external a goal of reducing CO2 emissions to 80,000 metric tons at experts. In 1999, this system was validated for the first time in Fraport AG by 2030, which corresponds to a reduction by 65% accordance with the European Union Regulation on the compared to the emissions in the base year of the international Eco-Management and Audit System (EMAS). This assessment climate change agreement (1990). By 2050, we want to be obliges Fraport AG to continuously improve its environmental completely carbon free. protection measures. In 2002, Fraport also became c­ ertified according to ISO 14001. And, of course, sustainability at Fraport is also enshrined in the “Safety is the key requirement for policies throughout the company. It plays a major role in the operational management of the company, our personnel and air traffic.” social policy, the communication with our neighbors in the Dr. Pierre Dominique Prümm Rhine-Main region, the Group’s corporate governance, and Fraport’s position as a corporate citizen as part of society. The numerous awards from sustainability rating agencies and the memberships in the sustainability indices show that we are on As you can see, the topics of sustainability and climate the right track. ­protection in particular are not only important for the general public but also a focus for us. And recently our stakeholders have also directly approached us with questions about these issues. Do you want to know what we as a Group are doing for “Fair working conditions as well as climate protection, what strategies and goals we are pursuing and which measures we want to use to achieve our goals? To the satisfaction of our employees are answer these questions, we have prepared a ­separate chapter on ­important to us.” “Climate Protection at Fraport” at the beginning of this report. Michael Müller We hope you enjoy reading it. Your Executive Board In the 2019 fiscal year, we were again honored for acting responsibly: our memberships in the FTSE4Good Index and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe were 6 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection We want to meet people’s mobility needs without additionally impacting the environment. This is ­something we are 3,119 3,260 working on intensively. 2,893 2,584 2,566 ­Climate ­protection is one of the most pressing issues for the entire ­aviation industry. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue in € million adjusted for ­revenue related to capacitive capital expenditure Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 7 246.3 244.0 1) 228.4 227.6 1) 209.7 207.5 2) 1) The higher values are due 187.9 2) to the inclusion of the 14 Greek regional airports and the two Brazilian airports beginning in 2018 and represent the current development of Group CO₂ emissions. 2) The lower values would have been reported if the 14 Greek regional airports and the two Brazilian ­airports were not taken into account. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CO2 emissions in 1,000 metric tons 8 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 in Ma est o r thw N way Run ay 10 r Runw te Cen Climate protection map Fraport AG has implemented several measures for climate Runway West protection at Frankfurt Airport. The climate protection map shows exactly where these take place. More details can be found on the following pages. 6 Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 9 Long-distance train station 4 5 1 3 2 Terminal 2 Terminal 1 7 10 8 10 9 ay unw hR S out 12 11 Terminal 3 1 Parking garages 5 Terminal 2 9 Runway Fraport AG uses LED technology in its Using a thermal building simulation, various The lighting is gradually being converted to parking garages. optimization measures are virtually modeled energy-saving and long-lasting LED lights. For more information, see page 16 and then implemented. For more information, see page 16 For more information, see page 17 2 Terminal 1 10 Runway 50 technical control panels will be refurbished 6 House of Logistics and Mobility (HOLM) From 2021, micro grid battery storage will to meet the state of the art in climate techThe Competence Center for Climate Protection support the emergency power supply, nology. and Noise Abatement manages pilot projects which is CO₂-neutral. For more information, see page 14 for extracting fuels from renewable energies. For more information, see page 19 For more information, see page 19 3 Fraport AG headquarters 11 Terminal 3 Here, employees in environmental 7 Baggage transfer system Based on energy-optimized construction ­management monitor the development of The 50-mile-long system now has methods, the main terminal building will CO₂ emissions. In 2019, the Executive Board more energy-­efficient drives that reduce have increased energy efficiency. decided to ­compensate all emissions from ­friction losses. For more information, see page 16 business travel. For more information, see page 15 For more information, see page 11 12 CargoCity South 8 Apron Solar power is generated on rooftops and 4 Transformer stations In the long term, the vehicle fleet will be open spaces for own use. A photovoltaic system Part of optimizing the already intelligent ­converted to electric mobility, and 14% of is being built on the roof of a freight hall. ­distribution network is the upgrading of the fleet is already electrically operated. For more information, see page 19 transformer stations. For more information, see page 15 For more information, see page 19 10 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Climate protection Reducing CO2 emissions based on the Paris climate protection agreement (1.5-degree target) by increasing energy efficiency, use and production of renewable energy, and use of alternative drive systems. How can aviation and climate protection go together? A t approximately 3%, air transcant delay. The consequences of the 3% port makes a comparatively coronavirus pandemic will particularly small contribution to global affect the development of air traffic in CO₂ emissions but is under 2020, and the ACI does not expect a full particular scrutiny because of its other recovery in transport performance climate effects, especially in the higher until the end of 2021. It is also realistic Share of atmosphere, and because of its strong to assume that it will take several years growth rates. Air traffic services worldbefore the traffic volume of 2019 is air traffic in wide have more than quadrupled reached again. global over the past 30 years. CO₂ emissions increased by more than 60% over the Even if climate protection has been CO₂ emissions same period, thanks to corresponding increasingly addressed in the media for improvements in energy efficiency in air a few years now, this does not mean traffic. This growth will incur a signifithat it was previously irrelevant. The focus Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 11 of airport operators is, of course, less on Transparency through continuous aviation itself than on emissions in their CO₂ controlling 20 % direct area of responsibility. Fraport is also committed to the due and proper In 2011 and 2012, Fraport AG, with consideration of the environmental the support of the Oeko-Institut in requirements associated with the operaDarmstadt, compiled an overview of the tion of the airport. This means, among energy saving potential in the processes, less energy other things, the considerate and careful systems, and buildings at Frankfurt Airuse of natural resources as well as effiport, and these are gradually being ­consumption cient energy and CO₂ management. In implemented. Together with the measures by 2022 addition to “protection of environment from the energy management system in and nature” and “air quality”, “climate place since 2014, the implementation has protection” is therefore a key topic. since been continued and monitored by the “Energy Circle”. The target is to Climate protection targets reduce energy consumption by 20% by As an interim solution: published in 2008 2022 compared to the levels of 2013. Business travel compensated through atmosfair As early as 1999, energy consumption at With the goal of increasing transparency Frankfurt Airport was recognized as an about energy consumption and the essential environmental aspect, and targets associated CO₂ emissions at the Frankfurt In general, Fraport does not believe that were set in the environmental program. site, Fraport AG introduced a specially compensating for CO₂ emissions is the In the following years, the foundations for developed CO₂ and energy consumption right way forward. However, we currently the greenhouse gas limits at Frankfurt controlling system in 2013. This system see no other option for the emissions Airport were laid and gradually built up tracks monthly energy consumption and caused by our employees’ business travel. for the various emitters. This was the associated CO₂ emissions at the level of Therefore, in 2019, Fraport decided to basis for formulating the first climate proindividual processes, systems, or buildoffset all emissions from business travel via tection targets published by Fraport AG ings and allows for, among other things, the compensation provider atmosfair. This in 2008. evaluations of energy efficiency and the equates to 2,232 metric tons of CO₂ in 2019. effectiveness of energy saving measures. That same year saw the beginning of a Fraport AG’s climate protection goals are cooperation in the ACI’s climate protection also established and broken down for the project, the Airport Carbon Accreditation, respective year and the individual proa program for managing greenhouse gas cesses and buildings. The achievement of emissions at airports. Since then, it has these objectives is continuously monitored. evolved into the world standard for CO₂ reporting and management at airports. Participation at level 2 (“reduction”) or Since the climate impact of CO₂ emissions higher requires proof of both a CO₂ reducfrom air travel is assumed to be higher tion target, a CO₂ management program than, for example, from road transport, in accordance with international requirethey are multiplied by the factor 2.7 as ments, and of annual emission reductions prescribed by the Intergovernmental Panel verified by external experts. on Climate Change. In the medium term, Fraport AG wants to develop its own In September 2009, Fraport AG was the ­compensation option with suitable local first airport in the world to be accredited partners. in this program with Frankfurt Airport. Since 2012, Fraport has been at level 3 of the program (“Optimisation”), the highest level that is currently achievable without the use of compensation. 112,000 MWh Energy savings at Frankfurt Airport since 2013 12 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Frankfurt Airport carbon footprint Scope 1 includes Fraport AG’s own consumption. This mainly pertains to the operation of vehicles and equipment as well as the operation of grid replacement systems, firefighting training, and local heatScope 3 Indirect ing systems. 1.57 million m.t. CO₂ (– 0.1 %) Scope 2 means the energy Scope 1 Scope 2 purchased from third parties of + Direct Indirect Total Fraport AG. This includes electricity consumption as well as district 170,310m.t. CO₂ 1.75 million m.t. CO2 ­heating and cooling consumption. (– 9.7 %) (– 1.1 %) Scope 3 refers to the emissions of third parties at the Frankfurt site. This includes air traffic in the landing and takeoff cycle up to 3,000 feet, as well as incoming and departing traffic (both passengers and employees). Old goals met, new ones set After Fraport AG was able to meet the ence in Paris. It corresponds to a reducclimate protection targets of 2008 ahead tion of approximately 50% compared to of schedule, they were updated in 2017. the base year of 2015. For the new target year 2030, Fraport AG is now aiming to reduce CO₂ emissions to In the past fiscal year, Group-wide CO₂ 80,000 metric tons. This represents a emissions amounted to approximately reduction of approximately 65% (com227,552 metric tons of CO₂ and were thus pared to 1990), despite the considerable 6.8% lower than in the previous year growth the airport has experienced (2018: 244,029 metric tons of CO₂). since then. The inauguration of Terminal 3 Fraport AG’s CO₂ emissions at Frankfurt and the associated infrastructure (such as Airport amounted to 170,310 metric tons Zero emissions by 2050 the passenger transport system or the of CO₂ and were 9.7% lower than in the parking garage) was also included in this previous year (2018: 188,631 metric tons reduction target. It not only meets the of CO₂). According to the objective of the German Federal GovernIntergovernmental ment’s Climate Protection Plan 2050, but The development of emissions in FrankPanel on Climate even exceeds it. furt is to a small extent weather-­related, Change (IPCC), the major part of the reduction is ­climate neutrality In addition, the Executive Board identi­however due to energy savings. Thus, is needed by 2050 fied Group-wide CO₂ emissions in 2017 Fraport AG was able to save approx­imately to achieve the as the most important metric for measur112,000 MWh of energy at F­ rankfurt 1.5-degree target – without compensating ing environmental impacts. The objec­Airport since 2013 through a variety of for CO₂ emissions with the help of allowtive is to reduce CO₂ emissions that are technical and operational measures, ances. directly or indirectly attributable to mainly electricity, district heating and Fraport AG and the fully consolidated, district cooling. This corresponds to a Therefore, Fraport took the next step environmentally relevant Group airports saving of about 16% compared to the in 2019 and added Frankfurt Airport to the to 125,000 metric tons by 2030. The base base year 2013. In addition, an improveNet Zero Carbon Initiative of ACI Europe. year is either 2015 or the year in which ment of the emission factors for elec­ By 2050, it aims to reduce CO₂ emissions the respective airport became part of the tricity and district cooling had a reducing under its direct responsibility to zero Group. The target value is based on the effect on CO2 emissions. (“Net Zero Carbon” according to the IPCC). national reduction rates agreed to at the United Nations Climate Change ConferFraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 13 Air travel as a factor in personal carbon footprints There are a lot of people who believe that Greenhouse gas emissions attributable to an average German citizen 1) flying is the largest factor in their carbon footprint. But, the highest share of CO₂ emissions traced back to the average 1.75m.t. ­German citizen are in consumer behavior Heating (4.42 metric tons), as in the purchase of 1.75m.t. clothing, household appliances, or leiFood 1.61m.t. sure activities. This is followed by food Mobility excluding air travel and heating (1.75 metric tons each) and mobility (1.61 metric tons). Air travel 0.79m.t. averages 0.58 metric tons for one’s own Electricity carbon footprint. Looking at CO₂ emissions in Germany, it is clear that electric0.73m.t. ity generation accounts for the largest Public share. Around 30% come from coal and 4.42m.t. emissions 3) Other lignite-fired power stations. Industry is the second largest emitter of CO₂, and it consumption 2) 0.58m.t. Air travel has only been able to reduce emissions slightly since 2000. The emissions are mainly generated, for example, in the 1) in CO2 equivalents Source: based on the ­German production of metals such as iron and 2) e.g., clothing, household appliances, leisure activities Federal Ministry for the Environment 3) e.g., water supply and disposal, waste disposal steel, in the chemical industry, and in the production of cement. The transportation sector is the third largest polluter with 18.2% each year, which is mainly emitted wide agreed on a climate protection The international aviation climate change by road transport. German domestic air strategy as early as 2009. In order to strategy contains three main points: travel accounts for 0.3 percentage points. reduce CO₂, fuel efficiency needs to be increased by 1.5% per year. Reducing 1. Increase efficiency or reduce CO₂ The share of air traffic worldwide: 2.8% the specific energy requirements for each growth through technical innovation aircraft will reduce the consumption of and optimal processes on the ground Global aviation accounts for 2.8% of jet fuel and thus CO₂ emissions per pasand in the air. global CO₂ emissions (source: senger. Thus far, this target has been 2. Enable CO₂-neutral flying by 2050 with www.klimaschutz-portal.aero). The proachieved every year. new aircraft concepts as well as alternaportion that can be attributed to airports tive fuels and propulsion systems. is even lower. Nevertheless, airlines, 3. Global climate protection projects ­aircraft manufacturers, air traffic control that compensate for the increase in companies, and airport operators worldCO₂ emissions. The German Federal Ministry for the ­Environment sees great potential in CO2 emissions in Germany by sector developing combustibles and fuels from renewable energies. A conference on this topic was held at the end of 2019 18.2% with experts from business, associations, Transportation science, and trade unions discussing the 10.2% possibilities of “Power-to-X” (PtX). PtX is a 20.7% Households process in which combustibles and fuels Industry (power-to-gas, power-to-liquid), raw materials for industry (power-to-chem), 7.8% or other forms of energy (power-to-heat) Agriculture are supplied from renewable electricity. PtX products are almost climate neutral when using renewable energies and are 37.8% 4.2% thus an important building block for reducTrade/retail ing CO2, especially wherever electricity Energy industry cannot be used directly in the medium 1.2% term, as in the case of air transport. Waste Source: based on the German Federal Ministry for the Environment (2016) 14 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Ecologically and economically responsible action C onserving energy and thus ­protecting the climate: This has been an important issue at Fraport for a long time. We want to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at Frankfurt Airport to less than 80,000 metric tons by 2030. By 2050, the airport will seek to be carbon free, i.e., zero emissions. The progress made can already be clearly seen: Compared to 2000, we have reduced CO₂ emissions at the Frankfurt site by approximately 40% despite increased traffic numbers. We want to significantly reduce our carbon footprint and also seek to be economically responsible in our actions. We are focused on three areas: –– Optimized use of energy and ­refurbishment of existing buildings –– Gradual conversion of fleets to alternative drives 50 technical control panels will not –– Conversion of lighting on only be completely refurbished but runways and aprons, terminals, also optimally adjusted individually. Central control via software and parking garages Beginning in 2020, a new energy moniA huge effort is needed to renovate the toring software will also help to successbuildings to bring them up to date in fully complete the project. A separate terms of energy efficiency, as some of profile will be drawn up for the ventilation them at Frankfurt Airport date back to systems, and the energy consumption 1972. Fraport continuously optimizes will be compared with the settings. If a air-conditioning and ventilation tech­ system consumes significantly more nology and converts them to energy-­ energy than another comparable system, efficient systems. One starting point is the operational energy managers can the replacement of the 50 technical directly adjust the settings. The optimal 90 % ­control panels in Terminal 1. These adjustment and adaptation to the ­systems include indoor air technology actual demand for air conditioning in ­(air conditioning, heating, measurement the respective terminal section alone and control technology, building autocan conserve energy by 10 to 30% per mation), sprinkler and electrical technolof the fuels that control panel. In recent years, operational ogy, heat and cooling supply, as well as energy management has already implesmoke extraction. The renovation work Fraport AG obtains are mented a range of measures that enabled includes highly efficient fans, pumps, consumed on the a savings potential of approximately switchgears, and modern heat recovery. 13 gigawatt hours (GWh) in 2019, for The total investment volume is approxiapron for the handling example by adjusting room temperatures mately €260 million. of the aircraft. to the outdoor air temperature. Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 15 Up to 50 pushback operations are possible with the remote-controlled electric aircraft tow tractor without having to recharge. Friction losses on belts and rollers reduced Energy is also conserved in the baggage Long-term goal: Exclusively electrical transfer system at Frankfurt Airport. ground handling The system, the largest in the world, is over 50 miles long. It connects over Another factor in saving energy is the 430 check-in counters in the departure conversion of the vehicle fleet to electrohalls, 26 automatic entry points for transmobility. Approximately 90% of the fuels fer luggage on the apron and nearly that Fraport AG obtains are consumed on 90 baggage claims. It serves as a model for the apron for the handling of the aircraft. many other airports. The conveyor speed For large handling equipment such as of the luggage trays is up to five meters the pallet trucks, converting to battery per second (approximately 18 km/h). Up power saves approximately 7 metric tons operated the tractor remotely. Between to 20,500 bags can be handled per hour. of CO₂ per year. For cars, the conversion 30 and 50 pushback operations are On peak days, the facility handles over results in only approximately 1 metric tons ­possible without having to recharge the 120,000 departing baggage items. With a of CO₂ during the same period. The battery. The extent to which the Mototok reliability rate of 99.6%, the system, which long-term goal is to use only electrically can be integrated into ground handling was put into operation in 1974, has made powered devices and machines for processes is still being examined. In it possible to develop the airport into one ground handling in Frankfurt. This has addition, Fraport AG is currently procurof the world’s most important hubs. been supported by the State of Hesse ing two small electric aircraft tow tractors since 2014 with its E-PORT AN initiative. with a standard driver’s cab for use at Approximately 500 electric vehicles, the General Aviation Terminal. ranging from pallet and container trucks to conveyor belt trucks and minibuses, Testing electric buses are already in use. This represents approximately 14% of all Fraport vehicles on site. Since March 2020, Fraport has been testing the use of electrically powered Lufthansa AG is also part of this initiative buses for passenger transport on the and is seeking to switch its own ground apron for the first time. The purchase was fleet at Frankfurt Airport to electric also supported by the State of Hesse mobility. Two plug-in hybrid aircraft tow through the E-PORT AN initiative. Fraport tractors are already in use. To allow for will initially collect data on the energy Countless rollers, belts, and motors move longer operating times, for example for requirements for power, heating, and air the luggage trays with the suitcases from A transport to the hanger, the electric drive conditioning. The prerequisite for general to B. In addition to the use of more energy-­ is supplemented by a diesel engine. use is to ensure battery capacity and the efficient drives, the duration and friction associated range meet the requirements losses in particular will be reduced in Fraport also tested an electric aircraft tow of passenger transportation. Approxiorder to conserve energy. These measures tractor in the fall of 2018. The remote-­ mately 90 diesel-powered buses currently also increase the intervals at which the controlled vehicle from Mototok Internatake passengers from the gates to their system needs to be serviced due to less tional was in service for several months in planes. Replacing the entire fleet and wear. Performance measurements show an the ground handling process. As a test setting up the necessary charging infraexpected saving of approximately 30% by partner, Lufthansa provided aircraft for structure call for major capital expendiimplementing these measures, which corthe pushback in which the e-tractor ture. Purchasing such buses only makes responds to approximately 7 GWh per year. pushes the plane from the park position sense if the charging times allow for use onto the runway. A Fraport employee in multi-shift operation. 16 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Electric buses are being tested for passenger ­journeys on the apron. Energy-optimized construction at Terminal 3 Market development too slow Energy-optimized construction is also at the heart of the planning for Terminal 3. For passenger buses, a slightly adapted For this reason, Fraport has set the goal Among other things, a highly thermally motor for the combustion of hydrogen of gradually replacing almost all conveninsulated building envelope, on-demand is also an option as an alternative to the tional lighting with energy-saving and sun protection, optimized daylight use, electric motor. When the hydrogen is long-lasting LED technology. This applies heat recovery, and the widespread use of generated regeneratively, this drive is to the terminals, the apron, and the other LEDs will ensure the energy-efficient CO₂ free. Another option are fuel cells: buildings on the premises, such as offices, ­operation of the terminal. Especially for large commercial vehicles, a parking garages, or workshops. This has combination of a battery and a so-called already been completed in the terminals, The additional energy required for the “range extender”, for example an addiwith approximately 14,000 lights replaced, operation of the terminal and the additional fuel cell or a hydrogen combustion saving approximately 4.8 million kilowatt tional infrastructure such as the parking engine, can be beneficial. Here, too, hours (KWh) per year. This is equivalent garage and the passenger transport Fraport monitors market developments and to the amount of electricity supplied to ­system will amount to approximately is active in the relevant working groups. approximately 1,100 households during 116,000 megawatt hours (MWh) per year. the same period. However, a small part of This represents an increase of approxiHowever, only a few companies are the conventional lighting will remain mately 20% compared to Fraport AG’s pushing ahead with the development of while the lamps are still working. ­current energy consumption (electricity, commercial vehicles that are highly heating, and cooling). The expected ­specialized in ground handling, meaning Lamps exchanged in parking garages increase in consumption is taken into that, so far, there are few innovative and on the apron account in planning for the 2030 climate ideas on the market. In addition, suitprotection targets. able charging infrastructure is required An important point is the lighting in the for the use of solely battery-electric parking garages. In total, we replaced ­vehicles at the airport. Such systems are more than 17,600 lamps in the parking currently being designed. garages alone. From 2013 to 2018, this allowed Fraport to save approximately The third factor for saving energy: 4,000 metric tons of CO₂. On the apron, lighting 19 aircraft positions are already equipped with LED spotlights. Another plan is to For an infrastructure facility such as the convert another 106 aircraft positions airport, which is in operation day and from metal halide to LED lighting technight, the topic of lighting is, by its very nology between 2021 and 2024. This nature, inevitable when it comes to enables energy savings of 1 million kWh ­considering energy-saving opportunities. per year. In the case of runway lighting, Large parts of the terminals, both inside 60% of all lamps are already LED. Over the and outside, at Frankfurt Airport are course of the runway renovations, 90% ­illuminated around the clock. Even during will have LED technology by 2025. The the night flight ban, the lighting of the savings potential is 600,000 KWh per year. runways must not be completely switched off if an emergency landing is required. In addition, there is the road safety obligation, which is even more demanding for the lighting of the airport grounds than is necessary for public areas. Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 17 “The digital simulation of the ­buildings helps us choose the right measures” In Germany, this method is often used as But it is precisely this large surface area proof of functioning technical systems in that makes it difficult to ensure proper air individual rooms. At Fraport, we simulate conditioning. Currently, air conditioning entire office and terminal buildings. This is systems pump approximately 1.1 mila very innovative approach that is currently lion m³ of air-conditioned hot or cold air only practiced in Scandinavian countries. into the large hall per hour. In Terminal 2, approximately 3.5 million m3 of air are Why do you have to simulate this, can moved every hour in the entire building. you not just feel whether a building is This is due to the fact that there are warm or cold enough? hardly any surface heating and cooling The advantage is that different variations systems in the building and that the are tested before the actual measures. room temperature is only controlled by We can calculate, evaluate, and optimize the air conveyed from the air conditiontheir impact on the indoor climate as well ing systems, which is expensive. as operating and investment costs. This is Thorsten Koch especially important as each building has Thorsten Koch holds a degree in engineering a unique ambiance. The building simulaand is one of many Fraport employees who are tion makes it possible to experiment virinvolved in energy optimization of buildings tually on the computer and, if necessary, and building systems. His specialty is thermal to adapt the planned measures. The conbuilding and plant simulation. nections between construction, indoor 1.1 million m ambiance, energy supply, and technology ≈ 3 are very difficult to predict with conventional engineering methods. Mr. Koch, what is a thermal building Why is this particularly interesting for air-conditioned hot and plant simulation? Frankfurt Airport? For the simulation, all conditions of the The method is particularly suitable for or cold air is currently building are examined: structural properlarge buildings with complex interconpumped into the ties of the building envelope, internal nections. We have already successfully heating sources such as lighting and created simulations for large parts of large hall of Terminal 2 equipment, as well as the outside tem­Terminal 1. With these simulations, we per hour. perature, wind speed and its flow direchave developed various energy saving tion to the building. The systems’ perscenarios and put them into practice. formance data, which ensure a pleasant We are currently working on a 1:1 simuSo what are the next steps? indoor atmosphere, are entered into the lation of Terminal 2, which also takes We are currently working on creating an software tool. The software then takes into account the external elements on inventory of all data in order to feed the into account other factors such as the the ­following one to two days. The high model and generate the first test runs. influence of outdoor air through doorentrance hall and its thermal conditions By summer, we want to be able to make ways as well as the heat dissipation and are particularly challenging to ensure an initial statement about potential savings CO2 emissions of passengers. optimal air conditioning. If we successand draw up various scenarios. The sysfully do this, we will then seek to transfer tem will then be assessed and adapted. The model is then calibrated and adapted the results to the large hall areas in There will be a number of possible shortto the actual energy situation via tempera­Terminal 1. term measures but also long-term options ture and CO2 sensors in the building and for action. Our goal is to save at least operational analyses of the technical Can you describe the challenges at 10 Gwh of electricity per year compared building equipment. Various optimization ­Terminal 2 in more detail? to current consumption. measures are then virtually modeled and Terminal 2 has a total area of over implemented. The result is a comprehen430,000 m2. In particular, the large, light-­ sive picture of the building’s energy flooded hall with the 30,000 m2 glass uptake and the energy required for it. facade is appreciated by the passengers. 18 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Investing in renewable energies Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 19 F raport AG aims to significantly Since solar power alone cannot cover The findings gained in the projects at the reduce CO2 emissions. In addition Fraport AG’s electricity consumption, Frankfurt site will serve the implementation to energy efficiency measures, the purchase of electricity from offshore of similar renewable power generation the program also includes generatwind turbines is also planned through projects at the Fraport Group’s airports, ing electricity from renewable energies. power purchase agreements or in-house for instance in Bulgaria and Greece. Fraport AG already uses an energy mix operation. The electricity supply from at its Frankfurt site with a renewable so-called post-EEG plants is also currently Intelligent grid use share of 55%, which is above the German being examined. These are systems whose ­average. With the expansion of solar funding has expired under the RenewFraport AG is taking measures to make energy and wind turbines in Germany, able Energy Act (abbreviated as EEG in the best possible use of the renewable the German energy mix is becoming German). Technically, these plants can electricity to further optimize the already even greener and has a positive impact ­continue to generate electricity, but only intelligent distribution network at its on the emission factors and the carbon if an investor is found. Frankfurt site. Smart grids link energy footprint of Fraport AG. generation and consumption to grid Support for emergency power supply resources with minimal effort. This calls with micro grid battery storage for users of the energy system to be ­connected to the energy supply network. Another starting point is the use of micro In other words, an exchange of informagrid battery storage systems as carbon tion between producers, switchgears, neutral support for the existing emerstorage systems, consumers, and other gency power supply. The power supply actors in the energy system is necessary Energy mix with a of the runways must be designed to be in order to guarantee an efficient and redundant, so that even in the event of ­reliable grid. This creates an integrated renewable share of a power failure, the aircraft can continue data and energy network with modified 55 % to take off and land. The emergency structures and new functionalities. power is currently guaranteed by diesel engines. With the construction of a micro Measures in this context include, for grid battery storage system for each runexample, the upgrading of transformer way, Fraport AG is significantly reducing stations. The old technology is replaced In addition, Fraport AG has committed to its running times in bad weather condiby current, fully digital network protectaking responsibility and making an active tions in order to save up to 300,000 l of tion and control bodies. contribution to the energy transition. In heating oil per year. This corresponds to the next few years, capital expenditure approximately 800 metric tons of CO₂. at the Frankfurt site will be directed In addition, the emission of NOx and towards renewable power g ­ eneration ­particulate matter is reduced. The first plants, among other things. On the aircontainer is scheduled to be put into port site, solar power is ­gen­erated on operation in 2021. rooftops and open spaces for own use. The first photovoltaic system will go into operation in the summer of 2020 and generate approximately 1.5 million kWh Power-to-liquid as an alternative to jet fuel? of electricity – comparable to the annual demand of approximately 450 four-­ person households. F­ urther photovoltaic The question of the availability of fuels applies provided that it is available in large quantities, systems are already in the planning stage to the entire aviation industry, especially as a whether as an admixture to jet fuel or a comand will be implemented in the coming replacement for conventional aircraft fuel. But plete switch to synthetics. Since no new storage years. According to current estimates, airport operators are also very interested in an or transport routes are required, no new infrasystems with up to 30 megawatts of alternative to jet fuel, diesel, and gasoline. structure would need to be created nor would power can be installed on existing and Fraport AG regards synthetic fuels as a future the existing infrastructure require any investnew buildings as well as open spaces. market and as a realistic option to enable ment. CO₂-neutral flying in the foreseeable future. Fraport therefore supports the position of the Federal Association of the German Transport Industry (BDL) in this debate. The pilot projects Renewable Water CO₂ Power to for extracting fuels from renewable energies energy Kerosin should therefore be pursued. The Competence 1.5 million Center for Climate Protection and Noise Protection at the House of Logistics and Mobility Moreover, it would not be difficult to switch to (HOLM) commenced operation at the beginsynthetic fuel at Frankfurt Airport. From a ning of 2020. The aim is to advance research kWh of electricity will be purely technical standpoint, Fraport AG could for the mass-market-capable development of also switch to synthetic fuels at short notice, e-fuels (synthetic fuels). ­generated by the first ­photovoltaic system. 20 In focus: Climate protection Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Energy efficiency and ­climate protection in focus across the group C limate protection activities and thus reducing CO₂ emissions are not only an issue in Germany. Companies around the world are Good experience with electric cars at increasingly being held responsible for Ljubljana Airport the release of air pollutants. The environmentally relevant fully-consolidated At Ljubljana Airport, the expansion of ­companies of Fraport AG have, for many electromobility is an important part of years, been obliged to report, among the sustainability strategy. In 2019, other things, on the level of their CO₂ Fraport Slovenija expanded the vehicle emissions and corresponding measures pool for employees with three electric to reduce CO₂ emissions. As a reflection vehicles that will be used mainly for of the relevance of the topic, the Execushort-haul routes in and around the airtive Board defined Group-wide CO₂ port. In addition, electric cars are used ­emissions in 2017 as the most significant for all business trips to destinations non-financial performance indicator for where an appropriate charging infrathe area of the environment. The overall structure is available. target is the calculated sum of the individual savings targets for the respective Since 2016, passengers can also book Group companies. These, in turn, were electric rental cars at Ljubljana Airport. derived from the CO₂ targets set for the Since then, this initiative has saved more countries by the Paris climate agreement. than 50 metric tons of CO₂ for arrivals and departures to and from the airport. Development of CO₂ emissions in metric tons 244,029 188,631 2018 2018 227,552 170,310 36,592 2019 2019 2019 10,068 33,711 2018 2018 7,457 9,171 2018 2019 1,206 2018 7,127 3,010 2019 2019 1,124 2019 2,735 2018 Germany Slovenia Bulgaria Peru Greece1) Brazil 1) Group Frankfurt Ljubljana Burgas/Varna Lima 14 Fortaleza/ Regional airports Porto Alegre 1) The increase in emissions at the Greek regional airports and the Brazilian airports is due to the significant expansion of the infrastructure areas. The specific consumption was reduced. The emissions did, however, increase due to the expansion of the terminals and aprons. Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 In focus: Climate protection 21 Classification of Fraport’s airports in the categories of the Airport Carbon Accreditation Level 3+ 90% Oﬀsetting own Scope 1 & 2 emissions 355 50% Level 3 376 Engagement of 3rd parties & measurement of their emissions Level 2 Emissions reduction target, carbon management plan & annual reductions 1) 2) Level 1 Carbon footprint & policy Source: ACI Europe SCOPE 1 & 2 SCOPE 3 1) Certification of Kefalonia, Mytilene, Rhodes, and Thessaloniki airports. 2) Certification of the Burgas and Varna airports. L­ jubljana Airport achieved ACA Level 2 (“Reduction”) in 2015 and is aiming for CO₂ neutrality (Level 3+) in the medium In order to achieve their targets, all fully-­ term. The Varna and Burgas airports consolidated Group companies pursue a ­successfully reached the first level (“Mapsimilar strategy. Wherever possible, they ping”) in April 2019 and are now creating 80 % are replacing heating oil with natural gas, the conditions for the next level. Lima for example, and renewing the lighting Airport also received Level 1 certification. or runway lighting with energy-saving LED technology. The replacement of the Fraport Greece has already achieved this vehicle fleet with electric vehicles or vehiat four airports: Kefalonia, Mytilene, of Brazilian electricity cles with lower fuel consumption is also Rhodes, and Thessaloniki are certified at on the agenda in many places. The airLevel 1. The Fortaleza and Porto Alegre comes from ports in Brazil, Fortaleza and Porto Alegre airports and other airports of Fraport hydropower plants. have an advantage in terms of their CO₂ Greece have yet to participate; however, emissions given their locations. Since they are obligated to have their carbon 80% of Brazilian electricity comes from footprint assessed by way of an external hydroelectric power plants, the carbon audit according to corporate guidelines. footprint of the two airports is significantly lower compared to other airports of similar size with traditional electricity generation. Reaching the goal with the Airport Carbon Accreditation In order to have their CO₂ management checked externally, some airports of the Fraport Group are already participating in the Airport Carbon Accreditation of the Airport Council International (ACI). 22 Fraport international Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Cleveland Newark Pittsburgh New York City Baltimore Nashville Fortaleza Fraport Lima ­international Porto Alegre Fraport has a total of 25 airports around the world. We apply our know-how to a wide range of ­projects: Whether this is the construction of a new terminal in Lima, at our international training ­center “Fraport Academy” in Ljubljana, or the operation of 14 Greek regional airports. We always benefit from the enormous knowledge of our worldwide specialists. For all of us are Fraport, regardless of which Group company we work for: Together we will achieve our goals! Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Fraport international 23 St. Petersburg Frankfurt Varna Ljubljana Burgas Antalya Xi’an Kavala Delhi Thessaloniki Skiathos Mytilene Hongkong Aktion Kerkyra Samos Kefalonia Mykonos Zakynthos Kos Santorini Rhodes Chania Property, unlimited Majority holdings Joint ventures and minority holdings Retail concessions (US) and cargo handling 24 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 1 Our Group Fraport: a global airport operator  25 Profile  25 Organization  26 Group mission statement  27 Strategy  28 Value chain  29 Responsibility  30 Stakeholder dialog  30 Materiality matrix  32 Sustainable Development Goals  34 Sustainability program  36 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 25 Profile Fraport: a global airport operator Profile Fraport Group (hereinafter also referred active at the Frankfurt site, the “Inter­ The airports in Lima and Antalya were to as: Fraport) is among the leading national Activities & Services” segment also significant in terms of results. The global airport operators with its inter­ is primarily responsible for the Group recently acquired concessions in Greece national portfolio. Fraport provides all ­companies outside of Frankfurt. and Brazil (2017 & 2018) already conoperational and administrative services tributed almost 7% to the Group result. for airport and terminal operation as The Group’s main site is Frankfurt Airport, well as other associated services. The one of the largest passenger and cargo The Group’s long-term strength lies in Group’s range of services also includes airports in the world. Last year, the Group integrated airport management, which planning and consulting services. once again achieved more than half of guarantees comprehensive know-how ­Passenger traffic, which impacts on a its earnings in Germany, specifically at in domestic and international airport majority of the services the Group Frankfurt Airport. ­services. ­provides, is key to its revenue and ­earnings performance. Breakdown of Group result In contrast to time-limited airport ­operating models, the Fraport Group 51.8% parent company, Fraport AG, wholly owns and operates Frankfurt Airport with no time limits. With around 10,500 1) employees, Fraport AG, which has been stock exchange-listed since 2001, is also Germany the biggest single company of the Group, which has more than 23,600 1) 48.2% employees. It directly or indirectly holds the shares in the other Group companies and its head office is in Frankfurt/Main. The Fraport Group is divided into four International business segments: Aviation, Retail & Real Estate, Ground Handling, and International Activities & Services. While the first three aforementioned segments are mainly 1) As at the balance sheet date December 31, 2019. 26 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Segment structure Fraport Group International Activities & Segments 1) Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling Services Directly Airside and Retail and Properties Ground Services Global Investments and assigned Terminal Management, ­Management strategic Corporate Safety and Security business Integrated Facility Management units and service Information and units of ­Telecommunications Fraport AG Airport Expansion South Corporate Infrastructure Management Central Controlling | Digitalization, Innovation, and Transformation | Finance and Investor Relations | Internal Auditing | HR Top Executives units Human Resources | Accounting | Legal Affairs and Compliance | Corporate Development, Environment and Sustainability | Corporate Communications | Cargo Infrastructure and Development | Central Purchasing, Construction Contracts 1) Including assigned Group companies. Organization Fraport AG is a publicly listed corporaSchulte (Chair), Anke Giesen (Executive The Supervisory Board appoints the tion registered in Germany. As such, its Director Retail & Real Estate), Michael Executive Board and controls the latter’s manage­ment and control are divided into Müller (Executive Director Labor Relations), activities. It exists under German law three independent bodies. As a manageDr. Pierre Dominique Prümm (Executive and, as a result of the size of the parent ment body, the Executive Board bears the Director Aviation & Infrastructure), and company, comprises 20 members who strategic and operational responsibility. Dr. Matthias Zieschang (Executive Director are appointed or elected by shareholders At the end of 2019, the Executive Board Controlling and Finance). and company employees in equal consisted of the five members Dr. Stefan ­numbers. Shareholder structure as at December 31, 2019 1) in % 34.91 31.31 Free Float State of Hesse 5.02 20.32 Lazard Asset Management LLC Stadtwerke Frankfurt am Main Holding GmbH 8.44 Deutsche Lufthansa AG 1) The relative ownership interests were adjusted to the current total number of shares as at December 31, 2019 and therefore may differ from the figures given at the time of reporting or from the respective shareholders’ own disclosure. Shares below 3% are classified under “Free Float”. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 27 Organization / Group mission statement As an additional decision-making and Group mission statement The vision of establishing Fraport as control body, Fraport AG’s shareholders Europe’s top airport operator and also to exercise their participation and voting The changing conditions in global set global standards forms the basis of rights in the company at the Annual ­aviation influence the entire air aviation the mission statement. The five strategic ­General Meeting. ­sector. Price wars between airlines as goals lay out what we want to achieve in well as passengers’ price-conscious travel concrete terms: The largest shareholders in Fraport AG behavior are leading to more competition are the State of Hesse and Stadtwerke among airports. In order to compete in –– Growth in Frankfurt and internationally Frankfurt, as a subsidiary of the City of this dynamic environment, Fraport has to –– Service-oriented airport operator Frankfurt. Together, they make up more offer an excellent product to a range of –– Economically successful through optimal than 50% of Fraport AG’s shareholders, customer groups at Frankfurt Airport and cooperation which is why the company is majority-­ the Group’s international airports. –– Learning organization & digitalization owned by the public sector. –– Fairness and recognition for partners With the slogan “Gute Reise! We make it and neighbors Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the main customer happen”, the mission statement of the of Frankfurt Airport, also holds a strategic company defines the focus on our customOur values of competence, commitment, stake of 8.44% in Fraport AG. The asset ers. In Frankfurt and throughout the openness, reliability, courage, and trust manager Lazard Asset Management LLC is world, possibilities have been created to are the core values of our corporate the largest institutional investor with a meet the mobility needs of society. The ­culture. stake of just over 5%. aim, among other things, is to offer our B2B partners an optimal platform to The ordinary Annual General Meeting ensure their success. Technological supmakes decisions on all tasks assigned to port, processes and interfaces will be it by law and the Group’s articles of assocontinuously improved and procedures ciation, such as appropriation of profit, simplified and accelerated. This also election and discharge of the Supervisory strengthens the economy in the region Board, and discharge of the Executive of each respective airport. Board. Each share grants one voting right. Group mission statement Economically Growth in successful Frankfurt and Service-oriented through optimal internationally airport operator cooperation Our vision: We are Europe’s Fairness and Learning recognition for best airport organization & digitalization partners and neighbors operator and set standards worldwide. 28 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy In the 2019 fiscal year, Fraport continued c­ ompetitiveness, the associated necesstable growth in the aviation market. to implement the Group’s strategy based sary improvement in earnings and the Fraport aligns its strategy to the longon its mission statement. In contrast to required cultural change at the Frankfurt term forecasted development of the the previous year, necessary capital site. The strategic programs drawn up in global aviation market and its market expenditure on our infrastructure and the 2018 fiscal year were partially intetrends. This is supported, in particular, climate protection must be considered grated into the Future FRA program. by the projected global economic growth against an increased number of airline The mission statement continues to be and the continuing global expansion of bankruptcies, the increased discussion the central framework for “Future FRA”. the middle class, which consumes more. about climate change, and a weakening Supporting effects continue to result economy. In order to continue to achieve While market consolidations were visible from the continuing internationalization the desired goals and to meet the stratein the past fiscal year and had a negative of labor and education, as well as the gic challenges in the changed environimpact on growth rates in the air transport projected increase in traffic due to migrament, the “Future FRA” program was set sector, aircraft manufacturers Airbus, tion and tourism. Disproportionate up at the end of the 2019 fiscal year. It ­Boeing, and Embraer as well as the internagrowth is still expected from and in the implements numerous measures with tional umbrella association of airport opereconomic emerging markets. the aim, in particular, of increasing ators ACI continue to expect long-term Long-term development of the aviation market Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 29 Strategy / value chain Value generation chain • Airport infrastructure • Connectivity • Airport infrastructure • Financial resources • Mobility • Satisfied customers • Know-how • Growth driver for • Know-how & innovation • Human resources the region • Profitability & dividends • Services and performance • Environmental resources • Airport as a workplace • Environmental impacts Input Output Security Strategy IT & Digitalization Human Resources Supporting functions Purchasing Value generation Ads Communications Finance Concessions International Real estate Terminal Passenger & Airside Parking Advertising for retail & Security checks airport management management operations freight handling operations gastronomy & consulting Governance and compliance Infrastructure development Facility management The graphic above shows Fraport’s value also offer all the fields of value added ­ usiness model. The topics of sustainb chain. As input, we consider the factors ­presented depending on the concession. ability are included in the graphic as both that must be in place as a basis for airport The functions which support the value-­ input and output. For example, the topic operations. The process of value generaadding process are shown on the periph“Attractive and responsible employer” is tion is shown in the middle of the graphic. ery. As output, we consider the added part of “Human resources”, “Profitability” It ranges from non-aviation business areas value created by our value generation is found in “Financial resources” and the to aviation services. In addition, there is process. An exception is the “environenvironmental issues are reflected in the the international business with Group mental impact” item, which we use to “Environmental resources” or “Environcompanies and consulting in which we identify the negative impact of our mental impacts”. 30 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Responsibility For us, sustainable action means creating case of Frankfurt Airport, which is one of With its stakeholder dialog activities, the future responsibly. We understand the largest hubs in Europe. As an operaFraport addresses all of the company’s key sustainable development to be a contintor, Fraport AG is caught between very stakeholders in a targeted manner. They uous process. We are convinced that the different demands. include passengers, business partners, company’s scope of action can only be analysts, property owners, as well as civil secured by consistently including non-­ What is most important to many of our society, political, and government repreeconomic aspects in management stakeholders are business or private travel sentatives. Special attention is given to ­processes. needs as well as the worldwide shipment airport employees and neighbors affected of their products. Other stakeholders are by aircraft noise, especially at our FrankThe topic of sustainability or responsibility concerned with issues surrounding the furt site. falls under the remit of the central unit Group’s financial value generation and its “Corporate Development, Environment, competitiveness, as well as maintaining At Frankfurt Airport alone, the largest and Sustainability”, which is assigned to and creating secure, attractive jobs. Noise workplace in Germany, there are around the Chairman of the Executive Board. from airplanes is an extremely important 81,000 employees. We bear direct The unit brings together the strategically issue for many people who live in the responsibility for Fraport employees in relevant topics and initiates their develproximity of an airport. particular. The Fraport Group also opment. It is also in charge of drawing up ­maintains close contact with its main the materiality matrix and the sustainThe concerns submitted to us are ­customers – airline companies – to ability program. Responsibility for reportextremely diverse. We firmly believe that strengthen each site and further develop ing and managing rankings and assessexchanging information with all stakethe quality of service based on close ments lies with the “Finance & Investor holders contributes to mutual understand­collaboration. Relations” unit, which is allocated to the ing and developing solutions. We also Executive Director Controlling and consider dialog to be an important tool Finance. with which we can develop proposals regarding the strategic orientation of the Stakeholder dialog company and information for risk management. As a “learning organization” Airports are of great interest to the general we also strive to achieve progress in public. They are often the cause of social ­science and technology. and political debates, particularly in the Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 31 Responsibility Key stakeholder groups Airlines Economic ­enhancement Passengers Business Partners Customer satisfaction and product quality Shareholders Profitability Bank representives Analysts Growth and development in the Group Authorities Investors Ideas and innovation Labor unions Employees Employee ­representatives Corporate Community ­management Employees Corporate governance and Attractive and Value generation and ­compliance responsible engagement in the employer regions Data protection Occupational health Noise abatement IT security and airport and safety safety and security Local residents living near airports Media Politicians Environment Airport visitors Economic associations Climate protection Foundations Protection of environment and nature Air quality NGOs Science Examples of stakeholder communication in 2019 External : Internal: –– Annual Report 2018 –– “Air Cargo Community Frankfurt” –– Employee meetings –– Sustainability Report 2018 ­association –– Management conference –– GRI Report 2018 –– “STARTfrei” Frankfurt Airport magazine –– “Fraport World” employee newspaper –– Abridged Environmental Statement 2019 –– “FRAporter” journalist information –– “Skynet” intranet –– Noise abatement reports ­service –– “Fraport Barometer” –– Website www.fraport.com –– Participation in Airport and employee survey –– Press releases and Regional Forum –– Forms of dialog with the Executive FRA Service News –– Informational events for Board and employees –– Social media activities airport ­neighbors –– Customer Advisory Board –– Involvement with associations for passengers –– Dialog with authorities 32 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality matrix High relevance Corporate governance and compliance IT security and airport safety and security Ideas and innovation Protection of Customer satisfaction environment and nature and product quality Data protection Occupational Relevance for stakeholders health and safety Air quality Attractive and responsible employer Climate protection Noise abatement Value generation and e ­ ngagement in the regions Profitability Growth and development in the Group Medium relevance  Impact of business activities Medium impact  High impact Relevance for long-term business activities Corporate management Employees Environment High Medium Economic enhancement Community Materiality matrix Our systematic talks with internal and employees, local residents living near The graphic shows the impact of direct external stakeholders provide us with airports, business ­partners, investors, and indirect business activities on the inspiration for the strategic orientation and passengers as well as representacorresponding key topics, their ­relevance of the company. Since 2010, we have tives from banks, airlines, the media, for stakeholders, as well as the relevance used the results of these talks to create a non-governmental organizations, polifor Fraport’s business activities. materiality matrix based on the guidetics, authorities, economic associations, lines of the Global Reporting Initiative. and scientific institutions) then conThe matrix shows the challenges and thus firmed the relevance of the selected topthe factors for success for the company. In ics in an online survey. Both groups were 2018, Fraport AG conducted an assessalso asked to prioritize the topics. The ment of the selected topics. Fraport’s matrix was then confirmed by the Execumanagement and representatives of the tive Board. Its validity for the fiscal year most important stakeholders (analysts, 2019 has been assessed and confirmed. shareholders, employee representatives, Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 33 Responsibility Definitions of the key topics Corporate governance and compliance: Growth and development in the Group: Noise abatement: Improvement of the Responsible corporate governance and Growth, consolidation, and expansion of noise situation in neighboring residential compliance with national and international the Group’s portfolio. areas and staying permanently below the laws and regulations and internal policies. noise ceiling. Anti-corruption and bribery matters. Ideas and innovation: Developing new products and more efficient processes. Climate protection: Reducing CO2 emisData protection: Protecting personal sions based on the Paris climate protecdata against improper use and protecting Attractive and responsible employer: tion agreement (1.5-degree target) by the right to privacy of individuals. Protection of jobs and provision of a increasing energy efficiency, using and working environment that is characterproducing renewable energy, and using IT security and airport safety and s­ ecurity: ized by diversity, equal opportunities, alternative drive systems. Ensuring the security of IT systems that and respect. Offers regarding the workare critical to the company and data prolife balance and development oppor­ Protection of environment and nature: tection. Maintaining high operational tunities to recruit, qualify, and retain Careful use of natural resources and security standards at airports and fulfilldedicated personnel. ­continual improvement of environmental ing statutory security obligations. performance such as reduced use of Occupational health and safety: Maindrinking water, prevention and recovery Customer satisfaction and product qualtaining and promoting the physical and of waste, protection of soil and water, ity: Strong customer and service focus. mental capacities of our employees. as well as preservation and promotion of Increasing the Group’s competitiveness biodiversity. and securing Frankfurt’s role as a hub. Value generation and engagement in the regions: Positive contribution to the Air quality: Recording air pollutant emisProfitability: Ensuring the profitability of economic development of the regions in sions stemming from airport operations. the Fraport Group through yield-oriented which we operate airports. Charitable capital expenditure and an efficient use of involvement in the neighborhood of the existing resources. airport and dialog with our stakeholders. 34 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Common goals for global challenges With Agenda 2030 for Sustainable The heart of the agenda consists of 17 Development Goals. Our focus in this Development, the UN Member States are Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). regard is on the SDGs which, in our view, expressing their conviction that global The SDGs give equal weighting to all lie within the scope of what we are able challenges can only be solved if we all three dimensions of sustainability – social, to influence by our actions. In addition, work together. The Agenda provides the environmental, economic. we have identified four SDGs (shaded in basis for making global economic proggray) within this selection with which ress in line with social justice and within As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we make our largest contribution or the ecological limits of our planet. Fraport AG is particularly committed to have the greatest impact based on the these objectives and the Sustainable ­number of associated topics. Fraport AG assumes responsibility for the health Well-trained employees are required in a specialof its employees and offers comprehensive ized field such as managing and operating an benefits to maintain and promote their physical airport. We therefore provide a wide range of and mental performance. We monitor the air continuing education opportunities and offer quality at the airport and are working on an numerous traineeships every year. Through inventory of air pollutant emissions. Our noise our own environmental fund, we also support abatement goals contribute to noise abatement in nearby projects, institutions, and facilities that improve the employ­residential areas and reduction in the number of those affected ability of young people in the region, as well as research and by noise at the Frankfurt site. environmental education activities. Key topics Key topics –– Occupational health and safety –– Attractive and responsible employer –– Air quality –– Value generation and engagement in the regions –– Noise abatement Fraport AG is committed to ensuring a working Operating an airport requires a lot of water and environment that is characterized by diversity, simultaneously generates a large amount of equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. waste water. When dealing with the legally ­protected resource of water, Fraport takes all aspects of modern water management into account and conserves natural resources. Key topics –– Corporate governance and compliance Key topics –– Attractive and responsible employer –– Protection of environment and nature Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 35 Responsibility The use of renewable energies is an essential The Fraport Group is internationally one of the component for achieving the climate protecleading companies in the airport business tion targets of the Fraport Group. We manage and has set itself the goal of profitable growth our electricity purchasing portfolio to keep and the long-term achievement of a positive our emissions factor below the national average. value added in all business fields (economic When our energy efficiency measures are enhancement). This includes creating good exhausted, we increase the renewable proportion in the labor conditions and development opportunities to recruit, ­purchasing portfolio to bridge the gap to achieve our climate qualify, and retain dedicated personnel. protection targets. With our value generation, we also make a positive contribution Key topics to the economic development of the regions in which our sites –– Climate protection are located. Key topics –– Profitability –– Growth and development in the Group –– Attractive and responsible employer –– Value generation and engagement in the regions Innovations are a key to competitiveness for Fraport monitors the air quality at the Frankfurt Fraport AG. The aim is to introduce new techsite and is working on an inventory of air nologies and continuously optimize complex ­pollutant emissions. This includes evaluating processes to meet a wide range of customer the airport’s share of the local concentration demands while staying true to our economic of nitric oxide. and business requirements. This is also part of the further development of our airport infrastructure and Key topics Group portfolio. –– Air quality Key topics –– Ideas and innovation –– Customer satisfaction and product quality –– Growth and development in the Group We want to operate our business model as Operating an airport and air traffic have an sustainably as possible. To this end, compliance effect on the environment. Fraport considers with international regulations on occupational itself responsible for taking due consideration health and safety is the obvious course for us. of the resulting environmental requirements. We consider ourselves responsible for protectThis includes, in particular, increasing energy ing the environment, and we expect our supefficiency, as well as monitoring and minimi­ pliers and service providers to do the same. zation of the emission of climate-relevant gases caused by ­airport operations. Key topics –– Corporate governance and compliance Key topics –– Occupational health and safety –– Climate protection –– Climate protection –– Protection of environment and nature As transport hubs, airports make intensive use As a company with operations throughout the of resources. We are committed to the main­ world, Fraport bears responsibility at both a tenance and improvement of the biodiversity of national and an international level. We have made the airport grounds and their surroundings. a commitment to comply with internationally recognized standards of conduct and are a member of national and international working groups Key topics to promote sustainable development. –– Protection of environment and nature Key topics –– Corporate governance and compliance 36 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability program The sustainability program regarding The program is reviewed and updated ingly. The responsibility for implementstrategically important topics for respon­ annually. Its scope is essentially the ing the measures and achieving the targets sible corporate governance is structured Fraport Group, i.e., all companies that lies with the relevant departments. For analogously to the key topics included in are included in the scope of consolidation the issues that apply across the entire the materiality matrix. Fraport has set for financial reporting. Nevertheless, there Group, measures from the Group comitself concrete targets and defined the are targets that only apply to Group panies were taken as examples. actions required to achieve them. companies in Germany and the Frankfurt site or the Fraport AG individual company. Every target is measurable and recorded They are identified in the program accordusing at least one key performance Topic Target Key Target level performance indicator Governance Corporate governance We seek to lead the company It is not necessary to determine the key performance indicators and term since the and compliance responsibly and with transparency in topic “corporate governance and compliance” is a basic requirement for our all matters. business and is included in our standard processes. Data protection We want to ensure the handling of It is not necessary to determine key performance indicators and term since the personal data in compliance with the data protection regulations in each respective country must be observed at data protection laws and safeguard all times. the rights of those affected. IT security and airport We protect our IT systems and Confidence level in Highest confidence level safety and security data against failure, manipulation, accordance with and unwanted publication. specific aviation security standards. We want to ensure the safety of It is not necessary to determine key performance indicators and term since security everyone at our airports. in aviation and on Fraport premises is always the highest priority. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 37 Sustainability program i­ndicator (KPI). The KPIs make it possible and risks in the current annual report at ger satisfaction” performance indicator to present the extent to which targets are www.fraport.com/publications. has been extended to include the scopes achieved to be presented in a transparent “Group” and “Fully consolidated Group manner. The topics of “Corporate goverThe “Profitability” topic was supplemented companies excluding Frankfurt”. In the nance and compliance”, “Data protecby the key performance indicators topic “Occupational health and safety”, tion”, and “Airport safety and security” are “EBITDA” and “Shareholders’ equity ratio”. we use the internationally used perforan exception here, as they are essential for For the “ROFRA” and “Net Financial Debt mance indicator “LTIF (Lost Time Injury Fraport’s business and are always a top to EBITDA” KPIs, the target values and Frequency)” instead of the rate per priority. We report on key opportunities terms were adjusted. The “Global passen1,000 employees. Term Scope Measures Status and target (as at end of 2019) attainment end of 2019 Group Group: does not apply –– Reporting of compliance violations via a certified whistleblower system (BKMS® system) and clarification of the facts by the Compliance department –– Own regulations of the Group companies (e.g., Fortaleza and Porto Alegre: internal anti-corruption policy, Fraport Slovenija: Ethical and Compliance Committee) –– Commitment to implement the corporate policy on the Compliance Management System at all fully consolidated Group companies Fraport AG: –– Measures to prevent corruption (training, business partner assessments, and documentation of compliance-related processes) –– Code of Conduct for Employees Group Group: does not apply –– Compliance with the European General Data Protection Regulation and national data protection laws Fraport AG: –– Implementation of a data protection management system –– Implementation of a privacy policy and a uniform guideline for deleting data –– Establishment of an adequate training concept 2020 Fraport AG & –– Continued development of existing security standards within the scope of industry working groups second-highest integrated –– Introduction of standardized tool support for all processes in IT security, including documentation confidence level subsidiaries at the –– Awareness-raising activities for staff and external workers to ensure high security awareness FRA site, parts of Fraport Greece –– Revision of the guidelines –– Redesign of IT risk management Group Group: does not apply –– The Group is responsible for guaranteeing airport security at the Group airports –– Conducting safety and security workshops at the Group sites and in Frankfurt –– Specialized Exchange Events Fraport AG: –– Continuation of the air safety program for Frankfurt Airport –– Emergency planning according to ICAO regulations –– Emergency management with ERIC (Emergency Response and Information Center) and Fraport Emergency Team (F.E.T.) –– Safety management system according to EU Regulation 2018/1139 –– Security awareness campaign for all employees at Frankfurt Airport –– Regular meetings with airlines, security firms and authorities 38 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Topic Target Key Target level performance indicator Economic enhancement Customer satisfaction We want to continuously optimize the Global passenger ≥ 80% 1) and product quality focus on customers and services at satisfaction our airports. Customer Service At the level of the previous year (2018: 73.9%) Index Airline Baggage connectivity > 98.5% Profitability We want to generate earnings EBITDA 2019: between around €1,160 million and growth in the long-term and maintain approximately €1,195 million financial strength at a high level, 2020: taking into account the negative effects of despite future capital expenditure. the coronavirus, a significant decline is expected Group result 2019: between around €420 million and approximately €460 million 2020: taking into account the negative effects of the coronavirus, a significant decline is expected ROFRA > WACC (2019: 6.4%) Net financial debt to max. 5 × EBITDA ratio Shareholders’ equity > 30% ratio Free cash flow 2019: Noticeably below previous year’s level and significantly in negative territory 2020: Significantly negative 1) From 2021 with Pier G: 82.5%, from 2025 with Terminal 3: 85%. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 39 Sustainability program Term Scope Measures Status and target (as at end of 2019) attainment end of 2019 2021 Frankfurt –– Continuing the service program to improve the quality of the time spent at the airport 88% –– Implementation of training formats for employees within the scope of the “service excellence” program to further improve the hospitality and service focus –– Exchange with our local partners in the service quality committee (semi-annually) –– Expansion of the range of digital passenger services (among other things optimization of free Wi-Fi, digital information media) –– Implementation of a communication concept for passengers for travel preparation (in particular to security checks, hand luggage regulations) –– Measures to increase control capacities (construction of an extension hall in Terminal 1, Hall A for additional security checks) and improvement of processes 2021 Fully consolidated Reporting from foreign Group 2020 airports 2021 Group Reporting from 2020 2019 Frankfurt –– Regular exchanges with airline representatives 74.1% –– Assistance with requests regarding internal organization and maintaining contacts with authorities and Group companies –– Information on infrastructure and commercial innovations at the site 2019 Frankfurt –– Continuous development of optimization measures, which are agreed upon in close 98.4% collaboration with customers during regular performance meetings –– Creation of redundancies with additional bypasses and baggage collection points 2020 Group –– Maintaining the competitive integrated business model at the Frankfurt site €1,180.3 million –– Reduction and flexibilization of operating costs through optimal cooperation within the Group –– Implementation of the strategic program “Future FRA” –– Reducing operating expenses among other things by decreasing energy consumption at Frankfurt Airport by 20% by 2022 compared to fiscal year 2013 without major capital expenditure 2020 Group €454.3 million no time Group 8.8% (– 2.3 PP) limits no time Group 3.5 limits no time Group 33.7% limits 2020 Group – €373.5 million (2018: €6,8 million) 40 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Topic Target Key Target level performance indicator Growth and developWe want to increase passenger Frankfurt passengers 2019: Growth between around 2% and ment in the Group numbers organically and optimize roughly 3%; the structure of our portfolio. 2019 adjusted: Growth slightly below the range of around 2% and roughly 3% in 2020: significant negative development Group passengers 2019: passenger growth at all Group airports 2019 adjusted: Passenger growth at all Group airports; Twin Star decline of approximately 10% 2020: Without taking into account the spread of coronavirus – growth at all Group airports; Fraport Slovenija decline in the double-digit percentage range, significantly negative influences due to the coronavirus are possible Ideas and innovation We want to promote and take Benefit of impleat least €300,000/year advantage of the know-how and skills mented ideas of our employees and incorporate the input of our stakeholders. Employees Attractive and We want to create good working Employee satisfaction Better than or equal to 3.0 ­responsible employer conditions and increase employee satisfaction. We want to increase the proportion Women in manage30% of women in management positions. ment positions (first and second level below the Executive Board) We want to offer good development Apprenticeships ≥ 110 opportunities to recruit and retain motivated employees. 1) Includes Fraport AG and the German Group companies. 2) Includes Fraport AG and eleven Group companies at the Frankfurt site as well as Fraport Greece and the Group companies Twin Star, Fraport Slovenija, Fortaleza, and Porto Alegre. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 41 Sustainability program Term Scope Measures Status and target (as at end of 2019) attainment end of 2019 2020 Frankfurt –– Continued development of the Frankfurt site as a hub as well as maintain its appeal for network carriers Growth of 1.5% –– Implementation of modernization and expansion measures at the airports in Peru, Brazil, Greece (70.6 million passengers) –– Further development of the offer at Frankfurt Airport by expanding the landside and airside capacities, among others through the construction of Terminal 3 –– Strengthening Frankfurt Airport as a cargo hub through capital expenditure in infrastructure –– Further expansion of retail space management, among others through the Group company 2020 Group Overall passenger Fraport USA growth at Group airports 2020 Group 1) –– Presentation of ideas and innovation award €101,263 –– Topic-specific campaigns to generate ideas for selected problems –– Creation of an online platform for employees to share knowledge and develop solutions 2020 Group 2) This indicator is regularly updated based on survey data. The results are used to identify potential 2.78 for improvement and derive appropriate measures. At Fraport AG, they are documented by the Human Resources unit; the implementation is controlled. Group: –– First employee survey in Fraport Greece and Fraport Brasil –– Regular visits by the local management and employee events (Fraport Greece) Fraport AG: –– Implementation of a Mindful Leadership Program in a service unit with the participation of management levels 1 to 3 –– Employee retention measures in facility management (among others stay interviews) –– “Respect for Diversity – I, You, We” campaign –– Implementation of a talent management process 2021 Group 1) –– Strategic succession planning across all management levels in the Group 28.5% –– Specific coaching and mentoring programs –– More targeted individual development measures for women –– Review of recruitment processes –– Strengthening a more open corporate culture –– Targeted communication campaigns (e.g., leadership in part-time positions) 2020 FRA site –– Varied range of traineeships with a job guarantee of at least one year, permanent contracts offered 125 to apprentices (for those who demonstrate professional and personal aptitude) in technical occupations, site firefighting department and emergency medics –– Entry-level qualification program “Ready for takeoff” –– Offer of political education in cooperation with the Akademie Frankenwarte and the Anne Frank Educational Center 42 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Topic Target Key Target level performance indicator Occupational health We want to constantly reduce the LTIF (Lost Time Injury ≤ 22.5 and safety number of workplace accidents. Frequency) We want to stabilize the sickness rate Sickness rate ≤ 7.2% in the medium term and reduce it in the long term. Community Value generation We want to make a positive Gross value at least +2% compared with previous year 2) and engagement contribution to the economic and generation in the regions social development of the regions. (corporate performance) Noise abatement We want to keep the area affected by LOG noise area: ≤ 22,193 ha aircraft noise below the noise ceiling Area affected by Leq during the day. of 55 dB(A) day 1) Includes Fraport AG and the German Group companies. 2) Subject to maximum net financial debt of 5 × EBITDA. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 43 Sustainability program Term Scope Measures Status and target (as at end of 2019) attainment end of 2019 2025 Group Group: 25.0 –– Implementation of the Fraport occupational safety and health management system in all Group companies –– Carrying out training and monitoring to raise employee awareness of hazards –– Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OH&S-MS) Board (annually for Group, quarterly for FRA site) Fraport AG: Consistent implementation of the measures set out in the policy with regard to: –– Enhancement of the prevention culture through targeted training measures and projects with managers and employees, with a focus on “safe behavior in the workplace” –– Continued development of the occupational safety management system –– Implementation and further development of load-reducing technical solutions in the ground services section –– Risk assessments –– “ZERO” prevention project in ground services 2025 Group 1) –– Supplementary company health insurance 8.0% –– Appreciation campaign for operational units with high workloads –– Check-ups at work, relaxation loungers in lounges, skin cancer screening –– Fitness mobile as a mobile training component –– “brainLight” relaxation loungers in the lounges –– WeightWatchers@Work –– Health courses 2020 Group –– Procurement of goods, services, and/or construction works +3.2% –– Awards to domestic companies 95% (Twin Star, Bulgaria) (around €3.4 billion) –– Award rate 80% regional (Fraport Slovenija) –– Award rate 66% regional (Fraport Greece) –– Sponsorship of the national ski team and the Olympic team (Fraport Slovenija) –– Supporting the work of the Kavala volunteer organization in the fight against cancer, Sponsorship of the Ionian Center for Historical Studies (Fraport Greece) –– Operational and financial improvements at Group sites –– Capital expenditure on existing airports to meet the future mobility requirements of the particular regions and markets Up to FRA site –– Active noise abatement measures, such as: 17,332 ha full Encouraging the replacement of fleets with quieter aircraft through the charges schedule capacity –– Increase in the approach glide angle for the northwest runway to 3.2 degrees –– GBAS-based noise-abatement flight approach procedures, especially increase in angle of approach glide to 3.2 degrees for south and central line –– Incentivization of GBAS as a component of the application for airport charges 44 Our Group Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Topic Target Key Target level performance indicator Environment Climate protection We want to reduce the CO2 emissions Absolute emissions 125,000 metric tons of CO2 1) of the Fraport Group. (sum of scope 1 and 2 GHG Protocol) of the Fraport parent company and the fully consolidated Group airports We want to reduce the CO2 emissions Absolute emissions 80,000 metric tons of CO2 of Fraport AG at the FRA site. (sum of scopes 1 and 2 GHG Protocol) Specific CO2 0.9 kg CO2/traffic unit emissions per traffic unit (sum of scopes 1 and 2 GHG Protocol) Protection of environment We want to provide our services in Proportion of fully 100% and nature the Group while always taking consolidated, environmental concerns into account environmentally and to constantly improve our relevant Group environmental performance. companies with certified environmental management systems (EMAS or ISO 14001), weighted according to revenue Air quality We seek to record the air pollutant Inventory NOx: 100% emissions of all relevant emission of air pollutant sources from airport operations. emissions according to main sources PM10AA: 100% 1) If necessary, the goal will be adjusted for changes within the Fraport airport portfolio. 2) Fraport AG and Fraport Greece as well as the Group companies GCS, Fra Ground, Fraport Slovenija, Lima, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, and Twin Star. 3) Including air traffic up to 300 m. 4) Values refer to the special evaluation in 2016. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 45 Sustainability program Term Scope Measures Status and target (as at end of 2019) attainment end of 2019 2030 Group 2) –– Improvement of energy efficiency in terms of running buildings and airport infrastructure 227,552 metric tons –– Increased use of vehicles and ground handling equipment with alternative drive systems –– Use of alternative energies in accordance with the given local circumstances –– Participation in the Airport Carbon Accreditation program of the ACI 2030 Fraport AG –– Improvement of the energy efficiency of existing buildings of Fraport AG 170,310 metric tons –– In the terminals –– In offices and services buildings –– Planning and implementation parallel to construction of the energy-efficient Terminal 3 –– Implementation of energy measures in the baggage transfer system by 2020 –– Expansion of the electric vehicle fleet (focus on ground services) by 2020 –– CO2 and energy consumption controlling –– Focus on using renewable energy to meet future energy needs 2030 Fraport AG 1.86 kg CO2/traffic unit 2020 Group Group: 84.1% –– Assessment of Group companies in terms of their environmental relevance –– Expansion of environmental management systems in other Group companies that are environmentally relevant based on their portfolio Fraport AG: –– Continuation of the existing environmental management system 2022 FRA site 3) –– Quality assurance of the inventory and operating data (transfer of SAP data to calendar year, first NOx: 87% 4) plausibility test) –– Optimization of methodology for the use of operating data for the emissions model (contracting external support, initial coordination of processes) PM10AA: 30% 4) –– Specialist support of the LASPORT program (emission and propagation model to determine emissions caused by the airport and aircraft), test and commissioning of LASPORT version 2.3.10 –– Cooperation with the HLNUG and the UNH to study ultra-fine particulates (UFP) 46 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 2 Governance Corporate governance and compliance  47 Corporate governance  47 Compliance  47 Supply chain and procurement  50 Data protection  52 IT security and airport safety and security  54 IT security  54 Airport safety and security  55 Safety  56 Security  57 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 47 Corporate governance and compliance Corporate governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and compliance with national and international laws and regulations and internal policies. Anti-corruption and bribery matters. Building trust with all stakeholders Corporate governance The term “corporate governance” at For Fraport, a responsible governance system”, which is achieved Fraport means responsible corporate manby the strict separation of personnel in agement and control. The objectives of and transparent corpothe management and control bodies corporate governance at Fraport are longrate management and (two-tier board). The Executive Board term economic enhancement and creating manages Fraport AG; the Supervisory as well as strengthening confidence control structure is the Board monitors the Executive Board. among investors, customers, employees, foundation for creating The members of the Executive Board and and the public. Good corporate goverthe Supervisory Board work closely nance therefore has the highest priority at value and trust. together in the interest of the company. Fraport. In this context, efficient collaboration between the Executive Board and Fraport AG as a German listed company Compliance the Supervisory Board is as important as has adopted corporate governance protecting shareholders’ interests and ­principles which are primarily based on Ensuring the integrity of all employees maintaining open and transparent corpothe German Stock Corporation Act, worldwide is of great importance to rate communications. ­capital market law, and the suggestions Fraport. Compliance is a key prerequisite and recommendations of the German for the future viability of the company. Fraport is also committed to interna­ Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) The Compliance Management System tionally recognized codes of conduct, in its current version. The Board of (CMS) at Fraport is a systematic tool for in particular, the principles of the UN ­Management and Supervisory Board ensuring legal and compliant behavior Global Compact, the Universal Decla­ issue an annual statement of compliwithin the Group. The objective of the ration of Human Rights, the OECD ance, which is available under CMS is to ensure corporate management Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, www.fraport.de/corporategovernance. based on values and with integrity and the Core Labor Standards of the In accordance with the statutory proviwhich goes beyond the mere fulfillment International Labor Organization. sions, Fraport AG is subject to a “dual of standards. 48 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 “Fraport does not ­tolerate any form of corruption or other unfair business ­practices. The anti-­ corruption and ­ bribery matters are also an essential part of the Fraport Code of ­Conduct for Employees, which applies worldwide.” Dr. Stefan Schulte Chairman of the Executive Board The Code of Conduct for Employees open and trusting cooperation, and The Group company Lima complies with reflects the culture of values practiced at strive for a fair Group-wide balance of the standards of the IFC Environmental Fraport and stipulates the requirement to interests. Fraport rejects any form of Health & Safety Guidelines and is required act responsibly when dealing with the forced or child labor and advocates to comply with the requirements of the economic, legal, and moral challenges of respect for the rights of children and Environmental Impact Study for the everyday business. Fraport undertakes to ­adolescents. Expansion Program of the AIJCH of the respect the fundamental right to freedom Peruvian State. In addition, the company of association and the right to collective Regulations on working hours and will commit itself to respect the “Equator bargaining that governs the general work­complaints mechanisms, for example, Principles”, a set of rules set forth by ing conditions within the Group, offer are implemented as part of large banks to comply with environmental and legitimate employee representatives an ­financing projects, some of which are social standards in the area of project also demanded by external lenders. The financing. Compliance with the principles planning and construction contract for is a prerequisite for financing and will The Code of Conduct for the construction project at the 14 Greek also be included in the contractual agreeregional airports, for example, obliges ments. Within the context of the tender Employees that applies the general contractor to fully protect offer for the expansion of the airport, all worldwide to the Fraport human rights. Violations of these provibidders were obliged to sign an anti-­ sions constitute a breach of contract and corruption agreement. Group reflects the culture may result in the termination of the conof values practiced at tract. Regular visits to the construction Within the scope of the expansion prosites are made to verify compliance with gram of the Brazilian Porto Alegre AirFraport. the contractual agreements. port, under the concession contract, the Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 49 Corporate governance and compliance Group company is committed to relocate Fraport has set up an electronic whistle­ sponding information platforms. Guideover 900 families. Initial measures to blowing system that is available to all lines on receiving invitations and gifts implement their relocation have already Group companies. The whistleblowing have been defined for the employees of been taken. The relocation is being system is an essential tool for preventing Fraport AG in a separate policy, which ­conducted in a structured manner that is and detecting potential compliance regulates, among other things, the elecalready in practice in Brazil. Close cooper­violations. In addition, Fraport AG has an tronic documentation of the approval of ation with the competent authorities of ombudswoman, an external, independent received gifts and invitations. The policy the municipal administration and the lawyer, at its disposal. Employees at the supports employees in complying with regional government ensures strict comFrankfurt site can also contact an internal existing laws and internal regulations. pliance with local legislation. The Group representative. company Porto Alegre will compensate In its Supplier Code of Conduct, Fraport the affected families. describes the requirements and principles Information received will be for cooperations with contractors, supThe Group companies Fortaleza and pliers, and service providers. The Supplier Porto Alegre have their own anti-corrupcarefully evaluated. CompliCode of Conduct details how to treat tion guidelines. Compliance issues and ance breaches are systematiemployees correctly, including respecting information received on violations of the human rights, environmental and climate Code of Conduct for Employees are hancally penalized and any protection, and integrity in the course of dled within the Group company Fraport grievances are remedied. business, for example the prohibition of Slovenija by the Ethical and Compliance corruption and bribery. Committee. Fraport employees are regularly informed There are several ways for employees on the topic of compliance through variand customers around the world to ous internal channels and undergo manreport potential compliance violations, datory training. The Code of Conduct for such as complaints of human rights Employees and the Compliance Guideabuse or e ­ vidence of corruption incidents, lines in place at the Fraport Group are securely and in confidence. available to the employees on the corre50 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Supply chain and procurement Unlike manufacturing companies, This is particularly relevant for major Fraport’s management does not focus on construction projects such as the new Over 60% of the order the supply chain, but on the quality of terminal at Lima Airport, the modernizathe services offered and the func­tionality tion of the Greek regional airports, and volume at Group a ­ irports of the infrastructure required for this. the construction activities of the Brazilian have been awarded to ­Irrespective of this, it is crucial that busiGroup companies Fortaleza and Porto ness partners and suppliers are selected Alegre, where compliance with the domestic companies. carefully. The Group companies each Fraport Supplier Code of Conduct is an At Fraport AG, more than have their own procurement manageintegral part of the contract. ment. 70% went to companies Fraport AG undertakes to generally focus in the Rhine-Main region. on sustainability criteria when purchasFraport compels business ing products and services and has signed a target agreement initiated by the Around 98% of Fraport AG’s order partners and suppliers ­Hessian Ministry for the Environment, ­volume amounting to approximately to comply with its Supplier Climate Protection, Agriculture, and €1,278 million was awarded to suppliers Consumer Protection. and service providers based in Germany, Code of Conduct as part approximately 1% to those based in of its General Terms the EU and about 1% to those based and Conditions (GTC), Possible ecological in the US and Switzerland. As there are comparable legal standards in these depending on the ­procurement criteria countries, in particular in relation to local conditions. and certificates (e.g., anti-corruption and bribery matters and respect for human rights, the first level the OEKO-TEX 100 of Fraport AG’s supply chain is not standard) are taken deemed critical. The five largest suppliers A violation of this code may result in the to Fraport AG according to order volume termination of the business relationship. into account when are the companies FraSec, FraGround, A contractual penalty may be imposed and commissioning. FraCareS, Goldbeck Südwest GmbH, a claim for lump-sum damages may be and GCS. Fraport AG wholly owns the raised in the event of antitrust violations Group companies FraSec, FraGround, and serious misconduct. Business partners Fraport has a heterogeneous requirement and GCS. The Group company FraCares and suppliers must also undertake to structure. Its requirements range from is 51% owned by Fraport AG. These observe these principles in dealings with architectural services to the construction mainly provide security services, ground their own suppliers. of airport infrastructure and its maintehandling services, and cleaning services. nance, from office materials to IT services Goldbeck Südwest GmbH has been conand aircraft push-backs. tracted to install photovoltaic systems at Frankfurt Airport and is subject to the award ­conditions described above. A new terminal If Fraport AG tenders and awards contracts is being built in for product groups that include suppliers ­Thessaloniki or service providers from risk countries, for around the contractors will be reviewed depend€100 million. ing on the order value. This also applies to orders for work clothes, for example. The location of production sites is periodically checked. If a business relationship is started with a supplier from one of these countries, sanction lists are extensively checked in advance. Sanction lists are official lists of people, groups, or organizations subject to economic or legal restrictions. If there are irregularities, further checks are planned which may result in the withdrawal of an order. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 51 Corporate governance and compliance Major construction site Terminal 3 in the southern part of Frankfurt Airport Fraport AG has fulfilled the legally comA separate procurement process via the The Fraport Supplier pliant assignment of external personnel Group company Fraport Ausbau Süd was based on independent service and work defined for the Expansion South project, Code of Conduct is an contracts, as opposed to temporary in particular Terminal 3 at Frankfurt Airintegral part of all work, by implementing external staff port, due to the size and complexity of compliance within the framework of a the project. By submitting an offer in ­contracts for T­ erminal 3. policy on assignment and deployment of this procurement process, building comexternal personnel. The policy includes a panies are obliged to comply with all A due diligence review process was mandatory inspection process in deterrequirements in the Posted Workers Act defined for purchases made for the conmining different types of contracts and (Arbeitnehmer-Entsendegesetz, AEntG) struction of Terminal 3, which has since reduces the risk of false service or work and the Minimum Wage Act (Mindestbeen carried out depending on the contracts or covert contracts for tempolohngesetz, MiLoG), to make contribuorder value. In addition to mandatory rary work. This review process also covers tions to the collective bargaining parties’ checking of sanction lists and company the assignment of external workers by joint facilities, and also to only engage information, this includes extensive Group companies for Fraport AG. The subcontractors or other third parties that research online on potential business Group companies independently ensure meet these requirements. partners before business relationships the legally compliant assignment of are started. external personnel by implementing ­suitable processes. 52 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Data protection Protecting personal data against improper use and protecting the right to privacy of individuals. Protection and security of personal data The objective is to ensure the handling The Executive Board works towards of personal data in compliance with the ensuring that Group companies in More on data protection data protection laws and to safeguard Europe comply with the European the rights of the data subjects, irrespec­General Data Protection Regulation tive of whether the data is from passen(GDPR) as at Fraport AG. The individual Information on the processing of pergers, customers, employees, or external Group companies are independently sonal data by Fraport as well as the data companies. Personal data of passengers responsible for the implementation, protection statements for all so-called are required by Fraport AG primarily for which is monitored by Fraport AG. For data ­subject categories such as stake­ the use of parking garages and for bagthe Group companies outside the EU, the holders, employees, visitors, applicants, gage handling. The processing of travel laws on data protection must be combusiness partners, passengers, or data is the responsibility of the airlines. plied with in accordance with national ­cus­tomers are available at The majority of the personal data pro­regulations. In addition to training privacy-statement.fraport.com. cessed by Fraport is due to the issue of employees, the Group companies have airport ID cards and is thus compulsory created technical conditions for complifor security reasons. ance with data protection, which are ­regularly checked for their effectiveness. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 53 Data protection Personal data form the basis for the issuance of an airport ID card. The Data Protection Officer at Fraport AG In order to guarantee the privacy rights Personal access rights to operating and monitors compliance with the regulations of passengers, visitors, and employees, security areas in Frankfurt are managed within the company. This officer reports Fraport AG has a concept for using video and verified by way of an identification directly to the Executive Board and is technology at the Frankfurt site which management system as well as access independent in exercising his tasks in the lays out clear rules for users of all video control systems. Fraport AG has implearea of data protection. Violations of the data regarding the respective purpose mented both technical and organizaGDPR or related complaints can be sent and data protection requirements. Regutional measures to protect data against directly to him, anonymously if necessary. lations on the use of Fraport video techmisuse. In 2019, Fraport AG did not record any nology by authorities is also included. violations of data protection that were reportable according to the GDPR. Fraport AG has a notification process for data protection and data security incidents in place. To consolidate the processes and rules at Fraport AG, it has implemented existing processes in a data protection management system. An e-learning tool and video training have been made available to employees, and they can be accessed permanently on the intranet. The processes required for compliance with the GDPR are part of the quality management system according Contact details are required to reserve to ISO 9001. a parking space. 54 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 IT security and airport safety and security Ensuring the security of IT systems that are critical to the company and data protection. Maintaining high operational security standards at airports and ­fulfilling statutory security obligations. Security has many facets Security is the key requirement for air The objective is to prof­ ollowed throughout the Group, and traffic. This principle applies equally to ­compliance with these requirements passenger traffic and air freight. This is tect the IT systems and is checked regularly by the Internal why security management has always data against failure, ­Auditing department, by IT security been a top priority at Fraport. ­management, or external advisors. manipulation, and All countries in which Fraport is active unwanted publication. The Group companies outside of Frankfurt belong to the International Civil Aviation use their own IT infrastructure, that they Organization (ICAO) and have contracprotect according to the Group’s IT secutually committed to comply with the These systems are configured redunrity guidelines. As a rule, the IT systems of organization’s safety standards and recdantly and are housed at separate sites. the Group companies at the Frankfurt site ommended practices for airports. In The requirements for IT security are as well as the SAP systems of Fraport ­contrast to most ICAO member states, specified in the IT security policy and Greece are integrated into the technology German law allocates passenger and security guidelines that must be of Fraport AG and managed from there. ­baggage checks to government authorities, whereas in other countries this is usually the responsibility of the airports. IT security All important business and operating processes at Fraport AG are supported by IT systems and IT components. Due to the ongoing development of new technologies and the increasing global threat of cyberattacks, there is an underlying risk potential for IT systems. Fraport takes account of this situation with active and preventative IT security management. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 55 IT security and airport safety and security Within the scope of a working group in Airport safety and security and land infrastructure at Group airports. the German Air Transport Association Fraport AG supports the Group compa(BDL), Fraport AG along with other airThis area encompasses both safety and nies in planning and implementing secuport operators, Deutsche Lufthansa and security: regular weekly or monthly rity measures and trains its employees, for the German Air Traffic Control has ­meetings are held with airlines, security example, within the scope of safety and ­developed the security standards of the service providers, and authorities to security workshops at the Group sites industry. These are based on the new exchange current information. and in Frankfurt on an ad hoc basis. In the requirements laid out by the IT Security context of specialist exchange events, Act for Critical Infrastructures (KRITIS). there is also a regular exchange between The goal is to establish a high standard The goal is to safethe Group companies on the topic of of security within the aviation industry ­airport security. through the selection of security meaguard the security of sures, the assignment of measures everyone at Fraport’s according to predefined confidence ­levels, and mutual assessment. airports. This includes passenger, baggage, The use of a standardized tool for all IT security processes, including docuand cargo controls, as mentation, is currently being planned. well as access controls. In addition, the department coordinates awareness-raising activities for staff and Areas of airport safety and security external workers to ensure a high security At the international Group airports, the awareness. The level of IT security is also security requirements of each respective part of the annual management report country as well as international standards for the ISO 9001 quality management for safety and security management are “Safety” certification. A specific KPI system proin effect. Compliance with and adhervides information about the status of ence to these requirements is the responrefers to the operational safety of the IT security measures, divided into security sibility of the local management of each overall airport as well as the safety within and compliance aspects, at any time. respective Group company and includes, the airport site among other things, establishing and In 2019, Fraport AG once again implemaintaining a safety management system mented a variety of projects to adequately and implementing access checks before “Security” respond to the growing risks arising from entering the security area. information technology. In addition, new is understood in terms of defending requirements from the German IT Security Safety and security are of central imporagainst terrorist threats and protecting Act, such as the reporting of incidents and tance in day-to-day operations and civil aviation an independent audit of security levels, already play an important role in the have been implemented. planning of new terminals as well as air 56 Governance Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Safety The Safety Management System (SMS) A crisis unit commences operation in is in place with the goal of preventing the “Emergency Response and InformaSafety first! ­personal injury and damage to aircraft, tion Center” (ERIC). It coordinates and vehicles, or infrastructure due to acciexecutes all measures that require a condents and technical defects. For example, certed approach at the site beyond any In rescue operations, every second counts. anyone with access to the airside areas routine damage and risk prevention. If Fraport rescue workers know the airport (apron and runway) must complete SMS necessary, the “Fraport Emergency Team”, area like the back of their hand. This is not training before they may enter the consisting of volunteer employees of always the case for large construction ­airside areas. Fraport AG and the Group companies at sites. Prime example: The T­ erminal 3 the Frankfurt site, is deployed, which ­construction site. Covering an area of more At Frankfurt Airport, security incidents interacts with passengers, greeters, and than 50 soccer fields, up to 5,000 conare recorded and evaluated, and potenrelatives on site, supports the crisis unit, struction workers will be at work at peak tial vulnerabilities are identified with or operates the “emergency information times each day. The constantly changing the SMS. center” to handle telephone inquiries. terrain is a major challenge for those who don’t know their way around. A two-day As a central reporting and alarm point The contingency plan for Frankfurt Airport training exercise took place there in for security matters, a security control “FRA Not” documents which preparations July 2019. The aim was to improve the center is in place at Frankfurt Airport, have been made for various emergency knowledge of the construction site and which activates the emergency and crisis scenarios and defines procedures to minithe interaction of all those involved. management, if required. The airport mize the impact. About 30 people from the airport fire fire department, medical services, ambudepartment, the Group companies Medical lance service, and the security services ICAO and EASA prescribe regular exerAirport Service and FAS, as well as a then coordinate operations in the field. cises to be carried out by the respective ­construction company were in attendance. airport operating company at the inter­ national airports to train for the handling A special safety concept has been develThe Care Team and the of emergencies and other security-related oped to ensure that emergency services scenarios. Such exercises have no impact can quickly find their way to the site ERIC Support Team were on flight operations. The results will be despite the fact that the construction site merged in 2019 under the used for further education and training. is changing from week to week. People with knowledge of the site meet at fixed umbrella concept Fraport meeting points, and they quickly and Emergency Team (F.E.T.). safely show the emergency services the way to the accident site. This allows them to avoid wasting any valuable time on their way. In order to further speed up the rescue chain, about 30 SOS boxes are ­stationed in the construction site area of the terminal building. In the event of an emergency, a push of a button is enough to alert the control center of the emergency service. Conclusion of the exercise: The emergency services were on the scene within seven minutes. And just three minutes later, the ambulance arrived. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 57 IT security and airport safety and security More security in FRA The “2019 Security Days” were held to raise awareness amongst all employees about the contribution they can make to keep Frankfurt Airport safe and secure. The two-day fair included occupational safety and health, IT security, safety management, corporate safety and security, the airport fire department, and the paramedic service. Booths, testimonials, and keynote speeches on safety-related topics informed employees in an exciting and interactive way. For example, all participants were able to assess traffic ­violations themselves and allocate demerit points. They were also able to try out how to use a defibrillator properly and see how an alcohol and drug test works. The number of road accidents on the apron dropped by 15 percent in 2019. This is a positive development that should continue through correct behavior in critical situations. More attention is especially needed in the most sensitive area of the airport – on the apron. Security Both international and European regulaa­ irside areas as well as the security of the include safety issues. In October, for tions contain guidelines on the structural premises, which are the direct responsiexample, “security days” were held, design of airport infrastructure for the bility of the airport operator. At Frankfurt during which airport employees were purposes of defending against attacks Airport, Fraport AG employees as well as informed about security-relevant topics on the security of air traffic. employees of the Group company FraSec with booths, t­ estimonials, and talks. and other private security providers cur­Airport security, the security control rently carry out airport security checks on ­center, airport fire protection, and the The security measures behalf of the German Federal Police. ambulance service were involved. Two films to raise awareness about at the airports aim to Fraport AG develops independently measafety-­related topics were ­produced. ­prevent attacks, such sures in agreement with the competent authorities responsible for maintaining as acts of sabotage or the high safety standards. In 2019, test ­terrorist activities. runs for an autonomous fence monitoring system were continued in cooperation with the Fraunhofer Institute, and evaluaIn Germany, the Air Security Act tions are still ongoing. The Security (LuftSiG) regulates passenger and bagAwareness Campaign launched in 2018 gage checks, access controls in the has been followed up and expanded to 58 Economic enhancement Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 3 Economic enhancement Customer satisfaction and product quality  59 Passenger satisfaction  60 Baggage connectivity  61 Profitability  62 Growth and development in the Group  64 Ideas and innovation  66 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 59 Customer satisfaction and product quality Customer satisfaction and product quality Strong customer and service focus. Increasing the Group’s competitiveness and securing Frankfurt’s role as a hub. The customer in focus throughout the Group The customer comes first at Fraport, both measures in Frankfurt and at other Group and employee motivation were implein Frankfurt as well as at all international airports. Among other things, a new mented. Based on the previous year’s Group airports. This is also reflected by ­terminal will be built at Lima Airport and results, the Group company Lima has the mission statement, “Gute Reise! We extensive expansion and modernization identified the areas that have the ­lowest make it happen”. The goal is to continumeasures are carried out at the Greek satisfaction levels and developed a correously optimize the focus on customers regional airports. At the Greek regional sponding package of measures including and service at Fraport’s airports. Passenger airports and Brazilian airports, improvemonitoring. The Group company Fraport satisfaction and baggage connectivity ments have been made to the check-in USA has adapted the system for evaluating are considered the most important criteria processes to reduce waiting times. Attensatisfaction in order to better respond to for service quality. tion is also paid to the cleanliness of the the needs of its customers in the future. terminals and passenger comfort. The In order to guarantee service quality Group company Twin Star maintains a while traffic volume increases, and to high service level with various measures, meet passengers’ and airlines’ increasing for example the further development of requirements, Fraport is conducting the “We Care” service program. In 2019, extensive expansion and modernization measures regarding the website, parking, 60 Economic enhancement Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Primeclass Lounge The Primeclass Lounge in the security area of Terminal 2, Pier E in Frankfurt has been selected among the top 10 of the “World’s Best Independent ­Airport Lounges 2019”. The British market research institute Skytrax ­concluded that the well-being oasis offers everything that is needed for a restful and relaxing break at an airport. The 270 m2 modernly furnished lounge impressed respondents with its expansive buffet, daily news­papers, charging stations for electronic devices, and sanitary facilities with showers. Passenger satisfaction at Frankfurt Airport 88% The service program launched at Frankfurt capacity for security checks were carried Airport in 2010 has increased global out in 2019 in cooperation with the ­passenger satisfaction significantly at the ­German Federal Police. In addition to new Frankfurt site. As part of five sub-initiatives, security check technology at the Frankdirections and signposting, ambiance furt site, this includes an extension hall in satisfied passengers and convenience, and the range of relaxTerminal 1, Area A, which provides addiation, work and entertainment options tional capacities, particularly for peak on offer in the terminals were all signifitimes during the summer months. More cantly improved. Most of the measures luggage tray returners were also Fraport has been exchanging ideas with were successfully completed in 2018. employed. A comprehensive information Deutsche Lufthansa, the security com­ Individual measures, such as the renovaand communication concept is in place panies working at the Frankfurt site, retail tion of the sanitary facilities, also con­ to better prepare passengers for their concessionaires and other service protinued in fiscal year 2019. In addition, varitime at Frankfurt Airport. In addition to viders, and Deutsche Bahn regarding ous measures have been implemented tips for a timely and smooth arrival at the service, hospitality, and customer satisto expand the range of digital passenger airport, the focus was on the most faction in the Service Quality Committee services. Among other things, free Wi-Fi important messages for preparing for since 2016. The first important milestone for passengers has been further improved security checks (including hand luggage was the definition and approval of the and simplified in terms of a­ vailability and regulations, ­carrying electronic devices, Service Guidelines for FRA. In these guideaccess procedures. Further digital inforetc.). Nonetheless, passenger satisfaction lines, the partners reiterate their desire mation media have been implemented to with ­waiting times at security checkpoints and their joint responsibility to strengthen assist passengers in the terminal. In order was down in 2019 at 74% (previous year: the Frankfurt site and to further develop to improve the procedures around security 80%). In total, passenger satisfaction service quality and trusting cooperation. checks, various measures to increase the improved from 86% to 88% in 2019. Examples of such successful cooperation Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 61 Customer satisfaction and product quality are the inclusion of trainers at partner c­ onstruction of additional bypasses and companies for joint training activities baggage collection points will create (e.g., intercultural training) and visits by redundancies and relieve the strain on the Executive Board and management the system during peak traffic times. As a levels at events within the framework of result of this incident, baggage connecthe “Service Excellence” program. The tivity was 98.4% in 2019, missing the goal is to ensure that common passen98.5% target. The last major disruption gers, customers, and guests retain a was over two years ago. positive impression of Frankfurt Airport. Furthermore, it is also intended to improve Fraport offers airline customers at the global satisfaction of the passengers, the Frankfurt site comprehensive support and willingness to recommend Frankfurt Airadvice on strategic and operational topics “Gute Reise” in Bulgaria port, satisfaction with the hospitality, and such as the commencement of flight improving the sense of security. operations, frequency adjustments, and slot allocation. With regard to developing routes, Fraport supports airlines from the 900 employees comanalysis of potential routes up to marketing activities, also in cooperation with pleted training within the partners from the tourism industry. Airscope of the “Service line customers are continuously involved when dealing with important matters in The vision of our Twin Star colleagues Excellence” program; the development of the airport, such as from Varna and Burgas: “We place the the goal was to further regarding Terminal 3 and the manageairport in the traveler’s heart” is based on ment of ongoing performance measures. the Group’s mission statement and focuses improve hospitality and The Customer Service Center (CSC) on customers. The mission statement service orientation. offers all airline customers a direct point focuses on seven values such as reliability, of contact for questions regarding operacommitment, and respect. tions. In addition to early infor­mation on Luggage management as a construction or operational changes, the For our customers, competitive factor CSC provides a central point of contact we provide connections for the airline stations through regular to all over the world. Moreover, the reliable loading of luggage customer visits. for departing flights and the fast delivery We contribute to of luggage to the baggage claim for Fraport AG measures the success of the ­sustainable development arriving flights have a major impact on measures for the airline customers by in the Black Sea region. customer satisfaction. Fraport AG measures using the Customer Service Index Airlines this performance for departure baggage KPI. The aim for each year is to achieve Our dedicated employees with the “baggage connectivity” indicathe level of the previous year. At 74.1%, respond to the needs of tor. In order to maintain connectivity at the figure for 2019 was slightly above the our customers. its current high level in the future coupled previous year’s figure of 73.9%. The surwith the increasing number of baggage vey primarily includes the airline-relevant We ensure a “gute Reise” items, Fraport is constantly working on areas of the airport, i.e., the baggage with compassion and optimization measures that are implechecking performed by ground services, understanding. mented in close cooperation with airlines flight and terminal management serwithin the scope of regular performance vices, and corporate safety and security. discussions. In 2019, on the one hand, recruitment and qualification was intensified. On the other hand, processes were developed further regarding the IT infrastructure of the baggage transfer system. Despite all the precautions taken, there was an extensive disruption of the ­baggage transfer system in Terminal 1 on September 28, 2019 in which over 30,000 pieces of luggage could not be loaded on time. This was caused by several simultaneous electrical and subsequent mechanical failures. In order to reduce the risk of similar disruptions in the future, an operational and infrastructural package of measures was adopted. The 62 Economic enhancement Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Profitability Ensuring the profitability of the Fraport Group through yield-oriented capital expenditure and an efficient use of existing resources. Increased revenue for long-term business success For Fraport, the growth-oriented develGroup revenue increased by 6.5% in the by €44.6 million. This led to Group EBIT opment of financial performance indica2019 fiscal year to over €3.7 billion. of €705.0 million (–€25.5 million). The tors is critical for the long-term success of Adjusted for the revenue in connection deteriorated financial result led to a the company. The overriding importance with the capacitive capital expenditure Group result of €454.3 million (–10.2%). of these indicators is reflected in the based on the application of IFRIC 12, Group strategy as a set of criteria for the ­revenue increased by 4.5% to over Higher capital expenditure, negative Group objectives “Growth in Frankfurt €3.2 billion. The positive revenue devel­ free cash flow and internationally” and “Economically opment is mainly due to the good overall successful through optimal cooperation”. traffic figures across the Group. This The result of the strategically adopted increased revenue in Frankfurt as well as measures and operating activities of The key figures for Group results of at Fraport Greece and the Group com­ Fraport is also reflected in the Group’s ­operations, the Group’s asset and finanpanies Lima and Fraport USA. asset and financial position. cial position as well as key figures for value management are also significant. The net retail revenue per passenger, an The level of the shareholders’ equity In accordance with the long-term oriented indicator of the development of retail ratio represents the basis for the current Group strategy, the Executive Board business, increased significantly by 5.1% and future operating activities for Fraport. manages and evaluates the development to €3.28 compared to the previous year. A solid base of shareholders’ equity is, of financial key figures while also taking for example, essential for the financing account of long-term forecasted market Lower other operating income – mainly of large strategic projects, such as the developments. due to the disposal of shares in Flughafen construction of Terminal 3 at Frankfurt Hannover-Langenhagen GmbH in the Airport, and it is also a benchmark for The key financial performance indicators previous year – as well as an increase in the creditworthiness of a company. The of the results of operations for Fraport are personnel expenses due to collective aim is to achieve a shareholders’ equity the revenue adjusted for IFRIC 12, ­bargaining agreements and traffic volume ratio of at least 30%. EBITDA, EBIT, and the Group result. led to Group EBITDA of €1,180.3 million (+€51.3 million). The application of Shareholders’ equity rose to €4,623.2 milEBITDA and, indirectly, the Group result IFRS 16, an accounting standard for leaslion (+5.8%) in 2019 due to the positive through the earnings per share (EPS) ing expenses that was applicable for the Group result. The shareholders’ equity ratio are a component of the Executive Board first time in the 2019 fiscal year, led to an reached 33.7% as at December 31, 2019, remuneration and underline the releincrease in Group EBITDA in the amount slightly down compared to the previous vance of these financial key figures as a of €47.5 million, while at the same time year’s figure (–1.2 percentage points). control element. increasing depreciation and amortization Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 63 Profitability Apart from the shareholders’ equity ratio, The free cash flow decreased significantly shows the current pre-tax cost of capital the net financial debt to EBITDA ratio, as expected to –€373.5 million due to of 6.4% as it relates to Fraport, the ROFRA and the free cash flow, in particular, serve higher capital expenditure at the Frankfurt shows whether the business units created as key financial indicators to the Executive site and in international business (previvalue (ROFRA > WACC) or not (ROFRA < Board to assess the financial strength. ous year: €6.8 million). Net financial debt WACC). ROFRA underlines the long-term The net financial debt to EBITDA ratio prowas 3.5 times EBITDA. goal of Group-wide business activities vides information on the financial stability that create value and is also an element of and ability of the company to repay the To increase the Group’s value in the long the Executive Board remuneration. net financial debt with EBITDA in years to term, the Executive Board specifically come if consistent figures are assumed for draws parallels between the development ROFRA was 8.8% in the 2019 fiscal year both indicators. The Executive Board has of the results of operations and the asset and exceeded the WACC by 2.4 percentdecided on a ratio of a maximum of 5 for and financial position. In this context, the age points. The Fraport Group thus also this performance indicator. Executive Board plans and manages the created value in the past fiscal year. Group’s development according to the The free cash flow provides information principles of value management. Detailed information about the development about the financial funds available to the of earnings in the past fiscal year as well as Group from the operating activities of a At Fraport, the most important measurethe forecast for 2020 can be found in the period after deducting operating capital ment and steering figure of this approach Annual Report 2019. expenditure activities. Due to the intenis the “Return on Fraport assets”, in short: sive capital expenditure activities in ROFRA, which makes the different-sized Frankfurt and internationally, the Execusegments of the Fraport Group comparative Board expects a negative free cash ble in terms of economic enhancement. flow in the medium term. Compared to the current WACC, which Key financial figures €3.2 billion €454.3 million €–373.5 million Revenue adjusted for IFRIC 12 Group result (+4.5% compared to 2018) (–10.2% compared to 2018) Free cash flow (2018: €6.8 million) €1,180.3million 33.7% EBITDA Shareholders’ equity ratio (+4.5% compared to 2018) (–1.2 percentage points compared to 2018) €705.0 million 3.5 times 8.8% EBIT Net financial debt to EBITDA ratio ROFRA (–3.5% compared to 2018) (2018: 3.1) (–2.3 percentage points compared to 2018) 64 Economic enhancement Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Growth and development in the Group Growth, consolidation, and expansion of the Group’s portfolio. Solid Group-wide passenger development Fraport particularly uses the passenger turned into a noticeable decline (–3.4%). Long-term capacities secured numbers at Frankfurt Airport as well as at Demand for European traffic (including the Group airports as an indicator for the connections within Germany), which In particular, the expansion and modGroup-wide growth in traffic. International has been above average in recent years, ernization programs contribute to main­ business activities continue to grow, genslowed down in the reporting period taining and improving the Frankfurt erate a stable return in the long term, and (+0.4%). After a prolonged period of site’s international competitive position. increasingly contribute more to EBITDA weakness, intercontinental traffic, on the Fraport AG laid the cornerstone for and the result. At the same time, the portother hand, again showed significant ­Terminal 3 at Frankfurt Airport on folio is adjusted, through acquisitions and growth (+3.4%). The momentum at the April 29, 2019 and will invest around sales, if attractive opportunities present end of the year rebounded significantly €4 billion in the Airport Expansion themselves on the market. due to large increases in offers, in South project over the next few years. ­particular on flights to the United States By 2021, Pier G will be the first to be After the high-growth years of 2017 and the Caribbean. built with a capacity of up to 5 million and 2018, the past fiscal year was also passengers. The pier is being built as a 70.6 million marked by growth, albeit to a lesser full and modern terminal building, and extent. The airports in the Fraport Group will be integrated into Terminal 3 at a recorded solid passenger development. later stage. The shell construction in the In the 2019 fiscal year, passenger traffic at upper floors is well advanced. At the Frankfurt Airport exceeded the previous Passengers at same time, work on the technical buildyear’s ­figure by more than one million ing installations has been running in passengers and amounted to around Frankfurt Airport the lower levels since the end of 2019. 70.6 million (+1.5%). On June 30, the Completion of the main terminal builddaily volume reached its previous high ing with Piers H and J is planned for of 241,228 passengers. The persistently high uncertainty in 2023. This will increase capacity to up to terms of economic policy and the trade 21 million passengers. Terminal 3 can be With the start of the winter season, there conflict between the United States and expanded to include Pier K at a later was a lower number of offers compared China particularly weighed on the date. Once the expansion project is fully to the previous year, which was reflected ­German economy, as it specializes in the completed, capacity will increase to in significant declines in passenger export of capital goods to a higher 25 million travelers. ­numbers at the end of the year. Demand degree than other economies. In 2019, for domestic traffic, which had already cargo volume increased by 3.9% to stagnated over the course of the year, approximately 2.1 million metric tons. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 65 Growth and development in the Group Growth in most Group airports Construction work on the Samos airport in Ljubljana Airport recorded a decline in Greece was completed passengers by 5.0% to around 1.7 milon time. lion in fiscal year 2019. The decline in passengers is due to the bankruptcy of Adria Airways (market share of around 51%) at the end of September 2019. This was partially offset by the take-over of some frequent routes, mainly by airlines of the Lufthansa Group and Turkish Airlines. The expansion of the terminal was started in July 2019 with the goal of increasing the quality of service at the airport and improving operational processes; the project is expected to be ­completed by mid-2021. The Brazilian airports Fortaleza and S.R.L. in May 2019, Fraport strengthened infrastructure in the first four years. A Porto Alegre welcomed 15.5 million pasits position as a majority shareholder. The priority area is also expanding the offer sengers (+3.9%) in 2019. International expansion of the airport, which is necesof shopping and services. The expansion traffic in Fortaleza grew by 37.4%, primarsary due to the strong passenger growth and modernization works at the Greek ily thanks to the creation of an Air France/ in recent years, began in the past fiscal airports in Chania, Zakynthos, Kavala, KLM hub. In Porto Alegre, both domestic year, among other things, with environAktion, Skiathos, Samos, Mytilene, Rhodes, traffic (–0.1%) and international traffic mental rehabilitation measures. The voland Kefalonia have been completed. (–0.7%) were slightly below the previous ume of the capital expenditure on the ­Construction work at the remaining airyear’s level. The expansion activities are runway and the terminal is expected to ports is on schedule and will be completed proceeding on schedule. In Fortaleza, the be around US$1.5 billion. The compleby the first quarter of 2021 at the latest. terminal expansion was inaugurated in tion of the second runway is scheduled March 2020. Extensions to the runways for the second half of 2022, and the The Black Sea airports in Burgas and are expected to be completed by 2021. ­terminal should be completed by 2024. Varna, with a total number of passengers of around 5.0 million, were the second Shareholding in Lima Airport Partners With nearly 30.2 million passengers, and third-largest passenger airports in increased Fraport Greece recorded slight growth Bulgaria after Sofia. Following the dynamic of 0.9% in the reporting period, despite development of previous years, the airLima Airport welcomed nearly 23.6 milthe consolidation process in European ports recorded a 10.7% decrease in paslion passengers (+6.6%) for the full air traffic and the shift in traffic to other senger numbers in 2019 compared to year 2019. The growth in international tourist destinations such as Turkey and 2018. Domestic and international traffic traffic is primarily due to Peru’s touristic northern Africa. The appeal of Greece as were negatively affected, among other and economic appeal and the increasing a tourist destination is demonstrated by things, by route reductions and airline importance of Lima as a transfer airport, the high share of international passengers bankruptcies (Small Planet and Germania) especially for the airlines LATAM and of almost 77%. The 40-year concession as well as the resurgent tourism activity ­Avianca Perù. With the purchase of an agreements budget for capital expenditure to Turkey and northern Africa. Through additional 10.0% in Lima Airport Partners of approximately €400 million on airport gradual, modular expansion measures of the terminals, both tourist sites offer ­sufficient capacity to meet the growth expected in the medium term. With approximately 35.5 million passengers, the airport in Antalya posted a record result in 2019. Antalya was the second-largest passenger airport in Turkey in the past fiscal year, behind Istanbul Airport, and is one of the dominant tourist airports in the Mediterranean region. The number of international passengers increased by 15.1% to around 28.5 milThe expanded terminal lion due to a continued increase in tourist of the Brazilian airport demand from passengers from Russia and in Porto Alegre was western Europe, such as Germany, the inaugurated at the end United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. of 2019. 66 Economic enhancement Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Ideas and innovation Developing new products and more efficient processes. Digitalization in Ground Services As a service group, Fraport does not tion, and coordinates the digitalization Thanks to the high-resolution 360° repre­conduct research or development in the and innovation projects within the Group. sentations and the realistic surround narrower sense. Nonetheless, it is very The Group’s idea management is also sound, VR glasses immediately convey a import for Fraport to be able to react flexiintegrated into this unit. The benefit of feeling of direct proximity to the action. bly to customer requests and to design the implemented ideas amounted to The Group company FraGround, whose services efficiently. Identifying and intro€101,263 (previous year: €126,000). core competence lies in the provision of ducing new technologies, optimizing proground services at Frankfurt Airport, has cesses as well as the further developing Virtual and augmented reality started using this fascinating technology internal workflows are fundamental in and is taking innovative paths in personthis regard. In the year under review, Long since an integral part of the internanel marketing and development with the Fraport AG established the central unit tional video game industry, and also used integration of modern VR technology. At “Digitalization, Innovation, and Transforby museums to offer visitors the ability to job fairs in 2019, FraGround’s recruitment mation”, which promotes the strategic rediscover art worlds: so-called Virtual team had ample opportunity to use VR orientation of innovations and digitalizareality glasses (VR glasses). glasses to inspire applicants with a virtual tour of the airport. Another area of application for the technology is virtual reality training for operational process training. Fraport AG has developed new digital training content with a partner, for example for operating processes shortly after the arrival of an aircraft at the parking position. The goal is to have employees practice processes in a protected space before their first actual shift. Both new and already trained employees can use the training module, which is offered in both German and English. There are also plans The “Smart Air for apron safety training and a module Cargo Trailer” profor baggage sorting. ject was initiated by transport specialist Sovereign Speed. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 67 Ideas and innovation Use of innovative technologies Passengers today can also directly experience the ongoing automation of airport Digitalization and innovation at Digitalization and automation of proprocesses, for example for baggage dropFraport’s international airports cesses as well as their redesign strengthoff at Frankfurt Airport. The first fully ens the competitive position of Frankfurt automatic machine, which was specially Airport on both the land and air side. developed for Fraport and has a new IT The digitalization goals derived from the infrastructure, has been in test mode for Group strategy – digital customer experibaggage drop-off in Terminal 1 since ence, new digital business models, digital The aim is to permaMay 2019. Passengers can automatically companies, and the digital world of drop off their suitcases at a self-service work – are also being pursued to varying nently increase device after their boarding pass has been degrees in the Group companies. Last ­efficiency, speed, and scanned and the baggage tag printed. year, the airports in Fortaleza and Porto With the new fully automatic machine, Alegre focused on new digital business process quality. passengers need an average of only ten models as well as the digital world of seconds to drop off their luggage. The work. There, modern tools were impleIn the year under review, an important fully automatic machine is constantly mented to map the approval processes milestone was reached in the automatic being developed during test operation. during procurement as well as for the docking and pullback of boarding bridges. The machines developed on this basis more efficient handling of maintenance In July 2019, the first boarding bridge was will then be rolled out at the airport. orders. New digital business models have automated in a step-by-step process. also been further developed at Fraport After the necessary safety check for the Automation is also being promoted in Greece and have led to process improveobstruction clearance has been carried the freight section. Intelligent trucks, ments in baggage handling through the out via cameras and sensors, the boarding ­so-­called smart trailers, were used to use of scanners to automatically recognize bridge is automatically returned to the successfully carry out tests on how effibaggage tags. A learning management parked position by a dispatcher from ciency can be increased by shorter waitsystem has been introduced to support ­central command. And therefore not, as ing times at the ramps and higher use human resources development as part of previously had been the case, by the of the trucks. The specially developed the digital world of work objective. The bridge driver at the control panel in the camera system equipped on the trailers learning platform enables web-based bridge cabin on site. In addition to collects information about the content training and online exchange of informaimproved resource planning, this innoand level of the containers and transmits tion among the Greek airports. Twin Star vation also enables more efficient and it to the cloud-based platform. As soon and Lima, on the other hand, focused on flexible process design. The next project as the trailer is sufficiently filled, the the digital customer experience. In 2019, steps include the pullback of boarding transport is triggered automatically. The the homepage of the two Bulgarian airbridges from control command for bridge next step will be another test run with an ports Varna and Burgas was modernized structures with three bridges as well as autonomous truck and smart trailer. and made more customer-friendly, and the automated docking of boarding new features were added. At Lima Airport, bridges. a mobile application for passengers and visitors has been developed, which includes detailed information on flights as well as departure and arrival times. YAPE YAPE (Your Autonomous Pony Express), the transport and delivery robot based on artificial intelligence (AI) and equipped with a high-resolution HD map, cameras, and sensors, was deployed in the transit area of the airport during a five-day test phase in September 2019. In addition to studying how it was received by passengers, the requirements for airport infrastructure were also tested by the use of robotics and AI. 68 Employees Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 4 Employees Attractive and responsible employer  69 Employee satisfaction  70 Respect for diversity  71 Promoting women in management positions  71 Occupational health and safety  72 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 69 Attractive and responsible employer Attractive and responsible employer Protection of jobs and provision of a working environment that is ­characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, and respect. Offers ­regarding the work-life balance and development opportunities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated personnel. Provide employees with a fair and safe working environment Fraport AG has a long tradition as a commitment to comply with internationGiven the growing challenges, such as ­company with a social perspective and a ally recognized standards of conduct, increasing international competition in ­partner-centered approach. Group-wide, such as those defined in the principles of the aviation industry and passengers’ Fraport aims to remain competitive at all the UN Global Compact, the OECD and airlines’ increasing demands, and the sites and in all sections and thereby secure guidelines, and the ILO Core Labor Stancontinuous focus of the Group on earnjobs with fair and just working conditions. dards. They are published in the Code of ings, the aim is to organize the personnel This involves providing fair wages and Conduct for Employees, which commits structure in such a way that this competisalaries, and a package of benefits that employees to comply with these fundative pressure can be withstood. Employgoes beyond pay. Fraport offers a high mental principles. ees’ personal and professional skills are level of job security, good working condiboosted Group-wide by training measures. tions based on collective bargaining agreements, professional and personal development options, and a highly Over 23,600 developed corporate ethic. The Fraport policy forms the overarching structure for all commitments and the codes of the Group based on specific employees topic areas. Pursuant to responsible corporate governance, Fraport has made a in the Fraport Group 70 Employees Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Employee satisfaction At Fraport AG, the results of the employee Respect for diversity slightly lower survey are used to identify potential for improvement and derive appropriate As a responsible employer, Fraport If employees are satisfied, this is a sign of measures. In individual cases, the measures respects and promotes personal diversity a good working atmosphere. Employee and the intended improvements can and attaches great importance to satisfaction is also a component of the be included in the target agreements ­ensuring that this is reflected in the way variable part of the remuneration of the with executives. employees interact with each other. Executive Board. Fraport aims to maintain employee satisfaction at a stable level A high level of employee satisfaction is Group-wide and continually improve also a valuable contribution to attracting Diversity is a key goal for the rating in the long term to be better new as well as retaining qualified and than or equal to 3.0 (index value in line motivated employees. Fraport has develFraport, which the with ­German school grading system). oped and implemented a variety of Group systematically ­measures and initiatives to meet the The average grade for satisfaction by the staffing needs of the labor-intensive tackles as part of its employees of the Fraport Group was Group companies. This also applies to diversity management. 2.78 in the past fiscal year and therefore attracting suitable apprentices. slightly below the previous year’s figure of 2.76. The values of the Group compaDiverse cultural backgrounds, interna125 nies in Greece and Brazil, participating tional experience and gender aspects for the first time, were both better than enrich collaboration and promote the Group value (2.58 and 2.16 respec­innovation and creativity. This enables tively). In particular, employee satisfaction Fraport to flexibly respond to the changdeclined in some operational Group apprentices started ing requirements in the international ­companies. While pay received a better markets and benefit from them. Fraport assessment, satisfaction with job security their Fraport careers is sending a clear signal throughout the declined due to the challenges posed by in 2019. Group with its campaign “Respect for air traffic. Diversity – I, You, We”, which was launched in June 2019. The results of the employee surveys are The goal of filling at least 110 apprenticeused by all international group companies ships has thus been successfully impleAs far back as 2007 Fraport committed to increase their own employee satisfacmented. itself to the “Charta der Vielfalt” – a comtion. Based on this, in 2019, the Group pany initiative to promote diversity in company Twin Star developed a package In 2019, the employee retention measures companies and institutions. The Group of measures which is meant to contribute focused on several groups of employees agreement “Conduct of Partnership, to increasing employee satisfaction, in facility management and on skilled Diversity and Equality in the Workplace” among other things, in the areas of comworkers responsible for operating and formed the platform for principles such as munication, appreciation, and wages. performing maintenance on the baggage freedom from discrimination and equal transfer system. Core elements of retenopportunities. The company agreement tion management are, on the one hand, includes explicit definitions of values as so-called stay interviews with employees well as specific internal regulations and who, due to their operational functions structures. and socio-demographic data, have a high degree of comparability with those who have left the company in the past. The feedback from these discussions is Around analyzed in order to see how the influence30 able conditions of work, management behavior, and operational performance lead to generally higher employee satisfaction and, in turn, a higher retention rate. apprenticeships and dual vocational study programs Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 71 Attractive and responsible employer Diversity matters The aim of the “Respect for Diversity” campaign is to draw attention to the diversity of Fraport employees. The colorful mix of experiences, skills, and perspectives is what drives the Group forward. Diversity makes Fraport strong. Being courageous, open, and trusting in dealing with challenges – the Initiatives to promote women campaign takes up key aspects of the mission statement. The in the workplace focus is on treating each other with respect. This promotes team collaboration and helps to further improve service and In order to identify, attract, promote, customer orientation. develop, and place talented employees in the company in the best possible way, Over the course of a year, the campaign makes the different a talent management process has been facets of diversity visible in the company. Across the Group, established. Through the long-term, systhere are ambassadors who promote the six dimensions of tematic development and retention of diversity in tandems: cultural and religious diversity, work-life talented employees, Fraport AG meets the balance, handicap, sexual orientation, gender, and generalong-term need for qualified employees tions. There will be numerous events in the individual divisions and thus contributes to maintaining its as part of a roadshow in 2020. competitiveness. In this respect, Fraport places particular focus on promoting women in management positions. In ­fiscal year 2019, the proportion of women in management positions in Germany at the first and second level directly below Fraport’s Executive Board was 28.5% (previous year: 26.0%). The objective is to increase the proportion of women in management positions at the Fraport companies in Germany across both levels sures. The long-term measures that are tion on a part-time basis within the scope to 30% by 2021. already proving to be successful include of an 80% or 90% workload. In the event the Cross Mentoring Program, coaching of job vacancies, suitable female candiParticular focus is placed on all staff measures within the context of the condates are also actively approached and development processes that have an tinuous development of female executives systematic development and career paths influence on increasing the proportion of as well as individual support within the are presented. In 2019, the topic of women in management positions. This scope of the “GROW” development ­“part-time executives” was discussed to includes strategic succession planning ­initiative for middle management. The strengthen and encourage women and across all levels of management as well as success of the initiative is ensured thanks men with leadership responsibilities to talent management with a development to a digital learning platform, among reflect on and implement possible success-­ check management system and correother things. There are also offers, such as defining aspects of management in partsponding individual development meathe option of holding an executive positime positions. 72 Employees Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Occupational health and safety Maintaining and promoting the physical and mental capacities of our employees. Preventing health risks Occupational health management in the Fraport AG’s multi-award-winning occularly stressful circumstances (such as the Fraport Group has always focused on pational health management initiates a heat in the summer months) with vouch­preserving the health, performance and wide range of health-promoting activities ers for ice cream, fruit, smoothies, and therefore productivity of employees in and measures with various focal points. cereal bars. In addition, skin cancer the long term. With its preventive nature, For example, cooperation with gyms screenings were offered at various locaFraport contributes to maintaining tions on the airport site in 2019. employee performance and prevents 8.0% work-­related health risks. Employees are Strengthening behavioral health and regularly informed about health-mainsafety at work taining measures and behavior, and their workplaces are ergonomically designed in A strong prevention culture means that, the operational and administrative areas. sickness rate in addition to health management, Fraport evaluates, among other things, occupational safety is systematically the effectiveness of the measures by conin 2019 integrated into the company’s processes tinuously analyzing the sickness rate in the and structures as well. Strengthening German Group companies. The objective the personal responsibility of all employfor the Fraport Group in Germany is a made it possible for employees to e­ xercise ees and management in particular is a maximum rate of 7.2% by 2025. In the close to their place of residence. Those top priority and is part of the goal of 2019 fiscal year, the Group sickness rate who exercise regularly are rewarded with continually reducing accidents at work in Germany improved by 0.2 percentage a contribution to membership fees. everywhere in the group. points to 8.0% (previous year: 8.2%). In 2019, supplementary occupational The slight improvement is due, in partichealth insurance was extended to include The key principles for Fraport AG and ular, to Fraport AG, which has a large an inpatient component. In total, around the Group companies can be found in number of employees, and the Group 2,500 contracts were concluded with the “Occupational safety” Group policy company FraSec. The sickness rate in the employees and their relatives. In particu(Occupational safety and health manageoperational Group companies FraCareS lar, the employees in operating areas ment manual) issued in August 2019. and FraGround deteriorated. were thanked for their work in particuThe Group policy further helps to increase Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 73 Occupational health and safety Important goal achieved: rising trend stopped! The number of sick days of employees last longer. The number one cause of absences has increased by more than 70% over at Fraport is the typical back issue. This is no the past decade. What is the situation ­surprise, either, with regard to baggage and at Fraport? aircraft handling and workshops. The number of absences due to sickness in What measures is Fraport taking to Germany has been increasing for years. Howreduce the sickness rate? ever, this does not automatically mean that the increase in sick leave is linked to working Let’s start with what we have little to no control conditions that render the employee ill. Our over: On the one hand, these are waves of the society, our sense of permanent accessibility flu and common cold. Another example is the and our private life are also coming into focus summer months of 2018 and 2019, which were and are increasingly being classified as stressparticularly challenging for operating employful. At Fraport, the sickness rate fell in the third ees with record passenger numbers in permayear in succession, albeit only to a small extent, nently high temperatures. Of course, we support depending on the business unit and Group them as much as we can. Measures include, for Marc Uhmann company. We have therefore achieved a very example, supplementary occupational health Team lead of Fraport Health Management important objective: stopping the rising trend. insurance, the wide range of health courses, At the same time, however, there is a trend relaxation loungers, nutrition and prevention towards an increase in long-term diseases. This services, and company fitness. In the future, mainly concerns older colleagues, which there will be an app on the topic of fitness and makes sense, because in old age we do not get medical check-ups on site. sick more often, but when we do, a disease can the level of obligation. It draws on the tives, for example, on transferring obliregion is being replaced by an inter­ requirements of ISO 45001 and replaces gations of the business operator. With national standard, the so-called LTIF the previous occupational health and the “ZERO” project, another prevention (Lost Time Injury Frequency). The target safety management system. This requireproject is ­currently on the agenda until is a Group LTIF value of less than or ment is valid effective immediately for 2020 for part of the ground handling equal to 22.5 by 2025. For 2019, the Fraport AG and German Group compaservices. Behavioral health and safety is LTIF was 25.0 (­ previous year: 26.5). nies. Taking into account the national to be strengthened in this department, laws, the scheme is an option for desired which is responsible for the loading and action for the international Group comunloading of aircraft as well as internal panies. Among other things, training and transport. monitoring to raise employee awareness of hazards as well as to involve executives is carried out at the Group airports. Targeted and temporary Comprehensive measures to guarantee measures and projects high occupational safety standards at the are intended above all to Frankfurt site are required, for example, when handling hazardous materials, in raise employees’ awareground handling processes, in mainteness of safe conduct in nance, in internal transport and traffic, and during infrastructure construction operational sections. activities. In addition to workplace-­ specific basic and recurring training programs for all employees, special driver With the increasing internationalization safety training is offered to employees of the Fraport Group, the rate per whose work involves driving. There are 1,000 employees used thus far almost occupational safety seminars for execuexclusively in the German-speaking 74 Community Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 5 Community Value generation and engagement in the regions  75 Value generation  75 Engagement in the region  76 Noise abatement  78 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 75 Value generation and engagement in the regions Value generation and engagement in the regions Positive contribution to the economic development of the regions in which we operate airports. Charitable involvement in the neighborhood of the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. Positive contribution to development of society Value generation Airports are important business locations as well as the sponsorship activities For Fraport, social responsibility is a corand contribute directly and indirectly undertaken by each Group company porate principle. In the Group companies to economic and social value generation. independently. The goal is to make a outside Germany, the focus is on donaFor example, Frankfurt Airport is the positive contribution to the economic tions and sponsorship measures, especially ­largest local workplace in Germany with and social development of the regions in the areas of child development, envialmost 81,000 direct employees (as at and increase the corporate performance ronmental protection, and sports. Among December 31, 2015). Additional employ(gross value generation) by at least 2% other things, Fraport Greece supports ment effects are also created in enterper year. The Group’s direct value cre“ELIZA – Society for the Prevention of prises that are appointed by Fraport for ation includes expenses, among other Cruelty to Children”, which is committed the construction and modernization of things, for personnel, capital expendito protecting of children against violence airport infrastructures. ture, taxes, interest, and dividend distriand neglect. bution to shareholders. Over the past Even at the sites of the international fiscal year, corporate performance Group companies, regions close to the amounted to approximately €3.4 billion airport also benefit from the economic (+3.2%). performance and the donations made, 76 Community Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Our corporate performance € million Net value added distributed to: 1,222.8 Employees 184.5 2,511.6 Other operating expenses 1,380.6 Capital expenditure Shareholders 193.5 (dividends) 3,447.2 Gross value generation 154.2 State (taxes) Lenders 751.1 120.7 (interest) Cost of materials 1) Changes in the – 560.2 financial position from the value added statement 1) Excluding capacitive capital expenditure based on the application of IFRIC 12. Engagement in the region €5.41 million Fraport AG has long supported numerous Sports sponsorship in the Rhine-Main clubs and institutions. Fraport AG’s fundregion includes both recreational and ing concept for its community, cultural professional sports. Well-known names and social engagement is “Active for the that have concluded long-term contracts region”. It primarily serves to boost clubs with Fraport AG include the FRAPORT donations and and support volunteer work in the SKYLINERS and Eintracht Frankfurt. In the region around Frankfurt Airport. area of basketball, Fraport sponsors not sponsorships only the German national division team The so-called “neighborhood framework” but also gives donations to support the Fraport has financially supported youths’ describes the geographical boundary for “Basketball goes to school” project. The and young adults’ integration into workthese support activities. The area is based Eintracht Frankfurt Fußball AG and Eining life for 20 years with the ProRegion on district and state borders taking into tracht e. V. with 18 different departments Foundation. In addition to projects for account the most important approach and also receive support. the vocational and social integration of takeoff routes. If these change, the neighyoung refugees, other projects on proborhood framework will also be modiIn the fields of culture and education, fessional orientation and competence fied – as was most recently the case when Fraport is involved in the Rheingau Music assessment in general education schools Runway Northwest was inaugurated. Festival, among other things. There continuously receive funding. Since the are also long-term partnerships with the Foundation merely acts as a funding Donation priorities include the promoFrankfurt cultural institutions Städel ­institution, it relies on close cooperation tion of social and charitable institutions, Museum, Schirn Kunsthalle, and Liebieg­ with proven institutions of youth vocaparticularly those that encompass haus sculpture collection. Overall, tional training. These include Gesellschaft ­measures relating to education, social in 2019 Fraport supported more than für Jugendbeschäftigung e. V., an asso­ equality, health, and the integration 1,500 projects run by various clubs and ciation dedicated to youth employment of marginalized groups into society. institutions by making donations and in Frankfurt, Evangelischer Verein für Employees can also apply for donations ­providing sponsorships totaling around Jugendsozialarbeit, an association for as patrons of their clubs. €5.41 million. youth social work, Verein für Kultur und Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 77 Value generation and engagement in the regions Bildung e. V., an association for culture ­ rograms. The “Startklar” (Ready for Takep Fraport has supported nature and and education, and Berufsbildungswerk off) and “BIFF” (Berufliche Integration von ­environmental conservation projects, Südhessen in Karben, an institute whose Flüchtlingen in Frankfurt Rhein-Main or research, and environmental education goal is to prepare youth for careers and Professional Integration of Refugees in since 1997 with the Environmental vocational training. Frankfurt Rhine-Main) programs are aimed Fund. Its best-known project is the at young people without apprentice posi­RhineMain Regional Park, which extends As one of the largest employers in Hesse, tion or young refugees. Around 60% of between Rüdesheim, the Wetterau, the Fraport AG is also focused on helping the participants have successfully comKinzig V ­ alley, and the Hessian Ried. young people integrate into the workpleted the annual programs and started place with two career preparation vocational training. Determine species from the air Nordic labweed, dyer’s greenweed, spear-leaved skullcap, and violets – valley meadows have a wide variety of species with many rare plants. Across Germany, there are only around 1,500 hectares left, 70 of which are in Riedstadt. Characteristic of the ecology of these meadows are extremely different water levels: Floods, on the one hand, and long dry periods, on the other. However, due to increasing drought-like conditions, species that prefer moist conditions may decline. Drones will now be used to investigate the development of the valley meadows. Aerial photographs provide an overview of which plants grow where, how this changes over the years, and how climate change affects vegetation. Four flights are planned in the next three years before the data can be evaluated. The Environmental Fund of Fraport AG is supporting this project conducted by the Justus-Liebig-University Giessen with 27,000 euros. 78 Community Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Noise abatement Improvement of the noise situation in neighboring residential areas and staying permanently below the noise ceiling. Growing with low noise levels Airports located in the vicinity of metroFor Fraport AG, this means that, in addition Regional Development (HMWEVW), the politan areas are a burden for many local to the legal requirements, it is constantly German Air Traffic Control (Deutsche residents. At the Group airports, noise working towards measures that reduce Flugsicherung, DFS) and the Federal abatement measures are implemented aircraft noise exposure. The development Supervisory Office for Air Traffic Control. according to the national requirements of aircraft noise pollution in the area The FLK advises the aforementioned on noise protection and, where appropriaround the airport is continuously moni­bodies on measures to protect against ate, based on more specific local regulatored. Measurement analyses and the aircraft noise and air pollution resulting tions. At the Group airports in Europe, results of comprehensive simulations are from ­aircraft exhaust gases. legally stipulated maximum noise limits regularly reported to the supervisory must be observed. As a voluntary noise authority and the Aircraft Noise CommisThe key task of the Forum Airport and protection measure, the Group company sion (Fluglärmkommission, FLK), and are Region (Forum Flughafen und Region, Fraport Slovenija has introduced a ban also publicly disclosed on the company’s FFR) is to foster dialog between the on departures between 12:00 a.m. and website. Municipalities with Fraport airregion and the aviation industry and to 6 a.m. for departures in the direction of craft noise measurement stations receive facilitate discussion of the effects of air the towns of Šenčur and Kranj. In order additional detailed analyses upon request. traffic, with a particular focus on Frankfurt to protect the residents of Burgas, the Airport and the Rhine-Main region. The Group company Twin Star is assisting, Fraport AG collaborates with the region FFR includes the “Active Noise Abatement” among other things, in the construction affected by aircraft noise, representatives expert group, which advises on measures of noise barriers. of the state government, and other memthat may help to reduce aircraft noise bers of the aviation industry in two comand the impact on the area around the Fraport wants to grow further at its main mittees. The FLK is a legally appointed airport. The most recent result from the site, Frankfurt Airport, while generating body that advises the Hessian Ministry of joint project is the updated “Frankfurt Air as little noise as possible in its operations. Economics, Energy, Transport and Noise Index (FFI 2.0)”, an instrument for Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 79 Noise abatement “AMTIX short” route 1) “AMTIX short” route change Previous route “AMTIX short” is the name of a departure route at Frankfurt Airport. Planes taking off from Route preferred by ­Runway West and then flying southeast follow the Forum Airport and Region (FFR) this route. The intention is to change this route to avoid overflights of densely populated areas Mörfelden-Walldorf north of Darmstadt. This would relieve a large Egelsbach number of residents affected by aircraft noise. However, this change also leads to a new impact Erzhausen AM on residents of areas further north. As part of a TIX Version 3 new sho consultation process involving the municipalities rt ( so of Erzhausen, Darmstadt, and Weiterstadt, varifar) Wixhausen ous versions of the rerouting have been intenArheilgen sively discussed since June 2018. As a result of this procedure initiated for the Weiterstadt first time by the Forum Airport and Region (FFR) and the Aircraft Noise Commission (FLK), the FFR recommended the implementation and trial Darmstadt operation of “Version 3” in August 2019. This recommendation was confirmed by the FLK on September 25, 2019. The DFS subsequently ­initiated the approval procedure for the transfer 1) This representation is not true to scale and may differ slightly from the of the flight route at the Federal Supervisory actual route, as it is only used to illustrate the route. Office for Air Traffic Control. The route is expected to be introduced in trial mode in the fourth quarter of 2020. presenting the aircraft noise in the region enables a steeper angle of approach of F­ rankfurt Airport. Similarly, no more takeand for comparing the results of aircraft 3.2 degrees for all runways. With the offs are scheduled after 10:40 p.m. to noise as affected by active noise abateso-called noise abatement model in both ensure a timely takeoff before 11 p.m. ment measures. The index was used for off-peak periods at night, individual takeLate ­takeoffs after 11 p.m. are checked the first time in the review of alternative off and landing runways are alternately by the HMWEVW air traffic control in routes of the “AMTIX short” route. The not used, enabling the local nighttime each individual case and, if applicable, best rated alternative route overall was six-hour quiet period to be increased by approved if the delay was outside the then recommended to the FLK and to one hour. airline’s responsibility (for example due the DFS for trial ­operation. to weather ­conditions). Furthermore, the current structure of the noise-related Significantly fewer landings Additional buffers charges as part of the airport charges is after 11 p.m. an incentive to use low-noise aircraft. A in flight schedules noise surcharge of 50% is currently payAs regards measures to reduce noise and no takeoffs after able for aircraft movements during night exposure, a distinction must be made hours. In the middle of the night starting between active and passive noise abate10:40 p.m. improve from 11 p.m., the surcharge is 200% to ment. In active noise abatement, noise nighttime rest. make delayed aircraft movements unatis reduced directly at the source or by tractive. In November 2019, the HMWEVW implementing noise-reducing operating approved the amendment to the Airport concepts and takeoff or landing proceDuring the summer of 2019, there was Charges Regulations requested by dures. These measures include establisha significant decrease in landings after Fraport AG. Beginning in 2020, noise-­ ing a “Ground Based Augmentation 11:00 p.m. This was in part due to related charges were increased in general, ­System” (GBAS) navigation system, which ­additional buffers in the flight plans at with charges being raised more in the 80 Community Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Number of average takeoff and Distribution of aircraft movements by landing procedures per day direction of operation Takeoffs and landings BR 07 1,508 35.8% 1,492 47.5% BR 25 64.2% 52.5% Direction of operation east = BR 07 Summer flight plan 2019 Direction of operation west = BR 25 Summer flight plan 2018 higher noise categories than in the lower the partners in 2019, shows that the noise noise categories. Separate charges emission ceiling was also complied with in within the scope of airport charges are the ­fiscal year 2018. This same result is applied to finance the passive noise expected for 2019. The goal is to keep abatement program. the area affected by aircraft noise below the noise ceiling during the day. In 2019, The voluntary alliance for a noise emisthis area was 17,332 ha, well below the sions ceiling created in 2017 should help limit of 22,193 ha. to ensure that the noise exposure at Frankfurt Airport during the day does Passive noise abatement measures are not increase as much as would be permitintended to reduce the noise level inside Legal obligations for ted under the zoning decision, despite buildings by way of structural modificagrowth in aircraft movements. The traffic tions. Fraport AG has extensive statutory measures for volume and traffic structure of the obligations to take measures in around passive noise abatement ­zoning approval for the expansion result 86,000 households close to Frankfurt in noise contours with continuous sound ­Airport. Eligibility is defined by a noise in around levels of 55 dB(A) and 60 dB(A). These contours have been reduced by 1.8 dB(A) across the board. The total areas within the reduced contours define the noise protection area determined by the ­Hessian State Government in accordance with the strictest regulations of the Aircraft Noise Act. Fraport AG satisfies these 86,000 households emission ceiling. If the ceiling is requirements in full. exceeded, Fraport AG and the airlines are obliged to review further noise abatement measures. If the limit is repeatedly exceeded, any of the parties involved can take action outside of the alliance. The monitoring report, jointly prepared by Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 81 Noise abatement In announcing the “Together for the The HMWEVW defined an area with Region – Alliance for Noise Abatement around 6,000 buildings as an eligible Informed at all times 2012” program in February 2012, the area in the decisions. Including fiscal state government promised affected resiyear 2019, 3,477 applications for roof dents additional, more extensive support protection (wake turbulence prevention) Fraport Noise Monitoring, “FRA.NoM”, than previously provided in the vicinity have been submitted and work on tracks the level values continuously of the airport by drawing on a regional 3,073 properties has been ­completed ­measured at stationary measuring stafund. The Equalization of Burdens Act so far. tions and indicates the aircraft noise in (Regionallastenausgleichsgesetz), with the last three months. It also reports which the State of Hesse makes an addiIn order to support local residents in the the approaches and takeoffs at Frankfurt tional €22.6 million available to local determination of their rights and to assist ­Airport. The information system for airauthorities particularly burdened by airtheir applications, Fraport provides an craft noise issues, “FRA.Map”, is also craft noise until 2021, has been in effect extensive range of information and seravailable online and allows interested since January 1, 2018. vices on the company website. parties to find information for their location or place of residence on an interactive More than 3,000 roofs already secured map. The system also displays the areas that are targeted by noise abatement Damage has repeatedly occurred to ­measures or entitled to compensation payroofs in the direct vicinity of Frankfurt ments. Airport in the past and wake turbulences from landing aircraft could not be ruled out as a cause. As a result, the HMWEVW has adopted supplementary planning decisions. These regulate the requirements for protecting roof coverings on buildings against wind gusts caused by wake turbulences and clarify the relevant ­prerequisites. 82 Environment Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 6 Environment Where is the chapter on climate protection? We have paid particular attention to ­climate protection in this year’s report. Read all about this on pages 6 – 21. Protection of environment and nature  83 Environmental management  83 Wildlife Hazard Management  84 Waste water  85 Waste management  85 Air quality  86 Air pollutants  87 Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 83 Protection of environment and nature Protection of environment and nature Careful use of natural resources and continual improvement of environmental performance such as reduced use of drinking water, prevention and recovery of waste, protection of soil and water, as well as preservation and promotion of biodiversity. Continuously improving environmental ­performance The operation of an airport and air traffic project progress report every year that at Fraport AG and at all fully consolidated have various effects on the environment. also includes the description of all signifiGroup companies that are classified as Fraport considers itself responsible for cant environmental aspects. “fundamentally environmentally relevant” taking due consideration of the resulting due to their business activities. These environmental requirements. Fraport’s environmental policy includes a ­systems are, almost w ­ ithout exception, commitment to report on environmental certified in accordance with the relevant Addressing environmental concerns is activities and performance each year (see standard ISO 14001 or the European particularly important in the case of also www.fraport.com/responsibility). EMAS Regulation. Companies that join expansion measures in order to minimize the Group and do not yet have such a environmental impacts while keeping The environmental policy obliges all system are obliged to introduce an enviwith growth targets. The financing of the Group companies to make use of natural ronmental management system in the expansion activities at the Brazilian airresources and the environment in a course of the acquisition. At the end of ports Fortaleza and Porto Alegre as well ­sustainable, conserving and preventive the past fiscal year, 84.1% of fully consolias at Lima Airport and in Frankfurt are ­manner, and to continually improve dated, environmentally relevant Group subject to environmental requirements. their environmental performance. To companies, weighted according to reveFor the financing of Terminal 3, the Eurothis end, environmental management nue, had such a system. pean Investment Bank (EIB) requires a ­systems were introduced and maintained 84 Environment Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Protecting precious habitats a­ nimals that are relevant to ­aviation safety conservation terms, this extensively on the airport sites and is also ensured by ­maintained permanent grassland is a Promoting biological aviation safety is the Wildlife Hazard ­Management. high-quality habitat that is home to many the responsibility of Wildlife Hazard rare and endangered animal and plant ­Management. Wildlife Hazard Managespecies. Frankfurt Airport has since ment at the international Group airports Wildlife Hazard Managebecome a nationally significant retreat is implemented according to internaand protection area for some species, tional regulations as well as, where approment ensures the safe and such as the skylark. priate, based on more rigorous national smooth coexistence of and local targets. Corresponding moniIn the 2019 fiscal year, the technology for toring systems are implemented. Wildlife nature, air traffic, and detecting and forecasting flocks of birds Hazard Management at Group airports is ­airport operations. was switched from infrared to radar, the concerned, among other things, with the so-called “Bird Intrusion Radar Detection monitoring of birds in order to ensure System (BIRDS)”. The system is based on safe operations. In addition to deterrence Comprising an area of around 22 square a horizontally and vertically rotating radar through acoustic signals, this also includes kilometers, Frankfurt Airport is one of that monitors three air space sections the releasing of animals in the surroundthe most compact major airports in the above the Main river. One of them is the ing areas. The management and mainteworld. Around half of this land is unsurair space above the junction of the Main nance of the green areas is a prerequisite faced. The largest open continuous area river with the approach corridor from the for reducing the number of potential is located close to the runways. In nature west. The system is able to detect flocks Injured eagle owl nursed back to health Not just big aluminum birds land at Frankfurt Airport, but feathered aviators as well, such as an injured female eagle owl. Thanks to a cooperation between Fraport and the Opel-Zoo, local veterinarians took care of the bird. The eagle owl was christened Ulna because the bird had broken a bone in its eponymous forearm wing. The wing was operated on and Ulna was coddled up. This was a lot of effort for a single animal, but the eagle owl was threatened by extinction in Germany. Today, thanks in part to intensive conservation measures, the population has slowly recovered. Ulna is already the second eagle owl in two years to visit the airport in winter. The light and structural forests, which are protected not least as compensation for the expansion of the airport, are a ­suitable area for eagle owls. Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 85 Protection of environment and nature of birds in the alarm areas and, if necesThere are several service water treatment sary, transmit corresponding alerts to plants located on the site of CargoCity United against plastic waste the ­German Air Traffic Control (DFS) in South and in Terminals 1 and 2. The Pier connection with the forecast of when the A-Plus has been equipped with a rain­ birds are expected to reach the crossing water treatment plant. The service water The posters in the Fraport cafeterias at point. The imaging method used by the is sourced from rainwater and ground­ Frankfurt Airport stand out: “Say NO to system detects the altitude and speed of water (well water). When rainfall is low, disposable!” and “YES to reusable!”. The a flock of birds, recording the number of purified water from the Main river is used. campaign, which was launched by the birds and their size. The service water is sourced through Group company Airport Cater Service ­separate supply networks and supplied GmbH (ACS), has been running since the Wherever possible, Fraport AG extends for sprinkler systems, toilet flushing, and beginning of August. And for good reason: the green areas at the Frankfurt site. For for watering landscaped areas. There is a last year, more than 5.6 million coffee example, the new buildings in CargoCity complete service water supply system in cups, lunchboxes, plastic forks, etc., were South are increasingly being planned CargoCity South. In the north of the airissued in the cafeterias. with ecological green roofs. Fraport AG port, Terminals 1 and 2 are supplied with will upgrade some 2,300 hectares of land service water. As of August 2019, the cafeterias have been in the immediate and wider vicinity of offering lockable, reusable containers for the airport from a nature conservation At Fraport AG, the rainwater falling in sale in which the food can be taken away perspective as a legal requirement under winter is contaminated with biologically and warmed up again. The Group comthe zoning decision for the airport expandegradable de-icing agents for the pany ACS is looking at further ways to help sion. High-quality habitats such as decid­aircraft and operations areas when snow reduce plastic waste. uous forests, orchards, marshes, and falls or frost occurs. Rainwater with a nutrient-poor grasslands are being develchemical oxygen demand (COD) of oped. Measures to counterbalance the 200 mg of oxygen per liter is retained Expansion South project, in particular and treated in waste water treatment Terminal 3, are already included in this plants. extensive package of measures. Recycle waste Wherever possible: Service water instead of drinking water Operating an airport requires a lot of The principle of Fraport’s waste management is to recycle or reuse unavoidable waste wherever possible. Frankfurt Airport 2,316,000 items of disposable cutlery water and simultaneously generates a separates non-hazardous waste such as large amount of waste water. When dealpaper, cardboard, glass, metal, plastics, ing with this legally protected resource, wood, packaging waste (DSD green-dot Fraport takes all aspects of modern waste), and mixed industrial waste. The water management into account. This collected waste is fed either into advanced includes control of consumption and sorting systems, where any contamiquality ­control. nants are separated out and ­reusable materials are recycled, or transported to regional waste-to-energy plants. Electricity Groundwater quality is and ­district heating are extracted from monitored by the energy generated during incineration. 1,296,000 550 The hazardous waste created at Fraport drinking cups is also collected separately and channeled away for recycling as far as possible. Where recycling facilities are not available, this measuring stations. waste is disposed of in approved incinerators or in physical and chemical treatAt Frankfurt Airport, water is used sparment plants. ingly; for this, water-saving technologies are used in sanitary systems and circulatory systems in vehicle washing facilities. Wherever possible, drinking water is also replaced by service water. 65,500 soup bowls 86 Environment Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Air quality Recording air pollutant emissions stemming from airport operations. Measures against air pollution At the Group airports, air quality measureitself, were transferred to the non-profit tion, Environment and Geology (HLNUG) ments and measures to improve it are Umwelthaus GmbH (UNH) in Kelsterbach, with running the ­airport measuring sysimplemented according to the national an institution of the State of Hesse, in tems as well as ­evaluating and providing requirements and based on advanced 2017. This institution then entrusted the the measurement data. specific local regulations. Air quality is Hessian State Office for Nature Conservaalso monitored at the Greek regional airports. Fraport AG has been focusing on the issue of air quality at the Frankfurt site for many years, including the assessment of the airport’s share in the local concentration of nitric oxide. The ongoing discussion on diesel pollutants continues to keep the subject in focus. There is no legal obligation for airports to monitor air quality, yet Fraport has set the objective of gaining a deeper understanding of the emission of air pollutants (emissions) by the airport and their effect on the environment and people (immissions). At the Frankfurt site, air pollutants have therefore been continuously monitored at several air measuring points since 2002. The measuring stations, initially operated by Fraport Our Group Governance Economic enhancement Employees Community Environment 87 Air quality Study on ultrafine particulates Emissions from an engine Fraport AG cooperates with the German Aviation Association and the Airports Council International. In addition, there < 1% 3% Pollutants are collaborations with the HLNUG and Water vapor the UNH to study ultra-fine particulates (UFP). Unlike conventional, limit-controlled pollutants, airports have proven to be a significant source of UFP. No reliable statements can yet be made on possible health effects. In order to gain further 7% Carbon dioxide knowledge, the FFR has included the ­subject area in its work program at the request of the state government. A “UFP” working group has been set up at UNH, 90% in which Fraport AG is also involved. An Mixed air expert hearing was held by this working group in August 2019 in order to assess the current state of knowledge on the subject. It is now planned to further deepen the level of knowledge in the context of a large-scale study, in which, among other things, the current meaoperational data relating to the other based fee is charged per kilogram of surements of the HLNUG are to be incor­airport sources should be improved in nitrogen oxide equivalent emitted during porated. order to provide a complete and systemtakeoff and landing (“landing and takeatic inventory of air pollutant emissions. off cycle”, LTO) by an aircraft. The charges At the local level, there is an overlap of are levied per landing and per takeoff. air pollutant concentrations related to The necessary information on aircraft and the airport and those not attributed to The ability to annually engine types is determined by way of a the airport. The airport’s impact on the recognized fleet database. air quality in the surrounding areas is record air pollutant largely limited to zones within a close emissions of all Engines mainly emit carbon d ­ ioxide proximity and to the nitrogen dioxide (about 7%) and water vapor (approxi(NO2) emissions component. Measure­relevant emission mately 3%) in addition to mixed air ments and modeling suggest, however, sources from airport (about 90%). The additional resulting that external influences, such as road ­pollutants of carbon monoxide, nitrogen traffic, also play a role in the air quality operations should oxides, sulfur dioxide, hydrocarbons, and on airport grounds. In addition, the level be in place by 2022. soot account for less than one percent of pollutant concentrations strongly overall. The emission spectrum of engines depends on the weather. corresponds to that of road traffic. The This will enable future potential for quantities of these pollutants emitted by To gain information on the proportion ­mitigation to be identified, and conthe aircraft at the Frankfurt site are cal­ of a certain polluter to the overall expotrolled, and its success to be mapped. culated annually and published in the sure in a region, computational models It also serves as a data basis for deterenvironmental statement. have been developed that include all the mining the proportion of the airport’s relevant sources of pollution and their operations on immissions in the surIn addition to flight operations, air pollutemissions for a given zone. The LASPORT rounding area. The selection of the ants at airports also arise from the apron ­program takes into account various airport-­ ­pollutants to be observed depends on and vehicle traffic as well as the operation related emission sources in the lower their relevance. They are especially of heaters run on oil or gas. As a way of atmosphere, prepares spread computa­relevant if they are regulated by a threshreducing pollutants, Fraport has gradually tions, and illustrates the exposures. It was old value and are emitted in a notice­ upgraded its fleet of vehicles at Frankfurt developed on behalf of the Association of able amount at the Frankfurt site. Airport to include low-emission and elecGerman Airports (ADV) in 2002 and is tric motors. now being expanded and regularly impleCharges on aircraft emissions mented in collaboration with specialists from Fraport AG. As an airport operator, Fraport can only indirectly influence emissions from airWhile aircraft emissions can be genuinely craft. In order to motivate airlines to use represented on the basis of the very low-emission aircraft, airport charges are ­differentiated traffic data available, the levied on nitrogen oxides and hydrocar­processing and quality assurance of bon at the Frankfurt site. The emissions-­ 88 Key figures Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 7 Key figures Key performance indicators for responsible corporate governance (marked KPIs correspond to the most important performance indicators in the 2019 combined management report) Economic enhancement Scope Unit 2019 2018 Global passenger satisfaction Frankfurt % 88 86 Baggage connectivity Frankfurt % 98.4 98.4 Customer Service Index Airlines Frankfurt % 74.1 73.9 Revenue adjusted for IFRIC 12 Group € million 3,259.5 3,118.8 EBITDA Group € million 1,180.3 1,129.0 EBIT Group € million 705.0 730.5 Group result Group € million 454.3 505.7 Shareholders’ equity ratio Group % 33.7 34.9 Net financial debt to EBITDA ratio Group 3.5 3.1 Free cash flow Group € million – 373.5 6.8 ROFRA Group % 8.8 11.1 FRA passengers Frankfurt million 70.6 69.5 Benefit of implemented ideas Group (Germany) € 101,263 126,000 Employees Scope Unit 2019 2018 Average number of employees Group 22,514 21,961 Total employees 1) as at December 31 Group 23,668 23,299 thereof women Group % 25.9 25.7 Employees 1) in joint ventures as at December 31 Group 2,844 2,629 Employee satisfaction Group School grading system 2.78 2) 2.76 Number of new apprenticeships filled FRA site 125 120 Women in management positions (1st and 2nd level below the Executive Board) Group (Germany) % 28.5 26.0 Sickness rate Group (Germany) % 8.0 8.2 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Group 25.0 26.5 Average age Group Years 43.9 43.6 Foreign employees in Germany Group (Germany) % 25.4 25.0 Employee turnover 3) Group % 8.9 7.9 Employees with collective bargaining agreements Group % 96.7 96.5 Employees with fixed-term employment contracts Group % 19.3 15.4 Part-time workers Group % 15.6 15.3 Average hours of training per employee Group Hours 59.5 56.1 in % of relevant jobs (all employees excluding Percentage of persons with severe disabilities Group apprentices and temporary staff) 7.9 7.7 1) Reported as per the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (employee figures incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and employees on leave). 2) Includes Fraport AG, eleven Group companies at the Frankfurt site as well as Fraport Greece and the Group companies Twin Star, Fraport Slovenija, Fortaleza and Porto Alegre. 3) According to the Schlüter method: departures in fiscal year/(permanent employees + recruitments). Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Key figures 89 Key performance indicators for responsible corporate governance (marked KPIs correspond to the most important performance indicators in the 2019 combined management report) Community Scope Unit 2019 2018 Corporate performance (gross value generation) Group € million 3,447.2 3,339.3 Cost of materials € million 751.1 729.9 Other operating expenses € million 184.5 202.3 Direct value creation (net value added) € million 2,511.6 2,407.4 Employees € million 1,222.8 1,182.3 Capital expenditure € million 1,380.6 834.3 Shareholders € million 193.5 146.5 State (taxes) € million 154.2 130.5 Lenders (interest) € million 120.7 127.8 Changes in the financial position from the value added statement € million – 560.2 – 14.0 Donations and sponsorships Fraport AG € million 5.4 6.0 LOG noise area: Area affected by a Leq of 55 dB(A) day Fraport site ha 17,332 17,582 Environment Scope Unit 2019 2018 Absolute CO2 emissions 1) Group metric tons CO2 227,552 244,029 Absolute CO2 emissions Fraport AG metric tons CO2 170,310 188,631 Specific CO2 emission per transport unit 2) Fraport AG kg CO2 per traffic unit 1.86 2.07 Total energy consumption (scopes 1 and 2) Group TJ 3,238.3 3,278.1 Proportion of fully consolidated Group airports with an environmental management system Group % 84.1 86.7 Total water withdrawal Group Million m³ 2.631 2.193 Total water withdrawal per traffic unit 2) Group Liters per traffic unit 18.7 17.7 Sewage water Group Million m³ 2.975 2.476 Sewage water per traffic unit 2) Group Liters per traffic unit 22.5 20.0 Waste Group 1,000 metric tons 28.21 28.27 NO2 3) FRA site µg/m³ 39.7 42.7 Fine particulate, PM10 3) FRA site µg/m³ 15.9 17.6 Wildlife strike rate FRA site Number per 10,000 aircraft movements 4.46 5.42 You can find many other key figures in the GRI Report at www.fraport.com/responsibility. 1) Includes Fraport AG and Fraport Greece as well as the Group companies GCS, FraGround, Fraport Slovenija, Lima, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, and Twin Star. As a result of subsequent verifications, there may be changes to the figures. 2) One traffic unit is equivalent to one passenger or 100kg of air freight. 3) Annual average of the values measured at the Airport East station (formerly SOMMI1), located on the airport site. These values represent the total of all emissions of ­different groups, that is, in addition to the airport’s contributions to emissions also those from third parties (including road traffic). The airport’s share depends on the location and, ­according to model calculations and depending on the components, ranges between around 10% and 30%. 90 About this report Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 About this report The “Connecting sustainably – Sustaintheir recognition, including beyond ability Report 2019” informs our stakethe company itself. This publication, holders and the interested public in brief alongside the GRI report, is also used as form about the economic development a progress report relating to the impleof Fraport Group and its objectives, activimentation of the ten principles in corpoties, and progress relating to responsible rate governance. The reports are also corporate governance 1). We publish the basis and source of our statement of ­further information on our website at compliance with the German Sustainwww.fraport.com/responsibility in ability Code. accordance with the standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI core verThe information in our Sustainability sion) in a separate report, including the Report 2019 covers all Group activities, industry-specific additional indicators for products, and services and all companies airport operators. that are consolidated according to the regulations on financial reporting issued The selection of the report content is by the International Accounting Standards based on the regular exchange of views Board on the relevant balance sheet date with our stakeholders and a compre­ as well as any Group companies that, hensive materiality analysis. In this regard, based on their business activities, are we have defined the key topics which classified as “fundamentally environmenare significant for Fraport and positioned tally relevant”. Since it is by far the largest them in a materiality matrix according site of the Group, Frankfurt is the focus of to their importance for the stakeholders our reporting. You can find detailed inforand the Group. As part of a program, mation about our data collection in the Fraport has set objectives and perforGRI Report. mance figures for most key topics as well as defined measures for achieving the Our reports are published annually in objectives. both German and English, and cover the reporting period from January 1 to Fraport respects and supports the ten December 31 of the year concerned. principles of the UN Global Compact, The editorial deadline for this report was develops and implements measures to April 2020. The previous report was implement them, and contributes to ­published on May 8, 2019. 1) Where the statements made in this document relate to the future rather than the past, these statements are based on a number of assumptions about future events and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and which could have the effect that the actual results will differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the competitive environment in deregulated markets, regulatory changes, the success of business operations, and a substantial deterioration in the underlying economic conditions in the markets in which Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and its Group companies operate. Readers are cautioned not to rely to an inappropriately large extent on statements made about the future. Fraport Sustainability Report 2019 Imprint 91 Imprint Publisher Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide 60547 Frankfurt am Main Germany Telephone: +49 (0) 180 6 3724636 1) Website: www.fraport.com Contact Investor Relations Telephone: +49 (0) 69 690-74840 Fax: +49 (0) 69 690-74843 Website: www.fraport.com/responsibility Email: responsibility@fraport.de Concept and Design MPM Corporate Communication Solutions, Mainz www.mpm.de Photography adobestock/elxeneize adobestock/Rawpixel.com Frank Blümler Andreas Reeg plainpicture/Rudi Sebastian Oliver Rösler, oro-photography Photo archive, Fraport AG Printing Kern GmbH, Bexbach Publication Date May 2020 Editorial Deadline April 2020 1) 20 cents (€) per call from a German landline; maximum 60 cents (€) per call from a German cell phone. Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide Finance & Investor Relations 60547 Frankfurt am Main Germany www.fraport.com
