There’s strength in mutual support Annual Report & Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 1 Welcome to our Annual Report and Accounts 2020 This year, we’ve truly proved the strength that comes from being a mutual. From the smaller, everyday things, to working through the recent challenging times, we’ve supported each other. Our colleagues have gone above and beyond what we could ever ask of them, and our members have stood beside them. We are stronger together. And we are still building society, nationwide. Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Other information An overview of how we’ve done How we are governed, what items Key risks that could affect our Our audited financial statements, Including our annual this year, our strategy and how are discussed in our Board and business performance and what related notes and our independent business statement. we measure our performance. Committee meetings and how we do to manage them. auditor’s report. 321 Annual business 3  What your Society has we pay our directors. 135 Managing risk 220 Independent statement achieved this year 51 Board of directors 138 Principal risks and uncertainties auditor’s report 324 Underlying profit 4  Our mutual difference 55 Nationwide Leadership Team 141 Credit risk 233 Income statements 324 Forward looking is our business model 57 Report of the directors 234 Statements of statements 183 Liquidity and funding risk 5 Chairman’s letter on corporate governance comprehensive income 324 Glossary 194 Solvency risk 7  Chief Executive’s 108 Report of the directors 235 Balance sheets 325 Index review including 200 Market risk on remuneration 236 Statements of movements performance updates 207 Pension risk 130 Directors’ report in members’ interests 25  How we think about 209 Business risk and equity our members and other 210 Model risk 238 Cash flow statements stakeholders when 212 Operational and conduct risk 239 Notes to the financial making decisions 27 Committed to doing statements the right thing 39 Risk overview 41 Financial review Annual Report and Accounts 2020 2 Strategic Strategic report report 3  What your Society has Governance achieved this year 4  Our mutual difference is our business model 5  Chairman’s letter Risk report 7  Chief Executive’s review including performance updates 25 How we think about our members and other stakeholders when making decisions 27 Committed to doing the right thing Financial statements 39 Risk overview 41 Financial review The Strategic report has been approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by: Joe Garner 28 May 2020 Other information Charlie and Harrison, members since 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3 What your Society has achieved this year Strategic report No.1 for customer satisfaction 1st UK’s most trusted Banking Brand of the Year 2019 Aw ards 2019 amongst our peer group1 financial brand 2 Ba nk in g Ye a r for the third year B ra n d o f th e Governance 16.3 million Helped more than 1 in 6 More than 1 in 6 members 2019: 15.9 million first-time buyers into a home of their own current account switchers came to us 3 2019: 1 in 5 2019: 1 in 5 Risk report £469 £466 million million £715 million member financial benefit, 4.7% underlying profit statutory profit from incentives and better pricing UK leverage ratio than the market average4 2019: 4.9% 2019: £788 million 2019: £833 million Financial statements 2019: £705 million Made a We awarded We will help members £1 billion loan fund available to £5.5 million in grants to 135 charitable stay in their homes where they are in financial difficulty caused by Covid-196 incentivise greener homes5 housing projects across the UK Other information 1 Lead at March 2020: 5.4%pts, March 2019: 4.8%pts. © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending 31 March 2020 and 12 months ending 31 March 2019. c.51,000 adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). 2 Nationwide Brand Guidance Study compiled by an independent research agency, based on customer and non-customer responses for the 12 months ending March 2020. Financial brands included Nationwide, Barclays, Co-operative Bank, First Direct, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, TSB and Santander. 3 Pay.UK monthly CASS data. 12 months to March 2020: 17.2%; 12 months to March 2019: 21.5%. 4 See page 43 for more information on member financial benefit. 5 See page 12 for more information on our green strategy. 6 Nationwide has committed not to repossess any homes over the next 12 months. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 4 Our mutual difference is our business model Strategic report Our building society was founded to help people save and buy homes of their own. We continue to be driven by this same social purpose – to build society, nationwide. Our mutual difference is what defines us, our values and how we do business. We’re A safe home for here to support our members – people who have their mortgages, savings or current Member-owned our members’ money Governance accounts with us – with their financial goals, wherever they are in life, whether that’s: We’re owned by our members and information • owning a home – this year, we helped one in six first-time buyers into a home; and run for their benefit. We’re dependable and our • saving for the future – we look after almost £1 in every £10 saved in the UK; Our members’ interests shape members can trust us with their • helping with their day-to-day finances – one in ten of the UK’s current accounts everything we do, and we want them money and information. are with us1 and more than one in six switchers came to us this year2; or to be part of something special. Around two-thirds of our funding • helping them live better in retirement – we were the first high street provider comes from our members trusting to offer a comprehensive range of later life mortgages. us with their money. We also support those who rely on the private rental sector for their long-term Risk report housing needs, and are taking positive action to improve this sector (see page 29). Attracting, Our specialist buy to let lending business diversifies our income streams and developing and supports better savings rates for our members. Building society retaining talent. Being owned by and run for our members, we can make decisions differently and investing in the future We look to recruit the right people with Helping people into a home from our competitors, and we consider our members in every decision we make: Our decisions are guided by what is the right skills We’re here to help people into • we don’t have shareholders and so we don’t need to pursue profits to pay important to our members, and we act and values. places fit to call home – whether Financial statements them dividends. Instead, we balance our need to retain sufficient profit to responsibly and in a sustainable way. that’s owning or renting. remain a safe and secure home for our members’ money, with choosing We invest so our service is As a building society, at least to forgo some of our profits to: amongst the best in the UK; we We think 75% of our lending is on give better long-term rates and service to our members; and support local communities; and residential property. invest so that our services and product propositions continue to meet we try to make a difference about profits the needs and expectations of our existing and prospective members; on issues that matter. differently • we have a low-risk approach to lending; We balance our need to be • we measure our success on things that matter to our members: service, profitable with delivering value Other information value and financial strength (see page 11); and to our members. • we’re committed to giving 1% of each year’s pre-tax profits to charitable activities. This year, we delivered £715 million in financial We’re also committed to acting responsibly and in a sustainable way to support our future members benefit to our members through higher incentives and wider society. For more information on how we’re doing this, see pages 12 and 27 to 36. and better pricing than the market average. We’re different. And we do business differently. 1 CACI (February 2020). 2 Pay.UK monthly CASS data. 12 months to March 2020: 17.2%; 12 months to March 2019: 21.5%. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 5 as the country will need to support the many individuals, families and communities for whom life after the coronavirus will Strategic report undoubtedly be very challenging. A Although the coronavirus emerged in the UK towards the end letter of our 2019/20 financial year, it impacted our results for the year and will impact how we think about the future. I would like to give the Board’s perspective on all the Society has achieved in the last 12 months and what we will focus on over the next year. The Board is responsible for the long-term sustainability of the Society, for protecting our culture and values, and for governance. Governance At the heart of our long-term sustainability is the strategic plan from David Roberts which we put in place three years ago. This affirmed our strong belief in our mutuality, reinforced our desire to put the interests of members at the heart of our decision making, and outlined Your Society’s Chairman how the Society would evolve to remain relevant to members in our fast-changing world. Our strategy put us on a growth path – we have more members, Risk report Dear fellow member, higher mortgage balances and higher retail deposits. We have continued to provide great service and value to our members, At the time of writing in May 2020, the spread of the coronavirus while investing in our future and communities. has upended lives and communities, both through its direct impact Being member-owned, and having built significant capital strength in recent years, we have been able to choose to forgo on the health of our fellow citizens, and through the measures taken higher levels of profit so we could deliver enhanced service to by the government to prevent its spread. members and invest in our future. Financial statements We are proud of what we have achieved. However, since we set We have responded by implementing a range of measures to help our strategy in 2016, the outlook for the UK has changed radically. Bank base rate has fallen to a historic low, we have left our 16 million members. the EU and we face major uncertainties over the economic impact of the coronavirus. Maintaining financial strength By the end of April, we had supported over 280,000 borrowers and understanding, such as only contacting us for essential business Other information The unprecedented low interest rates and the difficult economic with payment holidays and interest free periods on overdrafts, and using our digital services more, have helped us protect stretched environment places significant pressure on all retail financial and we have put in place a support package to help mortgage resources. I would like to thank everyone for their amazing efforts. services businesses and Nationwide is no exception. members to keep their homes if they are in financial difficulty. In these challenging times, we are reminded of the human ties In our 2019/20 financial results, lower profits reflected active Our colleagues have responded fabulously, maintaining an essential that ultimately bind us all. As we emerge from the crisis, I hope choices to deliver more value to members, investment in the service often in very difficult circumstances. Our members’ support this spirit of mutual kindness and consideration will continue, long-term future of the Society, the costs of settling legacy PPI Annual Report and Accounts 2020 6 Chairman’s letter (continued) claims, and the initial impact of the coronavirus. We recognised Governance and oversight the scheme. Scheme members will retain all the benefits they £101 million to cover the increase in expected credit losses have built up in the scheme, and future contributions will go into The Board continues to maintain its strong governance and Strategic report associated with the impacts of the coronavirus as the economy our market-leading defined contribution scheme. enters a challenging period. oversight of the Society. Board changes: We have a strong Board, with a mix of established As a result, the Board has adjusted its priorities for the Society We have always considered the impact of our decisions on our and newer directors providing the right combination of continuity over the next year. members, colleagues, and wider society because we believe this and challenge to the Society. In the last year, and after over 8 years We will continue to focus on keeping our finances strong and is good business practice. For many years, we have hosted on the Board, Lynne Peacock retired as Senior Independent building operational resilience. Our UK leverage ratio and our Member TalkBacks to listen to the views of our members. We also Director (SID), as did Mitchell Lenson, who had served as a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio are comfortably above regulatory have an extensive programme to listen to the views of our non-executive director for a similar period. Mark Rennison also requirements. employees. This year, we are required to report on how we fulfil retired after 12 years as the Society’s Chief Financial Officer and our responsibilities under section 172 of the Companies Act and Tony Prestedge, our deputy CEO, resigned to take up a senior Governance As the interest rates on mortgages have fallen, we have had to post elsewhere after 12 years with the Society. you can read about this on page 25. take the painful decision to adjust downwards the interest we are able to pay to our savings members in order to protect our While we have had to suspend our TalkBacks as a result of the I would like to thank them all for their commitment and wise interest margin. coronavirus, we will reinstate them as soon as practicable. In the counsel to the Society. Baroness Usha Prashar will retire from meantime, members can still connect with us online, via Member the Board at the AGM, but we are very pleased she has agreed In addition, the Board is clear we will have to reduce our costs if Connect. As a result of the ongoing outbreak of Covid-19, physical to continue to work with the Society supporting our diversity we are to be able to sustain our market leading proposition. attendance in person will not be possible at this year’s AGM on and community programmes. In the current economic environment, the profit considerations 16 July. We nonetheless encourage members to participate by We are delighted that Kevin Parry, a director since 2016, has in our financial performance framework that guided past Risk report voting online or by post and by submitting questions in advance. succeeded Lynne as Senior Independent Director, and that decisions are no longer appropriate. By focusing instead on This year’s AGM will be live streamed online on the day of the Chris Rhodes, an experienced accountant and an executive maintaining a strong capital position and liquidity through the economic cycle, we will be able to continue to provide meeting. For further details please refer to the Notice of AGM 2020 director since 2009 succeeded Mark as Chief Financial Officer. competitive products and excellent service, and to support our which will be published on nationwide.co.uk on 10 June 2020. We were also pleased to welcome Phil Rivett, a very experienced members through the difficult times ahead. former PwC partner specialising in financial services, as a Pay policy: We continued to balance pay restraint with our duty non-executive director. Protecting our culture and values to attract people with the right expertise to run a major financial Financial statements business. In these challenging times our CEO, Joe Garner has Mutual support: a thriving membership Our culture of mutuality, and our values, remain at the heart of voluntarily taken a 20% cut in combined base salary and pension and strong Society our Society. We continue to be driven by our social purpose, to for 2020/21, and the non-executive directors have volunteered We are in a period where we, our members and society more build society, nationwide, and are committed to doing this to donate 20% of their net fees from June to December of this generally are facing significant challenges, as we have done in a responsible and sustainable way. This has never been more year to Shelter, to help support vulnerable people impacted by periodically throughout our 136-year history. important as we seek to support our members as the United Covid-19. Given the impact of the pandemic on our members Kingdom recovers from the scourge of the pandemic. and broader society, we have also decided not to pay any executive We face them from a position of strength: with record membership, performance-related variable pay for the 2019/20 financial year. strong finances and a talented and committed workforce. We We established a Responsible Business Committee last year and will continue to deliver value to our members and communities, Other information have included our latest update on page 27. We continue to harmonise our pension arrangements. Pension supporting people through financial hardship, and helping them With climate issues in the spotlight, we have taken further steps contributions for executive directors are being brought into line with realise their dreams of home ownership and financial security. to reduce our own impact and we have also made available a those available to the remainder of our people. In the long-term interests of the Society, we have made the difficult decision to Thank you for your continued support for our Society. £1 billion loan fund for preferential rate mortgages and additional borrowing for new energy efficient properties and green home close our final salary pension scheme to new contributions on David Roberts improvements. 31 March 2021, given the increasing costs and risks of maintaining Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2020 7 Shelter, to help protect their vital services during the pandemic. We believe that the character of any organisation comes very Strategic report A much to the fore in times like these, and we have been making our decisions very much with this in mind. You can read more review about our support on pages 37 to 38. The impacts of the pandemic will be felt over an extended period, but we face into this scenario from a position of considerable strength. Since we implemented our building society, nationwide strategy over three years ago, the Society has grown significantly: we from Joe Garner have attracted 1 million new members, an additional £15 billion in Governance retail deposits and £18 billion in mortgage balances since 4 April 2017. We achieved a great deal in 2019/20, and met or are on track to Your Society’s Chief Executive meet the key targets for service, value and strength that we set ourselves. Financially strong Keeping our members’ money safe and secure has always been Risk report Dear fellow member, our priority. That means making sure we are financially strong enough to weather challenging economic times, such as that The last month of our financial year was overshadowed by the caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A key measure of our coronavirus. We have prioritised protecting the health and financial strength is our UK leverage ratio, and this has exceeded our target in each of the last three years. We have also built our wellbeing of our colleagues from this terrible disease, supporting Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio to 31.9%, materially higher those members in financial difficulty, and maintaining essential than required by regulation. Financial statements The coronavirus affected the last few weeks of a year in which we services. I would like to thank our employees who have gone to made active choices to deliver more value to members through extraordinary lengths to serve our members through this time. competitive pricing and to invest for the long term. Underlying profit for the year of £469 million (2019: £788 million) reflected these choices, as well as provisions for legacy PPI claims in the first half of the year. In the last few weeks of the year, it also became The pandemic has shown how dependent we are on each other, and a promise that no mortgage member will lose their home over clear that the coronavirus would have a significant financial impact. Other information and how important it is that we work together. As a mutual, the next 12 months as a result of the coronavirus. We’ve taken steps We have made an additional provision for credit losses which are Nationwide is founded on the belief that we can achieve more to protect our employees’ physical and mental health so we can expected to rise as a result of the deteriorating economic conditions, by acting together than we can alone, and this principle is guiding maintain essential services to our members, and we’ve promised and net interest income has fallen as a result of the bank base our response to the pandemic. that everyone’s job is safe in 2020. We are paying our suppliers rate cuts. In addition, we have recognised costs associated with We are helping members in financial difficulty with interest-free early, especially smaller ones, to help them stay in business. halting our plans to launch a small business account, for which periods for overdrafts, payment holidays on mortgages and loans, We’ve also increased our support for charitable partners, like the business case is no longer viable (see Q&A below). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 8 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building legendary service We met both of our service key performance indicators (KPIs), Your questions answered Strategic report ranking 4th in the all-sector UK Customer Satisfaction Index1, We regularly hear from members at our live TalkBack events and through our online forum, and being no.1 for customer satisfaction among our peer group2. In 2019, we were proud to be named Which? Banking Brand of Member Connect. Here are some of the questions our members ask us. the Year for the third year running. Delivering value to members and communities Q Why are you no longer planning Q Why have you changed the way Members benefited from £715 million (2019: £705 million) in to offer a business account? you charge for overdrafts? member financial benefit, much higher than our target of at least A The medium-term interest rate outlook for the UK has A We were the first provider to respond to the FCA’s high £400 million. Committed members – those who have more than Governance fundamentally changed, with rates forecast to be even cost of credit review, introducing a simple rate of one product with us – grew to almost 3.6 million in the last year lower, for even longer. Entering the business banking and we are on track to meet our 2022 target of 4 million. We interest for arranged overdraft borrowing and removing market is therefore no longer commercially viable. We all unarranged overdraft fees. Along with new text alerts awarded £9.5 million to charitable activities in our communities, have returned the £50 million grant from the Banking this gives our members greater transparency on costs including £5.5 million in grants to support charitable housing projects chosen by our members. We have also made a £1 billion Competition Remedies Fund and redeployed colleagues and control over their borrowing. To help members loan fund available to help make Britain’s homes greener. involved in the launch to other roles. This was a difficult through the pandemic, we halved the overdraft interest decision for us, but the right one, and will allow us to rate for all members for three months, and offered As the full impact of the coronavirus on our business becomes focus on supporting our current members and a three-month interest-free overdraft period to those clearer, some of the targets we set ourselves may not be achieved colleagues through the immediate and longer-term struggling financially. Risk report in the short term. In particular, exceptionally low interest rates mean impact of the pandemic. we are unlikely to meet our member financial benefit target in the next financial year. With bank base rate at 0.1%, paying savings rates significantly higher than this would not be financially sustainable, nor in the long-term interests of our members or the Society. Q When will you increase Q How are you keeping your savings rates? members safe from scams? Strength in mutual support A We are acutely aware of how difficult the last decade has A Helping members keep their money safe from fraudsters Financial statements Today we, like our members, face the challenges of dealing with been for savers. As a member-owned Society, our aim has is always a priority. We use the latest technology to the social and economic impacts of the coronavirus. always been to give members the best value we can afford. monitor and protect members from fraud 24/7. Our staff In our 136-year history, we have supported our members and By keeping average deposit rates higher than the market are all trained to be vigilant against fraud and in fact staff communities through many crises and challenges. Looking average members benefited from an extra £505 million in in branches prevented at least £3.6 million in fraud ahead, we will continue to manage our Society in our members’ deposit interest last year. However, we will always be against members last year. Awareness and vigilance by shortand long-term interests, which means we will focus on limited by prevailing interest rates, which reached a new our members are also important. Information on mobile maintaining our financial strength, managing our business low after the Bank of England cut its base rate in response and digital banking fraud, fraud scams, card fraud and sustainably, and prioritising the needs of our current members, to the coronavirus. We continue to look for ways to make identity fraud is on our website, and regularly updated as as we have always done. saving rewarding to our members by, for example, new types of fraud are uncovered, for example, during the Other information Joe Garner offering special rates for members, or including prize coronavirus disruption. We also run fraud awareness Chief Executive Officer draws on certain accounts to encourage regular saving. sessions for members at our Member TalkBacks. 1 Institute of Customer Service UK Customer Satisfaction Index (UKCSI) as at January 2020. 2 Lead at March 2020: 5.4%pts, March 2019: 4.8%pts. © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending 31 March 2020 and 12 months ending 31 March 2019. c.51,000 adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 9 Chief Executive’s review (continued) How we’re building society, nationwide Strategic report We aspire to make a positive contribution to society by delivering the benefits of mutuality to more members, both Building thriving Built present and future, in a sustainable way. membership to last These aspirations are underpinned by five Governance strategic cornerstones that describe what is about deepening our relationships with our is about remaining resilient and safeguarding members and helping more members make our members’ money and information we’ll do and how we’ll do it. more of their money because... We are yet to understand fully the impact because... our members need to know that they can trust us with of Covid-19 on our strategic cornerstones. the more we can help our members, whether it’s buying a their money (and personal data) and that they can access However, our priorities remain to provide home of their own, saving for the future, managing their their money wherever and whenever they need it. everyday finances, or helping them live better in retirement, a safe and secure home for our members’ Risk report the bigger the difference we can make to their lives and To achieve this, we will... money and to deliver legendary service to to society as a whole. use our members’ money wisely and balance the profits our members. we make with delivering value to members and investing To achieve this, we will... in the future of our Society. develop our core range of products to help meet even more of our members’ financial needs, enabling us to broaden Which will mean... and deepen our relationships with our members. Financial statements we can continue to withstand future challenges and are Building a profitable, resilient and sustainable for the long term. National Which will mean... Treasure more of our members will be using at least two of Our priorities next year are to… Building our products. maintain our financial strength, whilst continuing to PRIDE progress our technology investment to help us become Our priorities next year are to… more resilient and to grow, support and protect future develop our savings range to encourage more people generations of members. Building Legendary to start to save, and support our members in buying Other information Building Service Thriving a home of their own and making more of their money Membership in later life. Last Built to Annual Report and Accounts 2020 10 Chief Executive’s review (continued) How we’re building society, nationwide (continued) Strategic report Building Building Building a legendary service PRIDE national treasure Governance is about striving to serve our members is about creating a culture where colleagues is about making a difference in our better every day can thrive, building skills and talent for the communities and society; and being future and an operating model for success recognised as a responsible and caring because... provider of financial services we value our members and they deserve the best because... service, with both the convenience of digital and a positive and energising work environment, that because... the warmth of human service. embraces inclusion and diversity, and where our we have a social purpose we believe everyone deserves colleagues are trusted to make the right decisions a place fit to call home, and that we should act in a Risk report To achieve this, we will... at the right time, will in turn benefit our members. positive and sustainable way for our future members. continue to invest in our service so that things work seamlessly for our members whether they are online, To achieve this, we will... To achieve this, we will... in a branch or on the phone to us. create a distinctive experience for our colleagues that demonstrate our brand difference by serving members’ supports their performance, learning and growth and needs in new and market-leading ways consistent with Which will mean... rewards them fairly for their contribution. our values, using our position to influence on issues our Financial statements we are recognised as a leading brand for customer members care about, and investing in local communities. service, both amongst our peers and across all sectors Which will mean... in the UK. we are recognised as one of the best places to work Which will mean... in the UK. consumers think of and trust us to meet their financial Our priorities next year are to… needs, and we contribute positively towards improving continue to support our members through the Our priorities next year are to… housing standards (including in the rental sector) uncertainty and potential financial distress caused attract, develop and retain the digital and technology talent and incentivising greener homes. by Covid-19 in the best possible way, and improve we need for the future, grow our leadership capability, our member processes, ensuring they are grow inclusion and diversity within our workforce, and Our priorities next year are to… Other information accessible for all. ensure our operating model is fit for the future and able continue our social investment to support local housing to deliver with pace and agility. projects via our Community Boards and through the Oakfield housing project, and develop our green financing initiatives. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 11 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Measuring our mutual difference Strategic report Nationwide is different from its competitors – our mutual difference means we measure our performance on the things that matter most to our members: great service, long-term value and financial strength. We seek to strike the right balance between retaining sufficient profit to maintain our financial strength, delivering value to our members now, and investing so that we can continue to meet the needs and expectations of members in the future. We are yet to understand fully the impact of Covid-19 on the coming year’s targets. However, our priorities remain to provide a safe and secure home for our members’ money and to deliver legendary service to our members. We report more broadly on our five cornerstones, that underpin how we manage our business, on pages 13 to 23. In addition to the key performance indicator (KPI) measures below, we’re committed to giving at least 1% of pre-tax profits to charitable activities, helping to make a positive difference in the communities we serve. In 2019/20, we awarded £9.5 million to charitable activities (2019: £10.6 million)1. Service Value Strength Governance Helping more members achieve their financial goals Keeping our members’ Giving our members the best service possible. and providing them with better value products. money safe and secure. We aim to be the best for customer We also want to be among the top five We’re aiming to have 10 million We aim to share at least £400 We aim to have a UK leverage satisfaction in our peer group as organisations across all sectors for engaged members by 2022, with million of value with our members ratio (a measure of our financial measured by the FRS survey, with customer satisfaction, as measured 4 million committed members who through incentives and better strength) of at least 4.5%. a lead of at least 4%pts against by the Institute of Customer use at least two of our products4. pricing than the market average5. Our UK leverage ratio of 4.7% Risk report our closest competitor. Service’s UK Satisfaction Index. We are broadly on track to We were able to share £715 million exceeded our 2020 target. Our lead of 5.4%pts2 exceeded We were 4th in January 20203, achieve our 2022 targets. of benefit with our members our 2020 target. exceeding our 2020 target. in 2020. Core products satisfaction UK CSI Engaged and committed members Member financial benefit UK Leverage ratio lead, %pts2 rank million £ million % 4th 10 705 715 4.9 4.9 4.7 4.5 8.6 8.9 9.2 9.4 4.4 Financial statements 6.7 5th= 5th 560 5.4 6th= 505 4.6 4.8 4.0 400 7th= 3.2 3.4 3.6 4 3.1 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 2022 2017 2018 2019 2020 2017 2018 2019 2020 Old peer group Minimum Actuals Minimum target Actuals Minimum target Engaged Committed target Actuals Minimum target Actuals Minimum target 1 The 1% is calculated based on average pre-tax profits over the past three years. Of the £9.5 million, £2.4 million was committed to Nationwide Foundation and £7.1 million to other social investment activities, which includes multiple Other information programmes as well as internal costs of managing this investment. For more information on these activities, see page 24. 2 © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending 31 March 2017 to 12 months ending 31 March 2020. Each data point contains customer feedback relating to the previous 12 months. c.51,000 adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). Prior to April 2017, peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >6% (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest and Santander). 3 Institute of Customer Service UK Customer Satisfaction Index (UKCSI) as at January in each year. 4 Engaged members have their main personal current account with us; a mortgage of at least £5,000; or a savings account of at least £1,000. Committed members have an engaged membership product plus at least one other product. Prior to 2018/19, the savings threshold was £5,000; prior year comparatives have been restated using the new £1,000 threshold. 5 For more information on member financial benefit see page 43. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 12 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Supporting the change for greener homes Strategic report We have made £1 billion of loan funding available to accelerate the pace of change needed to make the housing market greener and have called on the government, housebuilders and other lenders to create meaningful incentives for greener homes. Why is this important? • Becoming a member of the Green Finance Institute’s We have taken significant steps to reduce our Coalition for the Energy Efficiency of Buildings: working carbon footprint2 Governance UK homes, and the energy they use, account for 15%1 of the UK’s together to create a market for net-zero carbon, resilient carbon emissions. We believe that creating incentives for buildings in the UK, by accelerating capital flows to retrofit • Improvements in sustainability including sending zero waste consumers to improve their home’s energy efficiency will promote existing residential buildings to landfill, using 100% renewable electricity, and receiving the required change in behaviour. Government has a central role biennial accreditation of the Carbon Trust Triple Standard for • Investing in FinTech partner, Switchd whose app can to play, which could include reforming property taxation and progressively reducing and managing carbon, water and waste automatically switch a user’s energy supplier to ensure they housebuilding regulation. are always on the best deal, including greener tariffs, and • Carbon neutral from April 2020 for all energy use and Incentives for consumers are the only realistic way to help people produce a home report that will recommend energy-efficient emissions for all internal operations and our fleet vehicles, make their homes greener – and the steps we have taken will help improvements. through the offsetting of residual carbon Risk report people reduce the carbon footprint of their homes affordably and sustainably. We want the government and housebuilders to help We are also appealing to government to • Created an employee green fund to help colleagues drive more people do the same. initiatives to reduce their carbon footprint and make a positive • Commission an independent review of Council Tax to impact on the environment, across Nationwide sites. We are taking action to support members by explore how linking taxation to a home’s energy efficiency can incentivise green home improvements. • Making a £1 billion loan fund available to incentivise a reduction in the carbon footprint of Britain’s homes Financial statements by launching a new range of green mortgages that offer members a preferential rate when buying new-build EPC A-rated homes, and offering preferential rates for borrowing A up to £25,000 for green home improvements and retrofitting B • Committing to building environmentally-friendly new homes: the Oakfield housing development in Swindon, C funded by Nationwide, aims to build homes of the highest environmental standards – with an ambition to create D E Other information 239 EPC A-rated homes F G 1 Office for National Statistics – February 2020. 2 For more information on our operational journey to carbon neutral, see page 33. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 13 Helping our members Strategic report live a little better in retirement Governance Andy and Christine loved their jobs in the military, police force and NHS, but they always looked forward to retiring. They had big plans to buy a narrowboat – so that’s exactly what they did. Risk report “We’ve always loved being on the water and couldn’t wait to spend time on the boat when we retired. It’s just such a peaceful way of life.” As well as a narrowboat, they also bought themselves a trike. Financial statements “We got the trike because Christine wanted something a bit steadier than a normal motorbike with two wheels. It’s amazing. We’re looking forward to using it a lot in the future, whether it’s for long weekends in the countryside or trips to see family and friends.” With a Nationwide Lifetime Mortgage, they released equity from their home so they could afford to live the Other information life they dreamed of. “It just meant we had the money to do things the way we wanted, like buy the boat and the trike. We love our retirement. It’s so much better than we expected and life’s really, really good.” Annual Report and Accounts 2020 14 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building thriving membership As a member-owned mutual, we aspire to help our members After improving our range of mortgages last year, our buy to let Hassle-free money Strategic report build better lives for themselves, and to make a positive lending grew rapidly. contribution to society. These aspirations are underpinned by We continue to attract more current account members, with five strategic cornerstones that describe what we’ll do and how We continue to develop new propositions to meet members’ 759,000 (2019: 794,000) new accounts opened in the year, we’ll do it. We are continuing to assess the impact of the evolving housing needs, such as our comprehensive range of taking us to our long-term target of achieving a 10% share of all coronavirus on these cornerstones; however, our priorities later life mortgages, which helps older members live better in current accounts2; our share of main current accounts rose to remain the same: providing a safe and secure home for our retirement. Whilst the coronavirus meant that we had to pause 8.1%3 (2019: 8.0%). We were the no.1 net gainer of current Governance members’ money and delivering legendary service. offering these to our members, these remain an important part accounts using the Current Account Switching Service in the of our plans going forwards. nine months to December 20194. We have started rolling out a We are offering members facing financial difficulty from the new account opening journey which will give members instant coronavirus payment holidays on mortgages, loans and credit We are keen to play our part in helping the UK meet its access after opening accounts online. cards, and interest-free periods on overdrafts. We have also ambitious green targets. As homes account for 15%1 of UK pledged to keep mortgage members in financial difficulty in carbon emissions, we have made a £1 billion loan fund available We have a very strong student and youth account share of their homes over the next 12 months. for preferential rate mortgages and additional borrowing for almost 16%3 (2019: 14%), and 6,200 FlexStudent account new green homes and green home improvements. holders migrated to our FlexGraduate account last year. We work to help our members become financially secure Risk report through saving, buying a home and managing their money. In Helping people save Our personal loans and credit cards are exclusively for the three years since we launched our strategy, we’ve added members, and the great value we offer on these products has one million members, grown retail deposits by £15 billion and We look after almost £1 in every £10 saved in the UK and gained helped us grow personal lending to £3.0 billion for the first time mortgage balances by £18 billion. We have also deepened an extra £5.7 billion in deposits in the last year (2019: £6.0 (2019: £2.4 billion) and we increased the volume of active credit relationships with our members; we now have almost 3.6 billion). Members benefited from an extra £505 million in card users. million committed members – those who have two or more deposit interest last year compared with the market average. products with us – half a million more than we had in 2017. Financial statements Savings are a vital source of financial security, so we are working Helping members into homes is still our core purpose hard to encourage saving through, for example, our Pay Day Save Day campaign and by introducing prize draws on our Start We grew mortgage lending at an intentionally slower rate, with to Save and ISA accounts. We have also simplified our savings total lending of £30.9 billion (2019: £36.4 billion) and net range, introducing a member-only bond available only in lending of £2.8 billion (2019: £8.6 billion). We were true to our branches, as well as online-only products to compete with founding purpose, helping 1 in 6 first time buyers into their first digital banks. home (2019: 1 in 5), above our natural mortgage market share. Unlike others, we continued to take Help to Buy ISA applications However, the cut in bank base rate to a new historic low, right up to the November deadline, allowing future homeowners combined with the economic impact of the coronavirus, will Other information to earn a government ‘bonus’ when they buy their first home. impact the rates we can afford to pay on deposits in future. With the number of renters increasing, we continue to support landlords with buy to let mortgages through our subsidiary The Mortgage Works; this business also diversifies our income streams and supports better savings rates for our members. 1 3 CACI (Feb 2020) and internal calculations. ‘Main current accounts’ 4 Office for National Statistics – February 2020. Pay.UK monthly CASS data, 9 months to December 2019. 2 CACI (Feb 2020). includes main standard and packaged accounts. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 15 Keeping our members’ money safe Strategic report and secure We use the money our depositors save Governance with us to lend out in mortgages and loans to other members. This is how all building societies work, and is still at the core of our business model today. Two aspects of this model, and something you’ll see Risk report lots of references to throughout this report, are capital and the leverage ratio. But what are they and why are they important? Capital We need to be profitable to make sure that our Financial statements Society and our member’s money are safe and secure. We retain certain amounts of the profits we make to support current business activity, planned growth and to remain resilient to financial stress. This is called capital. The amount will vary depending on how much money we’re lending, but we need to hold onto it to make sure we’re safe and sustainable. You can find out more about how we manage it on page 194. Other information UK leverage ratio This compares how much capital we have to the assets on our balance sheet. Our regulator has set a minimum requirement of 3.6%, and our goal is to always stay comfortably above this. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 16 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Built to last Strategic report As our members trust us with their financial security, we will Underlying profit of £469 million (2019: £788) reflected these As a part of our strategic technology investment in upgrading always provide a safe home for their money, today and in the choices – to give value to members and invest in our future – our IT infrastructure and developing our digital services and future. together with the cost of legacy PPI claims, and the coronavirus data capabilities, we have continued to review the implications pandemic. We made an additional provision of £101 million for of new technology development for our existing assets, leading The Society’s finances remain strong. Our UK leverage ratio of an increase in expected credit losses, which reflects the to impairments and write-offs of technology assets of £124 4.7% (2019: 4.9%), which is a key measure of our ability to economic impact of coronavirus. Our financial results also million (2019: £115 million). reflect the reduction in net interest margin caused by the bank Governance withstand economic shocks, such as the coronavirus pandemic, is above both regulatory requirements and our own KPI target of base rate cuts in the last month of the year, and our decision to We have managed our members’ money and the Society’s at least 4.5%. Over several years we have built our Common halt our planned business banking launch. The business case for finances carefully through the challenges of low rates and Equity Tier 1 capital ratio to a level that is materially higher than entering this market is no longer commercially viable because of strong competition over the last three years. The future outlook regulatory requirements, and it stood at 31.9% at 4 April 2020 the low rate outlook and uncertain economic environment and, for the economy is very uncertain, and over the medium-term (2019: 32.2%5). while it was a difficult decision to make, our priority must be to our focus will be on retaining sufficient profits to maintain our support our current members and colleagues through this strong capital position through the economic cycle, and on As a member-owned mutual, we aim to make sufficient profit to crisis. continuing to provide competitive products and excellent maintain our financial strength and invest for the future, and we service for our members. balance these longer-term priorities with delivering great value Total costs for the year increased by 3% to £2,312 million (2019: Risk report to our members through better rates, incentives and £2,254 million), primarily as a result of a £111 million increase in As the full impact of the coronavirus pandemic on our members propositions. Our member financial benefit reached £715 million investment spend and £88 million of costs in the year and business becomes clearer, we may need to revise some of this year (2019: £705 million), as we chose to deliver as much associated with our business banking proposition, including the the targets we have set. We do not consider our financial value to our members as we could afford, exceeding our £400 impacts of our decision to halt this activity. These were partly performance framework to be appropriate in the current million minimum target. offset by a one-off gain of £104 million from the decision to economic environment and will focus our efforts on maintaining close our final salary pension scheme to future accrual on 31 our strong capital position and liquidity. Exceptionally low Our net interest income reduced by £105 million to £2,810 March 2021. interest rates mean it is unlikely we will meet our member Financial statements million (2019: £2,915 million) and our net interest margin financial benefit target next year. With bank base rate at 0.1%, moderated to 1.13% (2019: 1.22%). The reduction reflects both We continued our digital transformation, investing £360 million paying savings rates significantly higher than this would not be strong competition in the mortgage market during the year, and in 2019/20 in delivering the services and platforms that financially sustainable, nor in the long-term interests of our the unexpected bank base rate cuts in March in response to the members will want and need in the future. We are simplifying members or the Society. coronavirus. our technology, replacing our legacy digital estate with a simpler set of applications to create a modular, data-powered To ensure that all our colleagues are focused on the financial Our product volume performance was solid. We grew overall in digital platform. We are strengthening our operational sustainability of the Society, we are recalibrating our employee mortgages, savings and current accounts – but at a more resilience, building greater capacity in our payments platform bonus scheme so that a cost measure will sit alongside moderate pace, as we focused on broadening our relationships and preparing to move to a modern, cloud-hosted payments measures to deliver better service and grow our committed Other information with our members and meeting more of their financial needs. hub. This will enable us to deal with our higher membership membership in future. and transaction volumes, while also protecting our members’ money, personal information and privacy. 5 The figure for 4 April 2019 has been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 17 “Everyone is so helpful Strategic report – it feels like you’re speaking to a friend.” Governance Sarah’s been a Nationwide member since she got her very first pay cheque in 1987. “I chose Nationwide because it felt like a safe place to keep my money. Back then I used the branches a lot more, but now I love using the app. It basically feels like Risk report an extension of the great service I’d get in a branch, just on my phone.” Sarah also encouraged the rest of her family to join Nationwide. She and her husband have a joint account, and her son and daughter have their savings with us. Financial statements “We opened the kids’ savings accounts as soon as they were born, and now they put all their birthday and Christmas money in there. They recently wanted a trampoline for the garden, so all four of us clubbed together to buy it. It’s so easy for me to keep an eye on their accounts in the app too and transfer money on their behalf. Other information I love the service at Nationwide, whether it’s online, over the phone or when I pop into a branch. Everyone is so helpful – it feels like you’re speaking to a friend.” Annual Report and Accounts 2020 18 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building legendary service Strategic report We are pleased to have had one of our best years for service, Supporting our members through the coronavirus pandemic is, despite constantly rising expectations of service standards. In of course, a priority. We have long had a specialist support team 2019, for the third year running, we were named Banking Brand to help members through times of hardship and have of the Year by Which?. We have been ranked no. 1 for customer introduced a range of measures to help members experiencing satisfaction among our peer group for the eighth year6. And this financial difficulty, including payment holidays on mortgages, year we were ranked 4th in the all-sector UK Customer credit cards and loans, overdraft interest holidays, and penaltyGovernance Satisfaction Index 7, meeting our KPI target of being in the top 5. free access to fixed term savings accounts. We will continually review the support we can offer our members through this Our aim is to offer the best of human and digital interaction, so difficult period. that members can switch between branches, our digital and phone services, and know that we will be able to respond to Digital banking at your fingertips their needs seamlessly. We have 3.3 million mobile-active members, up almost 7%, Evolving our branches including almost half of current account members (2019: 41%), who typically use our app 26 times a month. The role of our branches is evolving with our members’ needs Risk report and usage. Having introduced a new branch design three years We are continually enhancing our app, which now also offers ago, we have now upgraded 200 branches, nearly a third of our instant registration, and auto-alerts on better savings rates and network. This year we are also testing new branch formats. In overdraft usage. We have achieved record satisfaction scores on Lichfield and Sheffield, we are testing a fully-staffed, techApple iOS of 4.8/5 and 4.6/5 on Android. enabled, counter-free format. In small towns such as Billingshurst, West Sussex, we are testing community ‘pop-up’ The investment we have made in building capacity and branches. We’re committed to maintaining a strong branch resilience in our systems has meant we have been able to Financial statements network, supporting our members and communities around the handle comfortably our growing transaction volumes, which country. reached 1.6 billion last year, up by 22% over the previous year. We also had the capacity to handle demand peaks with ease, Our branches and colleagues play a key role in protecting such as on Black Friday, when we handled over 7 million members from fraud, preventing at least £3.6 million in transactions – 60% higher than a typical day. attempted frauds on members which might otherwise have cost a member their life’s savings. Detailed advice on avoiding fraud ranging from romance scams to identity fraud, from card fraud to digital banking fraud, is available on our website. We have Other information also worked hard to build awareness among members of pandemic-related fraud and scams and how to avoid them. 6 © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers market share >6% (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank (Lloyds TSB prior 31 March 2013 to 12 months ending 31 March 2020. Each data point minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed to April 2015), NatWest and Santander). contains customer feedback relating to the previous 12 months. c.51,000 across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as 7 Institute of Customer Service UK Customer Satisfaction Index (UKCSI) as at adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 January 2020. sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). Prior conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile to April 2017, peer group defined as providers with main current account Annual Report and Accounts 2020 19 “There’s an amazing Strategic report culture at Nationwide.” Kath works in our Marketing team here at Governance Nationwide. And she’s also a carer for her dad who has needed full-time support for seven years. As time has gone by, her mum’s also needed help to care for both Risk report Kath’s dad and herself. “I help with driving them to and from appointments, do their food shopping as well as all their paperwork, bills and things like repairs around the house. And I juggle it all around looking after my two and Financial statements four-year-olds. Nationwide’s approach to carers like me helps enormously. There’s a carers’ network which offers lots of emotional and practical support. And we’re given five days of extra paid leave, that we can take in half hour blocks, to use for things like appointments and other caring duties. It means that I don’t have to use up my own holiday and sacrifice time with my husband Other information and kids, which makes a huge difference to me. There’s an amazing culture at Nationwide too. My manager trusts me to do my work around my caring, so I don’t have to feel guilty about having to leave suddenly to help my family.” Annual Report and Accounts 2020 20 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building PRIDE Strategic report We believe that our colleagues are at their best when they Career development Reward believe in what they do, are valued and are able to grow their own careers. Our distinctive culture and the commitment of our We’re enabling our employees to invest in developing their own Fair pay and reward remain an important part of our ethos. Like employees are reflected in our strong employee engagement careers. We’re piloting a new online learning platform and many large organisations, we have a defined benefit pension score of 77% (2019: 78%), just below the high-performing career pathways, both of which will help our employees grow scheme (for employees who joined Nationwide before 2007), benchmark of 79%. their skills and experience. and a defined contribution pension scheme (for employees Governance joining since 2007). Given the increasing costs and risks of In the Banking Standards Board’s latest cultural assessment, we Digital skills are at a premium in today’s world, and we are maintaining the defined benefit scheme, following extensive moved into the first quartile for three characteristics (respect, recruiting and re-skilling to ensure we have the right capabilities discussions with our staff union and affected employees, the reliability and resilience), from the second quartile in previous across the Society. We recruited some 350 new technology Board made the decision to close the scheme to future accrual years. ‘Honest’, ‘ethical’ and ‘trustworthy’ were the top three specialists in 2019/20 and have launched an internal on 31 March 2021. Scheme members will retain their words used by employees to describe Nationwide, and programme, StarTech, for employees who want to develop the accumulated benefits and build up future benefits in our defined employees still consider our purpose and members to be at the skills to pursue a technology career. We opened a dynamic contribution scheme, which offers employer contributions of up heart of decision-making. They also identified priorities for us to workspace in Swindon, and in 2020 are due to open a new to 16% based on an employee contribution of 7% of salary. focus on, such as encouraging employees to speak up. workspace in London which will eventually bring together over 1,500 talented tech specialists. Our Sharing in Success reward scheme continues to recognise Risk report In light of the coronavirus pandemic, we are conscious there is every employee’s contribution to our collective performance, the potential for a great deal of anxiety for our employees about Wellbeing focusing especially on the things that matter most to members. health and livelihoods. To reduce anxiety, and in line with our Further information can be found in the Report of the directors values, we’ve introduced a number of people promises We ran a Society-wide campaign to encourage employees to on remuneration. including, notably, a commitment not to make any compulsory take a proactive approach to their social, mental, physical, redundancies during 2020. emotional and financial wellbeing. We took part in a workplace wellbeing index with mental health charity, Mind, supported Putting our members and their money first Financial statements We are also redeploying colleagues who were previously Public Health England’s Every Mind Matters campaign, and engaged in developing our business banking proposition, which sponsored a unique ‘Million Minds’ tour to encourage young Rising to the challenge has been discontinued. people to have a positive dialogue about mental health. Inspiring trust Doing the right thing in the right way We have put stringent measures in place to protect our Excelling at relationships employees’ health and wellbeing during the coronavirus, while also maintaining essential services. We have reassured our employees that their jobs are secure. Most of our office-based staff are working from home, and where homeworking is not Other information feasible, we have implemented measures including split-site working, split shift working, social distancing and widespread, regular deep cleaning in all our buildings. More information on how we are supporting our colleagues at this time is set out on page 37. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 21 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building PRIDE (continued) Strategic report Inclusion and diversity We’re embedding inclusion and diversity into our key processes Our eight employee-led networks play a valuable part in our Our aim is to build an inclusive culture where everyone can be to address unintended bias and disadvantage. For example, work, helping us develop and launch initiatives such as our themselves and thrive, and for our Society to reflect the diversity we’ve reduced ‘masculine’ language in our job adverts which Carers’ Passports which help us support employees in balancing of the wider communities we serve. We describe this as our has resulted in higher applications from women in malecaring responsibilities with working life. Other activities by our inclusion mission, and it provides a strong galvanising force dominated fields. networks include introducing supportive lean-in circles and participating in Pride parades across the UK. Governance which the leadership team is committed to driving forward. We’re focused on improving our ethnic diversity, especially at We are tackling imbalances in our workforce, particularly at senior levels. To do this, we’ve introduced a new sponsorship Gender and ethnicity pay gap more senior levels, through a new inclusion and diversity programme that supports the development and career agenda headed by our Chief Operating Officer. progression of ethnic minorities and other under-represented Our 2019 mean gender pay gap is 28%, broadly the same as in groups. We’re proud to support social mobility through previous years. We voluntarily published our ethnicity pay gap We have set new diversity measures for 2028, which will be partnerships, which last year included the Marketing for the first time, and our mean gap was 17%. In both cases, the tracked and reported to our leadership team and Board. Whilst Foundation and Aspiring Solicitors. We are also building a more gap reflects the fact that we have a higher proportion of women we have made some good progress, we recognise that we have diverse future leadership with the Black Young Professional and ethnic minority employees in lower paid roles than we do in more to do and will be taking more positive action to help all our Network and Ivy House. senior roles. As outlined above, we are working hard to address Risk report employees achieve their full potential. these imbalances. We’ve joined the Valuable500 movement and put disability We’re enhancing our family-friendly policies. We’ve increased inclusion on our Board agenda. We are also working with the Gender pay is not the same as equal pay and our regular audits paid parental leave and changed our premature baby policy to British Disability Forum and our own disability network to find show that our pay policies operate fairly. Equal pay measures give extra support to parents, becoming the first financial new ways to empower disabled colleagues. the pay of men and women who are carrying out the same or services provider to be awarded the ‘Employers with Heart’ equivalent roles. charter. We also gained Foster Friendly employer status for Financial statements providing additional support to employees who foster. Gender Female Ethnicity BAME Disability Sexual orientation LGBTQ+ Our current Overall Senior Overall Senior Overall Overall Managers Managers diversity 62% 30% 11% 9% 3% 3% Other information Diversity measures Senior Senior Senior Senior Managers Overall Managers Overall Managers Overall Managers to meet 50% 15% 12% 12% 8% 4% 4% by 2028 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 22 “Having a home lets you put down roots and be Strategic report part of a community. Everyone deserves that.” Governance Robin feels really strongly about tackling housing problems. That’s why he joined our Community Board in Cambridge. Together, our colleagues and members Risk report decide which local housing projects to award grants to. They can award the projects up to £50,000 each. “Having a home is so important. It gives you a real Financial statements sense of security. And having had first-hand experience of homelessness, I want to make sure we can stop it happening to other people. The work we’re doing and the grants we’re giving are so valuable. We’re supporting projects right here in our local community, so we can see exactly who we’re helping and the difference we’re making. That means a lot.” Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 23 Chief Executive’s review (continued) Building a national treasure We aim to be a force for good in our communities. Our evictions and widened access to the rogue landlords’ database, Strategic report commitment to the mutual good underpins our social helping tenants avoid unscrupulous landlords. We have also investment programme. This is funded by a donation of 1% of launched Landlord Lifeguard, a digital information platform to pre-tax profits, as decided by members back in 2007. In help landlords understand their obligations and provide better 2019/20, this funding amounted to £9.5 million homes to renters. (2019: £10.6 million) and was split between our own social investment programme and the Nationwide Foundation, an Bringing empty homes back into use would reduce the shortage Governance independent charity that we set up and fund. of homes, so we have sponsored the campaign by Action on Empty Homes aiming to bring 226,000 empty homes back into We track how well we are trusted and recognised as a brand as use. We are also campaigning for a new £185 million fund to a proxy for our success and are proud to be the UK’s most refurbish empty homes. trusted financial brand8. This year, we’ve also responded to the clear and urgent need to make Britain’s homes greener. As housing currently accounts Everyone deserves a place fit to call home for around 15%9 of the UK’s carbon emissions, we have made a £1 billion loan fund available to reduce the carbon footprint of Housing is the main focus of our social investment, in line with Risk report Britain’s homes. Preferential rate mortgages and additional our founding purpose. borrowing will, we hope, provide an incentive to members and developers to invest in more sustainable homes. We have also Over the last three years, we’ve established Community Boards called for reforms to council tax to incentivise sustainable across the country to award grants to local housing projects. homes, and for other lenders to offer discounted mortgages on We’ve awarded over £5.5 million (2019: £4.2 million) in grants EPC A-rated homes. You can read more about our green in the last year alone, to support 135 charitable housing projects strategy on page 12. chosen by local members. Financial statements In Swindon, where we are funding a new, not for profit sustainable housing community, we received planning permission for the development, purchased the land, appointed contractors and have broken ground. We hope the Oakfield development might in future be a blueprint for others to help find solutions to the housing crisis. With many members living in privately rented homes, we’ve been successfully campaigning for several years for better rental Other information standards. In the last year, our influence has helped end no-fault 8 Nationwide Brand Guidance Study compiled by an independent research Co-operative Bank, First Direct, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, TSB agency, based on customer and non-customer responses for the 12 months and Santander. ending March 2020. Financial brands included Nationwide, Barclays, 9 Office for National Statistics – February 2020. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 24 Chief Executive’s review (continued) The Nationwide Foundation Strategic report The Nationwide Foundation is an independent charity set up by the Society in 1997. Each year, we give 1% of Nationwide’s pre-tax profits to good causes, of which a quarter is donated to the Nationwide Foundation – £2.4 million in 2019/20. The Nationwide Foundation believes that everyone in the UK should have access to a decent home that they can afford, so it funds and supports three programmes to help make this happen. Governance 1 Nurturing ideas to change the housing system – supporting new and emerging solutions to help create truly affordable homes The Nationwide Foundation funded the Affordable Housing Commission, an independent, non-partisan group, bringing together 15 key players from across the housing world. The Commission has come up with recommendations for what needs to be done to ensure that housing costs aren’t out of reach, including calling for a new definition of affordable housing, linked to what people can truly afford. Risk report 2 Backing community-led housing – helping local people take control of their housing The Nationwide Foundation supports communities to build the affordable homes they need. Financial statements As a way to strengthen the case for community-led housing, the Nationwide Foundation funded the Wales Co-operative Centre to look at how living in co-operative and communityled homes improves the lives of the people living there. This research found that residents were less lonely, had better mental health and were more likely to be able to get a job. 3 Transforming the private rented sector – making sure private tenants have secure, affordable and decent homes Other information Too often, decisions about housing are made without the voices of tenants being heard. By funding tenants’ groups across the UK, the Nationwide Foundation is making sure that tenants’ voices are heard by those in power when decisions are being made that will make a difference to their lives. As part of the Nationwide Foundation’s support, tenants’ groups meet to share best practice and consider how they can make change happen at a local level. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 25 How we think about our members and other stakeholders when making decisions At the heart of our mutual purpose is the need to engage, consult and act in the needs of our members, employees and other stakeholders. This statement Strategic report outlines how we do this for each stakeholder group, with examples of some key decisions made during the year and how the Board was engaged on these. Section 172(1) statement How we engage with employees Regulators This section of the Strategic report forms our section 172(1) We value our employees, their commitment and their We recognise the importance of open and continuous disclosure, describing how the the directors considered the contribution to fulfilling our purpose of building society, dialogue with our regulators and seek to maintain the highest matters set out in section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006. nationwide. To maintain Nationwide as a great place to work, possible regulatory standards, to protect and enhance the This also forms the directors’ statement required under we engage with employees throughout the year to integrity of the UK financial system and ensure fair outcomes section 414CZA of The Companies Act 2006. Although understand what they really value. We provide a variety of for our members. Engagement with our regulators typically Governance Nationwide, as a building society, is not required to follow the ways to gather their insights and feedback on their takes the form of regular and ad hoc meetings attended by Companies Act 2006, we seek to apply its requirements experiences. These include dialogue with employees through Board and Nationwide Leadership Team members. Topics where appropriate. our employee networks, the Nationwide Group Staff Union covered are wide-ranging and over the financial year have (NGSU) and external surveys such as the Mind Wellbeing included operational resilience, the ability to respond to a The directors have acted, in good faith, to promote the Index. financial stress, structural mitigation and industry-wide success of Nationwide for the benefit of its members as a reviews of business continuity and incident management. whole. The information below summarises how the directors Employees are critical to the services provided by the Society have engaged with key stakeholder groups, and further and employee engagement is regularly discussed, including Communities information is included on pages 69 to 76 of the Governance presentations to the Board on the results of ‘Viewpoint’, our As a building society, we believe in supporting people in their annual engagement survey. To further promote engagement Risk report report. communities. This includes housing, and our view is that between the Board and employees, Mai Fyfield was appointed regenerating local areas by working with local people will How we engage with members as the designated non-executive director with specific create real communities. In line with the member vote in responsibilities for the employee voice in the boardroom. In 2007, the Society continues to invest at least 1% of its pre-tax As a mutual organisation, members are the owners of addition, we participated in the Banking Standards Board’s profits to support good causes, focusing on the belief that Nationwide, and we encourage them to share their views, in latest cultural assessment survey, where our employees said ‘everyone deserves a place fit to call home’. In addition, over person, online or via other channels, on the overall direction we put our purpose and our members at the heart of our the last three years, we have established Community Boards of the business. We recognise that in order to achieve longdecision making, and that we are ‘honest, ethical and across the country to award grants to local housing projects. Financial statements term success, it is critical to understand the needs of our trustworthy’. members, now and in the future. Investors How we engage with other stakeholders We are active in wholesale funding markets, engaging in the We held a number of events across the country, giving issuance of debt securities and other financial instruments to members the opportunity to meet board directors and senior Suppliers wholesale investors. Certain financial instruments contribute management. We include members in other activities, for We recognise the key role our suppliers play in helping us run towards the Society's loss absorbing capital, helping to example deciding how our community grants are allocated our business and deliver quality service for our members. The ensure that Nationwide is built to last. The Society maintains via our Community Boards programme. The AGM, however, is Board annually reviews and approves the Society’s Modern an active dialogue with existing and potential investors the key event at which members can have their say and vote Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement which sets out the through an extensive investor relations programme. on important issues. As a result of the ongoing outbreak of Society’s efforts and actions to eliminate modern slavery in its Other information Covid-19, physical attendance in person will not be possible at supply chain. To support our suppliers and protect their cash Other this year’s AGM. We nonetheless encourage members to flow during the Covid-19 pandemic, we have reduced the The Board and senior management also engage with other participate by voting online or by post and by submitting time it takes to pay them, targeting 10 working days. stakeholders on certain issues. Such stakeholders include questions in advance. This year’s AGM will be live streamed intermediaries, tax authorities and the media. online on the day of the meeting. We will also be hosting an online Member TalkBack on the following day. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 26 How we think about our members and other stakeholders when making decisions (continued) Responding to Covid-19 value to members, investing in the future and standing by our the market shifts from defined benefit to defined contribution high streets. We need to make sufficient profit to protect the pensions. With life expectancies increasing and there no As a business originating from a social purpose, we remain financial security of the Society from whatever lies ahead. longer being a clear transition from working to retirement, Strategic report committed to doing the right thing. This has been brought to As a result of intensifying economic pressures, and taking there was an emerging set of new and changing needs the fore with the recent Covid-19 pandemic. The impacts of into account the long-term interests of the Society, the Board required for this underserved sector of the population. Covid-19 for our key stakeholders have been significant and made the decision to close the Society’s defined benefit Recognising this need, a proposition that provided long-term the repercussions will be felt for a long time to come. scheme to future accrual on 31 March 2021. Following this, value and good quality advice, protecting both the needs of from April 2021 all employees will be offered membership of members and Nationwide alike, was explored. You can find out out how Nationwide has supported its key the Society’s market leading defined contribution scheme. stakeholders through the Covid-19 pandemic on pages 37 to The Board, on considering the proposition and associated 38. This was an important decision for the Board to make and in risks, made the decision to develop a later life proposition doing so it consulted with a range of stakeholders over an that would initially enable those newly retired to have access Governance Engagement in action extended period of time to ensure that the decision was to credit and advice on the range of lending options directly made with care and consideration for the potential impact of through Nationwide mortgage consultants. Nationwide The Board is responsible for setting a clear strategy and the change. The Society sought to not only comply with regularly engaged with the FCA during the development of direction, ensuring the long-term success and sustainability regulation, market practice and employment law, but also the proposition to demonstrate how the Society was planning of the Society. In making decisions, the Board considers the adopted a ‘Nationwide’ approach to how the changes were to meet the lending needs of members through the outcome of relevant stakeholder engagement, as well as the consulted upon and would be implemented. This was evident proposition. need to maintain a reputation for high standards of business in the long notice period before implementation, the close conduct, the need to act fairly and the long-term working arrangement with the Nationwide Group Staff Union In April 2019, a pilot commenced, initially for existing consequences of its decisions. and the support provided for affected employees. members looking to switch their borrowing into a later life product. The proposition was met with enthusiasm by Risk report The following case studies provide some examples of key The Board members, both individually and together, consider members and research showed that many members aged decisions taken by the Board, and how stakeholder interests that they have acted in good faith, and in a way most likely to over 55 wished to stay in their homes and use their have been taken into account. promote the success of the Society for the benefit of its properties to access funds otherwise unavailable to them. members as a whole. Borrowing needs included extending existing lending to Pension fund closure ensure long-term affordability, home improvements to ensure Later life lending proposition a property was fit for purpose, gifting amounts to family At Nationwide, we recognise the importance of helping our members to support them in a time of need, and debt Financial statements employees plan for their future, and the vital role that Nationwide aims to support members at all life stages and in consolidation. pensions play in building a retirement income. 2018, given the significant number of members in or approaching retirement, we undertook research to ascertain After a successful pilot, the Board approved the proposition to Nationwide maintains two main pension schemes: a defined how their needs could be best met to support their lifestyle provide re-mortgage facilities for both existing and new later benefit scheme called the Nationwide Pension Fund (NPF) throughout retirement. life members. Nationwide continues to be committed to and a defined contribution scheme. All new employees have meeting members needs throughout their lives and the joined the defined contribution scheme since 2007 when the We identified that there was limited ability to lend to people proposition is continually reviewed to ensure it continues to NPF was closed to new joiners (currently 1 in 4 of our people entering retirement and there was a need to help members support members in retirement. remain in the NPF). access the equity in their property to support their home, money and lifestyle requirements, in the approach to and Other information The Board constantly reviews the financial position of through retirement. We were also aware of potential Nationwide and seeks to make balanced choices, delivering shortfalls in retirement income and easy access to advice as Annual Report and Accounts 2020 27 Committed to doing the right thing Strategic report As a business originating from a social purpose and run with mutuality at its heart, responsible governance and a focus on social and environmental betterment are embedded in our core purpose. Responsible behaviour, integrity, and contributing to society Governance have always been integral to who we are and what we do Over the last year, we have continued to reinforce our purpose of building society, nationwide, by enhancing our governance and approach to responsible business. Our newly formed Responsible Business Committee, chaired by our Chief Strategy Officer, focuses on the social and Risk report environmental impact we have, the way we operate, the financial support and work opportunities we offer, and the people and communities we touch. We are committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our strong purpose aligns with several of these. Using a materiality assessment to help inform where we focus our efforts Financial statements At our core, we are committed to actively doing good for our employees, our members and the communities we serve. There is a clear and close natural fit with some of the SDGs through the nature of our work, but we want to make the biggest difference possible to the areas that matter most to the people we serve. Feedback from our recent materiality assessment, which includes views from members, non-members, colleagues, suppliers, and investors, has been used to ensure we focus and report on those Other information things that matter most to those we impact, and who impact on us. Our strong purpose directly supports the global external goals While we pay heed to all SDGs, we will continue to focus on those that are most closely aligned to our mutual purpose of building society, nationwide. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 28 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Strategic report SDG 1 – No poverty Statement from Joe Garner, Chief Executive We take positive action against homelessness and Nationwide Building Society was founded on a social purpose, to ‘improve living conditions for the industrious classes’, and we actively pursue initiatives to enhance financial inclusion are still guided by that purpose today. As a building society owned by our members, it is imperative we are striving to do the right and support, and above all protect our members’ money thing in a responsible way, whether for our employees, members, wider society, or the environment. In 2019, we declared our SDG 10 – Reduced inequalities commitment to the UN Global Compact and I am pleased to confirm we are reaffirming our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact which are categorised into the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Governance We are working to reduce economic inequality and seek to ensure everyone has access to good and secure In our annual Communication on Progress set out below, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the housing, finances and work opportunities Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information using our primary channels of communication. SDG 11 – Sustainable cities and communities In addition to building new, EPC-A community homes, we have pledged to keep our branches open for a fixed period to support the high street SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production Risk report We maintain the Carbon Trust Triple Standard, send Human rights: UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress no waste to landfill, recycle our office equipment and doing the right thing for our members source food locally We have set out the actions and strategies we are taking to and the way we do business SDG 13 – Climate action advance the principles of the UN Global Compact1: Internally, our energy use and business miles from The United Nations recognises human rights as ‘rights inherent to our own fleet are carbon neutral (scope 1 and 2), and Human Rights: all human beings, regardless of race, sex, nationality, ethnicity, doing the right thing for our members language, religion, or any other status. Human rights include the Financial statements our green propositions will help members to reduce the carbon footprint of their homes and the way we do business right to life and liberty, freedom from slavery and torture, freedom of opinion and expression, the right to work and education, and many more.’ Labour: doing the right thing for our employees We are committed to ensuring that the way we go about our The United Nations Global Compact business, and the products and services we offer, do not impinge on the rights of others. Aside from our regulatory obligation Environment: The UN Global Compact is a call to organisations to align to tackle the risk of slavery and human trafficking2, we believe doing the right thing for the environment strategies and operations with universal principles on human everyone should have access to stable finances, a safe home and Other information and its impact on our members rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions a good job. We provide training for our member-facing colleagues that advance societal goals. As a signatory of the Global Compact, to equip them to identify customers who might need additional we have reinforced our commitment to social and environmental Anti-corruption: support as a result of vulnerability. And we continually look to sustainability, and our shared responsibility for a better world. doing the right thing to prevent crime implement initiatives to protect the financial and housing interests of our members. 1 unglobalcompact.org.uk/the-ten-principles 2 nationwide.co.uk Slavery and human trafficking statement Annual Report and Accounts 2020 29 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Ensuring human rights are met through our supply chain IncomeMax and Careercake: We work with community interest Committed to represent and protect the rights and interests Our procurement process: It is important that our 1,300 suppliers company, IncomeMax, to help members in financial difficulty find of our members for a fair and beneficial service Strategic report represent the Society and demonstrate a commitment to our ways to increase income, reduce bills and access charitable grants. Responsible products and services: Our propositions are mutual values, ethics, policies and standards. Nationwide’s IncomeMax can also assist members by calling government designed around our members’ needs, both now and in the Supplier Code of Practice3 (the Code) defines our expectations to departments, helping to complete claim forms, and resolving future. We apply our core values when designing our services and respect the values and human rights of their employees, to never incorrect benefit decisions. Since working with Nationwide, propositions: long-term value, convenience and care, recognising use child, forced, or involuntary labour, and to ensure working IncomeMax has helped members access over £1 million of extra loyalty and building trust. This enables us to design propositions hours are within local regulations and industry practices. income5. And our partnership with Careercake, means we can that are of mutual benefit and mutual good for all. Employees must be free to join, or decide not to join, worker help those struggling to find employment with CV building, organisations, and must be provided with clear disciplinary and interview advice and help identifying roles. We want our products and services to do more than give our grievance procedures. We are currently updating this Code to members fair outcomes; we want to be sure they are built to last. Open Banking for Good: Leveraging our expertise and relationships, Governance ensure continued alignment with industry best practice. Our Conduct and Compliance Committee provides senior we convened experts from charities and government organisations oversight of our Initiative Development Framework, the Ensuring people’s right to financial inclusion and security, to identify real challenges faced by the financially squeezed and framework that governs the design of all our propositions. We and the right to a home launched and led a process with FinTech start-ups to solve these. have policies and clear guidance on changing and withdrawing We funded them to work alongside experts from charities and products and services, and always carefully consider the possible We take our responsibility to safeguard the financial stability of Nationwide to adopt a collaborative approach that was committed outcomes for members. our members very seriously, whether wealthy, financially squeezed, or in a poverty trap. This is a responsibility we have met to generating learning throughout. This program has successfully delivered Open Banking powered solutions to issues relating to To ensure we are always delivering exceptional and compliant with a range of initiatives, from nudges to help with saving products and services, we speak to a sample of members to follow techniques, to public campaigns and social innovation income and expenditure, smoothing of irregular income, support Risk report for money management and help with mental health. up on outcomes using ‘outcome calls’, to confirm whether the programmes. Our CEO, Joe Garner, now co-chairs the ‘Inclusive products or services members signed up for are suitable and Economy Partnership’ Financial Capability and Inclusion Steering We continue to work with the five FinTechs to scale their solutions for our members and the wider market. Our approach to social understood. We undertake regular ‘deep dive’ activity along Committee, a partnership of business, government and civil member journeys, including Mystery Shops, to ensure they are society that aims to tackle some of the UK’s most pressing social innovation is unique and is one we are committed to sharing with all interested parties, as we have done with government, well designed and operating effectively. And we assess the and economic problems. In particular, through the ‘24x24’ charitable foundations and other financial services organisations performance of our employees in their interactions with our campaign the committee is seeking to improve the financial lives committed to social responsibility. members. These activities help to hold us to account for the of the 24 million people who are financially squeezed and Financial statements standards we have committed to, and ensure we are demonstrating struggling. As a partnership, we are working together to improve Specialist support service: Launched in 2015 with Macmillan our PRIDE values. We don’t allow local sales incentive schemes the effectiveness of digital tools to improve financial capability. Cancer Support, a member who is considered in need of specialist and regularly assess performance to ensure we are not operating This includes increasing the availability of appropriate affordable support can be referred to our support service. The specially detrimental sales or reward practices. credit and improving debt collection practices across multiple trained team helps members assess and manage their finances industries, including government. and the products they hold, to help them understand the choices Responsible marketing: We want to ensure our members can Rented housing: Everyone has the right to a comfortable and available to them. Should members need other types of support, make informed choices about their finances, so we provide secure home, whether they rent or own. We are taking positive the team can guide them to the right place, such as a charity. balanced information about the risks, benefits and pricing of our action to improve the private rental sector, working with Working with Macmillan Cancer Support, with access to their products and services – consistently, clearly and without jargon. Other information government and industry to influence changes to tenure security financial guidance service and grants programme, has opened To assure this, the creation, approval and distribution of member and the tenancy deposit process, while also helping landlords the option to unlock further financial support for our members. communications is overseen by the Risk, Governance and Controls meet their responsibilities and raise standards, beginning with Since its launch, the service has evolved to support over 23,000 team. Our Chief Product and Marketing Officer is accountable for an easily accessible information portal4. members with many different needs, as well as providing producing, controlling and distributing marketing materials and a helpline to support colleagues with their queries. communications, and works across the Society along with our 3 nationwide.co.uk – Nationwide supplier portal Risk, Governance and Controls team to resolve any issues. 4 landlordlifeguard.co.uk 5 nationwide.co.uk – IncomeMax working with Nationwide Annual Report and Accounts 2020 30 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Branch promise: We have pledged to retain a branch in any town Labour: through various employment types: directly employed individuals, or city where we currently have a presence until at least May 2021. doing the right thing for our employees contractors, temporary workers and partner suppliers. We have Strategic report We know branches are still important to our members, with made great progress over the last financial year, decreasing our around 38%6 of current account openings still happening in a We have a talented and engaged workforce and make every effort reliance on contingent workers (such as contractors and branch. To make the branch experience even better for our to protect their rights, freedoms and wellbeing. consultants) from 10% to 7% of total headcount, and increasing members, we’ve updated over 200 branches since 2017, Living wage: We are a principal partner of the Living Wage our permanent capability. combining comfortable spaces for face-to-face conversations with Foundation, an accredited Living Wage Employer, and an advisory We offer our directly employed workforce various contractual the latest technology, as part of our ongoing £350 million branch board member. The Living Wage ensures access to, at a minimum, arrangements. Full-time employees are typically contracted for a investment. We are confident that we are doing the right thing for basic living costs, and applies to all colleagues, contractors and 35-hour week, spread over a five or six-day week from Monday to our members, with a branch customer satisfaction rate of 89%7. suppliers who work on our sites. We voluntarily commit to paying Saturday. A total of 25% of our workforce have opted for part-time In addition, 85% of surveyed members were satisfied with their the ‘real’ living wage for our employees, going further than hours to suit their personal circumstances, 62% of whom are Governance telephony service interaction7. This is a 1% increase compared to the Government minimum wage, as we believe a fair day’s work female9. Additional hours over and above contracted hours are the start of the year8. 71% of these members scored their should mean a fair day’s pay. This should be based on what recompensed using time off in lieu or overtime payments. interaction with the highest rating as being ‘Extremely Satisfied’. workers and their families need to live. Our Mobile App satisfaction remained consistent through the first Discrimination policy: We are committed to being an inclusive quarter of 2020, most recently recording 88%7 for customer We also offer our employees one of the best defined-contribution employer with a supportive, equal and diverse culture for our satisfaction, with most members satisfied with how easy the app pension schemes in the market. people and third-party partners. Nationwide observes and is to navigate. Inclusion and diversity: We have updated our diversity measures adheres to anti-discrimination laws and wherever possible will to ensure the Society reflects the diversity of the UK population. go beyond minimum statutory requirements. Our approach Member Service and Complaints: Providing legendary service to Risk report They are bold and stretching and show our strong commitment to covers all areas of the employment relationship, and includes our members is a priority, but occasionally things do not go as inclusion and diversity being at the core of our cultural evolution ensuring discrimination doesn’t arise due to age, race, sexual expected and there is a need for us to put things right. Over the at Nationwide. Our inclusion and diversity strategy is endorsed orientation, pregnancy, maternity or paternity, political opinion, last 12 months, Nationwide received, on average, 2,100 complaints by our Board, and our senior leaders are accountable for making gender, religion and belief, disability, gender reassignment, a week (excluding PPI); a small increase (1%) year-on-year against progress. The strategy includes an increased focus on marriage or civil partnership. a background of high levels of member-impacting activities, including new member propositions and regulatory changes. communication and education, as well as improved data and Freedom of association: Nationwide recognises the importance While the overall volume of complaints has increased, this is insight tools to monitor and measure progress. This will give us of employee representation and, although membership of the Financial statements attributable to these changes. We have seen a reduction in a better understanding of what is going well, and enable us to Nationwide Group Staff Union (NGSU) is not a condition of complaints relating to normal activities, which reflects our be more responsive to those areas we need to improve. This is employment, actively encourages employees to become continued focus on providing legendary service to our members. complemented by organisation-wide programmes of activity, members. NGSU directly employs 18 people and has a network The latest FCA data (H2 2019) shows that Nationwide received community-specific action plans tailored to specific business that includes 20 Nationwide-employed disciplinary officers. fewer complaints per 1,000 accounts than our competitors. challenges, and our employee network groups who bring our The officers are NGSU representatives who have completed an Aiming to respond to our members as quickly as possible, employees’ voices to the fore. We recently signed up to accredited training programme to represent union members at we resolved 75% of member complaints within 14 days during Valuable500; a global movement of 500 private sector disciplinary and grievance hearings at Nationwide. Membership the year, with an aspiration to increase this to 85% over the next organisations for disability inclusion. Our vision is to ensure is high; 59% of our permanent employees are members, which anyone working for Nationwide who requires an adjustment has Other information 12 months. Our Financial Ombudsman PPI uphold rate dropped makes up 87% of NGSU membership. The other 13% of NGSU to 3% in the second half of 2019, favourable against an industry an easy and human experience. membership is made up of working and retired pensioners, average of 16%. Balance of employee contract types: We are proud of our wide temporary workers and former employees9. NGSU has negotiation and dynamic scope for personal working arrangements to suit the rights over various matters including pay, overtime, holiday and 6 For the period 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020 needs of individuals and our business. We deliver our strategy family friendly leave policies. 7 As at March 2020 – 3-month data 8 As at January 2020 – 3-month data 9 As at March 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 31 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Health and safety: The CEO, Board and Nationwide Leadership Impact of climate change The Board Risk and/or Executive Risk Committee have: Team are committed to providing a working environment that fully There are two factors that shape how we consider climate change • Endorsed our plan of work to mature our capabilities Strategic report supports the health and safety of our colleagues, members and risk to our business: physical risks (which arise from weatherin managing climate related risks third parties. Nationwide has implemented training, policies, related events) and transition risks (which arise from adapting to a • Discussed updates on progress against the plan of work procedures and governance structures to meet legislative and low-carbon economy). best-practice requirements. The NGSU, while independent, forms • Discussed the first iteration of a dashboard to support part of our governance structure and is consulted regularly on In 2019 we undertook a review that highlighted risks to monitoring of climate change related risks Nationwide, including: health and safety matters. Working for a financial services To support these senior committees a Responsible Business provider may expose our people to various risks and we have • Increased incidence of environmental perils such as flooding, Committee and a Climate Change Risk Committee have been policies and procedures to manage such risks as stress, security, droughts and storms. This could lead to both a credit impact established. The Responsible Business Committee is charged with display screen equipment, road safety and fire safety. We actively on security held by Nationwide and/or costs incurred by establishing Nationwide’s responsible business agenda, including Governance monitor enforcement notices that occur in the workplace and as homeowners, which may impact affordability and repayment our strategic approach to address climate change and at 4 April 2020, the Society was within management risk appetite. of borrowing, and an impact on our or third parties’ premises, environmental targets. It is chaired by the Chief Strategy Officer, The Society is also independently audited for managing health systems or data who has Senior Managers Regime (SMR) accountabilities for and safety every five years. In fact, the next audit is due to take • Increased costs incurred by members as part of the UK climate change risk. The Climate Change Risk Committee has place this calendar year. transitioning to a low carbon economy, which may impact on the been set up to monitor progress on how we mature our climate affordability and repayment of borrowing and/or impact the value change risk management capabilities. Since the committees Environment: of houses. These costs could arise from, for example, government were established, they have: doing the right thing for the environment policy changes or through the adoption of new technologies. • Provided oversight of delivery against the plan of work Risk report and its impact on our members We are completing a plan of work in response to the PRA’s • Endorsed the creation and monitored the outputs of a supervisory statement SS3/19. This plan will also ensure that dashboard to support the continuous assessment of climate As a building society formed with a strong underlying social Nationwide has the capability to meet the requirements of the purpose, we exist to improve our members’ lives, and positively change related risks Biennial Exploratory Scenario (BES) which is a Bank of England impact our communities and society, while minimising our led industry stress test that will focus on climate change risk. • Reviewed the delivery of our first generation of physical risk impact on the environment. UK homes and the energy they use This brings together work that was already in progress within modelling to support credit decisioning account for 15% of the UK’s carbon emissions10 and many of the Nationwide and enhances this where necessary to ensure we • Reviewed and agreed the impact of the Bank of England 2021 Financial statements homes being built today are still not energy efficient enough. mature our capabilities aligned with our understanding of Biennial Exploratory Scenario (BES) discussion paper. Nationwide has helped people save for and buy their own homes emerging good practice. Key deliverables over the past year are for over 130 years. We have an important role to play in helping A climate change risk team has been formed to ensure a highlighted in the relevant sections below. achieve the government-led UK net-zero carbon emissions target strategic focus is applied when considering climate change risks by 2050, and in doing so understand the risks climate change Governance and opportunities on our business. This team works in poses on our business in the future. The Board has ultimate accountability for all climate change conjunction with other specialist teams, such as those involved related matters. The Board Risk Committee and Executive Risk in stress testing, financial risk management, credit risk and third Aligned to the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climateparty relationships, among others, to ensure a consistent Committee are responsible for oversight of our climate-related Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) the following provides a approach is taken across the business. risks. Over the course of the past year, the Nationwide Other information summary of our understanding of the impact of climate change, Leadership Team (NLT) has approved the strategy, which sets Strategy how it is incorporated within our Governance model, how we Nationwide’s role in supporting the UK’s transition to a net-zero manage the risks arising, our strategy and the metrics and Supporting the transition to a net-zero economy is a key part economy by 2050. targets we use to monitor it. of Nationwide’s strategy as shown through our commitment to make £1 billion of funding available and the wider action we are taking on. 10 Office for National Statistics – February 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 32 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) To ensure our strategic decisions are informed by an understanding • Partnering with academia and within the financial services remains the dominant target and since April 2020, we have been of the opportunities and risks arising from climate change, we are industry, focused on building understanding, and creating a link carbon neutral for our internal operations’ scope 1 and 2 emissions, Strategic report developing our forward-looking view by building capability to between academic research, commercial implementation and including energy use and business miles from our own fleet. model the different climate pathways and how the associated building best practice. 100% of our electricity has been supplied from renewable sources physical risks impact on our own and supplier footprints and the since 2018 and we have offset all remaining scope 1 emissions Metrics and targets mortgages we provide. through verified carbon offsetting projects that actively remove The environment will undoubtedly remain the dominant discourse Our approach to lending incorporates various environmental risk carbon from the atmosphere. Our focus for the coming year is to of this century. All governments and businesses must do all they analyses. The assessment of several property-related risks is build a clearer picture of emissions produced by our employees’ can to reduce waste, pollution and use of natural resources, considered when originating new residential mortgages, including restore biodiversity and ecosystems, and return the planet to, commute, suppliers, and products, and what scope 3 and associated flooding, subsidence and energy performance using data from science-based targets look like for the finance industry. Armed at least, net-zero carbon. This means balancing emissions several external/expert sources to assess the risk and the impact with this information, we will be able to take meaningful action. Governance produced by removing the same amount of emissions, through on the current valuation of the property. other means, by 2050. In addition to reducing the carbon footprint of our operations we We are developing this approach through a pilot study to better will continue to work ever closer with our suppliers, to assist them Our environmental sustainability strategy is intended to accelerate understand the impact of different climate change pathways on our with increasingly stretching environmental objectives. climate action. We have led the way for some years with some of mortgage securities, housing association exposures and branch our operational targets and initiatives. We are proud of our repeated network to enable us to estimate the financial impact this may have. Carbon Trust Triple Standard accreditation for our management In addition to this we recognise how a transition to a net-zero of water use, waste and energy consumption. Carbon dioxide economy may result in various political and technological shocks Risk report that could impact Nationwide. Early work is underway to understand what these could look like to enable us to then A summary of our performance is as follows: Year to 4 April 2020 Year to 4 April 2019 Baseline year 4 April 2011 develop scenarios to better understand the risks these pose. Carbon dioxide (CO2e) in tonnes (notes i and ii) Scope 1 emissions Risk management Energy 3,966 3,721 4,890 As a business, we manage climate change risk in line with our risk Travel 823 2,190 2,448 Scope 2 emissions management framework. Due to the nature of climate change risk, Electricity 20,907 23,446 50,802 Financial statements and the impact across all risk categories, we recognise climate change as a driver of risk (cause) which allows us to identify all Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (note iii) 25,696 29,357 58,140 the different ways the risk could materialise so that we can ensure PPA carbon reduction (note iv) (21,367) (22,187) climate change has been fully considered. Absolute carbon outturn 4,837 7,170 58,140 In addition to recognising climate change within our risk Total carbon dioxide in tonnes per FTE 0.30 0.39 3.46 Water use (cubic metres) 199,547 195,854 259,718 categorisation model, other key developments in our capability Water use (cubic metres) per FTE 10.79 10.56 15.45 include: Waste generated in tonnes 2,468 2,581 4,554 • Publishing a climate change risk standard which articulates Percentage of waste recycled 58% 63% 43% Other information how the risk should be managed and is linked to our risk policies to ensure an integrated and consistent approach Notes: across all risk categories i. CO2e is an abbreviation of ‘carbon dioxide equivalent’ and is the internationally recognised measure of greenhouse gas emissions. ii. When calculating our carbon emissions we have used the DEFRA 2019 conversion factors. • Enhancing the consideration of climate change within our new iii. Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles and Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity. Amounts presented for the initiative development framework and our third-party sourcing year to 4 April 2020 reflect latest estimates as at May 2020. and contracting process iv. Represents the contribution of a solar power purchase agreement, producing emissions free energy backed by renewable obligations certificates. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 33 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Our carbon journey to 2030 Strategic report Governance Solar panels installed on Started carbon offsetting S igned up to green wind and hydro 100% carbon neutral from April 2020 our head office building Zero waste to landfill, with all nonenergy, meaning 100% of our electricity for all energy use and emissions for in Swindon recyclable waste converted to energy comes from renewable sources internal operations and Nationwide fleet Old IT equipment recycled or donated C ar-share scheme introduced for vehicles by offsetting residual carbon to charity colleagues’ commute to work 90% carbon reduction since 2010 R enewal of Carbon Trust accreditation 46% waste reduction since 2010 Risk report Set 2020 carbon, water and waste reduction targets and awarded an additional Carbon Trust Partnered with the Woodland Trust standard for Supply Chain to plant 60,000 trees in 5 years 2012 2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 2020 2020 + Financial statements Achieved Carbon Trust Triple E lectricity accounts for approximately M ore than 30 electric car charging points installed Develop plans to Standard for water, waste 90% of our total energy usage, and and electric vehicles available on colleague car scheme eliminate our use and energy, which recognises we signed a long-term solar farm £ 100K employee green fund for colleague-inspired of single-use plastic organisations that follow Power Purchase Agreement for over green workplace changes by 2025 best practice in measuring, 50% of our electricity use11 Supply chain, 90% of food produce sourced within a 50 mile radius managing and reducing their products and environmental impact F ood waste from admin sites converted to biogas commuter review and cooking oil returned to supplier to be used to determine a plan as fuel for their vans to extend our carbon Other information neutrality to scope 3, by 2030 11 Gas accounts for approximately 10% of our energy; the balance is residual diesel Annual Report and Accounts 2020 34 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Responsible supply chain Already in place, our ‘green fund’ is an annual pot of money Integrating environmental data sources We have continued to expand our Supply Chain Responsible available for employees to implement green initiatives in the Key to this is to collect data on every property at the start of the Strategic report Business Team and our efforts to manage environmental, social workplace. A plan to enhance the biodiversity of the land process so the decisioning can be upfront and not impact the and governance risks and opportunities in relation to our supply surrounding Nationwide administration sites is already underway, customer journey post-mortgage offer. Data is specific at the base. The team sets the strategy for ensuring we have an ethical with wild meadows, bird boxes, bat boxes and information signs property-level and is available from several expert specialist and sustainable supply chain and engages and supports our to increase awareness and understanding of its importance. providers using a Unique Property Reference Number (UPRN) suppliers to deliver responsible improvements for the long-term. Other employee-led initiatives include a structured approach to to ensure consistency. removing all single use plastics across our administrative sites by This year, we have continued to work with Social Enterprise UK as 2025 and a drive to make Nationwide the first large financial Relevant data sources considered include: part of the SEUK Buy Social Corporate Challenge, calling on services provider to use 100% recycled paper internally. • Energy Performance Certificate rating businesses to collectively spend £1 billion with Social Enterprises. • Flood data (run-off, river and coastal) Responsible lending Governance We promote this both within Nationwide, and through our supply • Coastal erosion data chain, raising it at an event attended by over 50 key suppliers. We have also publicly committed to work with governments, housebuilders, landlords and members to do what we can to • Ground stability data (subsidence, soil, sand, silt) We celebrated our one-year anniversary with social business reduce carbon emissions from the UK housing stock13. This builds • Natural ground hazards (mining, sink holes, etc) WildHearts, who provide a lower impact office supply range on capability we have been developing for several years. • Insurability (consideration given to the Government and Insurer while equipping young people in the UK with key employability backed Flood Re scheme, that supports the insurability of high skills and tackling gender inequality in the developing world. Identifying a gap in property risk data flood risk properties) In March 2020, they estimated that more than 3,000 lives have In 2013, Nationwide identified a gap in how and when lenders been changed globally as a result of our partnership alone. collect data regarding the mortgage security property, which Through the modelling of this data, we assess these propertyrelated risks when originating a new residential mortgage, which Risk report We also work inclusively with social enterprises as we fund the impacts risk management and the customer journey. This often building of environmentally friendly new homes in our Oakfield means that consideration of environmental risks on the property allows different methods of valuation (Automated Valuation development12. is limited and only takes place after the mortgage offer has been Model, desktop, full physical) to be mandated, and informs the issued through the conveyancing process, which can be current valuation of each property. We recently co-hosted an event with Business in the Community inconsistent and is reviewed by a professional who is not qualified for procurement professionals: Sourcing to meet Global Goals: Using visualisation tools and risk modelling in this area. tackling the dilemmas of Responsible Procurement. The session Visualisation tools can be used to help us understand and assess was attended by over 60 delegates and looked at supply chain Recognising this needed to change, we started to develop a specific risk events. For instance, recent flooding at Whaley Bridge Financial statements decarbonisation, modern slavery in supply chains, and supply property hub to collect data for future decisioning and the ability reservoir and the River Don in Sheffield was captured with flood chain diversity and resilience. Working with external experts on to manage climate risk, in conjunction with key partners such as imagery that illustrated the individual properties impacted. these topics, we will continue to further enhance our supply chain, Airbus Defence and Space, JBA Risk Management Ltd and Imagery such as this will enable us to identify where some of our for the benefit of our members and the wider society. Ordnance Survey. members may need assistance, without relying on them This capability went live in 2016 and started the journey to enable contacting us first. Our employees are stepping up to the challenge us to decide what is a suitable residential security for lending; how Building a hub of data on our mortgage portfolio allows scenario Employees, too, will be increasingly engaged to take action to changing climate and environmental factors will impact properties analysis and stress testing of various environmental perils under reduce scope 3 emissions, as well as being encouraged to make over a typical mortgage term of 25 to 40 years. This was also the different climate change scenarios, for example an increase in Other information changes in their personal lives and behaviours to help with this first step in a fundamental change to valuation methodology, temperature. This will allow us to model the impact of given collective imperative. Several initiatives will be rolled out to moving away from a pure present-day comparable basis to long-term climate scenarios on the whole mortgage portfolio, support this over the coming year, and beyond. incorporate new longer-term environmental data sources and to estimate the financial impact from the degradation or to models of climate change impacts. mitigate the physical impact. An example of how we could use 12 Further information is available on our website at www.nationwide.co.uk/oakfield this capability is shown below, where a scenario can be set to 13 For more on our commitment to reducing the carbon impact of UK housing, see page 12 demonstrate the potential impact of rising sea levels. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 35 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Improving our understanding of potential scenarios means we can continue to make informed lending decisions in the best interests Residential Mortgages Buy To Let Strategic report of the Society and our members, enabling us to better understand Number Exposure % of Book Number Exposure % of Book the risks that may occur over the lifetime of the mortgage. £bn £bn Properties in red flood 433 0.05 0% 204 0.02 0% risk zone (note i) Properties in amber flood 25,991 3.22 2% 8,506 0.98 3% risk zone (note i) EPC Rated D /E 371,766 51.93 33% 113,583 13.30 53% Governance EPC Rated F/G 23,163 3.34 2% 5,705 5.75 2% Note: i. Flood risk scores are weighted by risk level and type (e.g. coastal flooding) and any flood defences in place. Understanding the EPC ratings of our mortgage book In addition to understanding the physical risks of climate change, This information informs our quarterly climate change risk Developments planned for the next 12 months Risk report we have also been looking to better understand our exposure to reporting dashboard, and is combined with other metrics such as: Over the next 12 months, aligned to both work underway and transition risks. Within our mortgage lending, EPC data provides • The number of UK extreme weather events the capability we will develop to meet the requirements of the insight into the energy efficiency of properties on which we lend. 2021 Biennial Exploratory Scenario, Nationwide expects that • Annual Climate Change Committee assessment of UK progress Understanding the distribution of EPC ratings across the country against carbon budgets it will be able to understand and disclose: allows us to take a more holistic view of lending than one based • The frequency of climate change being raised in Nationwide • The output of the pilot work underway to allow us to purely on physical factors. EPC ratings currently inform some of Investor meetings analyse the physical impacts of a two degree temperature Financial statements the affordability calculations within our buy to let lending, as a increase scenario • The number of physical risk related incidents that have driver of rental value and future maintenance expenditure. When • Our view on likely net-zero carbon transition pathways impacted Nationwide’s operations combined with other factors such as mortgage affordability, the and the impact this may have on our business ratings can provide insight into otherwise hidden concentrations • Nationwide operations green profile (tracking waste and emissions figures) • Our understanding of the operational and conduct risks of risk. This is likely to become increasingly important as future that could result from climate change and the transition regulatory and government policy action looks to decarbonise This reporting drives more informed discussions around actions to a lower carbon economy the UK housing stock. we want to take, how we can help our members and how we wants to manage these exposures. • Our understanding of scope 3 emissions, and a plan Using a combination of our visualisation and modelling to manage this Other information capabilities, scenario analysis and stress testing, and an analysis of EPC ratings, we track the exposure of our mortgage portfolios to flood risk and energy efficiency. The table shows the lending exposures as at 31 December 2019. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 36 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Anti-corruption: doing the right thing to prevent crime Strategic report Criminal intent, whether a direct or indirect result of our activities, the Nationwide Security Strategy 2018-21 supports the sustained Nationwide is bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery is a core concern at Nationwide and plays a central role in our focus and annual multi-million-pound investment to mitigate Act 2010 which concerns conduct both at home and abroad. strategic intent and operations. cyber risks and to take a proactive approach to money and data Nationwide takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and security. The Society works with the wider industry and the Criminal methods are continually evolving and becoming more enforces effective systems, and risk-based controls and Government’s National Cyber Security Centre to share good sophisticated and we have an obligation to maintain effective procedures. These include a communication programme, practice and understanding on new and evolving threats. defences that combat financial crime and protect society and the mandatory annual staff training and awareness initiatives, integrity of the financial markets. We continue to develop our To educate our people, improve behaviour and measure a whistleblowing procedure, portal, helpline and app, and a Governance strategies and capabilities to prevent, deter and detect financial effectiveness, we regularly target groups and individuals in our regular review of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and crime through ongoing enhancements to internal policies, business with simulated phishing campaigns. During induction other related policies. This also extends to our supply chain. procedures and systems. A dedicated Money Laundering and then every year, our people must complete security Code of conduct: Nationwide has a code of conduct policy Reporting Officer (MLRO) is in place to ensure we meet our money awareness training, reinforced with further training and that outlines the expectations, behaviours and mandatory laundering requirements and help us understand and comply engagement campaigns throughout the year. Our training covers requirements with which employees and workers operating with regulations and individual responsibilities. information, physical and data security (including GDPR), and under our contractual terms and conditions, must comply. helps us protect members and colleagues from threats to their Cybersecurity: We are trusted to keep our members’ money and This is reinforced with a suite of mandatory annual training assets and information. data safe. Over the last year, the financial services industry has modules covering topics such as conflicts of interest, market Risk report been subject to a concerted campaign of ever increasing and Bribery and corruption present a risk for organisations across the abuse, bribery and corruption. sophisticated attacks against systems worldwide, including hacks, world, and a collaborative approach across governments, law ransomware and phishing. Approved at a Board-level committee, enforcement agencies and businesses is taken to tackle the issue. Financial statements Non-financial information statement Reporting requirement Pages We welcome the increasing focus from regulators and stakeholders Our business model and information on how we do business differently 4 on non-financial matters in order to give a more complete picture Our KPIs set out how we are doing on service, value and strength 11 of our performance. This section constitutes non-financial information, produced in accordance with sections 414CA and Our key risks and their management 39 to 40 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. Our employees 20 to 21 We have used cross referencing to other sections of the Annual Other information Report and Accounts or other publications, to avoid duplication. Social matters 23 to 24 Human rights 28 to 29 Financial crime and anti-corruption 36 Environmental matters 31 to 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 37 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Responding to Covid-19 Strategic report The way we interact with one another, manage our personal and working lives, and the pressures we face have changed rapidly – the repercussions of which will be felt for a long time to come. The spirit of communities, professions and individuals to help those in need has been phenomenal, and organisations in a position to help have a duty to do so. As a building society, we provide an important service, in a key industry, and the health, safety and wellbeing of our members and employees in protecting this service remains paramount. To ensure Nationwide’s response is effective, a Covid-19 incident response team, led at Nationwide Leadership Team level, and a series of new and evolving policies and measures, have been put in place. Taking care of our employees In the first two weeks Governance Wellbeing and welfare • Regular updates to colleagues from the Nationwide Group Staff Union (NGSU) from the lockdown announcement in March… • Observance of social distancing measures in admin centres and branches • Committed to no compulsory redundancies in 2020, to secure the financial and emotional wellbeing of our colleagues during the height of the pandemic • Providing physical protection solutions, with disposable gloves, face visors, • Stress tested our systems and processes prior to lockdown by stopping all business travel and enforcing two days’ homeworking wherever possible hand sanitiser, and temporary Perspex screens in branches Doing the right thing 4,000 Colleagues were recognised Risk report • #inittogether internal social media campaign to keep colleagues connected internally for their in a fun and supportive way and recognise people for their outstanding • Our Chief Executive requested a reduction in his base salary and pension #inittogether effort and contribution by 20% for 2020/21 and agreed to forfeit any variable pay that may be due commitment • Visible leadership, including our CEO and Chairman, delivered through an to him for the 2019/20 financial year – the first leader of a major financial extensive communications approach, utilising webcasts, blogs, all-employee services organisation to do this videos, emails, intranet posts and site visits • Our non-executive directors have volunteered to donate 20% of their net Fewer than • Flexed our approach to holiday and volunteering, increasing paid Covid-19 11.5% fees from June to December of this year to Shelter, to help support vulnerable Financial statements related volunteering in 2020 from two to five days, and increasing entitlement people impacted by Covid-19 for annual leave to be carried over to the next year of our admin staff were still • Supported colleagues in adjusting to homeworking, with advice and support, Easing pressure from our frontline and critical operational colleagues working from our offices bitesize leadership development sessions and free subscription to school material • Additional resource to frontline and critical areas and diversion of branch • Additional paid leave for vulnerable employees and those with caring colleagues’ efforts to support call centres and reduce call waiting times responsibilities • Successfully engaged government, with UK Finance and the Building Branch colleagues handled Ensuring safety and security Societies Association, to recognise critical financial services roles as key approximately 9,000 Other information workers to access schooling for their children • Office-based employees work from home, where viable, with core teams split • Embraced innovative ways of working that resulted in a fast-paced, agile calls across different sites for critical activities that cannot be managed from home mindset – quickly responding to the needs of our colleagues, for the benefit daily to help call centres with • Widespread, regular cleaning in all our buildings of our members call waiting times Annual Report and Accounts 2020 38 Committed to doing the right thing (continued) Taking care of our members and communities Strategic report In the first two weeks Supporting those impacted financially Supporting the most vulnerable from the lockdown announcement in March… • Three-month payment holiday on mortgages (including landlord-owned • Members urged to use digital banking channels to free up phonelines properties), loans, credit cards and interest-free period on overdrafts for elderly and vulnerable; we wrote to approximately 9 million members promoting our digital channels, engaged in digital conversations to help our First time internet • Automated our payment holiday request process, making it easier for our members with their digital interactions and developed additional digital forms bank use was up customers to apply and to minimise service disruption • Commitment to mortgage members not to repossess any homes over the next 12 months to improve online experiences • Set up a third-party mandate process to help those members no longer able to use our branches or manage their own finances. The mandate enables 300% Governance • Penalty free early access to savings from fixed term accounts a trusted family member or friend to take out or pay in money on their behalf, • Additional support for our charity partners, by donating our TV advertising in branch or over the phone space to Shelter, paying our normal monthly charity donations as a single • Created a guide of what colleagues can do to support local communities, lump sum, and increasing our donations Mobile banking from helping as a Red Cross reservist, to donating to charity partners and • Restrictions removed from community grants so recipients could make registrations were up supporting local food banks local decisions on where best to focus spending • New web page to support members looking to make travel insurance claims • Contacting cash and branch-dependent passbook members with options for accessing and managing their money 200% Risk report Minimising service disruption • Branches opened early for elderly and vulnerable members, ringfencing time to ensure they can access their money – replaced with remote solutions • Additional support for existing mortgage applications with an extended after a week mortgage offer period and digital valuations • Most of our branches remained open but with reduced opening hours, to help Protecting health, safety and security 500% Financial statements us focus on providing our essential weekday services in a safe and reliable way • Worked with UK Finance to make the case to increase the contactless increase in calls following • Planning for the medium to longer term by recognising the likelihood of payment limit to £45, to ensure safer hygiene for day-to-day in-shop the announcement of some positive and enduring changes, and seeing how we might embed these purchases mortgage payment holidays for the benefit of members and employees (55,000 in just one day) • Fraud and scam support provided extra information for colleagues and • Redirected resource from other areas of our business to maintain our members on the potential ‘coronavirus twists’ to the common scams telephone service for those members wishing to access their money remotely • Extended our emergency telephony payment process, helping members Taking care of our suppliers who would typically make payments in branch to use our telephone channels • Reduced time to pay SME suppliers, targeting 10 working days, to protect Other information for internal transfers and faster payment their cash flow and survival • Set up a ‘Covid hub’ website detailing how we can support members and what they need to do • Death notifications now possible online, removing the need for the paper-based solution we used in the past Annual Report and Accounts 2020 39 Risk overview Strategic report Risk overview Nationwide adopts a prudent approach to risk management, keeping our members’ money safe and secure by ensuring that the risks we take in support of our strategy are controlled through a robust risk appetite framework. To ensure risks are managed consistently and rigorously, we operate an Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which sets out the minimum standards and processes for risk management. Further detail on this framework is included on page 135 of the Risk report. Our attitude to risk Later life lending – Our approach to risk in action We take prudent credit and business risks which support our core purpose of building society, nationwide: Governance The later life lending proposition has been developed in response to a • Over more than a century of lending in the UK mortgage market, we have developed strong expertise in credit and member need to access money locked up in their homes to support their property risk. We utilise this experience to provide UK prime and buy to let residential mortgage lending and offer retirement. As with any new product, there were a number of risks which unsecured lending to retail customers; needed to be managed to offer the product safely to our members. For • We remain committed to operating as a UK-focused building society. Our concentration in the UK means we are later life lending, whilst all risks were considered and managed, the two exposed to the UK economy, and our focus on the residential property market results in lower, but less volatile margins. We control this risk by managing the Society in a prudent manner and through offering an innovative set most significant risks were credit and conduct risks. of products and propositions. Credit risk – Later life lending poses different challenges to our existing mortgages, with member income coming from different sources and the We minimise operational and conduct risks which could cause disruption or detriment to our customers, whilst Risk report providing value for money for our members: purpose of the loans being different. Our knowledge of the UK residential • We operate robust controls and processes to minimise disruption to our services through our day to day business property sector allowed us to understand better the credit risks operations as we continue to invest in the transformation of our systems; associated with lending into later life, helping to define the credit criteria • We treat customers fairly and ensure our propositions meet customer needs, using our expertise to balance the risk of the proposition. and reward of our products both for our members and for the Society. Conduct risk – Later life borrowers have a range of differing needs and To remain safe and secure we hold sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations and manage our solvency and circumstances. To protect each individual, it is crucial that we fully Financial statements liquidity risks: understand these needs and provide them with the support they need to • We maintain sufficient capital and liquidity resources to support current business activity and planned growth, and help choose whether a later life mortgage is right for them. We to remain resilient to significant stress; considered all stages of the product, from how it is designed and how we • We only incur market risks that are required for operational efficiency, stability of earnings or to minimise costs in inform customers about the options to how we train our people and support of core business activities; whether external advice should be taken, to ensure the customers • We maintain stable and diverse funding sources (primarily retail deposits from our members) to ensure a prudent consistently receive the right outcome. funding mix and maturity concentration profile. By considering how these risks impact both the customer and the Society, Further detail on how we manage each of the principal risk types to which Nationwide is exposed is included on we were able to support more people without taking on more risk. Other information pages 135 to 137 of the Risk report. Developing our risk management Over the year we have continued to improve risk management at Nationwide through the launch of the Society’s new governance, risk and compliance tool, rationalising our suite of risk policies, improving our standards and guidance, and aligning to industry standard risk and control taxonomies. Further detail on these developments is included on pages 135 to 137 of the Risk report which also outlines how we have matured our classification and reporting model. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 40 Risk Risk overview overview (continued) (continued) Top and Emerging Risks Strategic report The Board continually monitors the most significant risks to the Society. Whilst these risks remain similar to those identified last year, they have been significantly impacted by the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, which has materially impacted the Society’s risk profile. Nationwide was quick to invoke the highest level of risk management response to minimise the impact on our risk profile, while continuing to provide key services and ensuring the safety both of colleagues and customers. Nationwide’s strategic responses to its top and emerging risks are described below, together with updates on specific external and internal risks. More information on our response to these risks is shown in the Risk report, or elsewhere in the Strategic report as referenced. Geopolitical and macro-economic environment – Nationwide is naturally exposed to any External Risks Change Page downturn in the UK’s economic conditions and to the UK housing market in particular. The Governance Pandemics – The Covid-19 outbreak is having far-reaching impacts on the New 37 Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted both the UK and global economy. economy, impacting our financial performance, credit profile and the way we Our strategic response: interact with customers and our business operations. • We maintain strong capital and liquidity surpluses over regulatory minima with a CET1 Climate change – The physical and transition risks of climate change are  31 ratio of 31.9%, UK leverage ratio of 4.7% and liquidity coverage ratio of 163.1%. becoming ever more apparent and have the potential to pose a significant • We undertake robust internal and regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of England threat to Nationwide without a co-ordinated and timely response. stress test in which we maintained capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Regulatory change – The regulatory environment continues to respond to  214 • We continue to proactively respond to circumstances relating to Covid-19 as they the Covid-19 outbreak with regulators focused on maintaining confidence in develop. UK financial services and ensuring that markets operate fairly for customers. Risk report Resilience – The way our members use our services is changing, driven by changes in Libor transition – Nationwide is exposed to a range of Libor linked assets,  218 technology in the longer term and by the operational challenges posed by Covid-19 in the liabilities and derivatives which will be impacted by the phasing out of Libor short term. This has increased the demand on our systems, processes and staff to maintain in 2021. critical member facing services. Cyber – The sophistication of cyber-attacks continues to increase, at the  214 Our strategic response: same time as Nationwide and our members embrace new technologies, potentially leading to new or increased vulnerabilities to external threats. Financial statements • We continuously develop controls across new and existing processes and technologies to Brexit – Whilst the UK has now left the European Union, uncertainty remains  201 protect our systems and customer data. until the details of the relationship between the UK and the EU are finalised. • We are investing in our technology and infrastructure to improve services and minimise the risk of disruption to members. Competition – The competitive environment remains intense as ring-fenced banks with Internal Risks Change Page cheaper funding and excess liquidity have continued to focus on our core markets and new Data – As increasing volumes of customer data are utilised to improve  215 market entrants, seeking to exploit new technologies, look to grow market share. experience and deliver intuitive digital services, the safeguarding of Our strategic response: customer data is becoming increasingly critical. Transformation – The Society’s technology change agenda increases the  216 • We are diversifying our product range in response to specific customer needs, including Other information risk of service disruption or cost increases in the short term. initiatives such as later life lending. • We are leveraging our branch presence; having introduced a new branch design three years ago, we have now upgraded 200 branches, nearly a third of our network. This year Key (level of risk to Nationwide) we are also testing new branch formats in Lichfield and Sheffield.  Increasing level of risk  Stable level of risk  Decreasing level of risk Annual Report and Accounts 2020 41 Financial review Strategic report In summary competitive market conditions, trading performance for the year has been robust. In line with expectations, total net mortgage The environment in which the Society concluded its financial year lending has decreased during the period to £2.8 billion (2019: was unprecedented. Covid-19 has caused extensive worldwide £8.6 billion). Our response to the sustained market competition economic impacts, leading to government and regulatory resulted in negative net lending in prime mortgages of £0.5 billion responses, including two UK bank base rate reductions during (2019: £7.3 billion positive net lending); however our market March 2020. Chris Rhodes leading proposition and strong buy to let mortgage franchise, Notwithstanding this, our financial performance over the course which saw net lending of £3.3 billion (2019: £1.3 billion), has Governance of the year has remained strong and resilient as we continue to resulted in positive net lending overall for the year. Total balance the needs of our members with investing in the Society member deposit balances grew by £5.7 billion (2019: £6.0 billion), and retaining profits. The Financial Performance Framework which of which £2.5 billion (2019: £1.4 billion) is growth in current has guided our decisions in the past is not considered appropriate account credit balances. The growth in deposit balances reflects in the current environment as we instead focus our attention successful retention of balances, our competitive current account on maintaining our strong capital and liquidity positions through proposition and the launch of our range of new savings accounts. “The environment in which the the economic cycle. Our capital position at the year end remains robust with our CET1 and UK leverage ratios at 31.9% and 4.7% In light of a change to our view of the economic outlook as a Society concluded its financial result of Covid-19, we have recognised additional credit respectively (4 April 2019: 32.2%1 and 4.9% respectively), year was unprecedented.” Risk report provisions of £101 million, resulting in a total charge in the year comfortably in excess of regulatory requirements. We recognise that the economic and market uncertainty is likely to persist; of £209 million (2019: £113 million). Underlying performance however, we anticipate that we will continue to maintain our of portfolios remained broadly stable. strong capital position above current regulatory requirements The conduct provisions charge of £56 million at 4 April 2020 and will remain a safe place for our members’ money. (2019: £15 million) is predominantly due to higher than anticipated Underlying profit: Underlying profit for the year ended 4 April 2020 was £469 million PPI claims ahead of the FCA’s deadline in August 2019. £469m Financial statements (2019: £788 million), with statutory profit before tax for the Administrative expenses have increased by £58 million year at £466 million (2019: £833 million). Prior to the impacts compared to last year. The year-on-year growth is attributable (2019: £788m) of the Covid-19 pandemic, we expected a reduction to our profits to the impact of current and previous strategic investment, as a result of our commitment to our strategic investment, which along with the costs relating to the in-year development and includes our technology programme, combined with continued subsequent cessation of our business banking proposition. Statutory profit: competition in the mortgage market. During March 2020, there were material impacts to our financial performance in relation to Covid-19 following the bank base rate reductions These are in part offset by a one-off gain from the decision to close our defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual £466m on 31 March 2021. Achieving sustainable cost savings and (2019: £833m) and as we enter a more uncertain economic environment. embedding efficiencies remains a priority for the Society. Other information We have continued to offer good value products to our members Our continued focus on efficiency has now delivered over with £715 million (2019: £705 million) of financial benefit provided £400 million of sustainable run rate cost saves since UK leverage ratio: to members2, predominantly through mortgage and deposit products. Despite the uncertainty in the external environment and commencement of our efficiency programme in 2017/18, with £90 million of sustainable cost saves delivered in 2019/20. 4.7% 1 The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading (2019: 4.9%) to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal place. 2 This represents member financial benefit. Further information is provided on page 43. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 42 Financial review (continued) Income statement Strategic report Underlying and statutory results 2020 2019 Net Interest Margin: £m £m 1.13% Net interest income 2,810 2,915 (2019: 1.22%) Net other income 236 255 Total underlying income 3,046 3,170 Underlying Cost Income Administrative expenses (2,312) (2,254) Ratio: Impairment losses (209) (113) Provisions for liabilities and charges (56) (15) 75.9% Governance Underlying profit before tax 469 788 (2019: 71.1%) Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) (note i) 4 9 (Losses)/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (notes i, ii) (7) 36 Return on Assets Statutory profit before tax Taxation (note iii) 466 (101) 833 (197) 0.15% (2019: 0.27%, note iii) Profit after tax 365 636 Notes: i. Underlying profit represents management’s view of underlying performance. The following items are excluded from statutory profit to arrive at underlying profit: Risk report • FSCS costs and refunds arising from institutional failures, which are included within provisions for liabilities and charges. • Gains or losses from derivatives and hedge accounting, which are presented separately within total income. ii. Although we only use derivatives to hedge market risks, income statement volatility can still arise due to hedge accounting ineffectiveness or because hedge accounting is either not applied or is not achievable. This volatility is largely attributable to accounting rules which do not fully reflect the economic reality of the hedging strategy. iii. Comparatives have been restated for the change in treatment of taxation relating to distributions on Additional Tier 1 instruments as detailed in note 1 to the financial statements. Total income and net interest margin (NIM) Financial statements Net interest income reduced by £105 million to £2,810 million (2019: £2,915 million). Part of the reduction is due to the bank base rate cuts during March in response to Covid-19. The remainder reflects an anticipated reduction in our net interest income for the financial year, given the building competitive pressure in our core mortgage market over recent years, combined with the continued decline in legacy managed rate mortgage balances. We have mitigated the reduction in net interest income in part through a reduction of savings rates during the summer of 2019, as we sought to manage our cost of funding through closer alignment of pricing to the wider market. Despite this, during this year our depositors have earned interest at rates on average more than 50% higher than the market average. Net interest margin of 1.13% (2019: 1.22%) reflects the reduction in net interest income and growth in the balance sheet due to higher levels of liquidity and an increase in derivative balances due to weakening sterling. Net other income has reduced by £19 million to £236 million (2019: £255 million) predominantly as a result of a reduction to the fair value of investments held. Further information on movements in Other information net other income is provided in notes 5 and 6 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 43 Financial review (continued) Strategic report Member financial benefit As a building society, we seek to maintain our financial strength whilst providing value to our members through pricing, propositions and service. Through our member financial benefit, we measure the additional financial value for members from the highly competitive mortgage, savings and banking products that we offer compared to the market. Member financial benefit is calculated by comparing, in aggregate, Nationwide’s average interest rates and incentives across mortgages, savings, current accounts, personal loans and credit cards to the market, predominantly using market data provided by the Bank of England and CACI. The value for individual members will depend on their circumstances and product choices. We quantify member financial benefit as: Our interest rate differential + incentives and lower fees Governance Interest rate differential We measure how our average interest rates across our member balances in total compare against the market over the period. For our two largest member segments, mortgages and retail deposits, we compare the average member interest rate for these portfolios against Bank of England and CACI industry data. A market benchmark based upon the data from CACI is used for mortgages and a Bank of England benchmark is used for retail deposits, both adjusted to exclude Nationwide balances. The differentials derived in this way are then applied to member balances for mortgages and deposits. Risk report For unsecured lending, a similar comparison is made. We calculate an interest rate differential based on available market data from the Bank of England and apply this to the total interest-bearing balances of credit cards and personal loans. Member incentives and lower fees Our member financial benefit measure also includes amounts in relation to higher incentives and lower fees that Nationwide offers to members. The calculation includes annual amounts for the following: Financial statements • Mortgages: the differential on incentives for members compared to the market • ‘Recommend a friend’: the amount paid to existing members, when they recommend a new current account member to the Society • FlexPlus account: this current account is considered market leading against major banking competitors, with a high level of benefits for a relatively smaller fee. The difference between the monthly account fee of £13 and the market average of £17 is included in the member financial benefit measure. For the year ended 4 April 2020, this measure shows we have provided our members with a financial benefit of £715 million (2019: £705 million). This demonstrates that we have continued to offer good long-term value products to our members in both the mortgage and deposit markets, despite strong levels of competition. In the current exceptionally low interest rate environment, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our member financial benefit target in the next financial year. With bank base rate at 0.1%, paying savings rates Other information significantly higher than this would not be financially sustainable, nor in the long-term interest of our members or the Society. Member financial benefit is derived with reference to available market or industry level data. No adjustment is made to take account of factors such as customer mix, risk appetite and product strategy, due to both limitations in the availability of data and to avoid bias from segments in which Nationwide may be under or over-represented. On an ongoing basis we will continue to review our methodology to ensure it captures all the key elements of the financial benefits we provide to our members, where data is available. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 44 Financial review (continued) Administrative expenses Strategic report Administrative expenses have increased by £58 million to £2,312 million (2019: £2,254 million). The year-on-year growth is attributable to the impact of current and previous strategic investment of £111 million, along with costs relating to the in-year development and subsequent cessation of our business banking proposition, which in aggregate total £88 million (2019: £13 million). These are in part offset by the one-off gain of £104 million from the decision to close our defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual on 31 March 2021. Our technology investment programme has continued to develop our digital services and data capabilities, together with ensuring the resilience and simplification of our technology estate. We have continued to review the implications of new technology development for our existing assets, leading to impairments and write-offs of £124 million (2019: £115 million). Impairment losses/(reversals) on loans and advances to customers Impairment losses/(reversals) (note i) Governance 2020 2019 £m £m Residential lending 53 (17) Consumer banking 159 114 Retail lending 212 97 Commercial and other lending (3) 16 Impairment losses on loans and advances 209 113 Note: Risk report i. Impairment losses/(reversals) represent the net amount charged/(credited) through the income statement, rather than amounts written off during the period. Impairment losses have increased during the year to £209 million (2019: £113 million) largely due to the introduction of a £101 million additional provision to reflect the increased credit risk associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. The underlying performance of our portfolios has remained broadly stable during the year. More information regarding the critical accounting judgements, and the forward-looking economic information used in our impairment calculations, is included in note 10 to the financial statements. Financial statements Provisions for liabilities and charges We hold provisions for customer redress to cover the costs of remediation and redress in relation to past sales of financial products and ongoing administration, including non-compliance with consumer credit legislation and other regulatory requirements. In line with experience across the industry, the Society received a higher than anticipated volume of PPI complaints and enquiries in the period immediately before the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Our customer redress charge has increased to £56 million (2019: £15 million charge) primarily as a result of an additional £39 million charge relating to PPI, which includes costs to process a large number of enquiries received where no PPI had been held. The remainder of the charge relates to remediation costs for other redress issues, including issues relating to the administration of customer accounts. More information is included in note 27 of the financial statements. Taxation Other information The tax charge for the year of £101 million (2019: £197 million3) represents an effective tax rate of 21.7% (2019: 23.7%3) which is higher than the statutory UK corporation tax rate of 19% (2019: 19%). The effective tax rate is higher due to the 8% banking surcharge of £24 million (2019: £32 million3), and the tax effect of disallowable bank levy and customer redress costs of £11 million and £4 million (2019: £8 million and £8 million) respectively. This is partially offset by the tax credit on the distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital instruments of £9 million (2019: £13 million) and the tax impact of deferred tax provided at different rates of £17 million (2019: charge of £3 million). Further information is provided in note 11 to the financial statements. 3 Comparative figures have been restated. Further details are included in note 1 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 45 Financial review (continued) Balance sheet Strategic report Total assets have increased by 4% to reach £248.0 billion at 4 April 2020 (2019: £238.3 billion). Following our robust trading performance, residential mortgage balances increased by £2.8 billion, with the remainder of the balance sheet growth predominantly due to higher holdings of cash and liquid assets, and an increase in the value of derivatives due to a weakening of sterling and the fall in interest rates. Member deposit balance growth has been robust with balances increasing by £5.7 billion to £159.7 billion (2019: £154.0 billion). Balance growth has been supported by the launch of a new savings range in October 2019. This is combined with strong growth in current account credit balances which accounts for £2.5 billion of the growth. In combination, these have enabled us to maintain our market share of deposits at 9.9% (2019: 10.1%), with our market share of main current accounts broadly stable at 8.1%4 (2019: 8.0%). Assets 2020 2019 Liquidity Coverage Ratio: Governance Residential mortgages (note i) £m 188,839 % 94 £m 186,012 % 93 163.1% (2019: 150.2%) Commercial and other lending 7,931 4 9,118 5 Consumer banking 4,994 2 4,586 2 201,764 100 199,716 100 Impairment provisions (786) (665) Loans and advances to customers 200,978 199,051 Other financial assets 43,933 36,709 Other non-financial assets 3,130 2,541 Risk report Total assets 248,041 238,301 Asset quality % % Residential mortgages (note i): Proportion of residential mortgage accounts more than 3 months in arrears 0.41 0.43 Average indexed loan to value (by value) 58 58 Financial statements Consumer banking: Proportion of customer balances with amounts past due more than 1.22 1.35 3 months (excluding charged off balances) Note: i. Residential mortgages include prime and specialist loans, with the specialist portfolio primarily comprising buy to let lending. Residential mortgages Total gross mortgage lending in the year was £30.9 billion (2019: £36.4 billion), representing a market share of 11.4% (2019: 13.4%). Despite the sustained competition in the UK mortgage market, Other information we have maintained broadly stable prime mortgage balances at £151.1 billion (2019: £151.5 billion). Our specialist mortgage lending (being predominantly buy to let) performed strongly with our second highest ever net lending of £3.3 billion (2019: £1.3 billion); our balances grew to £37.7 billion (2019: £34.5 billion) as a result of strong performance in our core product range, supported by enhancements to our proposition, including lending to limited companies and portfolio landlords. Arrears performance has remained stable during the year, with cases more than three months in arrears at 0.41% of the total portfolio (2019: 0.43%). Impairment provisions have increased to £252 million (2019: £206 million), which includes an additional provision of £51 million in relation to Covid-19. 4 Source CACI (Feb 2020) and internal calculations. ‘Main current accounts’ refers to main standard and packaged accounts. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 46 Financial review (continued) Commercial and other lending Strategic report During the year, commercial and other lending balances have decreased to £7.9 billion (2019: £9.1 billion). Continuing the deleveraging activity in previous financial years, the overall portfolio is increasingly weighted towards registered social landlords, with balances of £5.4 billion (2019: £6.0 billion), and project finance with balances of £0.7 billion (2019: £0.8 billion). With a smaller book, and fewer active borrowers requiring further lending, our commercial real estate balances decreased during the year to £1.0 billion (2019: £1.4 billion). Impairment provisions have decreased to £40 million (2019: £41 million) with a reduction in the credit risk associated with one commercial loan being offset by the introduction of a £7 million additional provision to reflect the potential impact of Covid-19. Consumer banking Consumer banking balances have increased to £5.0 billion (2019: £4.6 billion). Consumer banking largely comprises personal loans of £3.0 billion (2019: £2.4 billion) and credit cards of £1.6 billion Governance (2019: £1.8 billion). Personal loan balances have grown following the extension of our lowest ever headline rate for loans up to a value of £25,000. Provisions have increased to £494 million (2019: £418 million) due to book growth and an additional provision of £43 million for the estimated impact of Covid-19, with underlying performance remaining broadly stable. Other financial assets Other financial assets total £43.9 billion (2019: £36.7 billion) and comprise liquidity and investment assets held by our Treasury function amounting to £37.4 billion (2019: £32.7 billion), derivatives with positive fair values of £4.8 billion (2019: £3.6 billion) and fair value adjustments and other assets of £1.8 billion (2019: £0.4 billion). The £4.7 billion increase in cash and liquid assets holdings is Risk report driven primarily by inflows from increases in retail deposits during the year. Derivatives largely comprise interest rate and foreign exchange contracts which economically hedge financial risks inherent in core lending and funding activities. Nationwide’s average Liquidity Coverage Ratio over the 12 months ending 4 April 2020 increased to 152% (2019: 143%). Nationwide continues to manage its liquidity against internal risk appetite, which is more prudent than regulatory requirements. Further details are included in the Liquidity and funding risk section of the Risk report. Members’ interests, equity and liabilities Wholesale funding ratio: Financial statements 2020 2019 £m £m 28.5% Member deposits 159,691 153,969 (2019: 28.6%) Debt securities in issue 35,963 35,942 Other financial liabilities 37,817 33,755 Other liabilities 1,608 1,466 Total liabilities 235,079 225,132 Members’ interests and equity 12,962 13,169 Total members’ interests, equity and liabilities 248,041 238,301 Other information Member deposits Member deposit balance growth of £5.7 billion (2019: £6.0 billion) represents £3.2 billion of retail savings growth and £2.5 billion of growth in current account credit balances. This has been achieved despite the continuing competitive environment by launching our new savings product range in October 2019 and offering a competitive current account proposition. We have maintained our retail deposits stock market share of 9.9% (2019: 10.1%) with our market share of main current accounts broadly stable at 8.1% (2019: 8.0%), and have achieved our long-term target of a 10% share of all current accounts. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 47 Financial review (continued) Debt securities in issue and other financial liabilities Strategic report Debt securities in issue primarily comprise wholesale funding but specifically exclude subordinated debt, which is included within other financial liabilities; balances have remained broadly stable at £36.0 billion (2019: £35.9 billion). Nationwide’s wholesale funding ratio has also remained broadly unchanged at 28.5% (2019: 28.6%); this ratio remains well below the statutory maximum limit of 50%. Other financial liabilities have increased to £37.8 billion (2019: £33.8 billion) primarily due to issuances of subordinated debt during the period in order to meet the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL), combined with increases in swap collateral. Further details are included in the Liquidity and funding risk section of the Risk report. Members’ interests and equity Members’ interests and equity have decreased to £13.0 billion (2019: £13.2 billion) largely as a result of the redemption of £1.0 billion of Additional Tier 1 capital in June 2019, partially offset by the issuance of £0.6 billion Additional Tier 1 capital in September 2019. Statement of comprehensive income Governance Statement of comprehensive income (note i) 2020 2019 £m £m Profit after tax (note ii) 365 636 Net remeasurement of pension obligations 119 153 Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve (14) 328 Risk report Net movement in other hedging reserve (note iii) (42) Net movement in fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (67) (12) Net movement in revaluation reserve (11) (1) Total comprehensive income 350 1,104 Notes: i. Movements are shown net of related taxation. Financial statements ii. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1 to the financial statements. iii. A new reserve has been created as a result of adopting IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting, effective from 5 April 2019 as detailed in note 1 to the financial statements. Gross movements are set out in the financial statements on page 234. Further information on movements in the pension obligation is included in note 30 to the financial statements. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 48 Financial review (continued) Capital structure Strategic report Our capital position remains strong, with both the Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio and UK leverage ratio comfortably above regulatory capital requirements of 12.3% and 3.6% respectively. The CET1 ratio has decreased marginally to 31.9% (2019: 32.2%5) while the UK leverage ratio reduced to 4.7% (2019: 4.9%5). Capital structure (note i) 2020 2019 £m £m Capital resources Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital 10,665 10,517 Total Tier 1 capital 11,258 11,509 Total regulatory capital 14,578 14,485 Governance Risk weighted assets (RWAs) (note ii) 33,399 32,682 UK leverage exposure (note ii) 240,707 235,317 CRR leverage exposure (note ii) 254,388 247,757 CRD IV capital ratios: % % CET1 ratio (note ii) 31.9 32.2 UK leverage ratio (note iii) 4.7 4.9 CRR leverage ratio (note iv) 4.4 4.6 Risk report Notes: i. Data in the table is reported under CRD IV on an end point basis with IFRS 9 transitional arrangements applied. ii. The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal place. iii. The UK leverage ratio (as defined in the PRA rulebook) is calculated using the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) definition of Tier 1 for the capital amount and the Delegated Act definition of the exposure measure, excluding eligible central bank reserves. iv. The CRR leverage ratio is calculated using the CRR definition of Tier 1 for the capital amount and the Delegated Act definition of the exposure measure and is reported on an end point basis. Financial statements The CET1 ratio reduced to 31.9% (2019: 32.2%5) primarily as a result of a £0.7 billion increase in risk weighted assets (RWAs). This was driven primarily by the application of the Simple, Transparent, and Standardised (STS) securitisation framework per Regulation (EU) 2017/2402, which from 1 January 2020 was applicable to all securitisation positions. Securitisations that are yet to comply with the STS criteria, generally those issued prior to the introduction of the framework, now incur a higher risk weight. In addition, there was an increase in the balance sheet value of fixed assets following the change to accounting for leases on adoption of IFRS 16. CET1 capital resources increased by £0.1 billion, due to profit after tax for the financial year of £0.4 billion, partially offset by distributions. Although the future impact of Covid-19 is not yet clear, it is likely to lead to some RWA inflation and therefore a lower CET1 ratio in the short to medium term. Nationwide is undertaking planning activities which reflect a range of potential outcomes. However, the current capital position and the published stress testing results show that Nationwide is well capitalised and positioned to meet such periods of financial stress. Nationwide expects to maintain a surplus above the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) combined buffer requirements and the threshold at which a Other information maximum distributable amount (MDA) would be imposed. 5 The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal place. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 49 Financial review (continued) Capital structure (continued) Strategic report The UK leverage ratio reduced to 4.7% (2019: 4.9%6) with Tier 1 capital reducing by £0.3 billion, as a result of the net redemption of £0.4 billion of AT1 capital instruments. This was in conjunction with an increase in UK leverage exposure of £5.4 billion primarily as a result of net retail lending and treasury investments over the year. The CRR leverage ratio is based on the Delegated Act definition and therefore exposures include central bank reserves. This also reduced by 0.2%, closing at 4.4% (2019: 4.6%6). During March 2020 the Bank of England made announcements on the measures it was taking in response to the outbreak of Covid-19. These included a delay in the expected implementation date for new residential mortgage IRB models until 2022, which incorporate the changes required by the PS13/17 Policy Statement. These changes are anticipated to increase RWAs, leading to an estimated reduction in the CET1 ratio of approximately one third, based on the current capital position. It is expected that the CET1 ratio will be impacted further by the finalised Basel III reforms which come into effect progressively between 2023 and 2028. The impact of the full implementation of this legislation will supersede the effect of the new IRB models, with an expected reduction in the reported CET1 ratio of approximately a half relative to the current capital position. Governance Since 4 April 2020, the European Commission has announced amendments to the treatment of IFRS 9 transitional capital relief. This is intended to provide relief for an increase in provisions as a result of the economic impacts of Covid-19. This is expected to be implemented by 30 June 2020 and as such any impacts of this change will be captured within future capital disclosures. Further details of the capital position and regulatory developments are included in the Solvency risk section of the Risk report. Risk report Financial statements Other information 6 The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal place. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 50 Governance Strategic report Governance 51 Board of directors Risk report 55 Nationwide Leadership Team 57  Report of the directors on corporate governance • Corporate governance report • Audit Committee report Financial statements • Board Risk Committee report • Board IT and Resilience Committee report • Nomination and Governance Committee report 108 Report of the directors on remuneration 130 Directors’ report Other information Elizabeth, member since 1996 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 51 Board of David Roberts CBE ng r Joe Garner Strategic report Non-executive director and Chair elect from 1 September 2014. Chief Executive Officer since 5 April 2016 directors Chair since July 2015 (independent upon appointment as Chair) Skills and experience Skills and experience Joe’s career started with Procter & Gamble and Dixons Carphone. David combines a distinctive blend of leadership experience He later took on leadership roles and in 2004 was appointed across major listed corporations, the mutual movement, and as Head of HSBC’s Retail and Commercial Bank in the UK. public service, including 35 years in financial services. He is a In 2014 he became Chief Executive Officer of Openreach, passionate champion of Nationwide’s social purpose and of the BT’s Infrastructure division. Joe became Nationwide Building Society’s commitment to help improve the financial lives of its Meet your Board of directors who members. David also strongly believes in the economic value of Society’s Chief Executive Officer in April 2016, inspired by the Society’s principle of mutuality. Since then, the Society has grown were in office at 4 April 2020, Governance commerce and the importance of rebuilding trust in big business. its membership to a record 16.3 million, delivered £2.5 billion Other current positions in member financial benefit and continued to lead its peers including Phil Rivett, who is seeking • Chair, Beazley plc on customer service. Joe’s mission continues to be to inspire election as a non-executive director. • Chair, Beazley Furlonge Limited • Vice Chair, NHS England colleagues to remain true to the Society’s social purpose, using the power of the collective to improve people’s lives. • Associate non-executive director, NHS Improvement Other current positions • Non-executive director, Campion Wilcocks Limited • Director, UK Finance • Advisor Board member, The Mentoring Foundation • Member, Financial Conduct Authority Practitioner Panel Advisory Council • Chair and Trustee, British Triathlon Trust Risk report • Member, Strategy Board, Henley Business School, • Member, Economic Crime Strategy Board University of Reading • Co-chair, Inclusive Economy Partnership Financial Previous positions include Capability and Inclusion Steering Committee • Group Deputy Chair, Lloyds Banking Group plc Previous positions include • Executive director, Barclays Bank plc and CEO, International Retail & Commercial Banking • CEO, Openreach Key • Chair and CEO, Bawag PSK AG • Deputy CEO, HSBC Bank plc • Head, HSBC’s UK Retail and Commercial Business • Non-executive director, BAA plc Financial statements • Non-executive director, Absa Group SA • Non-executive director, Financial Ombudsman Service a Audit Committee it Board IT and Resilience Committee ng Nomination and Governance Committee r Remuneration Committee Other information ri Board Risk Committee Indicates chair of a Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2020 52 Board of directors (continued) Chris Rhodes Kevin Parry OBE a ri ng Rita Clifton CBE a r Strategic report Executive director since 20 April 2009 Non-executive director since 23 May 2016 and Non-executive director since 1 July 2012 (independent) Senior Independent Director since 17 January 2020. Skills and experience Skills and experience Chris was appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in October Skills and experience As a former CEO and Chair of brand consultancy Interbrand, 2019; he is a chartered accountant with over 30 years’ Kevin is a chartered accountant with a distinguished career Rita is an acclaimed brand expert. This, and her background experience in retail and commercial banking, holding senior in financial services and professional practice, bringing to the in consumer insight, help ensure that member interests are leadership roles across finance, treasury, operations, retail Board expertise in audit, regulation, risk management and central to Board business. Rita has helped a wide range of distribution and risk management. Prior to this finance. As a former Chair of the Homes and Communities iconic British organisations understand how to use research, appointment, Chris was Nationwide’s Chief Product and Agency, his perspective on housing is a valuable asset to the marketing strategy and communications to build sustainable Propositions Officer. This broad background means he has a Society. He is Chairman of Royal London, the largest mutual brand value. She is also a committed advocate for environmental and sustainability issues. Governance deep understanding of the Society and the mutual business insurer in the UK. He is a former trustee and Chair of the model and he is ideally placed to oversee the long-term Royal National Children’s Springboard Foundation, a charity Other current positions financial stability of the Society, ensuring the Society providing life transforming opportunities through education • Chair, BrandCap to disadvantaged children. • Non-executive director, Ascential plc (previously known continues to invest for the future on behalf of its members. as EMAP plc) Previous positions include Other current positions • Member, Assurance and Advisory Panel, BP’s carbon • Trustee, National Numeracy • Chair, Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited off-setting programme ‘Target Neutral’ • Director, Lending Standards Board Limited • Non-executive director and Chair of the Audit and • Visiting Fellow, Saïd Business School, Oxford University • Group Finance Director, Alliance and Leicester Group Risk Committee, Daily Mail and General Trust plc • Trustee, Green Alliance • Deputy Managing Director, Girobank Previous positions include Previous positions include Risk report • Board Director, Visa Europe • Chair, Intermediate Capital Group plc • Non-executive director, ASOS plc • Trustee, Royal National Children’s SpringBoard Foundation • London CEO and Chair, Interbrand • Chief Financial Officer, Schroders plc • Vice Chair, Saatchi & Saatchi • Chief Executive Officer, Management Consulting Group plc • Non-executive director, Dixons Retail plc • Managing Partner, Information Communications and • Trustee, WWF (Worldwide Fund for Nature) Entertainment, KPMG LLP • Non-executive director, Bupa • Senior Independent director, Standard Life Aberdeen plc • Non-executive director, Populus Limited • Member, the UK Government’s Sustainable Financial statements Development Commission Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 53 Board of directors (continued) Mai Fyfield r it ng Albert Hitchcock it ri Baroness Usha Prashar CBE PC r Non-executive director since 2 December 2018 Non-executive director since 18 January 2017 (independent) Strategic report Non-executive director since 2 June 2015 (independent) (independent) Skills and experience Skills and experience Mai combines her experience as an economist and strategist Skills and experience Usha is a highly experienced policy adviser, with a singular with considerable commercial experience to guide the Board’s Albert is a leader in information technology with over 30 years mix of insight across the public, not-for-profit and broadcasting strategic thinking and assessment of new opportunities and in the technology industry. His experience is of huge value sectors. Her wealth of public and voluntary sector expertise to the Society as we continue our ambitious transformation helps inform Nationwide’s regulatory perspectives and social initiatives. She was Chief Strategy and Commercial Officer at purpose. Usha shares the Society’s commitment to programme to meet the expectations of our members today Sky until October 2018, where she led strategy and commercial and in the future. contributing to local communities and voluntary work. partnerships across the Sky Group, an organisation she Other current positions Other current positions Governance joined in 1999. Mai is a champion of diversity and helping • Member of House of Lords • Chief Technology and Operations Officer, Pearson plc women succeed in senior management and Board positions. • Honorary President, UK Community Foundations Previous positions include Other current positions • Member, the Home Building Review Panel • Technology Adviser to the Board, Royal Bank of Scotland plc • Non-executive director, Roku Inc • Chair, Cumberland Lodge • Group Chief Information Officer, Vodafone plc • Chair, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and • Non-executive director, BBC Commercial Holdings Limited • Global Chief Information Officer, Nortel Networks Industry UK Council • Non-executive director, ASOS plc • Member, International Advisory Board, ASPIDE Previous positions include • Member, International Advisory Board, IE Business School • Director, Jupiter Entertainment • Member, EU Internal Market Select Committee, House of Lords Risk report • Chief Strategy and Commercial Officer, Sky Group plc Previous positions include • Deputy Chair, the British Council • Member, European Select Committee • Non-executive director, ITV • Non-executive director, the Cabinet Office • Non-executive director, Channel 4 • Non-executive director, Ealing, Hounslow and Hammersmith Health Authority Financial statements • Inaugural Chair, the Judicial Appointments Commission Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 54 Board of directors (continued) Phil Rivett a it ri Tim Tookey ri a it ng Gunn Waersted it Non-executive director since 1 June 2017 (independent) Strategic report Non-executive director since 1 September 2019 Non-executive director since 2 June 2015 (independent) (independent) Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Tim is a chartered accountant with over 30 years’ experience Gunn has a distinguished international career, including senior Phil is a chartered accountant with over forty years’ experience in finance, across retail and commercial banking, life leadership positions in financial services, telecommunications of professional accountancy and audit with a focus on banks assurance and pensions, and insurance. As a former Chief and petrochemicals. She brings to the Board vast experience and insurance companies. Phil has a wealth of experience Financial Officer, Tim has the background and expertise to of driving large-scale operational, cultural change and digital advising major financial services providers in the UK and on analyse and test the Society’s financial and risk strategies. transformation programmes to improve customer experience. a global basis; he has an exceptional leadership track record Other current positions She is a strong advocate of the need for strong people advocating a collaborative and inclusive approach. • Non-executive director, Royal London Mutual Insurance cultures and creating genuinely diverse organisations. Governance Other current positions Society Limited Other current positions • Non-executive director, Standard Chartered Plc • Director, Westmoreland Court Management • Chair, Telenor ASA Previous positions include (Beckenham) Ltd • Chair, Petoro AS • Global Chair, Financial Services Group, Previous positions include • Member, Fidelity International PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP • Chief Financial Officer, Quilter plc (previously known • Non-executive director, Saferoad Holding ASA as Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited) Previous positions include • Chair, Alliance Trust Savings Limited • CEO, Wealth Management Division, • Chief Financial Officer, Friends Life Group Limited CEO of Nordea Bank Norway and • Group Finance Director, Lloyds Banking Group Executive Vice President at Nordea Bank Group Risk report • Finance Director, Prudential plc’s UK business • CEO, Vital Forsikring and Executive Vice President of DnB • Chair, Ferd and BI • Non-executive director, Statkraft, Statoil • CEO, SpareBank 1 Group Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 55 Nationwide Leadership Team Strategic report The Nationwide Leadership Team derives its authority from the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for directing and coordinating the executive management of the Society within the strategy, risk appetite, operational plans, policies, objectives, frameworks, budget and authority approved by the Board. The Committee acts as a forum to assist the Chief Executive Officer with his responsibilities. Members of the Nationwide Leadership Team lead either functional communities, or one of our Member Missions, which have responsibility for bringing together activities across our communities to serve our members. As well as sitting on the Janet Chapman Jane Hanson Julia Dunn Claire Tracey Governance Board of Directors, the Leader, Moments that Matter Chief People Officer Chief Risk Officer Chief Strategy Officer following people are also Member Mission part of the Nationwide Jane joined Nationwide in 2018 Julia qualified as a chartered Claire joined Nationwide in Leadership Team: Janet joined Nationwide as to lead on people and culture accountant with PwC and spent September 2019. She was Chief Internal Auditor in January matters having previously led the 12 years specialising in forensic previously a Partner and 2017. She currently leads the people agenda at Yorkshire accounting and litigation. She Managing Director at Boston Joe Garner Moments that Matter Mission, Building Society and First Direct. joined Nationwide in September Consulting Group, for whom working across the Society Jane also spent several years at 2013 as Chief Compliance she spent 18 years on strategy Risk report to deliver solutions to support HSBC working across HR, Officer. She now leads the Risk assignments across the UK, members. Prior to joining Customer Experience and the Community, helping to keep the Europe and Asia. She is Nationwide, Janet was Chief Retail Network. Society, and its members, safe responsible for Nationwide’s Auditor for institutional and secure. Julia previously spent Strategy Community, including businesses at Citigroup. Before 13 years in supervision and innovation, venturing and that, she was Chief Auditor for enforcement with the Financial corporate development, and Financial statements the Americas at The Bank of Services Authority, and latterly chairs the Society’s Responsible Tokyo Mitsubishi. the Financial Conduct Authority. Business Committee. Chris Rhodes Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 56 Nationwide Leadership Team (continued) Strategic report Sara Bennison Patrick Eltridge Alison Robb OBE Mark Chapman Rachael Sinclair Chief Marketing Officer Chief Operating Officer Deputy Chief Financial Officer Chief Legal Officer and Leader, Homes and Dreams Society Secretary Member Mission Sara started her career in Patrick joined Nationwide as Alison took up the role of advertising, working for major Chief Operating Officer (COO) in Deputy CFO in September 2019. Mark joined Nationwide in March Rachael joined Nationwide in Governance brands in the UK and Asia. She February 2019. He was previously Prior to this she was the leader 2018 as Leader of Legal and 2008 and has carried out joined Nationwide in March 2016 Group Information Officer at of the People and Culture Secretariat, delivering expert multiple roles across the Society having spent the previous Royal Bank of Scotland, where Community. Alison is a qualified advice and guidance on legal involving Head of Operational Strategy, Director of Channel decade at BT and then Barclays. he was responsible for the chartered accountant and and regulatory issues, as well Strategy and Operations and She is responsible for leading the successful delivery of IT and previously worked for KPMG and as a comprehensive secretariat Director of Strategic Planning. Propositions and Engagement operational resilience WH Smith before joining service. Before joining She is currently responsible for Community which involves improvement programmes. Nationwide in 1996. She has Nationwide, Mark spent a year leading the Homes and Dreams understanding what members Patrick has vast experience in worked in various roles across volunteering as a teacher in Member Mission, which involves Risk report want, developing propositions financial services, the Society, including in the South Africa. He previously bringing together the end to which answer member needs, telecommunications and finance and strategy functions. served as General Counsel of end running of the Society’s managing all the products we technology start-ups. As COO, Barclays UK and General Counsel Mortgage and Investment offer and the way in which we Patrick’s focus is on the at Nomura International having businesses. Prior to joining communicate, as well as our realisation of our technology started his career as a litigator Nationwide, Rachael spent the social investment programme. strategy to deliver value and at Freshfields in both London previous decade working in service for members, while various roles across Europe, and New York. Financial statements Africa and Asia with Barclaycard. keeping them safe and secure. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 57 Our members Strategic report Members continue to be at the heart of what we do at Nationwide. Report of the directors on At the 2019 AGM, we piloted a ‘Meet the Directors’ stand, giving Corporate members the opportunity to meet directors over lunch and share views on Nationwide and how we’re doing. The AGM also provides members with the opportunity to vote on important Governance issues, for example, this year members will be asked to vote on our Directors’ Remuneration Policy which we submit to a vote of members on a voluntary basis every three years. The AGM also Governance gives our members the opportunity to elect or re-elect directors For the year ended 4 April 2020 to the Board. This year’s AGM is scheduled to take place at our Head Office in Swindon on 16 July 2020. As a result of the ongoing David Roberts outbreak of the coronavirus, Covid-19, physical attendance in person by members will not be possible at this year’s AGM if the latest restrictions on public gatherings imposed by the Government continue. We nonetheless encourage your participation by Dear fellow member, voting online or by post and by submitting questions in advance. Risk report I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report We also encourage members to watch the event which will be live streamed online on the day of the meeting. for the financial year ended 4 April 2020. As a member-owned Society, we will only be successful if we As a member-owned building society, Nationwide continues provisions of the revised Code, published in July 2018 and listen to and meet the needs of our members. We continue to to strive towards the highest governance standards relevant to Nationwide with effect from 5 April 2019, can be host our regular Member TalkBack sessions around the country in order to ensure that the long-term decisions made are found on pages 60 to 62. in places as diverse as Carlisle, Hackney and Eastbourne with Financial statements in our members’ interests and continue to deliver value The long-term success and sustainability of the Society is 1,368 members attending this financial year. Whilst we’ve for members today and in the future. underpinned by good quality governance, the results of which had to suspend these sessions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, The Society’s Board of directors is responsible for its governance have been brought to the fore with the recent Covid-19 we look forward to hosting further TalkBacks during the and setting a clear strategy and direction. The Board is pandemic and the uncertainties over its impact on our forthcoming year as soon as we’re able to do so. More information committed to maintaining the highest standards in the way wider stakeholders and the economy as a whole. It was on these sessions and how to take part will be on our website, Nationwide is directed, governed and managed and we essential that the Board was sufficiently engaged and fully have adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) informed of the associated risks and the Society’s response nationwide.co.uk which sets the governance standards for public listed to this pandemic. To this end, additional Board discussions Additionally, 7,000 members have engaged with us through our Other information companies. Whilst we aim to comply with the Code’s ethos often held at short notice took place to discuss management’s growing member Connect community which offers members and principles, we do so in line with the Building Societies actions, with a focus on operational resilience, the the opportunity to get involved in discussions with other members Association Guidance on the Code to ensure alignment with maintenance of service to our members and the support good practice and our mutual status. Further information offered to our colleagues for their safety and wellbeing and to take part in surveys to help shape new products and on our governance structure and how we have applied the through the crisis. make suggestions for improvements. More information on these initiatives can also be found on our website. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 58 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Our people and culture that I have continued in my role as the Whistleblowers’ Champion Officer. Chris joined the Society’s Board in April 2009 and is a where I have responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the chartered accountant and experienced finance director with a Strategic report To support our mutual heritage, and to ensure members get the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Nationwide’s policies deep understanding of mutuality and the Society. The Board and best possible service and outcomes from us, the Board is and procedures on whistleblowing. This includes measures I would like to pay tribute to Mark and thank him for his significant committed to the development of a workplace environment for intended to protect whistleblowers from being victimised because contribution to the Society. our people to thrive and succeed. We recognise that our people they have disclosed reportable concerns. are our most valuable asset in delivering our objectives and this In March 2020, Tony Prestedge resigned from his position as was very evident during the Covid-19 pandemic, with our Leadership Deputy Chief Executive Officer after a period of 12 years on the colleagues continuing to provide legendary service to our members Board of the Society. On behalf of the Board, I would like to The Board is responsible for setting the medium and long-term thank Tony for the valuable contribution he has made to the in a difficult and uncertain period. It is therefore essential that vision for the Society, being a guardian for its culture and values, continued success of the Society and wish him well in his new our colleagues have the systems, skills and knowledge, and Governance overseeing performance and the Society’s attitude to risk, and role. The position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer will not be operate in the right environment to make a difference. The supporting and challenging management. As Chair, it is my Society’s culture depends on its leaders embedding the “tone replaced, and we are confident that the Society’s Board and responsibility to lead the Board and promote its effectiveness within from the top”. For a better understanding of the views of our Leadership Team are well positioned to lead the Society in a strong and sound governance framework. Each year, a formal people, Mai Fyfield our designated director responsible for delivering its strategic aims and in maintaining the long-term evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees is ensuring the voice of our employees is heard in the Boardroom, conducted and this is facilitated by an independent third party every sustainability of the Society. has undertaken a number of engagements with our colleagues three years. In 2020, the effectiveness review was conducted After almost three and a half years on the Board, Baroness Usha this year. Further information on Mai’s engagement activities internally, and we will report on the findings in next year’s Annual Prashar will be stepping down as a non-executive director at the Report. The progress made on actions taken in response to the Risk report can be found on page 71. Society’s AGM on 16 July 2020. Baroness Prashar will continue findings of the 2019 review are detailed on pages 83 to 84. Our annual employee survey (ViewPoint) gives colleagues the working with the Board in an advisory capacity. We have opportunity to provide feedback about their working experience, It is important that the Board has the right blend of experience, commenced the search for a new non-executive director who the Society’s leadership, service to members and strategy. The skills and diversity required to continue to provide the appropriate will bring diverse experience to complement the existing skills results tell us that we retain a strong culture and committed level of oversight and challenge for the business. The Board’s and experience on the Board. composition, balance, skills and experience are reviewed regularly colleagues. We know from other independent surveys that our Mai Fyfield succeeded Lynne Peacock as Chair of the Remuneration to ensure that the Board continues to effectively discharge its Financial statements care for members and each other is strong and as a Board, we Committee in September 2019 and Kevin Parry was appointed responsibilities. As we reported last year, Mitchel Lenson retired are committed to ensuring that our policies and practices are as the Society’s Senior Independent Director in January 2020. from the Board as a non-executive director at our AGM in July 2019 aligned with the values of the Society. The annual Banking after eight years of service. Lynne Peacock also retired as our We were pleased to announce the appointment of Phil Rivett Standards Board1 culture survey, the results of which are Senior Independent Director in December 2019 after more than to the Board as a non-executive director in September 2019. presented to the Board, helps us understand how the Society’s eight years on the Board. I would like to take this opportunity to He also became a member of the Audit, Board IT and Resilience behaviour and capabilities compare with other UK financial thank Lynne on behalf of the Board and Nationwide for her and Board Risk committees. Phil has a deep understanding of service providers. The results show that the Society promotes contributions to the Board and the Society and wish her well for retail banking having worked with major banking institutions high standards of behaviour and competence. the future. over a number of years. His forty years’ experience of professional Other information Nationwide promotes openness, honesty and transparency and During the year, Mark Rennison retired from his role as the Society’s accountancy with PricewaterhouseCoopers, including thirty recognises the importance of colleagues being able to raise concerns Chief Financial Officer and was succeeded by Chris Rhodes, years as a partner specialising in financial services, will prove in confidence and without fear of reprisal. I am proud to say formerly Executive Director and Chief Product and Propositions invaluable to the Board. 1 This is an annual survey undertaken by the Banking Standards Board covering 29 firms, including 8 systemically important institutions in the UK (of which Nationwide is one) plus a range of other mid-sized and small banks and building societies. It aims is to raise standards across the sector. Over 2,500 of the Society’s colleagues participated in the last assessment. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 59 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) The Nomination and Governance Committee continues to focus Inclusion and diversity and career progression. As Board sponsor of the Society’s inclusion on leadership changes at executive management level and the and diversity agenda Baroness Usha Prashar has been responsible The Board benefits from the diversity of views, backgrounds and Strategic report development of a succession pipeline. Alison Robb, formerly for ensuring that initiatives to promote the Society’s commitment Chief People Officer, who joined the Society in 1996 was appointed experience of its directors and we remain committed to increasing and support for diversity are represented at the Board, and will Deputy Chief Financial Officer from September 2019. Alison, the diversity of our Board and the Society. Whilst Nationwide is continue to support the Board after she steps down as a nona chartered accountant, held various roles across the Society in a building society and not a listed company, the Board continues executive director. More information on our inclusion and diversity finance and strategy prior to her appointment as Chief People to meet or exceed all of the benchmarks set for listed companies strategy and measures across the Society can be found on page 21. Office in 2016. Alison is succeeded as Chief People Officer by with regard to gender and ethnic diversity. We have already Jane Hanson, who has been with the Society since January 2018 achieved the Hampton-Alexander review 2020 target for a The year ahead as Director of Community Partnering. Jane has over 20 years’ minimum of 33% female representation on the boards of FTSE experience as a senior HR leader across retail banking and 350 companies. We have also achieved the Parker review 2021 The Board remains committed to serving the requirements Governance in the mutual sector. target of each FTSE 100 company having at least one director of the Society in delivering strong governance whilst retaining Sara Bennison, Chief Marketing Officer, who joined the Society from an ethnic background. We recognise, however, that across our mutual values. We will continue to focus on the long-term in 2016, took up an expanded role to include products and the Society there is more work to be done to ensure that the sustainability of the Society to deliver the best possible propositions as well as marketing and engagement. She is an Society reflects the communities it serves. In December 2019, outcomes for our members, communities, colleagues and our experienced group marketing director with over 25 years’ we published our first ethnicity pay gap report alongside our wider stakeholders. experience predominantly in the financial services sector annual gender pay gap report, and as a Board, we continue to and has had significant involvement with developing new support initiatives to enhance inclusion and diversity in the David Roberts propositions at Nationwide. Society’s recruitment process and in colleagues’ development Chair Risk report Governance at Nationwide The Board has established a set of internal standards and principles by which Nationwide is governed to ensure sound and prudent control of the Society, and to keep members’ money and interests safe. Financial statements Everyone in Nationwide has a role to play in governance: The Board Chief Executive Officer Nationwide’s people Sets the strategy and tone and Derives authority from the Everyone at Nationwide promotes ethical leadership, Board and cascades standards is responsible for good leads on culture, embodies the and principles agreed by the governance and adhering Other information Society’s values, encourages Board to the business. to the standards and tone good governance, monitors set by the Board. controls and manages risk. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 60 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) UK Corporate Governance Code – statement of compliance Strategic report Nationwide is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has continued to adopt the relevant parts of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, which is available at www.frc.org.uk (the Code). The Board believes that throughout the year ended 4 April 2020 Nationwide has complied with the principles of the Code in line with the Building Societies Association guidance of July 2018. Details of the principles, including where you can read more about how Nationwide complied with them, are set out below: Section Code principles2 Where to read more on how Nationwide Page Governance Building Society has complied A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial board, whose role is to promote Strategic report 2-49 Board the long-term sustainable success of the company, generating value for shareholders and Role of the Board 63 leadership contributing to wider society. Risk report and company The board should establish the company’s purpose, values and strategy, and satisfy itself that Strategic report 2-49 these and its culture are aligned. All directors must act with integrity, lead by example and Role of the Board 63 purpose promote the desired culture. The board should ensure that the necessary resources are in place for the company to meet its Strategic report – KPIs 11 Financial statements objectives and measure performance against them. The board should also establish a framework Board Risk Committee report 95-98 of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk to be assessed and managed. Risk report (Principal risks) 138 In order for the company to meet its responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders, the board Engagement with stakeholders 69-76 should ensure effective engagement with, and encourage participation from, these parties. The board should ensure that workforce policies and practices are consistent with the company’s Building Pride 20-21 values and support its long-term sustainable success. The workforce should be able to raise any Culture, whistleblowing 63-64 Other information matters of concern. Role of the Board 63 2 The UK Corporate Governance Code uses the terminologies of ‘company’ and ‘shareholder’ but for the purpose of Nationwide and this Corporate Governance report, these terms should be read as ‘Society’ and ‘member’ respectively. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 61 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) UK Corporate Governance Code – statement of compliance (continued) Strategic report Section Code principles2 Where to read more on how Nationwide Page Building Society has complied 5 and 77 Division of The chair leads the board and is responsible for its overall effectiveness in directing the company. Role of the Chair / Chair’s letter They should demonstrate objective judgement throughout their tenure and promote a culture of How the Board operates 68 Governance responsibilities openness and debate. In addition, the chair facilitates constructive board relations and the effective Nomination and Governance Committee report 103-107 contribution of all non-executive directors, and ensures that directors receive accurate, timely and Information and advice 81 clear information. The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive (and, in Board composition 82 particular, independent non-executive) directors, such that no one individual or small group of Tenure and independence 81-82 individuals dominates the board’s decision-making. There should be a clear division of responsibilities Roles on the Board 77-78 between the leadership of the board and the executive leadership of the company’s business. Risk report Non-executive directors should have sufficient time to meet their board responsibilities. They should provide Attendance chart – How the Board operates 68 constructive challenge, strategic guidance, offer specialist advice and hold management to account. Time commitment 80 The board, supported by the company secretary, should ensure that it has the policies, processes, Information and advice 81 information, time and resources it needs in order to function effectively and efficiently. Induction, training and development 81 Financial statements Nomination and Governance Committee report 103-107 Composition, Appointments to the board should be subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, and an effective succession plan should be maintained for board and senior management. Both appointments succession and and succession plans should be based on merit and objective criteria and, within this context, should evaluation promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths. The board and its committees should have a combination of skills, experience and knowledge. Board composition 82 Consideration should be given to the length of service of the board as a whole and membership Board of directors 51-54 regularly refreshed. Other information Annual evaluation of the board should consider its composition, diversity and how effectively members Board effectiveness review 83-84 work together to achieve objectives. Individual evaluation should demonstrate whether each director continues to contribute effectively. 2 The UK Corporate Governance Code uses the terminologies of ‘company’ and ‘shareholder’ but for the purpose of Nationwide and this Corporate Governance report, these terms should be read as ‘Society’ and ‘member’ respectively. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 62 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) UK Corporate Governance Code – statement of compliance (continued) Strategic report Section Code principles2 Where to read more on how Nationwide Page Building Society has complied Audit, Risk and The board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to ensure the Audit Committee report 86-94 independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions and satisfy itself on the Governance Internal Control integrity of financial and narrative statements. The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the company’s Audit Committee report 86-94 position and prospects. Directors’ report 130-133 The board should establish procedures to manage risk, oversee the internal control framework, Audit Committee report 86-94 and determine the nature and extent of the principal risks the company is willing to take in order Board Risk Committee report 95-98 to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. Risk report Remuneration Remuneration policies and practices should be designed to support strategy and promote Remuneration report 108-129 long-term sustainable success. Executive remuneration should be aligned to company purpose and values and be clearly linked to the successful delivery of the company’s long-term strategy. A formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and Remuneration report 108-129 Financial statements determining director and senior management remuneration should be established. No director should be involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome. Directors should exercise independent judgement and discretion when authorising remuneration Remuneration report 108-129 outcomes, taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances. Other information 2 The UK Corporate Governance Code uses the terminologies of ‘company’ and ‘shareholder’ but for the purpose of Nationwide and this Corporate Governance report, these terms should be read as ‘Society’ and ‘member’ respectively. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 63 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose Strategic report The role of the Board At Nationwide we aspire to make a positive contribution to society by delivering the benefits of mutuality to more members both present and in the future. We are driven by this social purpose to help our members achieve their financial goals. More information on the Society’s purpose can be found on pages 9 to 10. The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Society can deliver key focus of the Board to support the organisation’s purpose, deliver the Society’s strategy. The Board will continue to sponsor Governance long-term success for members and is built to last. It determines and the delivery of its strategic ambitions. The Society’s cultural and monitor progress in all these areas in the coming year. the Society’s strategic objectives within a framework of risk assessment tool, the Culture Mosaic, provides the Board with a appetite and controls. The Board monitors the Society’s overall holistic understanding of the evolution of the Society’s culture Whistleblowing financial performance and ensures effective governance, controls which helps inform and shape the strategic priorities to manage, and risk management. Nationwide has arrangements in place for employees, contractors drive and accelerate the pace of culture change in the Society. and temporary workers to raise concerns confidentially and Risk report When setting the Society’s strategy, the Board considers the impact Along with the Society’s employee engagement survey and the anonymously (if they prefer), about possible misconduct, that its decisions might have on various stakeholders such as Banking Standards Board report, it helps the Board and wrongdoing and behaviour towards others, including those members, workforce, suppliers and the community. It is accountable management develop aspects of the Society’s culture to meet related to non-financial matters. To make anonymous reporting for ensuring that as a collective body, it has the appropriate the changing needs of employees and members in the future. easier and to provide employees with an additional degree of skills, knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively. The impact and effectiveness of the Society’s initiatives, surety around raising concerns, two additional reporting channels The Board is also responsible for providing leadership to the including the pace and progress of the culture evolution, can were introduced in 2019, enabling concerns to be reported via Society on culture, values and ethics. The powers of the Board Financial statements also be tracked through the mosaic. an independent third party. are set out in the Society’s Memorandum and Rules which are available on the Society’s website nationwide.co.uk Several priorities have been identified that now form part of the Nationwide’s Chair, David Roberts, is the Society’s Whistleblowers’ Society’s agenda on culture over the next few years. This Champion. David has responsibility for ensuring and overseeing The Board operates under formal terms of reference which includes developing leadership and talent potential and creating the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Nationwide’s include a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, a learning organisation, as well as evolving the Society’s policies and procedures relating to whistleblowing, including with the day to day running of the business delegated to the approach to reward and recognition. To address each of these those intended to protect whistleblowers from being victimised Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer derives his authority from the Board and cascades the agreed standards priorities, the Society will put in place a number of initiatives because they have disclosed reportable concerns. Other information to the business. The Board’s terms of reference can be found such as investing in developing skills and capabilities, focusing Nationwide provides employees, contractors and temporary on the Society’s website nationwide.co.uk particularly on creating opportunities to build technology talent workers with annual training on its whistleblowing and investing in employee experience and wellbeing. The arrangements and how to raise concerns, including how they Culture Society will also adopt a refreshed approach to rewarding and can raise a whistleblowing concern directly with the Financial Nationwide’s culture plays a pivotal role in the Society’s success recognising employees in a way that is meaningful and valuable Conduct Authority or the Prudential Regulation Authority, and leading the development of the Society’s culture remains a to them, helping to motivate the behavioural shifts needed to without first reporting internally. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 64 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Having effective and trusted confidential whistleblowing all directors which may give rise to a situational conflict and has arrangements is a key priority for the Board in supporting the authorised potential conflicts where appropriate. Directors are Society’s open and honest culture. The Board receives an Annual required to notify the Board of any change in circumstances Whistleblowing Report and has reviewed the adequacy and relating to an existing authorisation and are required to review effectiveness of the arrangements in place for the proportionate and confirm their external interests annually. and independent investigation of concerns raised, including any Governance required follow-up action taken. In addition, at the start of every Board or Committee meeting the Chair asks whether there are any conflicts (in addition to Conflicts of interest those already recorded) to be declared. In a situation where a potential conflict arises, the director will recluse themselves from Directors have a legal duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Prior to any meeting or discussion, and all material in relation to that appointment (and on an ongoing basis), potential conflicts of matter will be restricted, including Board papers and minutes. interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no matters which would prevent that person from taking on the Details of the Society’s directors’ other directorships can be appointment. found in the Annual business statement on page 322. Risk report If any potential conflict arises, the Society’s Directors’ Conflicts of An all-encompassing Conflicts of Interest Policy is also applicable Interest Policy permit the Board to authorise the conflict, subject to all other employees which covers the need to appropriately to such conditions or limitations as the Board may determine. identify and robustly manage all institutional and personal The Board has considered the current external appointments of conflicts of interest. Financial statements What the Board did this year 11% • Strategic development and performance 9% • Finance • Governance Other information 17% 53% • People, culture and remuneration • Risk and regulatory matters 10% Annual Report and Accounts 2020 65 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Throughout the year, the Board focused its activity on supporting management in the delivery of the Society’s strategic aims, reviewing and approving the Society’s strategy and financial plans, and considering governance and regulatory matters. The Board regularly received updates on business Governance progress and the issues and challenges faced by During the year, the Board focused on a number of specific areas in line with management. Board activities were regularly structured the Society’s cornerstones and principal risks. to support and review the Society’s strategy, focusing on the strategic cornerstones as outlined on pages 9 to 10, and an in depth review of the progress of the strategy was considered by the Board at its annual Cornerstones strategy day in October 2019. 1. Building a National Treasure Risk report Building a The Society continues to develop and invest in new National 2. Building Thriving Membership Treasure products and services which are assessed to be within the Board’s risk appetite. 3. Building Legendary Service Building PRIDE In addition to the main items for consideration, 4. Built to Last the Board received updates at each meeting on the Financial statements work of its principal committees to keep abreast 5. Building PRIDE Building Legendary Building of significant issues. Service Thriving Membership The following pages set out a non-exhaustive list of the Principal Risks matters that the Board has considered during the year. Last Built to Prudential risks (including credit, model, liquidity  P and funding, market, solvency and pension risks) O Operational and conduct risks Other information E Enterprise risk (including business risk) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 66 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Board activity – Strategic development and performance Strategic Cornerstone Principal Risk Discussed regular updates from the CEO on progress against the Society’s purpose to build society, nationwide, including provision of external insights on key factors affecting the business. As part of this, the Board reviewed key performance P O E metrics to assess progress made in the implementation of the Society’s strategy. Debated and considered the expansion of the Society’s membership by developing the later life proposition. Approved Governance the development of a range of initiatives designed to broaden the products and services offered to Nationwide members. P O Debated and approved the closure of the Nationwide for Business proposition. Continued to build on the Society’s technology agenda by reviewing progress on the delivery of the technology strategy and considering joint venture opportunities. Focused on developing the Society’s digital capabilities in line with its technology O strategy, with the key theme at the annual strategy conference being the rise of digital intermediaries. Received an update on the progress made on the Society’s social investment strategy which focuses on providing decent and affordable homes. The Board also reviewed the Society’s approach to tackling key societal challenges in the areas O E of housing, thriving high streets and financial wellbeing. Reviewed the impact of the Society’s brand in relation to market conditions and its competitors. E Risk report Board activity – Finance Strategic Cornerstone Principal Risk Considered the Society’s five year plan for 2020-25 (the Plan), including providing input, guidance and advice to the senior management team. As part of this, the Board reviewed the latest view of profitability of the Society for 2019/20 and 2020/21 Financial statements and considered strategic actions required. It approved the strategic investment spend for Q1 of the 2020/21 financial year. P O E Due to the volatility and changes in economic assumptions generated by Covid-19, the Plan will be reviewed by the Board in Q2 of the 2020/21 financial year. Regularly assessed financial performance and capital position of the Society via business performance reports from the Chief Financial Officer. P E Reviewed and approved the Society’s interim and full year financial results prior to publication. Approved the Society’s Annual Report and Accounts prior to publication with consideration given to the viability of the business over a three-year P E Other information horizon and the preparation of the accounts on a going concern basis. Reviewed the Society’s position in respect of cost efficiency and discussed the strategic cost levers required to deliver the cost plan. P E Key:  Building a National Treasure Building Thriving Membership Building Legendary Service Built to Last Building PRIDE P Prudential risks O Operational and conduct risks E Enterprise risk Annual Report and Accounts 2020 67 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Board activity – Governance Strategic Cornerstone Principal Risk Received and considered regular reports from the General Counsel and Society Secretary on emerging changes to legislation and regulation impacting the Society’s business. P O Received an update on the 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) provisional voting results. Approved the Notice of the 2020 AGM and associated documentation. Reviewed the Society’s contingency plans for the 2020 AGM in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. P O E Governance Carried out, and received the report of, a review into the effectiveness of the Society’s Board including developing and monitoring an action plan designed to remedy areas needing improvement. O E Approved the Society’s 2019 Responsible Business Report, which looks at aspects of the Society’s sustainability with regard to its social and environmental impact, and how the Society is responsibly and ethically managed. O E Board activity – People, culture and remuneration Strategic Cornerstone Principal Risk Reviewed and discussed the People Strategy including the Society’s remuneration strategy and how this is aligned with O E Risk report achieving the Society’s overall strategic aims. Reviewed and approved the closure to future accrual of the Nationwide Pension Fund on 31 March 2020 – further details can be found on page 26. P O Considered the Society’s Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap and Equal Pay Audit results, including discussing ways of closing the gap. O Reviewed the progress made on the development of Nationwide’s culture and discussed the results of the 2019 Viewpoint Financial statements employee engagement survey, and the Banking Standards Board survey on the Society’s culture. Reviewed the Annual O Whistleblowing Report and the Society’s whistleblowing arrangements. Board activity – Risk and regulatory matters including external outlook Strategic Cornerstone Principal Risk Assessed the Society’s overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, including receiving direct reports from the Chief Risk Officer and Chair of the Board Risk Committee. The Board also approved revisions to the Board Risk Appetite. P O E Approved the Society’s 2020 Recovery and Resolution Plan to ensure that adequate provisions and processes are in place to protect the Society’s business and its members and ensure business continuity. P O Other information Assessed the economic and market conditions affecting the Society’s business and, as part of this, reviewed in detail and approved the Society’s Brexit planning preparations. P O Key:  Building a National Treasure Building Thriving Membership Building Legendary Service Built to Last Building PRIDE P Prudential risks O Operational and conduct risks E Enterprise risk Annual Report and Accounts 2020 68 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report How the Board operates location and challenges faced by colleagues. The Board meetings discussed. The attendance record for Board members during are structured to ensure that the Board covers a range of items the period is set out below. The table shows the actual number The Board meets regularly and holds a strategy meeting annually (as detailed on pages 66 to 67) relating to the Society’s business, of meetings attended with the number of meetings for which to review strategic options open to the Society in the context of strategy, culture and performance through open debate. Members directors were eligible to attend shown separately. the economic, regulatory and competitive environment. The of the Nationwide Leadership Team and other senior executives Board also meets when necessary to discuss important emerging are invited to attend meetings as required to present and discuss In addition to scheduled meetings, Board members were given the opportunity to join more informal conference calls Governance issues that require consideration between scheduled Board matters relating to their business areas. The Chair meets with meetings. There were ten scheduled Board meetings this year the non-executive directors, without executive directors present, in the months where formal Board meetings did not take including the annual strategy day. During the year, a Board at least once a year. place. These were led by management to discuss the monthly meeting was held at Nationwide’s Administrative Centre in Chief Executive’s Report and Business Performance Report. Northampton. This gave the Directors the opportunity to meet Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they are encouraged The documents were circulated to all Board members regardless colleagues for a greater insight into business activities at this to give the Chair their views in advance, on the matters to be of whether they were able to join the conference call. Board Risk report attendance Rita Clifton Mai Fyfield Joe Garner Albert Hitchcock1 Mitchel Lenson2 Kevin Parry Lynne Peacock3 Usha Prashar Financial statements Meetings attended / (eligible to attend) 10 / (10) 10 / (10) 10 / (10) 9 / (10) 3 / (3) 10 / (10) 7 / (7) 10 / (10) Other information Tony Prestedge4 Mark Rennison5 Phil Rivett6 Chris Rhodes David Roberts Tim Tookey Gunn Waersted Meetings attended / (eligible to attend) 8 / (8) 3 / (3) 7 / (7) 10 / (10) 10 / (10) 10 / (10) 10 / (10) 1 Unable to attend a meeting called at short notice due to prior commitments 2 Retired from the Board on 18 July 2019 3 Retired from the Board on 31 December 2019 4 Resigned from the Board on 10 March 2020 5 Retired from the Board on 13 September 2019 6 Joined the Board on 1 September 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 69 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Engaging with stakeholders The Board recognises the impact the business has on its diverse range of stakeholders and therefore understands the importance of engaging with them at all levels. The Board takes into consideration the interests of these stakeholders as part of its discussion and decision-making processes. The detail below provides an insight into the Society’s engagement with its principal stakeholders. Governance Members We listen to our members As a mutual organisation, members are also the owners of Nationwide, and we want our members to be able Risk report to share their views on the overall direction of the business, so that we can continue to meet their needs now and in the future. To help them do this, we aim to: • make it as easy as possible for our • hold a number of events across the members to have their say, whether country, giving members the Financial statements that’s in person, online or via our other opportunity to meet Board directors contact channels and senior management face to face and in their local communities • listen and respond to member • include members in other activities suggestions and comments, building they’d like to join us in, for example Other information products and services based around deciding how our community grants their needs are allocated via our Community Boards programme (see page 23 for details) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 70 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Members Our AGM Our branch teams have also been out and about sharing their expertise and experience within their local communities. They Governance The AGM is the key event at which members can have their say attended or held 283 events in 2019/20, ranging from supporting on the way the Society is run and hear first-hand from our local fêtes, carnivals and Pride parades, through to offering advice directors. Every year we ask our members to take part in our on protection against fraud, educating children on money and AGM and vote on a number of key issues, such as the election or helping people to understand the world of mortgages. re-election of the directors who run the Society. Members were also able to engage with Nationwide colleagues at Last year, we saw more votes cast online than ever before, with seven agricultural shows and festivals across the UK, including 53% of voters choosing to vote in this way. Although overall CarFest South, and the Great Yorkshire and Royal Welsh shows. turnout at meetings continues to decline, both at Nationwide’s These events help us to reach a broader audience and bring the AGM and across the building society sector, the event was live brand into local communities. From painting piggy banks to Risk report streamed for the first time in 2019, meaning more members helping the next generation start their savings journey, to a could access it. personal poem written by one of our TV poets, these events offer a fun and educational experience for both children and adults. The live stream was viewed by 908 people, of which 598 were not employees of Nationwide. We hold the meeting at a different Online venue across the UK each year, and the 2020 AGM will be live streamed from our Head Office, Nationwide House in Swindon Our online research community, Member Connect, is made up of on Thursday 16 July 2020. 7,000 members who take part in surveys, discussions and polls on Financial statements a variety of subjects. This year the panel gave their views on topics Face to face such as savings bonds, credit card offerings and standard rate mortgages, providing us with valuable insight on what our members Our Member TalkBack programme gives members the opportunity want to see from Nationwide. to meet the Society’s Board and senior management in person. Members can ask the panel questions and share their views on Social media the Society and its performance. Social media is a growing channel of engagement with the number This year, 15 Member TalkBacks were held in towns and cities of followers on the Society’s main social media channels (Facebook, across the UK, with over 1,300 members joining us at one of Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube) increasing by 10% over the last Other information these events. In 2020/21 we’ll resume our face-to-face Member 12 months to almost 259,000 followers. Content relating to TalkBack programme as soon as we are able to do so, allowing fraud awareness, community stories and social investment news us to meet even more members. generated the most engagement and advocacy. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 71 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Employees We value our colleagues Governance At Nationwide, we value our people, their commitment to the Society and their contribution to fulfilling our purpose of building society, nationwide. To ensure Nationwide is a great place to work we engage with colleagues throughout the year to understand what they really value. We provide a variety of ways and channels to gather insights activity conducted over the past year. This included visits to within the Society, and of the importance of making and employee feedback on their experiences and expectations regional office locations, meeting with various groups of employees across our network feel equally valued and as part of our employee listening strategy. These include employees, enabling them to share their views and experiences, included regardless of location. dialogue with colleagues through employee networks, the and liaising with the Nationwide Group Staff Union. Ms Fyfield, Nationwide Group Staff Union and external surveys such as The Society’s People’s Choice programme provides Nationwide who is also the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, employees the opportunity to vote their colleagues onto Risk report the Mind Wellbeing Index. Employees are critical to the hosted a podcast for colleagues, which provided an opportunity services provided by the Society and employee engagement is to increase colleagues’ understanding of executive remuneration leadership forums, with a view to bringing a different regularly discussed, including presentations to the Board on and the link to remuneration in the wider Society. perspective to those forums. At least twice a year, a small the results of Viewpoint, our employee engagement survey, number of the People’s Choice representatives attend one of and the results of the Banking Standards Board survey. From these engagements, themes and lessons learnt were the Society’s Board or Board committee meetings to share presented to the Nomination and Governance Committee their insight on a topic of their choosing. During the year, the General Secretary of the Nationwide Group who discussed the outputs. Over the next year, further Staff Union attended a Board meeting and a Remuneration In addition to this, the Board actively seeks opportunities to Financial statements enhancements will be made to this programme of work, Committee meeting to discuss the relationship of the Union including developing a closer relationship with the Nationwide engage further with the workforce to keep abreast of with Nationwide and the alignment of interests between the Group Staff Union, improving two-way insights sharing to colleague views. For example, the Board visited the Society’s Union and the Society. The CEO also engages directly with identify emerging themes and building visibility and Northampton Administrative Centre in June 2019 and held employees via the Society’s intranet and Employee Connect sessions for colleagues to engage with the Board. These awareness of the programme across the Society. Insights on topics of interest and to receive comments and views included breakfast and lunch ‘meet and greet’ sessions, and from engagement were that Nationwide employees are directly back from the workforce. panel events which gave employees a chance to meet the generally very satisfied, being proud to work for Nationwide, To further promote engagement between the Board and valuing the Society’s unique status and culture and being directors and ask them a range of questions in an open and Society colleagues, Mai Fyfield is appointed as the designated committed to making Nationwide a success. Our branch honest discussion on a variety of topics. These panel events Other information non-executive director with specific responsibilities for the colleagues were keen to stress the importance of being run throughout the year and are a way to engage, empower employee voice in the boardroom. This role has been included in new initiatives at an early stage. We heard that and inspire the workforce. successfully embedded with a programme of engagement our employees wanted more help in building career paths More information on employee engagement metrics can be found on page 20. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 72 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) “The experience was not as intense as I thought it would be, Strategic report there was appreciation as well as challenge from both sides which was positive and encouraging, making me feel that feedback was taken on board. Employees There have been snippets of cross collaboration on the topics we talked about in the meeting in “It’s not Employee voice in the Boardroom: every day you can terms of strategy and I have seen first-hand cross communities working together to colleagues’ experiences of attending share the real experiences align the Society’s goals.” Taiba Governance Board meetings during 2019. and voices of our employees directly with the Board. They were very welcoming and genuinely open to hearing what we had to say, that was special.” Tulsi “Feeding back to the Board was a Risk report liberating experience. Not only were we made to feel welcome and put at ease, it was clear straight “The Board appreciated us away that the Board was very interested in our being there on the day. They listened and perspective and intended to act on it.” Ed welcomed our suggestions on the need for cross-community collaboration and “I have overcoming the issue of communities/teams always advocated having employees Financial statements working in silos. The engagement was really of all levels attend the Board meeting in some powerful, and we all felt empowered to make capacity, as decisions made by them will impact the a difference based on their responses. lower levels. As such if you have the chance why would “It was a great Our views were not dismissed by the Board you not help them understand how they impact your opportunity to represent and we left feeling that something was job. On a personal note it was enlightening, and I felt far our colleagues and share where going to be done about the feedback and calmer and more comfortable then I thought I would. we felt improvements could be concerns we raised.” Godfred That is largely due to the way that the Board made at Nationwide. The Board were Other information welcomed us.” Rebecca really engaged and committed to implementing changes to address the challenges we raised.” Emily Annual Report and Accounts 2020 73 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Communities We support our local communities Governance As a building society, Nationwide believes in supporting people in their communities. This belief includes housing, and Nationwide’s view is that regenerating local areas by working with local people will create real communities. In line with the member vote in 2007, the Society has continued to invest at least 1% of its pre-tax profits to support good causes, focusing on the belief that ‘Everyone deserves a place fit to call home’. By 2023 our members will have directed £22 million worth of grants to housing related causes within their local communities. The Society has continued its approach to socially responsible housing through the Oakfield development project, and throughout Risk report the project has engaged with local residents, businesses and community groups to engage the local community network. Involving the communities closest to the brownfield site being developed in the east of Swindon in the planning process has been a foundation to our approach to socially responsible housing. We hope our learnings from employing a community organiser to involve the community in the evolution of the designs will not only have a lasting impact on the new neighbourhood of 239 homes but will inspire other house builders to consider how they can meaningfully engage local residents, businesses and community groups to create homes that people want and need. We’re creating a new neighbourhood with community at its roots. A place where people can support each other to thrive. Through clever design and a focus on neighbourliness young people can put Financial statements down roots. And with some homes designed to be easily adapted, older people can remain in their homes throughout later life too. The Board regularly receives updates on progress made. The Board is engaged in broader community activity and receives updates on the Society’s Social Investment Strategy and on Community Board activities. The Board encouraged the ongoing work being undertaken to promote the role of Community Boards with a focus on ambassador and champion networks. More information on the Society’s community activities can be found on page 23. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 74 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Investors We engage actively with our investors Governance Nationwide is active in wholesale funding markets, engaging in the issuance of instruments. Wholesale investors contribute towards the Society’s loss absorbing capital, helping to ensure that Nationwide is built to last. The Society maintains an active dialogue with the investors in its instruments through a comprehensive investor relations (IR) programme. During a typical year the IR team will host around 500 meetings, providing current and potential investors with the opportunity to meet senior managers and executive directors of the Society. At least twice a year, Board members Risk report engage with a number of London based investors, providing an update on the Society’s most recent financial performance. The Society’s investors are focused on a wide range of topics, from the strength of the Society’s regulatory capital and liquidity to the role of technology in banking and competition within UK financial services. The Society engages with investors and external rating agencies to assess whether changes should be made to non-financial disclosures. The Society’s Responsible Business Report, published in 2019, was in part a response to a desire from Financial statements investors, agencies and analysts for more disclosure. The investor relations team draws upon the Society’s subject matter experts to provide investors with answers to technical questions. The investor relations website (https://www. nationwide.co.uk/about/investor-relations/introduction) also provides a source of information for investors on the Society’s funding programmes, credit ratings, Pillar 3 disclosures and historic financial publications. Wholesale market participants invest across Nationwide’s capital structure, providing support for core capital deferred shares (CCDS), Additional Tier 1 capital instruments, Tier 2 instruments, Other information unsecured funding and secured funding programmes. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 75 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Suppliers We work closely with our suppliers Governance Nationwide works with over 1,300 third party suppliers who provide a range of goods and services to the Society, helping us run and improve our business and deliver quality service for our members. Our suppliers are an extension of our business, they help us operate safely and securely, they help us learn and improve, and importantly they help each other where it matters too. It is important to Nationwide that all suppliers represent the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement can be found on of the Nationwide Leadership Team we explored themes Society in a manner that enhances its reputation and pages 28 to 29. During the year, the Board approved the of agile partnerships, collaboration, and introducing social relationships with its stakeholders. As a result, the Society Society’s Procurement and Operational Vendor Management enterprise and social value through our supply chains. endeavours to partner with organisations that demonstrate Policy which defines the Society’s principles, responsibilities As a mutual we believe in the value of bringing people together Risk report a commitment to its mutual values, ethics, policies and and processes in relation to all procurement, including to achieve more, and we see this same value in how we work standards. This is also embedded in the Code of Practice that outsourced services. with our suppliers. we ask suppliers to commit to. The Nationwide Supplier We work closely with our suppliers to help them understand Portal (https://www.nationwide.co.uk/suppliers/suppliersour mutual values and our emerging priorities, and to outline home) is designed to provide any new, potential or existing where we need their support and collaboration. Each year suppliers with all the information they need to know about we hold a series of webcasts and an Annual Partner supplying goods and services to Nationwide. The Board Conference where leaders from our key suppliers hear from Financial statements annually reviews and approves the Society’s Modern Slavery members of the Nationwide Leadership Team about the key and Human Trafficking Statement which sets out the opportunities and challenges we face together, and hold Society’s efforts and actions to eliminate modern slavery in open discussion around how we can all work together for the its supply chain. As part of this, we subscribe to the Financial benefit of our members. Supplier Qualification System (FSQS), a tool used to assess potential suppliers across a number of areas. As part of the It is important to us that these events are a dialogue and not FSQS, suppliers are asked to provide evidence of processes simply a download from Nationwide. We understand that and procedures for assessing and complying with relevant often the answers to some of our biggest challenges can be human rights legislation and standards, including the addressed by simply asking those we work closely with how Other information Modern Slavery Act. The Society also has in place, internal we can help make it easier for them. policies and procedures to ensure that we operate At our last Partner Conference, we were joined by our top 50 responsibly, ethically and in compliance with UK legislation suppliers to share a detailed update on our performance and and regulation. More information on the Society’s Modern outlook, our strategic investments, and together with members Annual Report and Accounts 2020 76 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board leadership and Society purpose (continued) Strategic report Regulators We seek an open relationship Governance with regulators Nationwide is committed to complying with all legislation and regulatory rules applicable to its business. The Society is supportive of the objectives of the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Financial Conduct Authority and other applicable regulatory bodies. As a consequence, Nationwide seeks to maintain the highest possible regulatory standards, to protect and enhance the integrity Risk report of the UK financial system and ensure fair outcomes for our members. Nationwide seeks an open and transparent relationship with its regulators, in order to ensure that potential and actual issues are explored and addressed fully and efficiently, and that opportunities to engage in discussion regarding proposed new rules and guidance are maximised. The Board receives regular quarterly reports from our Regulatory Relations team detailing the changing regulatory landscape and how this impacts Nationwide. Financial statements Nationwide’s engagement with its regulators typically takes the form of regular and ad hoc meetings attended by Board and Nationwide Leadership Team members, themed meetings attended by the Society’s subject matter experts, involvement in Nationwide-specific and industry-wide regulatory reviews, submission of regular and ad hoc reports, responding to consultation papers and day-to-day correspondence in answer to regulator requests. Topics in which Nationwide engages with its regulators are wide-ranging. Over the financial year these have included operational resilience, the ability to respond to a financial stress, Other information structural mitigation and industry-wide reviews of business continuity and incident management. Nationwide also has a number of discussions with its regulators about the Society’s products, notably its mortgages, savings and current accounts. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 77 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Division of responsibilities Strategic report Leadership structure An overview of the Board structure and its committees as at 4 April 2020 is set out below. Board Chief Executive Nationwide Leadership Team Governance Officer (NLT) Board committees Audit Board IT and Board Risk Nomination and Remuneration Further information on the role of the Board and its committees Committee Resilience Committee Committee Governance Committee Committee can be found on pages 63 to 79 of this report and in the individual committee reports. Risk report The Board The Board governs and makes decisions as a collective body. Each role on the Board has specific responsibilities. A summary of the responsibilities of each role can be found below: Role Responsibilities Chair Leads the Board, ensuring it operates effectively in setting the strategic direction of the Society, including shaping the culture in the Boardroom; Financial statements David Roberts Sets the tone from the top and epitomises the Society’s culture by fostering open and honest debates in the Boardroom; Fosters a culture of open dialogue and mutual respect between executive and non-executive directors, both in and outside of the Boardroom, including ensuring that each non-executive director provides valuable contributions; Together with the other members of the Board, promotes the long-term success of the Society and ensures the accountability to its members; Provides support and advice to the Chief Executive Officer while respecting executive responsibility. Senior Independent Provides a sounding board for the Society Chair, providing him with support in the delivery of his objectives; Other information Director Available to directors if they have concerns when contact through the usual channels (Chair, Chief Executive Officer or other executive directors) has failed to resolve Kevin Parry the issue or for which such contact may not be appropriate; Acts as a trusted intermediary for other directors when necessary; Leads the annual review of the Chair’s performance by the Board and is responsible, in conjunction with the Nomination and Governance Committee, for the succession process for the Society Chair. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 78 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Division of responsibilities (continued) Strategic report Role Responsibilities Non-executive Collectively set the tone from the top, in relation to culture and governance – holding management to account for embedding and maintaining the Society’s culture and values; directors Contribute to the development of the strategy and risk appetite, exercising effective oversight over risk management and controls; Rita Clifton Monitor performance and constructively challenge as appropriate using their skills and expertise to engage in honest debate; Governance Mai Fyfield Albert Hitchcock Promote the long-term success of the Society for the benefit of members and ensure that the Society meets its obligations as a regulated firm. Usha Prashar Phil Rivett Tim Tookey Gunn Waersted Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day to day running of the business and accountable to the Board for the Society’s financial and operational performance; Risk report Joe Garner Responsible for providing leadership and direction to implement the Society’s strategy having regard to the duty to promote the success of the Society in the interests of members, colleagues and Nationwide’s public and social responsibilities within the wider community; Embodies the Society’s culture and values and develops policies for the Society’s people that drive the right behaviour; Implements and monitors systems for the apportionment and oversight of responsibilities, controls and best practices within the Society, which maintain its operational efficiency and high standards of business conduct. Financial statements Executive director As a member of the Board, collectively with the non-executive directors, sets the strategy, risk appetite and culture and values; Chris Rhodes Ensures that the Board is kept informed of all significant matters, escalating issues on a timely basis; Accountable to the Board for the execution of the strategy and the performance of the business; Holds specific management responsibilities in the day to day running of the business. Society Secretary Advises the Board through the Chair on all governance related matters; Other information Mark Chapman Provides support to the Board in managing good information flows between the Board and the rest of the Society to ensure that high quality and timely information is provided to the Board; Assists the Chair in ensuring that adequate resources are allocated to developing the directors’ knowledge and capabilities in order to enhance Board and Committee effectiveness; Assists the Chair in establishing the policies and processes required to enable the Board to function effectively. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 79 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Division of responsibilities (continued) Strategic report Board Committees To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure that there is independent oversight of internal control and risk management, certain governance responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to its committees. These board committees comprise independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, the Board Chair. The terms of reference of the Board and its committees can be found on the Society’s website: nationwide.co.uk Governance Committee Responsibilities Audit Committee The Audit Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board in respect of financial reporting, financial crime, internal and external audit, and the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems. Board IT and The Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board in respect of IT strategy, IT investment, IT architecture, IT operating model effectiveness, delivery performance Risk report Resilience Committee and resilience controls, including cyber risk, as well as overseeing the Society’s data management strategy. Board Risk Committee The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential risk exposures and risk strategy, including determination of risk appetite. Additionally, the Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance oversight, and the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) and advising the Remuneration Committee on any risk adjustments to be made to remuneration. Financial statements Nomination and The Nomination and Governance Committee assists the Chair in keeping the composition of the Board under review, leading the appointments process for nominations Governance to the Board and making recommendations to the Board on succession planning and executive level appointments. The Committee reviews the Board’s governance Committee arrangements and makes recommendations to the Board to ensure that the arrangements are consistent with best practice. The Committee oversees the implementation of the Society’s inclusion and diversity strategy and objectives. Other information Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration strategy and the broad policy for remuneration of directors, Committee senior management and any other individual employees deemed appropriate by the Committee, including those identified as material risk takers for the purposes of the PRA and FCA Remuneration Codes. It determines, within the terms of the agreed policy, the specific remuneration packages for these roles. The Committee also reviews the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy and pay practices for the workforce across the Society. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 80 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Division of responsibilities (continued) Strategic report Nationwide Leadership Team There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair, as leader of the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for the day to day running of the business. To the extent that matters are not reserved to the board of directors, responsibility is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, who is assisted by the Nationwide Leadership Team. Committee Responsibilities Nationwide The purpose of the Nationwide Leadership Team is to direct and coordinate the executive management of the Society within the strategy, risk appetite, operational plans, Governance Leadership Team policies, objectives, frameworks, budget and authority approved by the Board, and to act as a forum to assist the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) with his responsibilities. The Committee considers all matters of strategic importance to the Society, guided by its purpose and the Society’s strategic cornerstones. More information on the Nationwide Leadership Team can be found on page 55. Risk report Time commitment Non-executive directors are expected to commit a minimum of non-executive directorships in commercial ventures to be held 30 days per year for core activities and membership of Board at the same time by any individual director. To discharge their responsibilities effectively, non-executive committees. The Senior Independent Director and Committee directors must commit sufficient time to their role. The time the Chairs are expected to commit a minimum of 40-60 days per The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Society’s non-executive directors are expected to commit to annum. The Chair will spend a minimum of an average of 2 days Governance Committee, also approved the appointment of Phil Rivett their role at Nationwide is agreed individually, as part of the per week on Nationwide business. For this year, the Chair has as a non-executive director of Standard Chartered Plc with effect appointment process, and depends upon their responsibilities. individually confirmed with each non-executive director that they from May 2020. It was considered that this appointment would Financial statements For example, additional time commitment will often be required have been able to allocate sufficient time to fulfilling their duties. not impair Mr Rivett’s ability to perform his role as a non-executive of the Senior Independent Director and Chairs of the board Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant director of the Society in view of the anticipated time commitment. committees in order to fulfil their extra responsibilities. The commitments of the Chair during the year which would impact Following this appointment, Mr Rivett is a non-executive director Chair and non-executive directors are expected to allocate the time he has to fulfil the role. of two commercial ventures including Nationwide. sufficient time to understanding the business, through meetings with management and undergoing training to ensure ongoing During the year and on the recommendation of the Nomination In addition to the above, the Board, on the recommendation of development. The Chair and non-executive directors are also and Governance Committee, the Board gave approval to the the Nomination and Governance Committee, approved the expected to attend meetings with the Society’s regulators to following significant additional external appointments taken by proposed appointment of Tim Tookey as a non-executive director foster and maintain an open and transparent working non-executive directors of the Society: The Board approved the of The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited with effect Other information relationship. This time is in addition to that spent preparing for, appointment of Mai Fyfield as a non-executive director of ASOS plc from April 2020 subject to regulatory approval. Following this and attending, Board and board committee meetings. Time with effect from November 2019. The additional appointment was appointment, Mr Tookey would be a non-executive of two commitments are reviewed annually, or more regularly if not considered to impair her ability to serve as a Director of the commercial ventures including Nationwide. It was considered needed, as Nationwide recognises the need to take account of Society in view of the time commitment. Including Nationwide, that his appointment to The Royal London Mutual Insurance changes in best practice – for example any revisions to the Code Ms Fyfield holds four non-executive roles which is the maximum Society Limited Board would not impair his ability to perform his recommending different or expanded roles of board committees. limit set by the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) on role at Nationwide in view of the anticipated time commitment. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 81 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Division of responsibilities (continued) Strategic report Director independence Chair to be independent on appointment. Thereafter, the test of arrangements. Inductions are tailored to each director’s individual independence no longer applies to this role. David Roberts, Chair experience, background and areas of focus. The induction The Nomination and Governance Committee considers the of the Society, was deemed to be independent upon his programme includes meetings with members of the Nationwide independence of each non-executive director on an annual basis. appointment to the role of non-executive director and Chair Leadership Team and other senior managers in key areas of the In reaching its determination of independence, the Committee Elect. Following the assessment, all directors eligible for business. Typical areas covered include an overview of the considers factors such as length of tenure and relationships or re-election (save for Baroness Usha Prashar who will be retiring Society’s business strategy and model, the Society’s brand, Governance circumstances which are likely to affect or appear to affect the from the Board) will be recommended to members for re-election products and markets, capital management and financial director’s judgement. On the recommendation of the at the AGM in July 2020. controls, and risk and governance responsibilities, as well as Committee, all non-executive directors have been assessed by information on the Society’s people and culture. These meetings the Board to be independent as to character and judgement and Information and advice are supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board to be free of relationships and other circumstances which could papers and minutes, industry and regulatory reports and materially affect the exercise of their judgement. In reviewing The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to relevant policies. the independence of each non-executive director, the Committee enable it to perform its duties effectively. The Society Secretary examined the cross directorships of Rita Clifton and Mai Fyfield ensures appropriate and timely information flows between the The Chair, with support from the Society Secretary, has overall Risk report who both sat on the Board of ASOS plc. The Committee was Board, its Committees and senior management, enabling the responsibility for ensuring that the directors receive suitable satisfied that the cross directorships did not impact their Board to exercise its judgement and make fully informed decisions training to enable them carry out their duties. The directors are independence or their ability to carry out their role as directors when discharging its duties. The Society Secretary supports the regularly provided with the opportunity for ongoing training and of the Society. Rita Clifton stepped down from the Board of ASOS Chair in setting the Board agenda. Board papers are distributed to professional development to ensure they have the necessary in March 2020. In considering Tim Tookey’s appointment to the all directors in advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic knowledge and understanding of the Society’s business. Board of The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society (Royal system allowing directors to access information in a timely manner. Training opportunities are provided through internal meetings, London), the Committee considered the cross directorship with Regular management updates are sent to directors to keep them presentations and briefings by internal as well as external advisers. Financial statements Kevin Parry who also sits on the Board of Royal London. Tim informed of events between board meetings and to ensure that During the year, the directors attended briefing sessions on Tookey joined the Board of Royal London in April 2020. The they are advised of the latest issues affecting the Society. subjects including conduct rules, blockchain technology, as well Committee was satisfied that the cross directorships will not as environmental and sustainability strategy and risk. They are impact their independence or their ability to carry out their role All directors have access to the advice and services of the Society encouraged to continually update their professional skills and as directors of the Society. Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board through the knowledge of the business and to identify any additional training Chair on all governance matters and for ensuring that Board The Committee also considered Phil Rivett’s independence and requirements that would assist them in carrying out their role. procedures are followed and compliance with applicable rules and was satisfied that he is independent notwithstanding his past The Chair has conversations with each non-executive director regulations is observed. The directors may, if required, take relationship with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the on a regular basis during the year and at the end of the year independent professional advice at the Society’s expense. Other information Society’s former auditor. PwC ceased to be the Society’s auditor to review performance and development needs. The Senior in July 2019 following a competitive tender for external audit in Induction, training and development Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation of accordance with auditor rotation requirement. Phil Rivett retired performance and development needs for the Chair. Executive as a partner of PwC in 2018. He had no personal engagement Following appointment, each new director receives a full and board directors continue to undertake performance and with any business of the Society prior to his appointment to the formal bespoke induction to familiarise them with their duties development review and planning activity as part of the annual Board of the Society in September 2019. The Code requires the and the Society’s business operations, and risk and governance performance management cycle. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 82 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Composition, succession and evaluation Strategic report Board composition The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing Board composition and diversity Board composition, considering succession plans for both the Board and senior executives, selecting and appointing new directors and considering the results of the Board effectiveness review. More information on the work Executive and Gender 2 non-executive directors Governance of this Committee during the year can be found on pages 103 to 107. 4 • Male In order to maintain a balanced Board, the skills and experience of • Executive directors • Female individual Board members are regularly reviewed. Ensuring the right mix • Non-executive directors of director competencies is vital for constructive discussion and, ultimately, 7 effective Board decisions. The individual biographies of the directors, 9 which include their relevant skills and experience, can be found on pages 51 to 54. All directors are subject to conduct rules laid down by regulators and must satisfy requirements relating to their fitness and propriety. In addition, Risk report the Chair, the Senior Independent Director and Chairs of the key board Age of Non-executive committees are subject to all aspects of the Senior Managers Regime. 2 board members 1 directors’ tenure Executive directors’ service contracts and the letters of appointment for 4 3 the Chair and non-executive directors are available for inspection at the 1 • 45-50 • 0-3 years Society’s principal office and will be available at the AGM. • 51-55 • 3-6 years • 56-60 5 • 6+ years Board tenure 4 Financial statements • 61+ The Society’s Memorandum and Rules require that board directors must be re-elected by the Society’s membership every three years. However, in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), all directors of Nationwide are subject to election or re-election by the members annually. Before re-election, a non-executive director will be 1 Ethnicity subject to a review of that director’s continued effectiveness and • BAME independence as described above. • Non-BAME Other information Member nominations Members of Nationwide have the right to nominate candidates for election to the Board, subject to the Society’s Memorandum and Rules and 10 compliance with PRA and FCA requirements. No such nominations had been received by 4 April 2020, this being the deadline for election to the Board at the 2020 Annual General Meeting (AGM). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 83 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Composition, succession and evaluation (continued) Strategic report Board effectiveness Form of the 2019 Board evaluation 2019 Board evaluation To be effective as a Board, directors must function cohesively as Stage 1. Agreement of form and scope of the Board evaluation Governance a group and individually. A key mechanism that the Board uses In January 2019, the Board agreed that following the external review undertaken in 2018, the 2019 Board evaluation to review its effectiveness and set its future development plans would be conducted internally. The Society Secretary met with the Chair to agree the purpose, scope and and objectives is the annual Board and Committee Evaluation. practicalities of the evaluation. A proposal, outlining the arrangements for the review was submitted to the In 2019, the Board engaged in an internally led process, Nomination and Governance Committee in March 2019. It was agreed that the 2019 Board evaluation would focus on facilitated by the Society Secretary. This provided the Board actions from the previous year to ensure that these had been implemented and embedded successfully. with the opportunity to identify and optimise its strengths as well as highlighting areas for further focus and development. The process included an assessment of the effectiveness of each Board committee. Stage 2. Information gathering Risk report The board members carried out a self-assessment of the effectiveness of the Board by completing a questionnaire. The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each The questionnaire covered general areas of effectiveness as well as the actions in response to the 2018 performance director was conducted by the Society Chair. The approach was review. A review of the Board committees was included as part of the overall board performance review questionnaire. designed to ensure that all directors, both executive and non-executive, contributed effectively to the good governance of Nationwide given that the contribution of individuals is one of the factors considered when deciding whether individual Stage 3. Feedback and report findings Financial statements directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the The Chair discussed responses with individual directors. A report of the findings and feedback from the review of the Society’s AGM. The reviews concluded that each director Board was presented and discussed at the Board meeting in May 2019. Feedback in regard to the effectiveness of Board continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment committees was discussed at each relevant committee meeting. to the role. Led by Lynne Peacock, the former Senior Independent Director, a review of the Chair’s performance, ongoing fitness and Stage 4. Findings and action plan propriety was carried out by the Board. The review concluded Overall, the results of the review endorsed the belief that the Board and its committees are performing and operating that the Chair continues to perform effectively and demonstrate effectively, directors hold the view that, generally, the culture and tone set by the Board displays the values and behaviours it Other information commitment to his role. expects of others, particularly in terms of integrity, professionalism and concern for members. It was observed, however, that the Board should keep challenging itself to focus on the high level strategic and cultural issues and avoid being drawn into operational details. On Board committees, the directors were generally satisfied with the reporting of committee activities to the Board and agreed that the areas and activities currently delegated by the Board to its committees were appropriate. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 84 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Composition, succession and evaluation (continued) Strategic report The Board adopted the recommendations from the findings and developed a plan to implement the actions with oversight by the Nomination and Governance Committee. Following the review, a number of changes to board processes have been made. The progress made on the key recommendations from the 2019 evaluation process is described below. Area of focus and key recommendations Action Taken Governance The Board has an effective range of skills but should continuously review its composition in response The Nomination and Governance Committee continues to consider the composition and to emerging developments and priorities. succession plans for the Board. Consideration is to be given to additional skill sets in the areas of digital technology and retail banking. Continuous improvements to management reports and papers with a focus on key strategic The production of high quality board papers and management information has continued to issues to ensure high quality and relevant information flows to the Board. evolve, with the production of revised paper guidance and templates. The structure of agendas has been revised to ensure an increased focus on strategic matters. Increase the opportunities for Board engagement outside the boardroom, including targeted An action plan for board training sessions was implemented ensuring a mixed range of Risk report training sessions and dinner discussions. subjects and speakers. This prioritised the use of external experts and colleague engagement events to provide a forum for advisory and informal conversations outside of the boardroom. Financial statements 2020 Board evaluation The 2020 Board evaluation process was also an internal review plan for completion during 2020. A similar process will be Led by Kevin Parry, the Senior Independent Director, a review of led by the Society Secretary. The review took place in April 2020. followed for Board committees. the Chair’s performance was carried out by the Board. Feedback on the Chair’s performance was obtained from all the directors. The process took the form of a questionnaire completed covering Further information on the outcomes and actions identified will The results were collated and were discussed at a meeting general areas of effectiveness and was followed by one to one be presented in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021. without the Chair present. The review concluded that the Chair Other information meetings between the Chair and individual directors to provide The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment feedback and expand on particular aspects, for example culture director was conducted by the Chair. The reviews concluded that to the role. and performance of the Board. each director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate The results of the questionnaire and feedback will be presented commitment to the role. to the Board for discussion and will form the basis of an action Annual Report and Accounts 2020 85 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Audit, risk and internal control Strategic report The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks the Society is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. This is detailed in the Society’s Risk Appetite Statement. Governance The Board is also responsible for ensuring that management maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control and for assessing its effectiveness. More information on this can be found on pages 86 to 98. Remuneration Risk report The responsibility for determining the Society’s remuneration policies and practices, including executive and senior management remuneration, has been delegated to the Remuneration Committee. Information on this Financial statements Committee and the Report of the directors on remuneration can be found on pages 108 to 129. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 86 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Audit Committee report Strategic report Dear fellow member, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report describing the work undertaken by the Committee over the past year. The last few months have turned out to be challenging for accounting and auditing judgements and have required focus on the maintenance of a robust control framework, as the Society has adapted its ways of working. We have not only had to take account of record low interest rates but also the impact of the nation’s health and the Kevin Governance extensive government interventions to alleviate the adverse impact on the economy. A number of the interventions have required support and execution by the retail financial services industry and Nationwide has worked tirelessly Parry to play its part in the support of its members. Further detail of the judgements that the Audit Committee debated is set out in this report and cross referenced to the extensive disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts. It is my opinion that there is an unusually high range “The Audit Committee has continued of plausible outcomes, particularly in respect of loan loss provisioning. In our challenge of management, the to provide challenge to management Audit Committee has sought to report prudently in a balanced manner, but impacts on the UK economy remain and oversee the integrity of financial Risk report unclear at this stage. It is therefore likely that emerging information over the next few months will lead to some changes in our forward-looking view of economic conditions with a consequent impact on loan loss provisions. reporting and the strength of The Committee has reviewed the Society’s financial reporting, ensuring that the financial statements published by financial controls.” the Society are fairly presented and are prepared using appropriate judgements. The Committee has also monitored and reviewed internal and external audit arrangements and the effectiveness of the Society’s internal controls, and reviewed the Society’s procedures relating to fraud and financial crime. Additionally, the Committee has monitored the Financial statements How the Committee works external environment to ensure that reporting and controls respond to developments and external risks. This year, we welcomed Ernst & Young LLP as the Society’s external auditor, following member approval at the The Audit Committee comprises independent non-executive directors who bring a diverse range of experience in business, finance, auditing, July 2019 Annual General Meeting. The Committee has overseen and monitored their approach to the audit and risk and controls, with particular depth of experience in the financial ensured a smooth transition from the outgoing external auditor. I should like to thank EY and our previous auditors services sector. The Committee is therefore able to challenge and PwC for their mutual co-operation that ensured that smooth transition. scrutinise the work of management. The Committee also draws on the During the reporting period, we have considered in detail the key judgements made by management in preparing the expertise of key advisers and control functions, including the internal and external auditors. The Board has confirmed that the members of Other information Annual Report and Accounts and reviewed updates to accounting policies. We have continued to prioritise monitoring the development of the control environment, including the increasing maturity of control ownership across the the Audit Committee have the financial, risk, control and commercial Society, and controls in important business activities such as cyber security, physical security and digital services. expertise required to provide effective challenge to management. As required by the Code, the Board considers that Kevin Parry, Tim Tookey If any member has feedback on this report, I should be pleased to receive their comments. and Phil Rivett have recent and relevant financial experience and accounting competence and that the Committee as a whole is Kevin Parry Chair – Audit Committee appropriately competent in the sector in which the Society operates. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 87 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) terms of reference. The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed Who sits on the Committee annually. In 2019, the review was carried out internally as part Strategic report of the overall review of the effectiveness of the Board and its In addition to the members, regular attendees of the Committee include: Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Internal committees. The review focused on the effectiveness of actions Auditor, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Director of Financial Reporting and representatives of the external audit firm. taken in response to the findings of the 2018 externallyfacilitated Committee review. Overall, there was general satisfaction with the reporting of the Committee’s activities to the Board, and it was agreed that the areas and activities currently delegated by the Board to the Committee remained appropriate. Prior to Covid-19, the Committee requested management to expedite the closure of internal audit issues Governance Committee members Kevin Parry Rita Clifton Lynne Peacock Phil Rivett Tim Tookey in accordance with pre-determined timescales. In the latter part (Chair) Retired from the Joined the Board in Board on September 2019 of the year, some relaxations of deadlines for the less material 31 December 2019 recommendations and efficiency related recommendations Meetings attended 6 / (6) 6 / (6) 4 / (4) 4 / (4) 6 / (6) were permitted to allow management to concentrate on (eligible to attend) responding to operational issues connected to the health and economic conditions that arose from the Covid-19 pandemic. The 2019 effectiveness review process is described on page 83. The Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board on was held in March 2020 to discuss emerging risks and to review Risk report the matters listed in its terms of reference (available at the 2020/21 assurance plans for Risk and Compliance Oversight Report on the year nationwide.co.uk) and reports to the Board on those matters and Internal Audit. after each meeting. The Committee is authorised by the Board Preparation of the financial statements and During the year, the Committee met privately with the Chief to obtain any information it needs from any director or employee external financial reporting Internal Auditor, the Society’s external auditors and the Chief of the Society. It is also authorised to seek, at the expense of the Risk Officer, without management present. The Committee spent significant time reviewing the half year Society, appropriate professional advice as needed. The Committee and full year financial statements. In particular, the Committee Financial statements did not need to take any independent advice during the year. The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and its activities over the previous year as part of an annual cycle to confirm that discussed and challenged management’s analyses, the external The Committee works closely with the Board Risk Committee, as its activities were in line with its remit. More detail on the auditor’s work, and conclusions on the main areas of judgement. some matters are relevant to both committees. A joint meeting Committee’s duties and responsibilities can be found within its Internal controls and risk management systems are in place to provide assurance over the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts. Financial information submitted for inclusion in the financial statements is attested by individuals with How the Committee spent its time in the year appropriate knowledge and experience. The Annual Report and Accounts are scrutinised throughout the process by relevant Other information 32% 37% 15% 3% 7% 6% senior stakeholders before being submitted to the Audit Committee, who provide debate and challenge, before • Financial reporting • Internal controls and risk management (including internal audit) • External audit recommending to the Board for approval. Key controls in the • Financial crime • Statutory duties • Other (including meeting administration) process are subject to regular testing, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 88 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year Strategic report The main areas of focus of, and actions taken by the Committee in relation to the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 are outlined below. Each of these matters was discussed with the external auditor during the year and, where appropriate, have been addressed as an area of audit focus in the Auditor’s report. Area of focus Committee’s response Accounting policies, including the The Committee reviewed the Society’s accounting policies and confirmed they were appropriate to be used in the financial statements. It also considered implementation of the micro changes to policies and processes required by new accounting standards. hedge accounting provisions of The Committee considered reports from management on the impact of implementing the hedge accounting provisions of IFRS 9 for individual hedges Governance IFRS 9 (accounting for financial for the 2019/20 financial year. Hedge accounting income statement volatility was low during the year and adoption of these provisions has enabled management to simplify hedge accounting arrangements and processes. The Committee also approved the revised accounting policy for leases following instruments) and IFRS 16 (leases) implementation of IFRS 16. Alternative performance measures The Committee continues to consider that certain non-GAAP measures, such as underlying profit, aid an understanding of the Society’s results. Following and disclosure of member financial a change to the definition of underlying profit in the previous financial year, only gains and losses from hedge accounting and an amount received from the FSCS relating to earlier institutional failures were excluded from underlying profit. The Committee considered this treatment to be appropriate. benefit The other performance disclosure considered carefully by the Committee was the value for member financial benefit presented in Nationwide’s financial Details of member financial benefit are Risk report reporting. This metric shows the benefit provided to members in the form of differentiated pricing and incentives, representing Nationwide’s interest rate shown on page 43 differential, lower fees and higher member incentives compared with market averages and is considered a key performance indicator. The Committee was satisfied with the approach. Going concern and business The Committee reviewed the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements and the statement of business viability for recommendation viability statement to the Board for approval. As a deposit taking institution, liquidity management and viability are core requirements for the Society and there is substantial oversight by the Board through the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee. Information scrutinised by the Committee in drawing conclusions Financial statements The business viability and going concern included assessment of levels of capital and availability of funding and liquidity, together with output of stress tests and reverse stress tests. It also considered statements are included in the Directors’ risks from business activities, technology change and economic factors such as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic which may affect future development, report pages 131-132 performance and financial position, together with the implications of principal risks including operational resilience and cyber security. The Committee considered whether a longer period than three years should be covered in the viability statement, concluding that, as in the prior year, a period of three years was appropriate, particularly when taking into account changes in the economic, technological and regulatory environment. The Committee concluded that it remained appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis and recommended the viability statement to the Board for approval. Other information Fair, balanced and The Society’s Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, must be fair, balanced and understandable. The Committee considered the overall understandable report presentation of the financial statements and was satisfied that the reporting, including the disclosures in the notes to the accounts, fairly represented the results and business performance for the year ended 4 April 2020. During finalisation of the Annual Report and Accounts the Committee scrutinised and accounts carefully the disclosures made of the impact of Covid-19. This included specific focus on credit loss provisions, as set out under ‘Impairment provisions for loan portfolios and related disclosures’ below, and also narrative regarding wider impacts on business performance in the Financial review. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 89 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Fair, balanced and The Committee considered the Annual Report and Accounts against a number of hallmarks of ‘fair, balanced and understandable’, including whether understandable report the overall portrayal of Nationwide was open and honest, setting out both successes and challenges, and whether language was used that a person with reasonable knowledge of financial sector financial reporting could understand. The Committee also considered whether the reporting was relevant and accounts (continued) in the context of the Society’s strategy. The Committee considered a report by management setting out the review processes used to assess the overall presentation of the Annual Report and Accounts. This included an independent management review by members of executive management covering a wide range of business responsibilities. Governance This concluded that the reporting was clear, consistent, balanced and open, as well as being appropriately focused on material items, and consistent with management’s internal evaluation of performance. The Committee reviewed the draft Report of the directors on corporate governance and was satisfied that it presented an accurate view of the work of the Board and its committees. After consideration of management’s report and the Committee’s own review, the Committee concluded that it could inform the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable. Climate change risk and related The Committee discussed with management progress in developing disclosures regarding climate change risks and impacts, working towards Risk report disclosures comprehensive disclosures by 2022 in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. The disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts were reviewed carefully to ensure that they gave a fair presentation of management’s assessment of risks and how Disclosures are set out on page 31 of the climate-related risk is being governed and managed. The Committee requested more work to be undertaken during the next financial year to assess the Strategic report short and medium-term impact on members emanating from climate change and the Society’s response to it. In compiling a set of financial statements, it is necessary to make estimates and judgements about outcomes that are typically dependent on future events. Significant matters are set out below. In addition, the Committee reviewed and was satisfied with management’s application of the effective interest rate method and hedge accounting. Financial statements Area of focus Committee’s response Impairment provisions for loan Given the materiality of Nationwide’s loan portfolios, understanding the Society’s exposure to credit risk and ensuring that impairment provisions are portfolios and related disclosures appropriate remain key priorities for the Committee, but took on even greater significance in the light of the public health and economic conditions existing before, at, and after the year end and, in particular, the need for expert judgement on the impact on loan loss provisions. Information on credit risk and assumptions relating to expected credit The selection of, and probabilities applied to, a range of economic scenarios for the purpose of modelling expected credit losses have a material impact losses is included in note 10 to the on loan loss provisions and the Committee challenged management to demonstrate that provisions appropriately reflected uncertainty in the economic Other information financial statements outlook and the potential for an economic downturn from the benign environment experienced in recent years. Discussions took into account most recent economic data and management’s forward-looking view of the economy in the period after Brexit and in light of the pandemic. Following detailed review and discussion, assumptions for central, upside and downside scenarios, as well as for a severe economic downturn, were agreed. The Committee concurred with management that the scenarios used reflected an appropriate range of assumptions, and agreed the inclusion of a new central economic scenario to reflect the impact of Covid-19. Following discussion, scenario probability weights were also revised so that the upside scenario weight was 5%, central Covid-19 scenario 50%, downside scenario 35% and the severe downside scenario 10%. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 90 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Impairment provisions for loan At the year end, the level of estimation uncertainty was heightened by the impacts of the economic conditions and uncertain outlook resulting from portfolios and related disclosures Covid-19. The Committee challenged management to demonstrate that all relevant risks had been taken into account in the expected credit loss models, (continued) and that post model adjustments that rely on expert judgement were recognised, in particular for tail risks which could not be modelled due to an absence of historical data. Specific matters discussed included recognition of credit risk in respect of borrowers in persistent debt, and latest available Information on credit risk and data regarding the performance of interest only loans at maturity. A particular area of focus was the impact of Covid-19 on expected credit losses. assumptions relating to expected credit The Committee held two additional meetings post the 2019/20 year end to evaluate in detail management’s assessment of the impact of Covid-19, Governance losses is included in note 10 to the including determination of appropriate economic assumptions to use in modelling losses over the period judged to be impacted. In addition, the financial statements Committee considered carefully the analysis of credit risk in respect of borrowers requesting payment holidays as a result of being affected by Covid-19. This included reflecting the fact that the granting of such a payment holiday in these circumstances did not necessarily constitute a significant increase in credit risk, although in a proportion of cases, borrowers would experience financial difficulty. The Committee also evaluated management’s work to assess the implications for provisions against commercial property lending in relation to valuation uncertainties expressed in specialist property valuations. The Committee was satisfied that available evidence supported the level of provisioning and that the disclosures and sensitivities set out in the accounts were comprehensive, to allow readers to understand the unusually high level of judgement associated with the provision at the year end. Overall, disclosures in respect of credit risk and provisions were considered carefully to ensure that they were transparent and gave insight into Risk report Nationwide’s credit risk profile, taking into account the most recent recommendations of the industry disclosure task force and the aims of the Prudential Regulation Authority and industry to improve consistency. The Committee was satisfied with the overall level of provisioning and related disclosures. Provisions for customer redress The Committee received updates on a number of conduct-related matters during the year and considered whether provisions for customer redress were appropriate. Information on provisions is included in note 27 to the financial statements Assumptions used in calculating provisions for customer redress require judgements in relation to the number of cases and value of redress required, Financial statements and in addition, judgement is applied to assessing the likelihood of potential conduct issues crystallising to evaluate whether a provision, or alternatively disclosure of a contingent liability, is required. The Committee reviewed judgements and estimates for a number of conduct-related issues, discussing with management matters including administration of customer accounts, non-compliance with consumer credit legislation and other issues subject to ongoing remediation, including the historic sale of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and the related Plevin legal case in respect of undisclosed commission. Discussions included the criteria for recognition of new provisions or provision releases, as well as the estimation of liabilities. Following the FCA’s August 2019 deadline for submission of PPI complaints, the Committee reviewed latest data showing progress in assessing cases and completing remediation activity. While the volume of complaints was established following the deadline, judgements remained significant in assessing the Other information level of redress payments and these were considered by the Committee. Provisions for other conduct matters were reviewed and the basis for assumptions challenged, including the potential outcomes for those matters where less historic experience is available. The Committee concluded that the provisions held by the Society were appropriate. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 91 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Capitalisation and impairment Nationwide’s significant investment in technology, together with fast-moving technology development and new techniques for delivery such as agile of intangible assets methodologies, increase the importance of detailed assessment of the nature of assets capitalised, the useful lives of assets and implications of new investment for the existing technology estate. The Committee scrutinised management’s work to review both existing assets and ongoing capitalisation of development costs to ensure that the value of assets held on the balance sheet was appropriate, including the recognition of impairments arising from changes in the year. The Committee concurred with management’s conclusions that only appropriate costs were capitalised, carrying values remained appropriate and that asset lives were reasonable. Governance Pension scheme accounting Nationwide’s defined benefit scheme assets and liabilities are material to the financial statements, and the valuation of liabilities involves making a number of assumptions. The Committee reviewed carefully assumptions made by management in calculating the deficit relating to the scheme, including reviewing benchmarking information to ensure that assumptions were appropriate in comparison with market trends. Pension asset valuations were also considered in light of current market conditions. Following the decision made by the Board to close the fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021, the Committee considered the approach to the calculation of the gain recognised as a result, including the timing of recognition of the gain and associated mitigation costs. Risk report The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the adequacy of the control environment, including the prevention of financial crime. Following reporting of control improvements required in areas of IT in the prior year, and also an increase in the number of open issues raised by Internal Audit, the Committee increased the time spent this year reviewing internal control matters and ensuring that there was sufficient management focus on improvements. The Committee’s review of the operation of internal controls encompassed the following: Area of focus Committee’s response Financial statements Controls Control environment The Committee continued to monitor the overall effectiveness of the Society’s control environment, including work to strengthen and enhance controls. The Committee was updated regularly on the status of important work to streamline the approach to control ownership, including management accountability for key controls and declarations of control effectiveness. Financial controls The Committee reviewed reporting by management on the effectiveness of the financial control framework. The Committee also discussed the potential Other information impact of the introduction of a UK version of a Sarbanes Oxley control framework following publication of the Kingman and Brydon Reports. The Committee received regular reports on the plan of activity to support the demonstrable embedding of the Operational and Conduct Risk Management Framework. Furthermore, the Committee discussed the effectiveness of regulatory and critical reporting controls, including the work that was being undertaken across the three lines of defence to further enhance control standards and at the same time gain efficiencies across the Society. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 92 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Controls (continued) Security, IT controls and operational resilience The Committee closely monitored the work that has continued on strengthening further aspects of security management, with quarterly updates received from the Chief Security and Resilience Officer. Internal Audit also completed several related audits during the year, and the Committee discussed with the external auditors their view on controls over privileged access to IT systems. These reports, together with reporting by management, demonstrated the progress made in the year and informed priorities going forward. The Committee will continue to monitor this important aspect of control. Governance Financial crime Financial crime is a broad term that includes bribery and corruption, money laundering, fraud (including fraud scams), theft from customers’ accounts and card related thefts. The Committee received a number of reports on each of these areas. The Committee received two reports from the Group Anti-Money Laundering Officer and noted the improvements made to the control environment since the prior year and the associated positive impact that this had on members. The Committee emphasised the importance of the Society being able to identify proactively the risk of money laundering and apply enhanced due diligence measures. The Committee reviewed a detailed report on anti-fraud controls, which noted the Society’s fraud performance against risk appetite and key areas of Risk report focus for the forthcoming year. The Committee considered the continued external threat and was satisfied with the steps being taken to reduce losses from financial crime. First line controls During the year the Committee introduced a series of deep dives into key aspects of first line controls, which included physical security, cyber controls and controls in digital services. This enabled the Committee to engage directly with relevant executive management to ensure that risks are fully understood, and the effectiveness of controls is monitored and improved as necessary. The Committee was satisfied that controls are being developed, enhanced and then embedded in important business areas where development is fast paced; and it is critically important to ensure that controls keep pace. As part of the Committee’s wider responsibilities, other matters considered during the year were: Financial statements Area of focus Committee’s response Capital and distributions The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on the affordability of making distributions to holders of core capital deferred shares (CCDS) and Other information AT1 securities and recommended to the Board that the payments proposed by management during the financial year be approved. Tax The Committee reviewed the management of Nationwide’s tax affairs and discussed with the Head of Tax Management the management of tax risk in business activities. The Committee also reviewed the updated tax strategy prior to approval by the Board and external publication. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 93 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Internal Audit The Committee also considered the new organisational structure Senior statutory auditor of the internal audit function, which recognises the changing Strategic report The Committee works closely with the Chief Internal Auditor focus of its activities as business priorities and risks develop, Mr Javier Faiz of EY became Nationwide’s senior statutory auditor who reports directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee. concluding that it was appropriate. for the financial year 2019/20 following EY’s appointment as Throughout the year, the Committee continued to monitor the Nationwide’s external auditor at the Annual General Meeting progress of the internal audit function. The quality of internal audit’s work was monitored by a quality in July 2019. Under regulation Mr Faiz’s term as senior statutory control function which reported findings directly to the Audit auditor cannot normally exceed a maximum duration of five The Audit Committee approved the annual audit plan and all Committee Chair. No major issues were reported although there years. The previous statutory auditor, Ms Hemione Hudson of changes to the plan during the year, which were reviewed was continued focus on improving the quality of documentation. PwC was due for rotation following the 2019 year end audit quarterly. The scope of work took account of the function’s own which coincided with the audit firm rotation date. assessment of risks, and the input of first and second line The effectiveness of the internal audit function was also assessed Governance management and the Audit Committee itself. The Committee by means of an External Quality Assessment conducted by Audit quality and materiality also approved the risk-based frequency of audit coverage to be KPMG LLP. The findings were presented by KPMG LLP to the Committee in October 2019 and showed that Internal Audit The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the quality and used in planning internal audit activities. The annual assurance continues to be effective, independent and objective. The review effectiveness of the external audit. The Committee approved the plan of second line oversight and third line audit activities was scope of the audit plan and materiality level in advance of the presented at a joint meeting of the Audit and Risk Committees concluded that overall Internal Audit ‘generally conforms’ to both the IIA Standards and FS Code. Priorities for continued annual audit. Materiality is the level at which the auditor considers held in March 2020 where the Committees reviewed materials that a misstatement would compromise the truth or fairness improvement included ensuring continued embedding of the setting out the co-ordination and combined coverage of these of the financial statements. For 2019/20, overall Group audit revised Internal Audit function structure and increasing the plans. Given that the plan had been prepared prior to the materiality was set at £31.2 million (2019: £42.3 million). Risk report frequency of internal audits in some areas. Covid-19 pandemic, it was recognised that it needed to be reviewed in light of new and emerging risks identified in relation Subsequent to the year end, the Committee was pleased to Audit outputs to the pandemic. The Joint Committee met shortly after the year support the move of the Chief Internal Auditor to a new role. end, at which stage it reviewed and approved a revised plan During the year, the Committee reviewed the following reports There were well developed, pre-existing succession plans in in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. from PwC prior to their resignation: place for that, and other eventualities, and following the approval of the Committee, Mr Stephen Evenden was appointed as the • Year end report for the 2018/19 financial year and statutory The Committee received quarterly updates from the Chief Financial statements Interim Chief Internal Auditor shortly following the year end date. audit opinion in respect of the year. The report set out the Internal Auditor on the work of the internal audit function, auditors’ work and conclusions in respect of key areas of A full selection exercise for the permanent Chief Internal Auditor drawing its attention to the most significant audit work which audit focus; role will be overseen by the Chair of the Audit Committee. included issue management, operational resilience, foundational • Private report to the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), IT and security controls, system resilience and technology External Audit which focused on key areas as specified by the PRA, covering strategy. The Committee continued to focus on the prompt and expected credit losses under IFRS 9 and balance sheet effective resolution of control issues raised by internal audit; The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship substantiation controls; and whilst progress was made during the year, this remains an area with the external auditor, and for the effectiveness of the audit process. Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has acted as the Society’s • Internal Controls Report. of focus, particularly in respect of complex issues which require Other information extended time to resolve. external audit firm following appointment at the Annual General Early in the 2018/19 financial year EY commenced planning for Meeting in July 2019. Nationwide’s policy for auditor rotation the 2019/20 audit, including engaging widely with management, The Committee reviewed the resourcing of the audit function and audit tender follows regulatory requirements, and the audit shadowing the PwC audit, obtaining a detailed understanding each quarter and was satisfied that the resources were appropriate. firm will be required to be rotated after no more than 20 years, of key areas of audit focus and management judgement, and The Audit Committee Chair and the Chief Internal Auditor with an audit tender to be held after no more than 10 years. observing Audit Committee meetings. Following their appointment reviewed progress against planned activities on a monthly basis. EY’s report can be found on pages 220-232. in July 2019, EY attended all Audit Committee meetings in their Annual Report and Accounts 2020 94 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) capacity as external auditor, and the Committee received the During the year, the Committee considered a number of proposals Auditor effectiveness following reports from EY: from management to use the external auditors for non-audit The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the external audit Strategic report • Audit Planning Report for the financial year, including the services, ensuring that management had considered alternative suppliers and scrutinising analysis of any potential threats to process annually. The Committee received a report on audit audit fee proposal; effectiveness based on a questionnaire to Audit Committee auditor independence. • Interim Review report for the 2019/20 Interim Results and members and those members of management who interact with statutory opinion in respect of the interim period; A regulatory cap on the annual value of non-audit fees of 70% the auditors, regarding the PwC audit of the 2018/19 financial • Initial parts of PRA Written Auditor Reporting; and of the average of three years’ audit fee will be mandatory for statements. It showed that the external auditor was performing Nationwide in 2022/23, being the fourth financial year following its duties in an independent and effective manner, with an • Letter of Representation for the statutory audit. the change of auditor. The Committee reviewed the cumulative improvement from the prior year, particularly in respect of Auditor independence value of non-audit work quarterly with the aim of operating providing value and communication. Governance within this framework in advance of the regulatory requirement. EY has confirmed that it has complied with relevant regulatory Regulatory engagement The fees paid to EY for the year ended 4 April 2020 totalled and professional requirements and its objectivity is not impaired. The Chair of the Audit Committee has regular meetings with £4.0 million (2019 PwC: £6.8 million), of which £0.5 million The Committee is satisfied that EY remained independent regulators, including the tripartite meetings with the audit firm. (2019 PwC: £2.8 million) were for non-audit services. In addition, throughout the year. £1.2 million of fees for non-audit work were paid to PwC in the Following the completion of PwC’s 2019 audit, the Committee The Board has an established policy setting out the non-audit year ended 4 April 2020, in the period before their resignation as was informed that the Audit Quality Review (AQR) function of services that can be provided by the external auditor. The aim auditors. Total non-audit services represented 41% (2019: 67%) the Financial Reporting Council had chosen the Society’s audit of the policy, which is reviewed annually, is to safeguard the of the statutory audit fee. Within this, non-audit services provided for its review. At the date of this report we have not received the Risk report independence and objectivity of the external auditors and by EY represented 10% of their statutory audit fee. formal outcome of the review. comply with the ethical standards of the Financial Reporting Fees paid to PwC in the period before their resignation as Council (FRC). auditor for individual non-audit services where the expenditure The year ahead The policy specifies non-audit services provided by the external was more than £100,000 were: In 2020/21 the Audit Committee will continue to focus on its auditor that are either permitted or prohibited, and requires all • Assurance on work to enhance privileged access oversight of the financial reporting and internal controls of non-audit work to be approved by the Audit Committee following management: fees of £131,000; and Nationwide, including in particular key judgements in credit loss Financial statements a detailed assessment of the nature of the work, availability of provisions relating to forward-looking economic assumptions. alternative suppliers and implications for auditor independence. • Assurance over the Society’s technology strategy implementation: fees of £720,000. Following publication of the Brydon review into the quality and Audit and non-audit fees effectiveness of external audit in December 2019, the Committee No fees were paid to EY for individual services with an expenditure will continue to monitor developments, including forthcoming The Committee reviewed and approved the external auditor’s of more than £100,000. Non-audit services provided by EY relate government proposals for changes to reporting, audit and audit engagement letter and proposed audit fee. to treasury assurance work, funding issuances and programme regulation. The Committee will also continue to work with the updates, and audit assurance services, including quarterly profit Under the Society’s non-audit fees policy, all non-audit work is Board Risk Committee to ensure that the Internal Audit and Risk verification activities and half year review. Oversight functions have appropriate and co-ordinated plans Other information approved by the Audit Committee where the fee is over £50,000, or by the Audit Committee Chair and the Chief Financial Officer The value of audit and non-audit fees in respect of the financial in place and will monitor their progress and implementation. with ratification at the next Audit Committee meeting where the year are disclosed in note 8. In the challenging and competitive environment in which fee is below £50,000. Where aggregate non-audit fees reach Having reviewed both the quantum of the non-audit fees and the Nationwide operates, the Audit Committee remains committed 50% of the statutory audit fee in any given year, all non-audit nature of the work carried out, the Committee is satisfied that the to its vital role in overseeing the integrity of financial reporting work must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance. non-audit work does not detract from EY’s audit independence. and effectiveness of controls. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 95 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board Risk Committee report Strategic report Dear fellow member, I am pleased to present the Board Risk Committee’s report for the financial year ended 4 April 2020. During the year, we have continued to provide oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and future risk exposures and strategy. Despite expectations continuing to increase and other challenges remaining in the external environment, the Society’s risk profile stayed broadly stable during the year through monitoring and proactively managing risk exposures before they have crystallised. Towards the end of the year it became clear Tim Tookey Governance that the Covid-19 outbreak would have a material impact on the risk profile. Further information on the Society’s response to Covid-19 is reported on pages 37 to 38. Internally, the number of operational incidents has reduced despite increasing transaction volumes and delivery of complex change initiatives. The Committee has been focused on challenging management to ensure that the “As the risks facing the Society Society’s systems are built to last, that conduct matters are proactively identified and resolved and that our continue to evolve, your Board Risk members receive the level of service they expect from Nationwide. Committee works with the Society’s External challenges have included uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment relating to Covid-19 and management team and the Board Risk report Brexit and further competition in our core markets. Technological change has continued at pace and the nature to ensure that the Society remains of threats in the IT and cyber environments has continued to evolve. resilient and built to last.” Whilst the Committee retains overall responsibility for providing oversight and advice to the Board on all risk matters, Financial statements the approval of risk strategies for IT-related risk categories has been delegated to the Board IT and Resilience Committee (BITRC). The Committee receives reports at every meeting from BITRC on the progress of the technology How the Committee works programme and the investments in technological enhancements to maintain operational resilience. Further details The Board Risk Committee comprises at least four independent can be found in that Committee’s report on page 99. The Committee has received in-depth reports on data controls non-executive directors. Details of the skills and experience of the and management, cyber vulnerability and mitigation, and disaster recovery testing. Committee members can be found in their biographies on pages 51 to 54. The Committee is required to meet four times a year and Whilst ensuring robust management of key risks, this year has seen the Committee continue to scrutinise additionally as and when required. During the year there was one scheduled joint Audit and Board Risk Committee meeting to consider Other information performance against risk appetite and to review the adequacy of the Society’s systems for risk reporting, assessment matters of common interest, for example reviewing the assurance and internal controls. plans for Internal Audit and Risk Oversight functions. However, additional meetings of the Board Risk Committee and Joint Board Risk Tim Tookey Chair – Board Risk Committee and Audit Committee were held at short notice before the 2019/20 financial year end to scrutinise the impact of Covid-19 on the Board Risk Appetite and assurance plans. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 96 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Who sits on the Committee Strategic report Regular attendees of the Committee include the Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Internal Committee members Tim Tookey Albert Hitchcock1 Mitchel Lenson Kevin Parry1 Lynne Peacock2 Phil Rivett (Chair) Retired from Retired from Joined Committee on Auditor, and representatives of the Society’s the Board on the Board on 1 September 2019 auditors, Ernst & Young. 18 July 2019 31 December 2019 Meetings attended 7 / (7) 5 / (7) 2 / (2) 6 / (7) 3 / (4) 5 / (5) (eligible to attend) Governance 1 Unable to attend a meeting called at short notice due to prior commitments. 2 Unable to attend a meeting due to prior commitments. In addition to the regular attendees from management, the arrangements of the Society is undertaken by the Board IT and Report on the year Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer to give his perspectives Resilience Committee. This includes the effectiveness of the on the current and emerging risk profile of the Society and relevant aspects of the control environment. More detail on the The principal purpose of the Committee is to provide oversight on behalf of, and advice to, the Board in relation to risk-related receives a report from the Chief Risk Officer on the same matters Committee’s duties and responsibilities can be found within its matters. The Committee fulfils this role by providing advice, at each meeting. Subject matter experts are invited to Committee terms of reference on the Society’s website: nationwide.co.uk oversight and challenge to enable management to promote, meetings to present on a variety of topics. Following each meeting, embed and maintain a strong risk awareness culture throughout The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed annually, along with Risk report updates are provided to the Board, summarising activities the Society. The Society’s approach to the management of risk its terms of reference and its activities over the previous year to undertaken, areas where the Committee challenged management is set out in more detail on pages 135 to 137. confirm that its activities are in line with its remit. In 2019, the and key decisions taken. Updates from the Committee to the Board In addition to considering the Society’s current and emerging effectiveness review was carried out internally as part of the are supplemented by regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer. risk exposures, the Committee also considered longer-term risks overall review of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees. to delivering the Society’s strategy and emerging issues that The Board Risk Committee oversees the Executive Risk The review found that there was general satisfaction with the could present risks in the future. Committee, which is the management committee responsible reporting of the Committee’s activities to the Board and agreed The Board considers the appropriateness of the Society’s strategic Financial statements for ensuring a co-ordinated risk management approach across that the areas and activities currently delegated by the Board plan in the context of its risk appetite. During the year, the Committee all the Society’s risks. The oversight and challenge of the to the Committee remained appropriate. The 2019 effectiveness recommended the Society’s Board risk appetite to the Board and day-to-day IT and resilience risk, control and oversight review process is described on page 83. monitored performance against it by undertaking appropriate reviews of material risk issues against the set risk appetite. On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviewed and approved How the Committee spent its time in the year the Society’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP) documents. In addition, under a delegated mandate 41% 34% 16% 9% from the Board, the Committee approved: Other information • The Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) which defines what risk management is and how it works at Nationwide • Prudential risk • Operational and conduct risk • Enterprise risk • The Society’s risk strategy • Other matters (including meeting administration) • Pillar 3 disclosures • The Society’s recovery plan • The Concurrent and Reverse Stress Tests. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 97 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year Strategic report The Committee balanced its agenda to continue to focus on standing areas of risk management whilst ensuring key risks were escalated for consideration during the course of the year. As part of this, the Committee reviewed the Society’s risk profile, facilitated by reporting and analysis from the Chief Risk Officer. An outline of other key matters considered by the Committee in the year is broken down by risk category and set out below: Area of focus Committee’s response Prudential risk Nationwide lends in a responsible, affordable and sustainable way to ensure we safeguard members’ interests and maintain financial strength through (includes credit, model, liquidity the credit cycle. It maintains sufficient capital and liquidity resources to support current business activity, including planned growth, to remain resilient Governance to significant stress. and funding, market, solvency and pension risks) In this context, the Committee discussed macroeconomic risks against a challenging global geopolitical backdrop and the uncertainty around Brexit. These risks and events were continually monitored and assessed to manage the impact on Nationwide’s business and were considered alongside wider discussions relating to the competitive environment. During the year, the Committee reviewed a number of aspects of prudential risk as required by the PRA, including the Society’s capital and liquidity adequacy (as reported in the ICAAP and ILAAP respectively), the Pillar 3 risk disclosures, the recovery plan and associated regulatory reporting. It also reviewed and approved the results of the 2019 Concurrent Stress Test and the sustainability of models used in it, and the 2019 Reverse Stress Test. The Committee considered and approved the Society’s response to the 2019 Bank of England Biennial Exploratory Scenario which explored the Risk report implications of a severe and broad-based liquidity stress affecting major UK banks simultaneously. The Committee reviewed the initial estimate of the Nationwide Pension Fund (NPF) Triennial Valuation and endorsed continued negotiation with the NPF Trustees to agree the valuation. Additionally, the Committee considered the impact on the Society of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee initial proposal to increase the Countercyclical Capital Buffer to 2.00% with effect from 16 December 2020, and the subsequent announcement by the Bank of England to maintain this Buffer at 0% for at least 12 months. During the year the Committee continued to monitor the risk impact of Brexit on the Society’s wholesale funding risk profile and credit rating. The Committee also reviewed the implications for Nationwide of the transition from London Inter Bank Offered Rate (Libor) to Sterling Over Night Index Financial statements Average (Sonia) and reviewed the impact of Covid-19 on the Society’s Board risk appetite. Operational and conduct risk Nationwide minimises member and customer disruption, financial loss and reputational damage through providing sustainable services and resilient systems. In addition to receiving regular reports on IT-related risk, resilience issues, IT-related risk decisions taken and other important matters from the Board IT and Resilience Committee, the Committee reviewed key areas of operational risk exposure during the year, including: • Data controls and management. The Board Risk Committee’s terms of reference were amended to move the oversight of data from the Board IT and Resilience Committee to the Board Risk Committee. A Member Data Management Programme has been introduced with the aim of improving the safety, Other information security and accuracy of data and the Committee received regular updates on the work of the programme; • Receiving the annual Data Protection Officer’s Report, detailing the adequacy of data protection policies, procedures and governance arrangements to mitigate data protection risks and comply with data protection legislation, including the General Data Protection Regulation; • Receiving regular updates from the Board IT and Resilience Committee on the risks associated with cyber vulnerability and disaster recovery testing and scenarios. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 98 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Operational and conduct risk The Society treats members and customers fairly, before, during and after the sales process through offering products and services which meet their (continued) needs and expectations, perform as represented and provide value for money. The Committee has continued to champion the Society’s approach to the ongoing management of conduct risk, meaning that the Society’s products and processes are focused on delivering good customer outcomes and minimising regulatory non-compliance. The Committee received updates on vulnerable members and customers and Payment Protection Insurance provisioning. The Committee also challenged Governance management and received an update on Nationwide’s capability to operate within an economic downturn, with a focus on collections and recoveries risk, controls, governance and future planning. Enterprise risk The Committee has challenged the Society’s business model in the current ‘lower for longer’ interest rate environment to ensure its mutual business (includes business risk) model is sustainable and remains within the constraints of the Building Societies Act 1986 in a stress. In this context, the Committee has: • Endorsed the Board’s risk appetite which clearly sets out the amount and type of risk that the Board is comfortable with the Society taking. This is to ensure that it remains sustainable in the long term for all members’ benefit. Within the parameters set by the Board’s risk appetite, the Committee Risk report performed a regular review of the Society’s risk performance to ensure that appropriate action was being taken and to inform the Remuneration Committee’s consideration of any potential risk adjustments to executive remuneration. • Approved the results of the review of the Society’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework – the system of risk management and internal annual controls which the Society operates within. The review concluded that the Society’s system of risk management and internal control was adequate when assessed against the Board’s risk appetite. • Approved the Society’s risk strategy which had been updated based on enhancements to controls management capability, encouraging a risk culture Financial statements that considers both risk and reward in decision making, and maturing the Society’s approach to measuring risks associated with climate change. • Received assurance that the Society was now compliant with the BCBS239 regulation on principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting. During the year, the Committee received regular updates from the Society’s second line oversight functions. It satisfied itself that the Society’s segregation of duties between the first, second and third lines of defence is sufficiently robust to ensure that the Society’s operational decisions receive appropriate, timely and sufficient challenge. The Committee also approved changes to the Terms of Reference of the Executive Risk Committee. The year ahead Other information Over the next 12 months, the Society will continue with its stakeholders, employees and regulators in relation to climate ambitions to broaden and deepen member relationships, ensure change risk, and continue to monitor the challenging its costs are controlled effectively, consider the risks associated macroeconomic outlook. The Committee will continue to support with the Covid-19 pandemic, ensure that it considers the risk and challenge management in addressing these challenges to implications of the evolving expectations of members, ensure that the Society is built to last. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 99 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Board IT and Resilience Committee report Strategic report Dear fellow member, I am pleased to present the Board IT and Resilience Committee’s report for the financial year ended 4 April 2020. An increasing number of our members are accessing our services digitally; Gunn Nationwide saw 220 million more mobile log-ins last year and our mobile app now has over Waersted Governance 3.3 million active users – over one and a half times the number two years ago. Technology is enabling new services such as the launch of later life mortgages; this brings new opportunities but also creates a new set of challenges we must rise to. “It is my privilege to chair this In September 2018, we announced plans for additional technology investment to enhance our Board Committee following Mitchel Lenson’s departure, Risk report existing technology programme, and we have invested an extra £550 million to date. Our technology investment is helping us deliver increased resilience, stronger security and as it oversees the future better member outcomes through improved digital capabilities and better use of data, whilst technology roadmap to deliver also driving down ongoing and future costs. Towards the end of the financial year it became legendary service for current clear that the Covid-19 pandemic would have significant financial implications as we enter and future members a period of economic uncertainty and prolonged low interest rates. As a result, we are now of the Society.” Financial statements looking hard at our plans, to balance priorities for technology investment with the need to ensure that Nationwide is financially secure for the future, and we expect to scale back some of this activity in the short term. Over the past year, members will have seen a series of improvements in day to day interactions with the branches and contact centres, as well as digitally through internet banking and the mobile app. We will continue to deliver improvements to enhance the quality of the service we Other information can offer, while prioritising the security and resilience our members expect, and the Society’s ethos of mutuality. Gunn Waersted Chair – Board IT and Resilience Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2020 100 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Who sits on the Committee Strategic report The Board has assessed that the members of the Board IT and Resilience Committee have the financial, risk, control and commercial expertise required to provide effective Committee members Gunn Waersted Mai Fyfield Albert Hitchcock Tim Tookey Mitchel Lenson Phil Rivett challenge to management. Regular attendees of the Chair Retired from Joined Committee the Board on 1 September 2019 Committee include the Chair of the Board, Chief Executive 18 July 2019 Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Meetings attended 6 / (6) 6 / (6) 6 / (6) 6 / (6) 2 / (2) 4 / (4) Risk Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Internal Auditor; (eligible to attend) Governance and the Society’s external advisers Conrad Prince and Oliver Bussmann. The Society’s other external advisers partner business areas and attend the Committee where their specific expertise is relevant and valuable to the Committee. Risk report How the Committee works Following each Committee meeting, the Chair of the Committee continue to focus on IT-related issues, combining an operational provides verbal updates to the Board and escalates items to the day-to-day focus with a medium to longer term strategic view. The Board IT and Resilience Committee supports the Board and Board Risk Committee. In addition, the Committee will also oversee the development the Board Risk Committee. of a dynamic framework for decisions linked to the strategic The Committee comprises non-executive directors whose The Committee reviewed its activities over the previous 12 months priorities of the business, as well as oversight of all technology attendance record is set out above. Mitchel Lenson resigned from to confirm that they were in line with its remit as set out in its related strategic investment costs. The 2019 effectiveness review the Committee in July 2019 and Phil Rivett became a member of terms of reference (available at nationwide.co.uk). The Committee’s process is described on page 83. Financial statements the Committee in September 2019. The Committee is supported effectiveness is reviewed annually. In 2019, the review was carried by five external experts who help the Society keep up to date out as part of the overall review of the effectiveness of the Board Report on the year with digital innovation, payments, data, security and resilience. and its committees. Moving forwards, the Committee will This year has seen the Committee’s remit extended to include oversight of all technology related strategic investment costs. How the Committee spent its time in the year Additionally, the Committee provides challenge to, and oversight of, the Society’s management activities to ensure that the Society’s Other information technology continues to deliver the best possible member 26% 37% 4% 18% 12% 3% experience. Currently, the Committee is focused on ensuring that the Society’s online and mobile products are available when • Service delivery and operational resilience • Technology programme • Cyber and security members need them and continue to keep their data safe. • Transformation • IT risk and controls oversight • Other (including meeting administration) More detail on the Committee’s duties and responsibilities can be found within its terms of reference on the Society’s website. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 101 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Service delivery and The Committee regularly reviewed the Society’s IT service provision throughout the year, considering incidents and root causes, as part of a standing operational resilience agenda item, the Chief Operating Officer’s Report. The Committee has placed a greater focus on improving operational resilience. In May 2019, the Operational Resilience Strategy was approved, and a subsequent progress update was received in November 2019, which allowed management to highlight key improvements including increased mobile log-in and payments capacity to ensure service on peak processing days, and improved stand-in processing to enable members to view balances during planned outages. Governance The Society has seen a steady increase in the number of transactions processed with a 22% rise year on year from 2018. There were over a billion transactions during 2019/20 representing an incremental increase of 31% on last year. The Society’ Disaster Recovery capability remains an area of internal and external focus. Several improvements to the Society’s disaster recovery provisions have been made by management, including enhanced testing approaches, increased testing volumes, improved management reporting and the introduction of more challenging targets. In order to meet these targets a new Disaster Recovery Strategy was developed by management and reviewed by the Committee in November 2019. Risk report Technology programme Following Board approval of the Society’s technology programme in late 2018, Nationwide mobilised a number of teams to simplify its IT estate over a five-year plan period. The technology programme will be transformative for the Society, enabling a lower cost of technology, greater agility and ensuring future resilience as digital services grow. This year has seen the Committee’s focus shift from mobilisation to review, delivery and follow-up, and a foundational capability has been delivered. A key goal of the Board IT and Resilience Committee this year has been to ensure that the entire Board has a measured understanding of the technology programme, its risks, execution progress and benefits. The technology programme can be split thematically into several initiatives (all under common management control) across Digital, Payments, Security, Financial statements Service Integration, Technology Talent, Simplification and Automation and Data and Analytics. The programme set a path to progressively simplify and modernise technology – to improve resilience, agility and security, increase efficiency and accelerate innovation. With support from the Committee, a technology hub will be created in The Post Building, London which was acquired in 2019 as a dedicated workspace for technologists and is due to open in 2020. To date, over 340 employees have been hired for the technology programme. Throughout the course of the year, the Committee has regularly received dedicated updates to chart progress of the technology programme against key outcomes and track operational performance and delivery achievements against milestones. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) have continued to provide external independent assurance over the delivery of the technology programme to the Committee and Board. PwC, together with the Society’s Oversight and Internal Audit functions, form part of a combined, multi-faceted and Society-wide Other information assurance approach. Cyber and security The current cyber-threat environment continues to present a challenge. Throughout the course of 2019, the Society has seen an increase in the sophistication and complexity of cyber-attacks which it has monitored and fully mitigated. This is a common observation reflected throughout the financial services industry which has been subject to a supranational campaign of cyber-attacks including ransomware and phishing attacks. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 102 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Cyber and security The Committee has received regular updates from management throughout the course of the year, including a cyber security maturity update which (continued) highlighted that the Society’s overall security position continues to improve. The delivery of the technology programme provides additional opportunities to further improve security within our IT estate and across the Society. The Society, supported by the Committee, continues to provide focus and investment to support and enable the continual improvement of its security capability, through sustained management of evolving threats and by taking a proactive approach to help keep members’ money and data safe. Governance The Committee regularly receives expert advice from an industry-leading external adviser. Additionally, the Society continues to collaborate with the wider industry and the Government’s National Cyber Security Centre and National Crime Agency to share good practice and inform understanding about new and evolving threats. Transformation The Committee has continued to review management’s progress against key transformation delivery objectives, some of which are enabled by change activity. The Committee regularly received insight on change programmes including: • The successful transformation of 200 branches into the new 4C experience (four zones within the branch for conversation, consultation, convenience Risk report and community) design to date; • The successful upgrade to payments capabilities to support the resilience of member facing system outages or upgrades; • The Society’s commitment to comply with industry standards on Open Banking, BCBS 239 and most recently Strong Customer Authentication; • Assessing whether critical delivery milestones are met in line with planned timetables; and • The efforts to improve the devices and Windows 10 software used by Head Office, Administration and Retail colleagues. Financial statements IT risk and controls oversight The Committee is routinely provided with independent reviews from the Society’s Oversight and Internal Audit functions. This activity complements the Society’s first line risk management by business areas and processes have been improved by initiatives to encourage first line risk teams to become more proactive in identifying and managing risk across the Society. Other information The year ahead The year ahead will be an exciting but challenging one as we Nationwide’s core purpose in years to come. The Committee will balance between the enablement of operational continuity and continue to deliver technology change which will ultimately be provide oversight of management’s prioritisation of technology security, meeting new regulatory requirements and delivering transformative for the Society, instrumental in safeguarding change, given the reduced capacity for investment spend improvements for members. future resilience and a key enabler to continuing to meet in a challenging economic environment and the need to strike a Annual Report and Accounts 2020 103 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Nomination and Governance Committee report Strategic report Dear fellow member, The Nomination and Governance Committee continues to oversee all matters within its terms of reference, with increased focus on Board composition, senior management leadership, including resourcing and succession, David Governance and the need to maintain a diverse workforce at all levels across the Society. In overseeing the Society’s approach to resourcing the needs of the business, and developing our colleagues, Roberts the Committee continued to focus on strengthening the Society’s leadership to ensure it has the talent needed for the future. The Committee noted the strategic importance of the success of the ‘leadership pathways’ programme in stretching and developing broad leadership skills in the competitive environment in which it operates. “The Committee continues Succession at Board and senior management levels is a key aspect of the Committee’s agenda, and during the year to focus on ensuring that the we conducted a full review of talent and succession in the development of a diverse pipeline for succession at Board Society is led by individuals Risk report and executive leadership level. The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Society has the right mix of knowledge, skills and behaviours with the right skills and on the Board for it to be effective in delivering its responsibilities to provide oversight and governance of the Society experience, whilst ensuring and to safeguard the interests of its members. The Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board and plans are in place for orderly its committees. During the year, the Committee strengthened the Board’s succession plans with the appointment of Phil Rivett as a non-executive director and oversaw a number of changes and appointments at the executive succession to the Board and Financial statements leadership level. More information on this can be found on page 106. senior management.” The Board continues to sponsor the Society’s inclusion and diversity agenda and in its oversight role, the Committee received a full update on the Society’s progress in building a workforce which reflects the diversity of the communities we serve. As part of its remit, the Committee continues to monitor the Society’s governance arrangements to ensure they are in line with best practice. Other information In the coming year, the Committee will focus on promoting inclusion through key people processes such as talent management, performance management and resourcing, as well as developing a programme of sponsorship and mentoring for its diverse talent. David Roberts Chair – Nomination and Governance Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2020 104 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed annually. In 2019, the Who sits on the Committee review was carried out as part of the overall review of the Strategic report effectiveness of the Board and board committees. The results of the In addition to the members, regular attendees of the Committee include: Baroness Usha Prashar (non-executive director) review indicate that Committee members are satisfied with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief People Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Society Secretary and Director of Secretariat. performance and effectiveness of the Committee. The Committee will continue to ensure that the Society’s governance practices are in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and those of FTSE 100 companies where appropriate and represent leading practice among the building society sector. The 2020 effectiveness review process is described on page 83 and a report on the findings will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report. Governance Committee members David Roberts Mai Fyfield Kevin Parry Lynne Peacock Tim Tookey (Chair) Joined the Committee Retired from Report on the year 17 September 2019 the Board on 31 December 2019 During the year the Committee oversaw a number of changes at Meetings attended 7 / (7) 4 / (4) 7 / (7) 5 / (5) 7 / (7) the Board and executive management levels. More information (eligible to attend) on Board and executive management changes can be found on page 106. The Committee, with the sponsorship of non-executive director How the Committee works can be found in the table on page 68. Following each meeting, Baroness Usha Prashar, monitored the progress made against Risk report the Chair of the Committee provides updates to the Board, the Society’s inclusion and diversity agenda and its revised The Chair of the Board chairs the Committee and the members summarising activities undertaken, and key decisions taken. diversity measures. are independent non-executive directors. Their attendance record Recognising that leadership is a key lever for future organisational The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and its activities is set out above. Details of the skills and experience of the over the previous year as part of an annual cycle to confirm that culture, the Committee continued to oversee and monitor Committee members can be found in their biographies on pages its activities were in line with its remit. More details on the progress on the Society’s ‘leadership pathways’ work which was 51 to 54. The Committee meets at least twice a year and Committee’s duties and responsibilities can be found within its initiated in January 2019, creating the right career pathways for Financial statements otherwise as required. The number of meetings held in the year terms of reference on the Society’s website: nationwide.co.uk leaders to develop. How the Committee spent its time in the year 35% 10% 12% 7% 2% 14% 20% Other information • Leadership, talent and succession • Executive resourcing • Inclusion and diversity • Board composition and effectiveness • Individual accountability regimes • Governance and regulatory requirements • Other (including meeting administration) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 105 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Leadership, talent The Committee provided oversight for the implementation of the Society’s ‘leadership pathways’ programme which is designed to identify opportunities and succession that provide stretching roles and experiences for leaders to grow their capability and potential for the future and to strengthen leadership succession. As part of this, the Committee reviewed and discussed the skills, capabilities and experience needed for enterprise leadership roles. The Committee reviewed the progress of the programme alongside key indicators of internal/external hiring ratios and diversity statistics which are expected to be positively impacted by the pathways programme over the longer term. Governance Linked to the above, the Committee also reviewed the leadership flow of internal and external appointments, promotions, stretch and planned appointments for the Nationwide Leadership Team and direct reports of members of this team. The Committee approved the Nationwide Leadership Team succession plan. Executive resourcing The Committee received updates on the resourcing status of vacant leadership roles, noting that attrition was low at all levels in the organisation. Diversity continues to be a key focus for all recruitment processes and the Committee supported the Society’s initiative of developing strategic partnerships with specially selected search partners due to their market leading success in the delivery of diverse shortlists and appointments and to access market insights. Risk report Following the regulators’ extension of the Senior Managers Regime to include more firms, the Committee endorsed specific appointments and associated changes to the Society’s responsibilities map to the extent applicable to the Society’s subsidiaries. Inclusion and diversity As part of its remit, the Committee oversees the implementation of the Society’s inclusion and diversity strategy and objectives. One of the key areas of activity overseen by the Committee was strengthening the ‘tone from the top’ by supporting the initiatives to engage senior leaders to ensure accountability for progress on the Society’s inclusion and diversity agenda. This has led to the development of bespoke local action plans across the Financial statements business that are targeted at the areas of focus or areas that need the greatest improvement. During the year, the Committee sponsored and supported the creation and agreement of the Society’s new inclusion and diversity mission and measures. More information on the Society’s diversity mission and measures and can be found on page 21. With the Committee’s support of management efforts to gain deeper, richer insights into some of the Society’s inclusion and diversity challenges, there is now a better understanding of what the Society is doing well and the areas requiring more focus. Identifying the lack of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) representation in the Society, and especially at senior levels, the Committee has endorsed the initiatives and actions proposed by management to address this. These include a number of positive actions to review how the Society identifies talent and creates its succession plan and to improve the experience of BAME colleagues by working with the Society’s ethnic minority network and other groups to ensure the voice of BAME colleagues is being heard. Other information The Committee supported Nationwide’s response to Gender Pay Gap and Women in Finance reporting and with the Committee’s support and endorsement, Nationwide was one of the first organisations to publish voluntarily an ethnicity pay gap report. The Society is signed up to the BiTC Race at Work charter and continues to play an active membership role in the 30% Club and Mentoring Foundation. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 106 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year (continued) Strategic report Area of focus Committee’s response Board composition and The remit of the Nomination and Governance Committee includes ensuring the Society has the right mix of knowledge, skills and behaviours on the effectiveness Board for it to be effective in delivering its responsibilities to provide oversight and governance of the Society and to safeguard the interests of its members. The recruitment process for directors is designed to ensure the Board collectively possess a range of skills and appropriate objectivity. The Committee, supported by an independent search firm, prepares a detailed candidate specification which considers the desired skills, knowledge, experience and personal characteristics required for the role. From the specification, a list of potential candidates is identified for initial discussions with the Chairman. Following this, a short list of candidates is produced and after a series of interviews with executive directors and Committee members, Governance the Committee recommends the appointment to the Board. The recruitment process involves detailed referencing and other checks to establish the candidate’s credentials, including suitability, fitness and propriety. Regulatory approval is also required for certain Board roles. During the year, the Committee oversaw and recommended to the Board the appointment of Phil Rivett as a non-executive director. JCA, an executive search firm which has no other connection with the Society, was engaged to assist with the search. Phil’s appointment fulfils and strengthens the Board succession plans. The Committee also oversaw the appointment of Kevin Parry as Senior Independent Director to replace Lynne Peacock who retired at the end of 2019 and the appointment of Mai Fyfield as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. The Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Chris Rhodes as Chief Financial Officer to replace Mark Rennison who retired in September 2019. The Committee also oversaw a number of changes at executive management level. Alison Robb, formerly Chief People Officer, who joined the Society in 1996, was appointed Deputy Chief Financial Officer from September 2019. Alison was succeeded as Chief People Officer by Jane Hanson, who has been with the Society since January 2018 as Director of Risk report Community Partnering. Sara Bennison, Chief Marketing Officer who joined the Society in 2016 took up an expanded role to include Products and Propositions. The Committee oversaw the 2019 Board effectiveness review and examined the progress of the action plan arising out of that review. It endorsed the approach to be taken for the 2020 Board effectiveness review. More information on the effectiveness review can be found on page 83. Corporate governance Throughout the year the Committee has exercised oversight of the Society’s governance arrangements on behalf of the Board. Among other things, Financial statements it reviewed the corporate governance disclosures in the 2019 and 2020 Annual Reports. The Committee received an update from Mai Fyfield, the designated director for employee engagement, on the Employee Voice activity over the last year which included colleague views and lessons learnt from the engagement. It endorsed the plans to enhance the value of the interactions and conversations for the future. Individual accountability regimes The Committee continued to focus on regulatory requirements to ascertain suitability, fitness and propriety of relevant individuals and ensure Senior Managers Regime responsibilities were allocated appropriately through the Society’s well-established mapping process. Other information As part of its oversight role, the Committee received an update on the Society’s continued response to the regimes and noted that the interventions and processes put in place for the Senior Managers Regime, including handovers and fitness and propriety checks, were working well. The annual certification process was completed, and all individuals were deemed as ‘fit’ to continue in their certified roles. The Committee was also satisfied that Conduct Rules were embedded with Conduct Rules training completion during the year across the Society at over 95%. The Committee also concluded that employee relations policies and processes were sufficiently robust to handle any breaches of the Conduct Rules. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 107 Report of the directors on corporate governance (continued) Key areas/matters considered by the Committee during the year continued Strategic report What attracted you to Nationwide, and what What are your first impressions of Nationwide skills and attributes do you bring to the Board and its culture? and Nationwide? I have found all at Nationwide friendly, supportive, very I was attracted by a number of things, one of the main helpful and open in their dealings with me from the ones being my interest in the building society mutual moment I walked through the door. The Nationwide model and how this can be used to benefit members. culture is one of seeking to help each other and Joining the Board of the largest building society at a members and being open to challenge and new ideas. Governance time of considerable change in retail financial services What do you see as the main opportunities and from the impact of technology and changing demands challenges for Nationwide? of members enabled me to see this from ‘the inside’. Continuing to seek out how the service to members Having joined the Board I can see how the focus on can be improved through all the distribution channels members drives and influences the decision making in a joined up way. It should not matter if you are in and more importantly the behaviour of the people in a branch, on a mobile device/the internet or on the Nationwide that serve the members. I had also been telephone – we will know who the member is and can told by many that the people at Nationwide were great Risk report quickly address their needs with a market leading to work with and this has certainly been borne out service, or if it is a problem, quickly resolve it. This Phil joined the in practice as I visit the offices and meet the staff. would help Nationwide to continue to stand out in the area of service which will become ever more important. I bring to Nationwide over 40 years of experience in most areas of financial services in the UK and worldwide What has been the single most engaging moment Board in September from my roles at PwC in particular leading the audit of since you joined Nationwide? Financial statements two of the major banks based in London. I also have a Attending employee focused events. In particular, 2019 and shares his good understanding of risk management and of course attending Board hosted events where the Board meets accounting. with groups of employees and gets the chance to listen experiences so far to their views and ideas is incredibly insightful. Other information The year ahead In the coming year, the Committee will continue to provide oversight workforce to support the Society’s strategic ambitions. It will also on the execution of the leadership pathways programme and will continue to strengthen senior leadership voice in the prioritisation also increase its focus on Board and senior management succession of inclusion and diversity, and the embedding of the Society’s planning and the development of a diverse pipeline of talent and mission and measures in this regard. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 108 Report of the directors on remuneration Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Dear fellow member, Mai Governance I am pleased to present my first Remuneration Committee report since taking on the role of Committee Chair in September 2019. I would like to personally thank Lynne Peacock for her contribution as the previous Committee Fyfield Chair. This report includes details of our directors’ pay for the year to 4 April 2020, together with our new forward-looking directors’ remuneration policy, on which an advisory vote will be sought at the 2020 AGM. “Having the same goals As set out by the Chairman, David Roberts, we are in unprecedented times as we witness the impact of the Covid-19 global pandemic. This is an incredibly challenging time for people and businesses, including the helps ensure that all our Risk report Society. Our primary priority is the safety of our employees and members, and we continue to put our members’ needs at the heart of our decision making. people work together” The onset of Covid-19 has presented a unique set of challenges for the Committee. Although the virus emerged in the UK towards the end of our 2019/20 financial year, it has significantly impacted our 2019/20 results and I would therefore like to thank Joe Garner, the CEO, for voluntarily meant that we must think differently about the year ahead. The difficult decisions we have already taken, and requesting that his combined base salary and pension be reduced by may need to take in the future, continue to be firmly guided by our social purpose – building society, nationwide. Financial statements 20% for 2020/21, a reduction of £227,560 from the current position. We were the first UK financial services firm to announce such a In this report we have set out how we performed against the measures we set ourselves at the start of the year reduction. I also note that for 2019/20 Joe made a significant personal under the Directors’ Performance Award (DPA), our performance pay plan. The CEO and CFO and broader contribution to the cost of his taxable benefits, which would otherwise Nationwide Leadership Team asked the Remuneration Committee to consider not awarding any performance have been borne by the Society. More details on Joe’s remuneration pay which they may have otherwise been due for 2019/20. Taking into account this request, together with the for 2020/21 are set out in this report. Chris Rhodes, the CFO, has impact of the pandemic on member saving rates, the Committee determined that no performance pay awards voluntarily reduced his pension allowance to 16% of salary from would be made for this population and that a flat variable pay award of £1,200 should be given to all other 2020/21 to align with the maximum benefit available to the wider Other information employees. In March we also agreed with the Prudential Regulatory Authority’s request for the Society not to employee population. In addition, the non-executive directors have pay any performance pay in cash to senior employees during 2020, including all Material Risk Takers. volunteered to donate 20% of their net fees from June to December of this year to Shelter, to help support vulnerable people impacted by We believe it is important to provide certainty for our people, and we have made a commitment that we will Covid-19. We also decided that there will be no general pay increases not make any compulsory redundancies for permanent employees in 2020. However, in our current economic for directors or senior employees across the Society in 2020/21, nor circumstances, this will impact decisions both for 2019/20 and looking ahead to next year. any increases for the Chairman and non-executive directors. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 109 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) As we look ahead to 2020/21, while we remain financially strong performance payments already awarded may be forfeited. The a podcast for the Society, providing an opportunity to engage enough to weather challenging economic times, our pay Committee also has the discretion to cancel all, or part of, with colleagues on remuneration. Strategic report approach must echo our responsibility to ensure the long-term previously awarded performance pay in the event of misconduct sustainability of the Society and protect our culture and values. or if the Society’s performance deteriorates significantly. A Taking all these factors into account, the Committee concluded Reflecting the current challenging environment, performance substantial proportion therefore remains ‘money at risk’ which the current approach remains appropriate to continue delivering pay will be scaled back for 2020/21 across the Society. Awards may be reduced or cancelled at the Committee’s discretion, the Society’s ambitions. I am therefore pleased to confirm that for executive directors for the coming year will be set at around taking into account the Society’s and the individual’s no material changes to the policy are proposed, other than a one-third of the normal performance pay opportunities, in line performance over the seven-year period. reduction in pension benefit for existing and new executive with the approach for all employees. These awards will continue directors to 16% of salary, aligning with the maximum benefit We aim to be transparent with our members and voluntarily available to the wider employee population, and a change to the to be aligned to measures which are important to our members, disclose details of our executive pay arrangements, including as which for 2020/21 will be customer service satisfaction, operation of our leaver provisions for the DPA to align with Governance required under the UK Corporate Governance Code, where it is market practice. Our approach to scaling back performance pay committed members and total costs, and in determining any relevant for us to do so as a mutual. awards under the plan, the Committee will consider the overall opportunities for 2020/21 has also been reflected in the policy. performance of the Society over the year and our economic Our policy The full directors’ remuneration policy is detailed in this report. circumstances at that time. Our remuneration policy was last approved by members at the We would like to invite members to vote on our proposed policy. 2017 AGM, receiving strong support. We are committed to Combining the change to base salary, pension and performance continue demonstrating best practice in corporate governance Board changes pay results in a very significant reduction in the CEO’s overall and alignment with legislation on executive pay which applies As previously announced, the former Chief Financial Officer, maximum pay opportunity for 2020/21, a reduction of over to listed companies, so we are submitting our policy report Mark Rennison stepped down from the Board in September 2019 Risk report 40%. More details on our approach are set out in this report. to an advisory vote of our members this year. and Chris Rhodes was appointed to this role. Mark Rennison’s Our core principles During the year the Committee undertook a detailed review leaving arrangements and the changes to Chris Rhodes’ package Our heritage and our unique position as a member-owned are set out in this report together with the details for Tony Prestedge, of our approach to remuneration across the Society, including organisation means our approach to remuneration is aligned to who resigned as Deputy Chief Executive and Board member in executive directors. The Committee engaged with and listened the needs of our members and is designed to drive the behaviours March 2020. All arrangements are in accordance with policy. to the views of our key stakeholders, as well as reflecting on consistent with our wider purpose, values and strategy. feedback received from members in previous years and the Member voting on remuneration Financial statements Our remuneration framework for all employees is simple, evolving external environment. comprising fixed pay and a single performance related pay plan A core principle of our approach is that members’ views and with performance assessed based on three measures that apply The Committee also paid close attention to the relationship interests are considered when we design remuneration policies for everyone. between pay policies and practices for executive directors and and determine pay outcomes. There will therefore be two separate other employees. We believe the principles and approach to pay advisory votes from members on remuneration this year. The A single set of goals helps ensure all our people work together should be consistent for everyone, including the executive first will be on our Policy report and the second vote will be the and are focused to deliver sustainable success and good outcomes directors, and we have taken steps to address any key areas of annual advisory vote on our Annual report on remuneration for members. For our senior leaders, performance pay also difference, for example on pensions. We also think it is vital the outlining our approach during 2019/20 and how the Committee reflects their individual contribution, where we measure not only Committee understands the wider employee perspective when propose to implement the new policy during 2020/21. Other information what they have delivered but also have an equal focus on their considering pay decisions and therefore the Committee regularly conduct and behaviours. The Board will only pay any performance On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I recommend that you invites the General Secretary of the Nationwide Group Staff related pay if it is sure that the Society is financially secure. endorse our Policy report and Annual report on remuneration. Union to attend our meetings to provide valuable insight on the Performance payments for senior leaders are paid in instalments, views of their members and to allow a two-way dialogue on over seven years in the case of our executive directors. This way, broader employee pay matters. In addition, in my capacity as Mai Fyfield if one of our leaders leaves the Society, then some of the director responsible for Voice of the Employee, this year I hosted Chair – Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2020 110 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Report on the year Strategic report Composition of the Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are all independent non-executive directors of the Society and include a member of the Audit Committee and the Chairman who is an attendee of the Board Risk Committee. Governance Committee members Mai Fyfield Lynne Peacock David Roberts Rita Clifton Usha Prashar (Chair from September (Chair to 2019) September 2019) Number of meetings attended 12 / (12) 6 / (7) 12 / (12) 12 / (12) 12 / (12) (eligible to attend) Risk report Regular attendees of the Committee include: the Chief following a tender process during the year. The Committee The Remuneration Committee is supported by the Board Risk Executive, the Leader of People and Culture, the Chief Risk assesses the performance of Deloitte annually, including the Committee on risk-related matters including performance pay Officer and the Director of Reward and Pensions. In no case quality of advice provided, and reviews annually all other plan design, the assessment of specific performance measures, is any person present when their own remuneration is services provided by Deloitte to ensure they continue to be and wider issues relating to risk and controls. The Remuneration discussed. Deloitte LLP, our independent external consultants independent and objective. Their fees for advice provided to Committee is also supported by and receives input from the also attend. Deloitte also provided tax, financial advisory, the Committee during 2019/20 were £220,100, typically Audit Committee. risk, internal audit and consulting services to the Society charged on a time-and-materials basis. Financial statements during 2019/20. Deloitte were reappointed by the Committee How the Committee works The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the PRA / FCA Remuneration Codes. This includes approving the The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference and agreeing with the Board the remuneration strategy, how the design of, and determining the performance targets for, any during the year. It also reviewed its activities over the previous strategy is reflected in remuneration policy and the specific discretionary performance pay plan operated by the Society for Other information year as part of an annual update to confirm that they were in remuneration packages for the Chairman, the executive directors the benefit of these employees. The Committee also approves line with its remit and the duties and responsibilities which can and other members of the Nationwide Leadership Team, as well the outcomes of any performance pay plan and reviews the yearas any other employees who are deemed to fall within scope of end pay outcomes for all these employees. be found within its terms of reference at nationwide.co.uk Annual Report and Accounts 2020 111 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) How the Committee spent its time in the year Strategic report 27% Governance 30% 8% Pay strategy Performance award Oversight of remuneration Risk report and approach outcomes across the Society April May 2019 April 2019 May 2019 Agreed Nationwide Leadership Team and wider Taking into account input from the Board Risk Reviewed reward governance across the Society. pay review for 2019/20. and Audit committees, the Committee reviewed September 2019 November 2019 and approved the outcome of the DPA to be paid Reviewed the Society’s gender and ethnicity pay Financial statements Strategic review of remuneration across the Society in respect of the year. reporting. including the appropriateness of current practice April and November 2019 and directors’ remuneration policy, including November 2019 Approved deferred payments in respect of prior alignment of executive and wider employee pension Reviewed pay policies and practices and reward years due for payment. contribution rates. governance across the Society. March 2020 January 2020 Set performance measures and targets for 2020/21 Met with the Nationwide Group Staff Union. year. Agreed approach for Nationwide Leadership Team pay review and Chairman’s fee for 2020/21. March 2020 Other information April 2020 Considered changes to the defined benefits Approved approach to executive director pay for pension scheme. 2020/21 in response to Covid-19. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 112 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) How the Committee spent its time in the year (continued) Strategic report 14% 13% 8% Governance Regulatory reporting Procedural matters Governance Risk report Throughout the year the Committee receives The Committee agrees remuneration March May 2019 updates on key regulatory matters. arrangements for all employees within the scope Reviewed and approved the Report of the of the PRA/FCA Remuneration Codes. directors on remuneration for 2018/19. September 2019 and February 2020 Reviewed and approved the identification April 2019 April and September 2019 Financial statements approach and list of employees who fall within Reviewed adviser’s consultancy arrangements Reviewed the Committee’s effectiveness against the scope of the PRA/FCA Remuneration Codes. and confirmed continued independence. Terms of Reference for 2018/19. November 2019 July 2019 September 2019 Agreed the Society’s annual Remuneration Agreed leaving arrangements for the Chief Approved updated Terms of Reference. Statement and provided this to the PRA/FCA. Financial Officer and remuneration September 2019 and February 2020 arrangements for his successor. March 2020 Reviewed market trends in executive pay. Agreed the approach to pay for impacted March 2020 January 2020 Other information individuals in response to the PRA’s letter Agreed leaving arrangements for the Deputy Re-appointed Deloitte as Committee advisers regarding the restriction on the payment of cash Chief Executive. following tender process. bonuses for 2020. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 113 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Policy report How our approach to remuneration aligns with Strategic report our strategic cornerstones for 2020/21 The following tables set out our proposed remuneration policy for our executive directors and non-executive directors. We will seek member approval at the AGM in July 2020, and if approved, the policy is intended to apply for three years to the end of the AGM Building thriving membership in 2023. It is intended that no payments to directors will be made outside of this policy unless as a result of regulatory change. Number of committed members built into the DPA for 2020/21 Remuneration policy for executive directors Governance It is proposed that the policy remains broadly unchanged from Built to last the previous policy approved in 2017, other than to reflect the reduction to the level of pension benefit for existing and new Total costs built into the DPA for 2020/21 executive directors to 16% of salary to align with the maximum level of benefit available to the wider employee population. We have also made a change to the operation of our leaver provisions for the DPA to align with market practice. Building legendary service Risk report As described in the Committee Chair’s statement, reflecting the current challenging environment, performance pay opportunities Customer service satisfaction rating built into the DPA for 2020/21 across the Society will be scaled back for 2020/21, with the most significant impact for our senior employees. Awards for executive directors for the coming year will be set at around one-third of normal performance pay opportunities, in line with Building PRIDE the approach for all employees. This has been reflected in policy Financial statements set out below. In line with our policy, these awards will continue to be aligned to measures which are important to our members. Nationwide values and behaviours recognised and rewarded through individual element of reward for senior roles Other minor changes have also been made to improve the operation and effectiveness of the policy. Building a national treasure Other information Approach to remuneration remains cognisant of external debate and public sentiment on pay and equality Annual Report and Accounts 2020 114 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Remuneration policy for executive directors – Fixed pay Strategic report Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salary is normally reviewed on an annual basis. Any changes Whilst there is no maximum, base salaries are set taking into Not applicable are normally effective from 1 April. account market data for similar roles in comparable organisations. Provides base salary that Other factors considered include the individual’s skills, experience is market competitive and and performance and the approach being taken on salaries in the reflects the size and wider organisation. complexity of the role Benefits Benefits may include a car allowance, access to drivers when Whilst there is no maximum value to the benefits provided, benefits Not applicable required, healthcare and insurance benefits. are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate to role and Governance Provides a market competitive location to assist individuals in carrying out their duties effectively. and cost-effective benefits Other benefits may be provided to enable recruitment/retention package as part of fixed or relocation. The value of benefits may vary depending on service providers, remuneration cost and market conditions. Pension Executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension. Cash allowances are set as a percentage of base salary. The Not applicable maximum pension allowance payable is set at a level in line with Provides post-retirement the wider employee population (currently 16% of base salary). This benefits for participants in approach will apply to current executive directors from April 2020 Risk report a cost-efficient manner (a reduction from the previous level of 24% of salary for the CEO and 20% for the CFO). Remuneration policy for executive directors – Variable pay Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Financial statements Directors’ Performance All-employee element The targets reflected in the Society’s Plan need to be achieved The gateway and Society Award (DPA) Awards are normally paid in cash following the end of the to generate a ‘target’ award against the Society measures, and performance measures financial year based on Society performance achieved in the year. considerably exceeded to generate the maximum award. selected for both elements of Rewards achievement of This element operates on the same basis for all employees. Under the all-employee element, all employees, including our the DPA are set on an annual stretching Society, team and Senior leaders’ element executive directors, receive the same percentage of salary award. basis by the Committee. individual targets for a single At the end of the one-year performance period an award is These will normally reflect a financial year, with payment The overall maximum opportunity including both elements varies by made to reflect achievement against performance measures. mix of financial measures, spread over the longer term role (see below). The actual amount awarded in respect of any year is The award is normally paid in cash across six payment dates. measures relating to the subject to the limit laid down by regulatory standards (note ii). Other information strategic performance of the Comprises two elements: No more than 40% of the total performance pay award is paid Society as well as regulatory (i) an all-employee element after the end of the performance period and at least 60% is obligations. Individual (ii) an element in which the deferred for between three and seven years in line with regulatory performance (including most senior leaders participate requirements. conduct and behaviours) will subject to deferral provisions also be assessed. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 115 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Remuneration policy for executive directors – Variable pay (continued) Strategic report Element Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Directors’ Performance A minimum of 50% of both the upfront and deferred elements Normal policy (for performance years other than 2020/21) Award (DPA) is delivered in or linked to the value of the Society’s core capital The normal maximum variable pay opportunities (i.e. including deferred shares (CCDS) and subject to a twelve-month retention both elements) are: Rewards achievement of period in line with regulatory requirements. Participants will be • 152% of base salary for the Chief Executive stretching Society, team and entitled to CCDS distributions during the retention period. • 112% of base salary for other executive directors individual targets for a single The Remuneration Committee may reduce or cancel payments Normally, 98% and 78% of base salary is payable for target financial year, with payment under the DPA if it believes that the plan outcomes are not performance for the Chief Executive and other executive directors spread over the longer term representative of the overall performance of the Society (note i). respectively. Governance Comprises two elements: Policy for 2020/21 (i) an all-employee element For awards made in respect of 2020/21, the maximum variable (ii) an element in which the pay opportunities (including both elements) have been reduced to: most senior leaders participate • 51% of base salary for the Chief Executive subject to deferral provisions • 37% of base salary for other executive directors For these awards, 37% and 29% of base salary is payable for target performance for the Chief Executive and other executive directors respectively. In the event that the Society’s financial performance in 2020/21 Risk report materially exceeds expectations, the Committee retains the discretion to make an award above these levels (subject to the overall limits within this policy). Notes to the policy table: i.  Discretion, risk adjustment and malus and clawback: In determining variable pay awards, the Committee has the ability to apply independent judgement to ensure that the outcome is a fair reflection of the performance of the Society and the individual over the relevant period. In applying this judgement, the Committee has scope to consider any such factors it deems relevant. Financial statements The Committee takes into account performance against a broad set of financial and non-financial performance measures and considers performance on a risk-adjusted basis, evaluating progress against defined measures within the context of our risk appetite. This is a formalised process, which also includes input and feedback from the Audit and Board Risk committees. In this manner, the Committee has discretion to reduce an employee’s performance pay in relation to risk-related matters. In certain circumstances, the Committee has the discretion to operate malus and clawback provisions under the DPA. Such circumstances may include, but are not limited to: participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses; failure to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety; employee misbehaviour or material error; a material downturn in financial performance; a material failure of risk management; and other circumstances required by regulatory obligations. Clawback can be applied for a period of seven years from the date of award. This may be extended to 10 years in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. ii. Regulatory maximum limit on variable pay: Any payments under the DPA are subject to an overall maximum limit such that the ratio between the variable and fixed components of remuneration for any year does not exceed the applicable regulatory individual maximum at the time of payment. This limit is currently set such that variable remuneration does not exceed 100% of fixed remuneration. For the purpose of calculating the value of variable pay for this ratio, a discount can be applied to up to 25% of the variable pay element to take account of the payment timescale, provided it is awarded in instruments (for example, the Society’s CCDS) that are deferred for at least five years. Details of how the discount factor may be calculated can be found at www.eba.europa.eu Other information iii. R egulatory changes: In the event that regulatory standards change, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make such changes as to ensure regulatory compliance, even if a revised policy has not been put to members for an advisory vote. Any such changes would be included in the policy report at the next AGM. iv. Prior arrangements: The Committee reserves the right to honour remuneration payments (including payments for loss of office), notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this report, where the terms of the payment were agreed in accordance with any previous member-approved policy, before the Society’s first member-approved policy came into effect, or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of Nationwide and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of Nationwide. v. Decision-making process: In determining the new remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee followed a robust process. The Committee discussed the detail of the policy over a series of meetings in 2019 and early 2020. The Committee considered the strategic priorities of the business and evolving market practice. Input was sought from management, while ensuring that conflicts of interests were suitably mitigated. An external perspective was provided by our independent advisers. The Committee also assessed the policy against the principles of clarity, simplicity, risk management, predictability, proportionality and alignment to culture. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 116 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Choice of performance measures and targets The gateway and performance measures for the Society element from year to year to recognise particular financial and strategic number of wider factors, including our strategic priorities, the Strategic report of both parts of the DPA are set on an annual basis by the priorities. However, no less than 60% of the element in which economic environment, and market conditions and expectations. Remuneration Committee to reflect the priorities of the Society, our senior leaders participate will be based on Society Maximum performance will only be achieved for exceptional providing a clear link with members’ interests, our financial and performance measures. performance across all measures including individual performance. strategic aims, as well as our regulatory obligations. The The Committee sets targets based on those measures at a level The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust weighting of performance measures will be reviewed annually, which it considers appropriately stretching in relation to the performance targets to reflect significant one-off items which with the Committee having the ability to adjust the weighting Society’s Plan and overall risk appetite, taking into account a occur during the performance period. Governance What our executive directors could earn based on performance The charts below illustrate the amounts that each of the executive • One reflecting the actual amounts our executive directors standards, which is currently set such that variable remuneration directors would be paid under different performance scenarios. could earn in 2020/21, taking into account the voluntary does not exceed 100% of fixed remuneration. For the purposes of these charts, given the voluntary reduction reduction in the CEO’s base salary, and using scaled back maximum and target performance pay opportunities for In both scenarios, the value of benefits is based on the benefits in the CEO’s base salary and pension for 2020/21, in addition paid in respect of 2019/20, as set out in the single total figure the year under the policy as set out above. to the scale back of performance pay opportunities for 2020/21, of remuneration table. two illustrations are provided for each scenario: As set out above, the actual amount awarded in respect of any year would be subject to the limit laid down by regulatory The charts are based on the following assumptions: Risk report • One reflecting our normal ongoing policy, showing base salary and pension contribution levels from 1 April 2020, Pay scenario Basis of calculation prior to the voluntary reduction in the CEO’s base salary Maximum opportunity At this level fixed pay elements and maximum variable pay levels are payable for 2020/21, and using normal maximum and target performance pay opportunities under the policy as set Target opportunity At this level fixed pay elements and target variable pay levels are payable out above; and Minimum opportunity At this level only the fixed pay elements are payable (base salary, pension and benefits) Financial statements J D Garner C S Rhodes Maximum opportunity £2,605k Maximum opportunity £1,554k Salary Maximum opportunity £1,458k Maximum opportunity £1,064k Benefits (2020/21) (2020/21) Pension Target opportunity £2,110k Target opportunity £1,332k DPA Target opportunity Target opportunity £1,348k £1,011k Other information (2020/21) (2020/21) Minimum opportunity £1,213k Minimum opportunity £822k Minimum opportunity Minimum opportunity (2020/21) £1,058k (2020/21) £822k £0k £500k £1,000k £1,500k £2,000k £2,500k £3,000k £0k £500k £1,000k £1,500k £2,000k Annual Report and Accounts 2020 117 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Remuneration arrangements throughout the Society As part of any new recruitment, the Committee would consider with regulatory requirements, ‘buy-out’ awards may continue to whether it was necessary to offer a higher maximum award level be subject to malus and clawback provisions at the discretion of The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed Strategic report under our performance pay plan in order to secure the desired the individual’s previous employer. to align with the remuneration philosophy and principles that candidate. Any such increase would remain within the overall underpin remuneration for the wider Society. Within this limit laid down by regulatory standards and would only be Although our intention would be to offer any new director benefits framework, whilst there are differences in reward opportunity applicable for the period of twelve months following appointment. in line with the policy set out in the policy table, if individual depending on level of seniority, everyone is focused towards circumstances required this, the Committee would consider achievement of the same business goals and objectives. The Committee may also consider whether it is necessary to offering a new recruit such additional benefits as might be required The all-employee element of the DPA operates with the same offer any one-off arrangements on the recruitment of a new to secure their services. This may include travel allowances or performance measures and same opportunity levels (as a executive director to ‘buy out’ performance pay and any other relocation expenses for a limited period following appointment. percentage of salary) for all employees, including executive remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In making any such offer, the Committee will seek to On the appointment of a new non-executive director, fees will be directors. Governance ensure that the ‘buy-out’ is on materially similar terms to the as far as possible on similar terms to those of the existing Recruitment policy arrangements being forfeited in terms of their value and vesting non-executive directors and in accordance with the policy table dates and take into account the extent to which performance set out in this report. On the appointment of a new executive director, the Committee conditions applied to the original awards. Where possible, any will as far as possible determine the ongoing remuneration ‘buy-out’ will be structured within the parameters of our existing package in accordance with the policy described in the policy performance pay plan. If there is not sufficient scope to table above. It would aim not to pay more than necessary to compensate the individual through our existing performance secure the right candidate. plan, an individual tailored plan would be put in place. In line Risk report Service contracts and policy on payments to departing directors Leaver provisions for executive directors If an executive director leaves in ‘good leaver’ circumstances Executive director J D Garner C S Rhodes (defined as redundancy, retirement, ill health, death or by Financial statements mutual consent, e.g. for redundancy/succession planning Service contract effective from 5 April 2016 20 April 2009 purposes), they would, subject to approval by the Committee on an individual basis, normally be offered a payment in lieu of Date first appointed to the Board 5 April 2016 20 April 2009 notice covering 12 months’ base salary. Such a payment might also cover benefits and pension allowance. All such payments Executive directors’ terms and conditions of employment are The Chairman and non-executive directors are appointed for fixed will be subject to mitigation, as described below. detailed in their individual contracts which include a notice period terms not exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject of 12 months from the Society to the individual and a notice period to their re-election by members at AGMs. There are no obligations For awards under the DPA from 2020/21: of six months from the individual to the Society, which will increase in the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment that could Other information to nine months for any new executive directors. The terms set out • Where an executive director leaves during the performance year give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office. in the service contracts for the current executive directors do not in good leaver circumstances they may, at the Committee’s The dates of appointment to the Board for the Chairman and provide for any payments that are not in line with this policy. discretion, receive a pro-rata performance award for the non-executive directors are set out in the Governance report. Service contracts include a provision for a termination payment period of time served during the current performance period in lieu of notice, which will normally be subject to mitigation, in accordance with the plan rules. Such awards would be up to a maximum of 12 months’ base salary. subject to deferral, malus and clawback as normal. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 118 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) • Where an executive director leaves in certain defined good Committee has discretion to waive this if this is considered leaver circumstances (retirement, redundancy, ill health or appropriate in individual circumstances. All of the current Strategic report death), they will normally be eligible to receive the deferred executive director contracts allow for mitigation. This means portion of any outstanding award in full. that after leaving Nationwide, should they start employment elsewhere, any outstanding payments in lieu of notice due from • In other good leaver circumstances, the treatment of Nationwide may be reduced or lapse altogether. outstanding deferred payments will normally be subject to time-prorating for months served in continued employment Consideration of employment conditions over the first four years of the plan cycle, including the initial elsewhere in the Society performance period. The pay and conditions of all employees are taken into account • The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust Governance when determining executive remuneration and the Committee the proportion of the deferred payments that are retained by a leaver based on the facts and circumstances of the departure. appreciates the importance of this relationship. The Committee Furthermore, following departure, the Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels, other elements of fixed remuneration may still also reduce or cancel payments if it believes that the and details of performance pay plans offered to all employees plan outcomes are not representative of the overall performance each year and is always mindful of ensuring that the pay policy of the Society. for senior roles is consistent with the culture and values of the Society as a whole. Our policy is to offer packages which are • Retained awards and deferred plan payments are paid at the competitive with the financial services market in which we Risk report usual payment date although the Remuneration Committee operate and to reward individuals for delivering value to members. will have discretion to accelerate any payments to the leaving date in exceptional circumstances. The individual elements of remuneration, for example, benefits provision, offered may vary between the different roles, The treatment of good leavers for DPA awards in respect of reflecting typical market practice. performance years prior to 2020/21 will be in accordance with the relevant policy. Whilst there was no formal consultation, a copy of the policy was Financial statements shared with the Nationwide Group Staff Union in advance of Individuals who leave in other circumstances (e.g. resignation) publication. Those employees who are also members of the would receive only contractual payments to which they are Society will be able to vote on the Policy report and the Annual entitled and would not receive any payment in respect of report on remuneration. performance pay plans, unless the Remuneration Committee determines there is a due case for discretion. Consideration of member views Depending on individual circumstances, the Committee may At recent AGMs we have received a significant majority vote in also make a payment in respect of outplacement costs, legal fees and costs of settling any potential claim where appropriate. favour of our remuneration reports. We are also mindful of views Other information expressed by individual members regarding specific aspects of Mitigation the policy. When taking decisions on remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee is also always conscious of the need to The Remuneration Committee’s policy is that payments in lieu ensure executives are motivated and rewarded to deliver value of notice should be made in monthly instalments and subject to for our members. mitigation (where contractually enforceable), although the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 119 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Strategic report Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Operation Opportunity Chairman and The Chairman’s fee is normally reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee on an Whilst there is no maximum level, fees are set taking into account non-executive director annual basis. practice at other organisations as well as the time commitment for fees Non-executive director fees are normally reviewed and approved by the executive directors and the role at Nationwide. Provide a market the Chairman on an annual basis. competitive fee level for Any changes are typically effective from 1 April. Governance the role at Nationwide Non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, with an additional supplement paid for additional roles or responsibilities, including in respect of the Senior Independent Director or Voice of the Employee role, or for serving on or chairing a Board Committee. The Chairman and non-executive directors do not take part in any performance pay plans or in any pension arrangements. Benefits may be provided if considered appropriate including reimbursement of any reasonable expenses (together with any tax thereon where these are deemed to be taxable benefits). Risk report Annual report on remuneration for 2019/20 Base salary the level paid to M M Rennison. At the same time, his pension allowance was reduced from 24% to 20% of salary, in line with Financial statements As disclosed in last year’s report, base salaries were increased with the commitment made last year to reduce pension allowances effect from 1 April 2019. J D Garner received an increase of 3.5%, for executive directors to maximum benefit available to the T P Prestedge 7.63%, M M Rennison 2.99% and C S Rhodes 2.54%. wider employee population level by 2021/22. As set out in the C S Rhodes replaced M M Rennison as CFO in September 2019. Committee Chair’s letter, the pension levels for both executive On appointment, C Rhodes’ base salary was increased to directors have been further reduced on a voluntary basis £654,000 to reflect his additional responsibilities, in line with to 16% of salary from 1 April 2020. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 120 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Directors’ Performance Award (DPA) 2019/20 A significant proportion of the overall remuneration for executive any DPA awards to executive directors in respect of 2019/20. Strategic report and for 2019/20 reflected three of the five strategic cornerstones, directors is dependent on the performance achieved in the year as set out below. These measures ensure that we are focused against a number of key measures. Details of the operation of The DPA has two elements: an all-employee element and an the plan, together with the targets set and performance element for our most senior leaders. Performance under both on delivering benefits to our members. The senior element achieved are included in this section; however, as set out in the elements of the DPA reward the attainment of challenging also incorporates an amount based on individual performance Committee’s Chair’s letter, the Committee decided not to make strategic and financial measures drawn from the Society’s Plan and behaviours. Governance Building thriving membership – Number of committed members Individual performance Building legendary service – Customer service satisfaction rating Objectives reflecting each individual’s contribution towards the delivery of the Society’s plan as well as individual conduct and behaviours Built to last – Sustainable cost savings Risk report The maximum potential award level for 2019/20 was 152% of Payments under the plan are made at the discretion of the wider circumstances as appropriate. The Society also has the salary for the Chief Executive and 112% of salary for other Remuneration Committee and delivered in instalments over the ability to claw back performance pay awards for up to ten years executive directors, which was unchanged from 2018/19. next seven years. Payments due over the next seven years remain Financial statements after they were awarded in certain circumstances. For the Chief Executive, 28% of the maximum award was based “at risk” and may be reduced or cancelled if the Committee on individual performance. For the other executive directors, believes the plan outcomes are not representative of the overall The illustration below shows how any awards under the plan this was 36% of the maximum award for 2019/20. performance of the Society, the individual or by reference to would be released to executive directors over the long-term: Performance year (PY) Following the PY PY + 1 PY + 2 PY + 3 PY + 4 PY + 5 PY + 6 PY + 7 Award determined based Upfront element Deferred element – delivered in instalments over three to seven years Other information on the value delivered for members in the year 20% 20% 12% 12% 12% 24% Payments remain “at risk” and may be reduced or cancelled during the seven year deferral period (clawback provisions may apply for up to ten years in certain circumstances) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 121 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Outcomes for DPA 2019/20 ratio and conduct risk. These gateways were passed in 2019/20, although the outcome for the statutory profit gateway resulted The Committee must also be satisfied that there are no significant conduct, risk, reputational, financial, operational or other Strategic report Audited information in the amounts payable under the plan being scaled back. reasons why awards should not be made, taking into account In reviewing performance under the DPA during 2019/20, input from the Board Risk and Audit committees. Overall, as set Three ‘gateways’ must be passed before any payment is made the Committee assessed the Society’s performance against three out below, the Committee exercised its discretion to reduce under the plan, based on measures of statutory profit, leverage equally weighted measures. 2019/20 performance pay outcomes to zero. Cornerstone Measure Performance target range: threshold, target and maximum and Performance pay achieved actual performance achieved (% of salary) J D Garner C S Rhodes M M Rennison Building thriving Number of committed 3.56m 23% 16% 16% Governance membership members 3.56m 3.56m 3.57m 3.39m 3.77m 3.39m 3.39m 3.57m 3.57m 3.77m 3.77m 1st + 5.4%pts Customer service Building 1st 1st + + 5.4%pts 5.4%pts satisfaction rating 1st 1st + 4%pts lead 1st + 6%pts lead 32% 22% 22% legendary service (note i) 1st 1st 1st + 1st lead 4%pts lead + 4%pts 1st 1st + 6%pts lead + 6%pts lead £90m Risk report Sustainable cost £90m £90m Built to last £70m £100m £120m 20% 14% 14% savings (note ii) £70m £70m £100m £100m £120m £120m Individual performance element (see further detail below) 34% 33% 28% Total performance pay achieved based on Society and individual performance 109% 85% 80% Total performance pay following application of profit gateway scale back 17% 14% 13% Financial statements Remuneration Committee discretionary performance and risk assessment – In addition to the measures above, in determining overall award levels, the Committee considered a broad range of factors. The Committee decided to apply a downward adjustment in relation to risk events arising during the period, equivalent to the value of 5% of DPA awards in respect of 2018/19. The Committee also considered the impact of Covid-19 on underlying business performance and, acknowledging the request from the CEO and CFO not to be considered for any performance pay which they may have been due in respect of 2019/20, subsequently decided to reduce the total value of performance pay outcomes to zero. Total performance pay due for the year 0% 0% 0% Out of a maximum opportunity (as a % of salary) of: 152% 112% 112% Other information Notes: i. © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending 31 March 2020. c.51,000 adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). ii. Subject to remaining within an adjusted cost position of £2,258 million after excluding costs of incremental investment relating to our efficiency programme. iii. T P Prestedge resigned from the Board as Deputy Chief Executive on 10 March 2020 and is therefore not included in the above table. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 122 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) For the element based on individual performance, performance was assessed against both the delivery of the collective performance scorecard for the leadership team as well as individual goals, conduct and behaviours. The table below provides an overview of the individual performance 2019/20 achieved by each executive director based on their objectives. Strategic report J D Garner C S Rhodes M M Rennison • The Society delivered strong performance under Joe’s leadership with • Despite increasingly difficult external trading • Despite increasingly difficult external trading good progress made, despite increasingly difficult external trading conditions, made a significant contribution to the conditions, on target outcomes against many conditions. overall outcome. measures and good focus on risk and conduct management. • Continued leadership through Covid-19 to prioritise the health and • Made a fast start into the role of CFO, quickly taking Governance wellbeing of employees, continued support for members in financial hold of matters at hand. • Underlying profits have been impacted difficulties and maintained essential services. by planned investment as well as competitive • Held a strong capital position, reflected in the factors, with further impacts as a result of the • Underlying profits have been impacted by planned investment as well Society’s UK leverage ratio of 4.7% which has change in the external environment towards as competitive factors, with further impacts as a result of the change exceeded our target for the last three years. the year end. in the external environment towards the year end. • Led the Society’s development of new propositions • Held a strong capital position, reflected in the • Achieved both customer service key performance indicators (KPIs), including the launch of later life mortgages. Society’s UK leverage ratio of 4.7% which has ranking 4th in the all-sector UK Customer Satisfaction Index1, and exceeded our target for the last three years. remained in first position for customer satisfaction amongst our peer • While in previous role, significantly contributed Risk report group (note i). to a strong trading performance including growth • Built a strong team in the Finance and Efficiency community and helped build a strong cost focus. • Members benefited from £715 million in member financial benefit. in retail deposits and mortgages balances, and £5.5 million has also been invested into wider communities. achieved a 10% share of all current accounts. • Oversaw a good contribution from Society’s Treasury function. • Strong employee engagement scores which reflect the Society’s • Strong performance in the latest Bank of England distinctive culture. stress testing. Financial statements • Disappointingly, the Society halted plans to launch a business banking • Excellent contribution to the Society’s leadership service. The rate and economic outlook meant the business case for team, balancing the complexities of member value, launching an account was no longer commercially viable. profitability and conduct priorities. • Good risk and compliance management in the context of Board Risk Appetite. • Improved operational resilience with good progress being made to simplify the technology estate. Other information Note: i. © Ipsos MORI 2020, Financial Research Survey (FRS), 12 months ending 31 March 2020 and 12 months ending 31 March 2019. c.51,000 adults (aged 16+) surveyed across Great Britain from a total representative sample of c.60,000 adults (aged 16+) per annum. Interviews were conducted face to face and online, and weighted to reflect the overall profile of the adult population. Proportion of extremely/very satisfied customers minus proportion of extremely/very/fairly dissatisfied customers summed across main current account, mortgage and savings. Peer group defined as providers with main current account market share >4% as of April 2019 (Barclays, Halifax, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, NatWest, Santander and TSB). 1 Institute of Customer Service UK Customer Satisfaction Index (UKCSI) as at January 2020. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 123 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Executive directors’ remuneration Strategic report Where indicated, the tables in the following sections have Societies Act 1986 and other mandatory reporting regulations, the Society has voluntarily adopted. The table below shows the been audited. as well as the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups total remuneration for each executive director for the years ended These disclosures are included in compliance with the Building (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, which 4 April 2020 and 4 April 2019. Single total figure of remuneration for each executive director (Audited) Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Taxable benefits Total pay package Executive directors Salary Pension allowance Directors’ Performance Travel and other taxable 2020 Award (note iii) benefits (note iv) Governance £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 J D Garner 916 220 150 1,286 T P Prestedge (note i) 601 144 144 889 M M Rennison (note ii) 306 73 59 438 C S Rhodes 634 137 63 834 Total 2,457 574 416 3,447 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Taxable benefits Total pay package Risk report Executive directors Salary Pension allowance Directors’ Performance Travel and other taxable benefits 2019 Award (note iii) (note iv) £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 J D Garner 885 292 1,010 185 2,372 Financial statements T P Prestedge 590 195 522 141 1,448 M M Rennison 635 210 511 141 1,497 C S Rhodes 590 195 499 67 1,351 Total 2,700 892 2,542 534 6,668 Notes: i. T P Prestedge resigned from the Board on 10 March 2020. Other information ii. M M Rennison stepped down from the Board on 13 September 2019. Details of his departure terms are set out in the payments for loss of office section. iii. Variable remuneration consists of the awards under the DPA. A substantial proportion of any awards under this plan are subject to deferral with payments spread over the following seven years. iv. This value is included as fixed remuneration for the calculation of the bonus cap in meeting our regulatory requirements. A full description of the taxable benefits is set out below. Our directors receive a number of benefits and, where essential travel costs met by the Society, including any tax responsibilities most effectively. Other benefits include medical appropriate, we pay tax associated with those benefits. In the due under HMRC regulations, provided to enable the executive insurance, car allowance and security. single figure table above, ‘taxable benefits’ includes certain directors to work whilst travelling and undertake their Annual Report and Accounts 2020 124 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Executive directors’ pensions M M Rennison is a deferred member of the Society’s defined benefit scheme. He did not accrue any additional pension entitlement during the year. The change in accrued pension shown in the table below is as Strategic report a result of inflationary increases that are required by legislation. For his benefit accrued prior to 1 April 2011, the Normal Retirement Age is 60 and for his benefit accrued between 1 April 2011 and 30 June 2011, the Normal Retirement Age is 65. Table of the value of pension benefits for executive directors (£’000) (Audited) Executive Accrued pension at Accrued pension at Transfer value at Transfer value at Change in transfer Additional pensions Transfer value of Directors’ directors 13 September 2019 4 April 2019 13 September 2019 4 April 2019 value (note i) earned in period the increase contributions (a) (b) (c) (d) (c)-(d) (e) in period M M Rennison 65 62 2,230 1,965 265 Governance Notes: i. The transfer value basis is set by the Nationwide Pension Fund Trustee and is based on financial market conditions at the calculation date. The differences in transfer values reflects these financial market changes in addition to the fact that the executive directors are older and thus closer to normal retirement age. ii. No additional pension benefits have been accrued during the year other than inflationary increases required by legislation for deferred pensions. iii. M M Rennison stepped down from the Board on 13 September 2019. Columns (a) and (c) are therefore effective at this date. Explanations: (a) and (b) show deferred pension entitlement at 13 September 2019 and 4 April 2019 respectively. (c) is the transfer value of the deferred pension in (a) calculated at 13 September 2019. (d) is the transfer value of the deferred pension in (b) calculated at 4 April 2019. (e) is the increase in pension built up during the year. A zero figure means that, after allowing for inflation, no additional pension was built up. Chairman and non-executive directors Risk report The fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors were reviewed in March 2020 at which point no changes were made. Fee Policy Annual fees for 2020/21 Annual fees for 2019/20 Financial statements £’000 £’000 Chairman 405 405 Basic fee (note i) 69 69 Senior Independent Director (note ii) 40 40 Chairman of the Audit, Board Risk or Remuneration Committee 35 35 Member of the Audit, Board Risk or Remuneration Committee 15 15 Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee 6 6 Chairman of the IT Strategy and Resilience Committee 25 25 Other information Member of the IT Strategy and Resilience Committee 10 10 Voice of the Employee 10 10 Notes: i. The basic fee is £68,500. ii. The Senior Independent Director fee is inclusive of committee membership fees. Committee Chair fees will continue to be paid. Additional fees may be paid for other committee responsibilities during the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 125 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) The total fees paid to each non-executive director are shown below. Strategic report Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors (Audited) 2020 2019 Society and Group Travel and other Total fees and Society and Group Travel and other Total fees and fees taxable benefits taxable benefits fees taxable benefits taxable benefits (note vi) (note vi) £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 D L Roberts (Chairman) 405 2 407 395 2 397 R Clifton 98 7 105 97 8 105 Governance M Fyfield 119 4 123 92 9 101 A Hitchcock (note i) 94 7 101 28 5 33 M A Lenson (note ii) 28 1 29 106 4 110 K A H Parry 129 6 135 123 6 129 L M Peacock (Senior Independent Director) (note iii) 96 3 99 142 4 146 U K Prashar 83 5 88 82 11 93 T Tookey 134 3 137 131 6 137 Risk report G Waersted 94 7 101 78 10 88 P Rivett (note iv) 63 1 64 Total 1,343 46 1,389 1,274 65 1,339 Financial statements Pension payments to past non-executive directors (note v) 248 243 Notes: i. A Hitchcock joined the Board on 2 December 2018. ii. M Lenson stepped down from the Board on 18 July 2019. iii. L Peacock stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2019. iv. P Rivett joined the Board on 1 September 2019. v. The Society stopped granting pension rights to non-executive directors who joined the Board after January 1990. vi. Taxable benefits for non-executive directors relate to expenses incurred in connection with travel and attendance at Board meetings. HMRC deem these expenses to be taxable where the meetings take place at the Society’s main Other information offices and the Society settles the tax on behalf of the non-executive directors. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 126 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Additional disclosures Strategic report Chief Executive remuneration for the Financial year Total remuneration Annual performance pay earned as Medium term performance pay earned past ten years % of maximum available as % of maximum available (note i) £’000 % % The table shows details of the Chief Executive’s remuneration for 2019/20 1,286 0.0 the previous ten years. 2018/19 2,372 75.1 2017/18 2,317 69.5 2016/17 3,386 (note ii) 71.9 2015/16 3,413 (note iii) 75.8 80.8 Governance 2014/15 3,397 (note iii) 74.4 84.5 2013/14 2,571 83.3 74.9 2012/13 2,258 60.6 41.7 2011/12 2,251 60.6 40.7 2010/11 1,961 75.4 76.9 Notes: Risk report i. Medium term performance pay ceased at the end of 2015/16. ii. J D Garner commenced his role as Chief Executive on 5 April 2016. His total remuneration for 2016/17 included the value of buy-out awards on joining (2017: £1,070,752). These awards do not form part of ongoing remuneration. If this amount is excluded, the figure for 2016/17 would be £2,315,047. iii. The Chief Executive in 2015/16 and all previous financial years shown in the table above was G J Beale. His total remuneration for 2015/16 and 2014/15 includes awards under the DPA as well as legacy payouts under the directors’ previous medium term pay plan as a result of the transition period between plans. Financial statements Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Salary Benefits Annual performance pay The change in remuneration (base salary, benefits (including Chief Executive 3.50% -22.45% -100% pension) and annual performance pay) for the Chief Executive from 2018/19 to 2019/20 compared to the average for all other Average employee 3.60% 1.79% -62.44% employees is shown in the table. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 127 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) Relative importance of spend on pay He will remain entitled to receive a portion of the retained and nationwide.co.uk, together with an update of progress on our deferred element of his unvested awards made in respect of Women in Finance Charter commitments. We have also Strategic report The chart below illustrates the amount spent on remuneration previous years’ service. In accordance with our current voluntarily published our first ethnicity pay gap, comparing the paid to all employees of Nationwide Building Society, compared remuneration policy, such awards will be reduced to reflect his pay of individuals who have self-declared as BAME (black, Asian with retained earnings. period of service. Payments will be paid on the normal payment and minority ethnic) with those who are non-BAME. dates and will remain subject to risk adjustment, malus and 2019/20 2018/19 As at 5 April 2019, our mean average gender pay gap was 28% clawback terms in the same way as if M M Rennison had £m £m (unchanged on the previous year) and our mean ethnicity pay remained in employment. The full value of these awards has gap was 17%. All-employee remuneration 662 826 been disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration for prior years, although, as set out above, the value he will actually Pay gaps are not the same as equal pay. We carry out regular Retained earnings 215 460 Governance receive will be lower as a result of not meeting the full service equal pay audits, checking the pay of people with different requirement for these awards. characteristics (such as gender and ethnicity) doing the same or Payroll costs represent 28.63% (2019: 36.65%) of total similar roles. Our audits continue to show that our pay policies administrative expenses. Nationwide’s profit after tax for the year In addition to the above, he will receive a payment of £838,452 are operating fairly. was £365 million, of which £150 million was paid as distributions in respect of his contractual notice period, which includes twelve and the remaining £215 million is held as retained earnings. months’ salary (£654,000), benefits (£27,492), and pension (£156,960). Such payments will be phased over his notice Other directorships period and may be subject to mitigation. M M Rennison received Risk report Executive directors and members of senior management may a contribution towards legal fees of £6,800 in connection with be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies, his departure. subject to the agreement of the Society. These appointments T P Prestedge resigned from the Board as Deputy Chief Executive provide an opportunity to gain broader experience outside on 10 March 2020. He will remain an employee of the Society Nationwide and therefore benefit the Society, providing that until 28 August 2020 during which time he will receive salary, appointments are not likely to lead to a conflict of interest. pension and contractual benefits. His pension will be reduced Any fees earned may be retained by the executive director Financial statements for the portion of 2020/21 he will serve, to 16% of base salary. concerned. No executive director earned any fees during the He did not receive an award under the DPA for 2019/20 and all year. With effect from 1 July 2014, the number of external of his outstanding deferred awards from prior years lapsed. appointments that executive and non-executive directors can hold is limited as required under CRD IV. Payments to past directors Payments for loss of office No payments were made to former directors in the year in excess of the minimum threshold for disclosure of £20,000. As previously announced, M M Rennison stepped down from the Other information Board as Chief Financial Officer on 13 September 2019. Pay gap reporting The Committee agreed that he was a good leaver for the purposes The Society is fully committed to promoting a diverse and inclusive of the performance pay plan. As such, he was eligible for an workplace. The gender pay gap measures the difference in award under the DPA in respect of his service during 2019/20, earnings between women and men across all roles. Our latest although in line with other senior leaders, no award was made. report was published in December 2019 and can be found at Annual Report and Accounts 2020 128 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) CEO pay ratio reporting The table below compares the total remuneration of the Chief Executive against the total remuneration of the median employee and those Strategic report who sit at the 25th and 75th percentiles (lower and upper quartiles). This reporting will build annually to cover a rolling 10-year period. Year Method 25th percentile Median pay ratio 75th percentile pay ratio pay ratio 2019/20 Option A 53:1 41:1 26:1 2018/19 Option A 99:1 77:1 48:1 Governance The total remuneration and salary values for the 25th, median and 75th percentile employees for 2019/20 are: 25th percentile Median 75th percentile Total remuneration £24,095 £31,488 £49,925 Salary £20,010 £23,665 £40,871 Notes: Risk report i. The calculation is based on Option A as set out in the regulations which is considered to be the most statistically accurate methodology. ii. Employee data includes full time equivalent total remuneration for all UK employees as at 1 March 2020. For each employee, remuneration was calculated based on all components of pay including base pay, performance pay for 2019/20, core benefits and pension payments. iii. Whilst most employees participate in a defined contribution scheme with a fixed maximum employer contribution, there are other pension arrangements in place for some employees, including a defined benefit pension scheme which has been closed to new participants since 2007. Although it would be possible to recognise a higher value under the defined benefit scheme, in order to ensure accurate year on year comparative data going forward, a fixed value equal to the maximum employer contribution available to the defined contribution scheme members is included for all defined benefit scheme members. Financial statements iv. The Committee has considered the pay data for the three individuals identified for 2019/20 and confirms that the ratios reasonably represent the Society’s approach to pay and reward for employees taken as a whole. Voting at AGM A resolution to approve the 2018/19 ‘Report of the directors on remuneration’ was passed at the 2019 AGM. The Remuneration Policy was last approved by members at the 2017 AGM. In each case votes were cast as follows: Other information Report of the directors on remuneration Remuneration Policy Votes in favour 511,752 (91.06%) 550,109 (92.04%) Votes against 50,240 (8.94%) 47,552 (7.96%) Votes withheld 9,544 10,261 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 129 Report of the directors on remuneration (continued) The year ahead Remuneration policy implementation for 2020/21 Strategic report In applying the proposed policy, the Committee is guided by Element Implementation in 2020/21 for executive directors the need to ensure executives are appropriately motivated and rewarded to deliver demonstrable value for our members. Base salary The executive directors will not receive any base salary increase for 2020/21. J D Garner requested to reduce his salary. Base salaries for 2020/21 are therefore as follows: As set out in the Committee Chair’s letter, J D Garner voluntarily • J D Garner £783,000 (includes voluntary reduction for 2020/21) requested that his combined base salary and pension be • C S Rhodes £654,000 reduced by 20% for 2020/21, and C S Rhodes voluntarily reduced his pension allowance to 16% of salary from 2020/21 to Benefits No change for 2020/21. align with the maximum benefit available to the wider employee Governance population. Reflecting the current challenging environment, performance pay opportunities across the Society will be scaled Pension Cash allowance of 16% of salary to align with the maximum benefit available to the wider employee population. back for 2020/21. Awards for executive directors for the coming year will be set at around one-third of the normal performance pay opportunities in line with the approach for all employees. Directors’ For awards made in respect of 2020/21, the maximum variable pay opportunities including Performance Award both elements are as follows: Details for our executive directors are set out opposite. (DPA) • 51% of base salary for the Chief Executive Awards under the DPA will continue to be aligned to measures • 37% of base salary for other executive directors Risk report which are most important to our members. For 2020/21, we Comprises two elements: For these awards, 37% and 29% of base salary is payable for target performance for the have updated the Built to last cornerstone measure to one based (i) an all-employee element Chief Executive and other executive directors respectively. on total costs. Targets are commercially sensitive and so will be (ii) an element in which In the event that the Society’s financial performance in 2020/21 materially exceeds disclosed, along with performance achieved, in next year’s report. the most senior leaders expectations, the Committee retains the discretion to make an award above the levels above Gateway measures will continue to have to be met before any participate subject to (subject to the overall limits within the policy). payments are made under the plan. For 2020/21 these gateways deferral provisions Performance measures: Financial statements will be based on profit before tax, leverage ratio and conduct. • Gateway measures based on profit before tax, leverage ratio and conduct matters • Society performance, subject to minimum performance thresholds, assessed against the following cornerstones: – Building thriving membership – Number of committed members – Building legendary service – Customer service satisfaction rating – Built to last – Total costs A portion of the award assessed is based on individual contribution and behaviours including in relation to conduct matters (28%/27% of the award for the Chief Executive and Chief Other information Financial Officer respectively). Chairman and nonNo change in the fees for the Chairman or non-executive directors for 2020/21. executive director fees Annual Report and Accounts 2020 130 Directors’ report for the year ended 4 April 2020 Strategic report Information for the ‘Content’ items listed in the table below can be found in the section of the accounts as listed against them. These items are required to be shown in the Directors’ report by the Building Societies Act 1986 and are incorporated into the Directors’ report by this cross referencing. Content Section Pages Business objectives and future plans Strategic report 7 to 24 Governance Nationwide results and key performance indicators Strategic report – Chief Executive’s review including performance updates 11 Charitable donations Strategic report – Measuring our mutual difference 23 to 24 Employee involvement, engagement, development, inclusion and diversity Strategic report – Building PRIDE 20 to 21 Directors’ remuneration Governance – Report of the directors on remuneration 108 to 129 Mortgage arrears Risk report 157 to 158 Risk management Risk report 135 to 137 Principal, top and emerging risks Strategic report – Risk overview 40 and 138 Risk report Directors’ share options Annual business statement 322 to 323 CRD IV country-by-country reporting Published online – www.nationwide.co.uk/about/corporate-information/results-and-accounts Distributions on CCDS instruments Financial statements – note 31 310 Business Relationships Strategic report – section 172(1) statement 25 to 26 Financial Instruments Financial statements – note 15 284 to 287 Financial statements Corporate Governance statement Corporate governance report 57 to 85 Board of directors • the retirement of Mark Rennison (Chief Financial Officer) The Board has agreed that in accordance with the UK Corporate in September 2019; Governance Code, all the directors will stand for election or The names of the directors of the Society who were in office at • the resignation of Tony Prestedge (Deputy Chief Executive re-election on an annual basis. the date of signing the financial statements, along with their Officer) in March 2020; biographies, are set out on pages 51 to 54. Political donations • the appointment of Phil Rivett (non-executive director) in September 2019; Other information The changes in the year and up to the date of signing the The Society is politically neutral and does not support, or seek financial statements are as follows: • the appointment of Chris Rhodes as Chief Financial Officer in to influence public support for, any political party nor make • the retirement of Mitchel Lenson (non-executive director) September 2019 from his previous role as Executive Director, donations, contributions or pay subscriptions to any party. in July 2019; Product and Propositions. However, the Society will from time to time make payments to • the retirement of Lynne Peacock (non-executive director) None of the directors have any beneficial interest in equity shares third parties to participate in events organised by them at party in December 2019; in, or debentures of, any connected undertaking of the Society. conferences and which are related to matters of interest to the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 131 Directors’ report (continued) Society and its members so as to communicate its position and Fund Limited, the administrators of the unclaimed assets scheme. Environment understand that of others. These activities are not intended or This follows the previous transfer the Society made in December Strategic report considered to be in the nature of party political campaigning, 2018 (£12,143,551). The total contributions from inception to The Society reports its greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), within activity or support. October 2019 are £73,286,816. the Strategic report, as set out by the Companies Act 2006. For more information on the Society’s environmental sustainability Participation in the unclaimed assets scheme Creditor payment policy performance, see page 32. The Society participates in the Government-backed unclaimed The Group’s policy is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers assets scheme, whereby savings accounts that have been at the start of trading, ensure that suppliers are aware of the New activities inactive for 15 years, and where the account holder cannot be terms of payment, and pay in accordance with its contractual and There were no new activities in which the Society or any of its traced, are eligible to be transferred into a central reclaim fund. other legal obligations. The Group’s policy is to settle the subsidiaries engaged during the financial year of a different The central reclaim fund has the responsibility for retaining supplier’s invoice for the complete provision of goods and services Governance nature from those in which the Society previously engaged. sufficient monies to meet the costs of future reclaims for any (unless there is an express provision for stage payments), when previously transferred dormant account balances, and to transfer in full conformity with the terms and conditions of the purchase, Research and development any surplus to the Big Lottery Fund for the benefit of good causes within the agreed payment terms. The Society’s creditor days, which have a social or environmental purpose. On 4 October calculated based on year end creditor balances and total spend, In the ordinary course of business, the Society regularly develops 2019 Nationwide made a transfer of £3,644,473 to the Reclaim were 9 days at 4 April 2020 (2019: 9 days). new products and services. Risk report Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction Building Societies Act 1986 (the Act) British Bankers’ Association Code for Financial Reporting with the Independent auditor’s report on pages 220 to 232, is As required by regulations made under the Act, the directors Disclosure (the BBA Code) made by the directors to explain their responsibilities in relation have prepared an Annual Report and Accounts which gives a The Group has continued to adopt the BBA Code in preparing to the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, the true and fair view of the income and expenditure of the Society the Annual Report and Accounts in compliance with the code. directors’ emoluments disclosures within the Report of the and the Group for the financial year and of the state of the affairs Financial statements directors on remuneration, the Annual business statement and of the Society and the Group as at the end of the financial year, Going Concern the Directors’ report. and which provides details of directors’ emoluments in The Group’s business activities, along with its financial position, accordance with Part VIII of the Act and regulations made under capital structure, risk management approach and factors likely The Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared in it. The Act states that the requirements under international to affect its future performance are described in the Strategic accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards accounting standards achieve a fair presentation. In preparing (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. report and the Risk report. the Annual Report and Accounts, the directors have: A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts can be found on The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of possible • Selected appropriate accounting policies and applied them Nationwide Building Society’s website at nationwide.co.uk changes in trading performance and funding retention, and consistently (Results and accounts section). The directors are responsible for including stress testing and scenario analysis, show that the Other information the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited • Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable Group will be able to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity information on the website. Information published on the and capital for the next 12 months. Furthermore, the Group’s • Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been internet is accessible in many countries with different legal followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and capital ratios and its total capital resources are comfortably in requirements. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the explained in the financial statements excess of PRA requirements. preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. • Prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 132 Directors’ report (continued) After making enquiries the directors are satisfied that the Group • In addition to core projections, a range of plausible economic The Group has also developed policies and processes for monitoring has adequate resources to continue in business for the scenarios are prepared to ensure that the Group would and managing its top and emerging risks. Further details on this Strategic report foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt continue to remain profitable if the assumptions included in are described in the Risk report (pages 135 to 137). the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. the central scenario were different. The scenarios are derived Assessment period used for reviewing Nationwide’s viability using external data and statistical methodologies, together Business viability statement Based on the above, the directors have a reasonable expectation with management judgement, to determine scenarios which In addition to the going concern statement above, the directors that the Society and Group will be able to continue its span an appropriately wide range of plausible economic have an obligation in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK operations, and to meet its liabilities as they fall due, over the conditions. This enables the Group to develop actions to Corporate Governance Code to confirm that they believe that next three years to 4 April 2023. The directors have specifically mitigate these scenarios, should they occur. both the Society and the Group will be able to continue in assessed the prospects of the Society and Group over the first operation, and to meet their liabilities as they fall due. This • The Board also obtain independent assurance from the three years because: Governance assessment is made over a time period considered appropriate Group’s Risk Oversight function that the central scenario • There is always going to be difficulty in predicting, with any by reference to the Society’s financial planning. aligns with the Group’s strategic ambitions and risk appetite. degree of precision, what the future path of the UK or the This assessment also identifies the key risks to delivery, and Assessment of prospects wider global economy will take. We believe that an any relevant adjustments are made to ensure that we remain The recent economic developments caused by the coronavirus assessment over the next three years is appropriate as it within our risk appetite. pandemic, including the monetary and fiscal measures taken by strikes the right balance between assessing likely outcomes the Bank of England to control the economic fallout, have a • These projections, including the plausible scenarios, are then with the current information we have, whilst minimising material impact on Nationwide’s future financial performance. reviewed and challenged by the Board to confirm that they uncertainty. Notwithstanding this, there is no information Risk report fully reflect Nationwide’s strategic ambitions, whilst ensuring contained within the outer years of our financial forecasts In response, the directors have considered a wide range of that they are based on sound assumptions and remain within which would cause the directors to conclude that the Group sources including: the principal and emerging risks which could the Group’s risk appetite. Once approved by the Board, they would not remain viable in the longer term. impact the performance of the Group; a range of economic form the basis of the Group’s targets for the following year. scenarios produced in light of the pandemic; and, internal stress • It is within the period covered by the Group’s future testing carried out over the past twelve months. These materials Assessment of viability projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements include forecasts of detailed financial, capital, funding and Given that the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the global and capital resources. It is also within the period covered by Financial statements customer information, together with an assessment of the economy is expected to be significant, the directors have both the Bank of England’s Concurrent Stress Tests and our relevant risks. considered the financial impact of a wide range of different own internal alternative downside scenarios. scenarios as described above, ahead of completing detailed The Group’s process for creating financial forecasts considers Fair, balanced and understandable modelling for selected economic outcomes. strategic objectives, the risks required in order to meet those The directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, objectives and the risk appetite limits in place to ensure that the Compared to prior expectations, profitability is forecast to taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and Group remains safe and secure for its members. The Group’s reduce in all plausible outcomes, which as a mutual creates a provide the information necessary for members and other planning process involves the following key steps: risk to a key source of capital growth. However, due to the stakeholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, Other information Group’s robust business model and strong financial position at business model and strategy. • The Board reviews the Group’s strategic objectives in the the end of 2019/20, capital and liquidity metrics are forecast to context of the market environment. Details of the governance procedures that have been embedded remain comfortably above Board Risk Appetite and regulatory to support this can be found in the Audit Committee report. • Economic and market assumptions for the next five years are buffers. As demonstrated in our 2019 internal stress tests, we prepared. These are then used to develop financial, can withstand severe economic and competitive stresses. propositional pricing, funding and capital projections. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 133 Directors’ report (continued) Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) • Take reasonable care to establish, maintain, document The EDTF established by the Financial Stability Board, published and review such systems and controls as are appropriate Strategic report its report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’ in October to the Society. 2012, with an update in November 2015 covering IFRS 9 expected credit losses. All EDTF recommendations are reflected The directors have general responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the in the Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Disclosure. prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Directors’ statement pursuant to the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this disclosure and transparency rules report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditors are As required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that they Governance Financial Conduct Authority, the directors have included a fair ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware review of the business and a description of the principle risks of any relevant audit information and to establish that the and uncertainties facing the Group. The directors confirm that, Group’s auditors are aware of that information. to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief: • The Chief Executive’s review and the Financial review The auditors contained in the Strategic report include a fair review of the Due to audit firm rotation regulations PricewaterhouseCoopers development and performance of the business and the LLP resigned as the Society’s auditors with effect from 18 July position of the Group and Society. In addition, the Strategic Risk report 2019, at the Society’s Annual General Meeting. From that date report contains a description of the principal risks and Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed as external auditors uncertainties. for the year ended 4 April 2020. • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, David Roberts liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Society. Chairman 28 May 2020 Financial statements • In addition to the Annual Report and Accounts, as required by the Act, the directors have prepared an Annual business statement and a Directors’ report, each containing prescribed information relating to the business of the Society and its connected undertakings. Directors’ responsibilities in respect of accounting records and internal control Other information The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Society and its connected undertakings: • Keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Society and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts comply with the Building Societies Act 1986. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 134 Risk report Strategic report Governance 135 Introduction 135 Managing risk 138 Principal risks and uncertainties 141 Credit risk • Overview • Residential mortgages Risk report • Consumer banking • Commercial and other lending • Treasury assets 183 Liquidity and funding risk 194 Solvency risk Financial statements 200 Market risk 207 Pension risk 209 Business risk 210 Model risk 212 Operational and conduct risk Other information Dave, member since 1972 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Risk report Risk report Strategic report Introduction Risk management is at the heart of our business and has an important part to play in delivering our shared purpose of building society, nationwide by making sure we are safe and secure for the future. Whilst it is accepted that all business activities involve some degree of risk, Nationwide seeks to protect its members by appropriately managing the risks that arise from its activities. Nationwide’s risk management processes ensure it is built to last by: • identifying risks through a robust assessment of principal risks and uncertainties facing the Society, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or Governance liquidity • robust decision making, ensuring we take the right risks, in a way that is considered and supports the strategy • ensuring the risks we do take are understood, controlled and managed appropriately • maintaining an appropriate balance between delivering member value and remaining a prudent and responsible lender. Managing risk Risk report Enterprise risk management framework (ERMF) Nationwide operates an Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) which articulates the Society’s approach to risk management. The structure is based on eight principal risk categories, establishing risk appetite and implementing risk management through the three lines of defence model. The ERMF is underpinned by processes, policies and standards that are specific to individual risk categories and focus on the responsibilities of key executives and risk practitioners. The outputs of the ERMF, are governed through Nationwide’s risk committee structure. The Board monitors the Society’s risk management and internal control systems and carries out an annual review of their effectiveness. On the basis of this year’s review, the Board is satisfied that Financial statements the ERMF provides an adequate system of risk management and internal control. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Risk report (continued) (continued) Managing risk (continued) Strategic report The structure of the ERMF is summarised below: Appetite articulates the amount of risk the Society is willing to accept on behalf of members in pursuit of its strategy; Governance Policy articulates the principles and requirements that must be met to manage Nationwide’s key risks and support the governance of the Society; Risk Management is the structure, processes, tools and systems which support effective day to day identification and management of risks across the Society; Reporting – contains the risk and control reporting standards, processes and tools that ensure that information regarding key risks, loss events and controls is considered by our Board, risk committees, and other key stakeholders for effective decision making. Risk report Over the last three years, significant progress has been made to deliver material enhancements to the way we do risk management at Nationwide. In 2020 we launched the Society’s new Governance, Risk and Compliance tool. This will provide the risk and control capabilities and data needed to help us optimise our controls, including plugging control gaps, de-duplicating controls, and rationalising the control estate. Financial statements In addition to the delivery of improved tooling, Nationwide has: • rationalised the number and uplifted the content of our risk policies, providing more clarity in helping the business to make more effective decisions; • simplified the ERMF standards and guidance to support day to day risk management; • simplified the risk committee structure to enable more efficient decision-making; • changed our risk and control categorisation to be simpler, aligned to industry standards (Basel) and reflect the external environment (i.e. inclusion of climate change into the causal categorisation). Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Risk report (continued) (continued) Managing risk (continued) Strategic report Three lines of defence The Society adopts a Three Lines of Defence (3LoD) model in the way it structures its risk management activities. We have tailored this approach to reflect our size, complexity, and business model. Though everyone has a role to play in risk management, the overall responsibilities and accountabilities are outlined through this 3LoD model, which are: Line of defence First line Second line Third line Risk and control ownership Oversight, support, challenge and advice Assurance Responsibilities Designing and running business operations, owning and Overseeing, through support, challenge and the Providing assurance to the Board on the operating most controls to manage the Society’s risks provision of advice, the effectiveness of risk effectiveness of our control environment. and meet regulatory requirements. management by the first line. Governance Accountabilities • Setting business objectives • Providing expert advice on business initiatives • Performing independent audits of the • Defining management risk appetite • Advising the Board on setting risk appetite effectiveness of first line risk and control and • Identifying, owning and managing risks • Reporting aggregate enterprise level risks to the second line risk oversight, support, challenge • Defining, operating and testing controls Board and advice • Implementing and maintaining regulatory • Conducting independent and risk-based • Taking a risk-based approach to the programme compliance assurance of audit work • Adhering to the Society’s minimum standards for • Interpreting material regulatory change • Preparing an annual opinion on the risk risk management and associated policies • Setting the Society’s minimum standards for risk management and controls framework across the Risk report • Identifying future threats and risks management and associated policies Society to present to the Audit Committee • Identifying future threats and risks Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 138 Risk report (continued) Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic report The principal risks set out below are the key risks relevant to Nationwide's business model and achievement of its strategic objectives. These principal risks are further broken down into lower level categories to support day to day management. The principal risk categories remain largely unchanged from last year (with one amalgamation noted below) and are managed through the Society’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework. The Board continually monitors the most significant risks to the Society. The Covid-19 outbreak has materially impacted the Society’s risk profile, and may accelerate the realisation or increase the severity of risks across a number of risk categories. Nationwide’s top and emerging risks are detailed on page 40. Principal Risk Committee Further Risk detail Definition Risk Credit risk The risk of loss as a result of a member, customer or counterparty failing to meet their financial obligations. Credit Committee Page 141 Governance Liquidity Liquidity risk is the risk that Nationwide is unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due and maintain member and Assets and Liabilities Committee Page 183 and funding other stakeholder confidence. risk Funding risk is the risk that Nationwide is unable to maintain diverse funding sources in wholesale and retail markets and manage excessive concentration of funding types. Solvency The risk that Nationwide fails to maintain sufficient capital to absorb losses throughout a full economic cycle and to Assets and Liabilities Committee Page 194 risk maintain the confidence of current and prospective members, investors, the Board and regulators. Market risk The risk that the net value of, or net income arising from, the Society’s assets and liabilities is impacted as a result of Assets and Liabilities Committee Page 200 market price or rate changes. As Nationwide does not have a trading book, market risk only arises in the banking book. Risk report Pension risk The risk that the value of the pension schemes’ assets will be insufficient to meet the estimated liabilities, creating a Assets and Liabilities Committee Page 207 pension deficit. Business The risk that volumes decline or margins shrink relative to the cost base, affecting the sustainability of the business Executive Risk Committee Page 209 risk and the ability to deliver the strategy due to macro-economic, geopolitical, industry, regulatory or other external events. Model risk The risk of an adverse outcome (incorrect or unintended decision or financial loss) that occurs as a direct result of Model Risk Oversight Committee Page 210 weaknesses or failures in the development, implementation or use of a model. The adverse consequences include Financial statements financial loss, poor business or strategic decision making, or damage to Nationwide’s reputation. Operational The risk of Society impact(s) resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, conduct and compliance Operational Risk Committee and Page 212 and management, people and systems, or from external events. conduct risk Conduct and Compliance (note i) Committee Note i. In 2020, two principal risks, “Operational” and “Conduct & compliance” merged into a new “Operational & conduct” principal risk category. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 139 Risk report (continued) Principal risks and uncertainties (continued) Strategic report Risk appetite Board risk appetite articulates how much risk the Board is willing to accept on behalf of its members in the delivery of the strategy. The following statements articulate Nationwide’s approach to taking risk responsibly in the interests of our members and inform our strategy for managing risk. The Society: • lends in a responsible, affordable and sustainable way to ensure we safeguard members and the financial strength of the Society throughout the credit cycle; • maintains sufficient capital and liquidity resources to support current business activity and planned growth and to remain resilient to significant stress; • minimises customer disruption, financial loss, reputational damage and regulatory non-compliance, especially those caused by inadequate, or failures of, people, processes and systems; • provides sustainable customer services over resilient systems; Governance • treats customers fairly before, during and after the sales process; • offers products and services which meet customer needs and expectations, perform as represented and provide value for money; • operates a mutual business model which is sustainable and remains within the constraints of the Building Societies Act in a stress; • ensures that key models are developed, governed and maintained to a high quality so they meet internal standards; • is only permitted to incur market risks that are required for operational efficiency, stability of earnings or cost minimisation in supporting core business activities. We do not take trading book risks. Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 140 Risk report (continued) Principal risks and uncertainties (continued) Risk committee structure Strategic report The Board Risk Committee (BRC), Board IT & Resilience Committee and Audit Committee provide oversight and advice to the Board. Further details are set out in the Governance report. The Executive Risk Committee (ERC), chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, sits below these and ensures a co-ordinated management approach across all risks and provides regular updates to the Board Risk Committee on areas where the Committee has challenged management and key decisions. All principal risks are covered within the ERC and the committee structure leading to ERC (including the committee’s purpose), is shown below. Governance Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 141 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Overview Strategic report Credit risk is the risk of loss as a result of a member, customer or counterparty failing to meet their financial obligations. Credit risk encompasses: • borrower/counterparty risk – the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to pay, or becoming increasingly likely not to pay the interest or principal on a loan, or on a financial product, or for a service, on time; • security/collateral risk – the risk of loss arising from deteriorating security/collateral quality; • concentration risk – the risk of loss arising from insufficient diversification; • refinance risk – the risk of loss arising when a repayment of a loan or other financial product occurs later than originally anticipated. Nationwide manages credit risk for the following portfolios: Governance Portfolio Definition Residential mortgages Loans secured on residential property Consumer banking Unsecured lending comprising current account overdrafts, personal loans and credit cards Commercial and other lending Loans to registered social landlords, loans made under the Private Finance Initiative, commercial real estate lending and other balances due from counterparties not covered by other categories Treasury Treasury liquidity, derivatives and discretionary investment portfolios Management of credit risk Risk report At Nationwide, we lend in a responsible, affordable and sustainable way to ensure we safeguard members and the financial strength of the Society throughout the credit cycle. To this end, the Board Risk Committee sets the level of risk appetite it is willing to take in pursuit of the Society’s strategy, which is articulated as Board risk appetite statements and underlying principles: We safeguard our members by lending responsibly • We will only lend to members, customers or counterparties who demonstrate that they can afford to borrow. • We will support members and customers buying mortgageable houses of wide-ranging types and qualities. Financial statements • We will work with members, customers and counterparties to recover their financial position should there be a delay, or risk of delay, in meeting their financial obligations. We safeguard the Society’s financial performance, strength and reputation • We will manage asset quality so that losses through an economic cycle will not undermine profitability, financial strength and our standing with internal/external stakeholders. • We will ensure that no material segment of our lending exposes the Society to excessive loss. • We will proactively manage credit risk and comply with regulation. Other information We operate with a commitment to responsible lending and a focus on championing good conduct and fair outcomes. In this respect, we formulate appropriate credit criteria and policies which are aimed at mitigating risk against individual transactions and ensuring that the Society’s credit risk exposure remains within risk appetite. The Board Risk Committee and, under a governed delegated mandate structure, the Credit Committee, the Executive Sanctioning Committee and individual Material Risk Takers make credit decisions, based on a thorough credit risk assessment, to ensure that customers are able to meet their obligations. At a portfolio level, we measure and manage our risk profile and the performance of our credit portfolios on an ongoing basis, through a formal governance structure. Compliance with Board risk appetite is measured against absolute limits and risk metrics and is reported to the Society’s Credit Committee monthly, with adverse trends being investigated and corrective action taken to mitigate the risk and bring performance back on track. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 142 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Overview (continued) Strategic report Nationwide is committed to helping customers who may anticipate or find themselves experiencing a period of financial difficulty, offering a range of forbearance options tailored to their individual circumstances. This is the case for residential mortgages, consumer banking and commercial lending. Accounts in financial difficulty/arrears are managed by specialist teams within Nationwide to ensure an optimal outcome for our members, customers and the Society. Forbearance Forbearance occurs when concessions are made to the contractual terms of a loan when the customer is facing or about to face difficulties in meeting their financial commitments. A concession is where the customer receives assistance, which could be a modification to the previous terms and conditions of a facility or a total or partial refinancing of debt, either mid-term or at maturity. Requests for concessions are principally attributable to: Governance • temporary cash flow problems; • breaches of financial covenants; or • an inability to repay at contractual maturity. In addition, we are supporting borrowers financially affected by the Covid-19 pandemic with payment holidays and other concessions. Consistent with the European Banking Authority reporting definitions, loans that meet the regulatory forbearance exit criteria are not reported as forborne. The concession events used to classify balances subject to forbearance for residential mortgages, consumer banking and commercial lending are described in the relevant sections of this report. Risk report Impairment provision Impairment provisions on financial assets are calculated on an expected credit loss (ECL) basis for assets held at amortised cost and at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). ECL impairment provisions are based on an assessment of the probability of default (PD), exposure at default (EAD) and loss given default (LGD), discounted to give a net present value. Impairment provisions are calculated using a three stage approach depending on changes in credit risk since original recognition of the assets: Financial statements • an asset which is not credit impaired on initial recognition and has not subsequently experienced a significant increase in credit risk is categorised as being within stage 1, with a provision equal to a 12 month ECL (losses arising on default events expected to occur within 12 months); • where a loan’s credit risk increases significantly, it is moved to stage 2. The provision recognised is equal to the lifetime ECL (losses on default events expected to occur at any point during the life of the asset); • if a loan meets the definition of credit impaired, it is moved to stage 3 with a provision equal to its lifetime ECL. For loans and advances held at amortised cost, the stage distribution and the provision coverage ratios are shown in this report for each individual portfolio. The provision coverage ratio is calculated by dividing the provisions by the gross balances for each main lending portfolio. Loans remain on the balance sheet, net of associated provisions, until they are deemed no longer recoverable, when such loans are written off. Other information Governance and oversight of impairment provisions The models used in the calculation of impairment provisions are governed in accordance with the Society’s Model Risk Framework (described in the ‘Model risk’ section of this report). PD, EAD and LGD models are subject to regular monitoring and back testing and are independently reviewed annually. Where necessary, post model adjustments (‘PMAs’) are approved for risks not captured in model outputs, for example where insufficient historic data exists. The economic scenarios used in the calculation of impairment provisions and associated probability weightings are proposed by our Chief Economist. Details of these economic assumptions and material PMAs are included in note 10 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 143 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Overview (continued) Strategic report A monthly provision meeting including the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer oversees these and all other aspects of impairment provisioning to ensure that impairment provisions are appropriate. Impairment provisions are regularly reported to the Audit Committee, which reviews and challenges the key judgements and estimates made by management. Performance overview Overall credit performance for the year has remained strong, with mortgage and unsecured arrears at a low level and broadly stable. Towards the end of the financial year it became clear that Covid19 would have a significant impact on the UK economy. The UK is likely to experience a significant contraction in economic activity during 2020 as a result of the pandemic and associated government intervention to reduce the spread of the virus. In response to this crisis, the Bank of England has taken significant measures, including a reduction in bank base rate to 0.1%, and regulators have issued guidance to lenders asking them to act in the best interests of their customers to ease the financial impact on them. Governance The Society is working with Government and the wider industry in response to the threat posed by Covid-19. We recognise that the pandemic is having a significant impact on our members, and we are offering them help and support in these challenging times. This includes offering payment holidays to impacted borrowers. In accordance with regulatory guidance, these payment concessions are not recorded as forbearance and do not automatically have an impact on the reported staging of balances. An additional provision for credit losses has been recognised in the financial statements to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on expected credit losses. Revised economic forecasts have been used to model losses in the residential mortgage, consumer banking and commercial portfolios. This provision also takes account of the credit risk associated with support measures provided to borrowers, recognising that in some cases borrowers will experience longer term financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic. The total additional provision is as follows: Additional provisions Risk report 2020 £m Residential mortgages 51 Consumer banking 43 Commercial lending 7 Total 101 Further details regarding the concession measures being offered and the impact for residential mortgages, consumer banking and commercial lending are described in the relevant sections of this Financial statements report. Maximum exposure to credit risk Nationwide’s maximum exposure to credit risk has increased to £256 billion (2019: £249 billion), principally reflecting higher holdings of liquid assets combined with an increase in residential mortgage lending. Credit risk largely arises from exposure to loans and advances to customers, which account for 83% (2019: 85%) of Nationwide’s total credit risk exposure. Within this, the exposure relates primarily to residential mortgages, which account for 94% (2019: 93%) of total loans and advances to customers and comprise high quality assets with low occurrences of arrears and possessions. Other information In addition to loans and advances to customers, Nationwide is exposed to credit risk on all other financial assets. For all financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk represents the balance sheet carrying value after allowance for impairment, plus off-balance sheet commitments. For off-balance sheet commitments, the maximum exposure is the maximum amount that Nationwide would have to pay if the commitments were to be called upon. For loan commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure is the full amount of the committed facilities. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 144 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Overview (continued) Strategic report Maximum exposure to credit risk 2020 Gross Impairment Carrying Commitments Maximum % of total balances provisions value (note i) credit risk credit risk exposure exposure (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m % Amortised cost loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgages 188,768 (252) 188,516 10,734 199,250 78 Consumer banking 4,994 (494) 4,500 40 4,540 2 Commercial and other lending 7,133 (40) 7,093 642 7,735 3 Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk (note ii) 741 741 741 Governance 201,636 (786) 200,850 11,416 212,266 83 FVTPL loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgages (note iii) 71 71 71 Commercial and other lending 57 57 57 128 128 128 Other items: Cash 13,748 13,748 13,748 5 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 3,636 3,636 1 Investment securities – FVOCI 18,367 18,367 18,367 7 Risk report Investment securities – Amortised cost 1,625 1,625 1,625 1 Investment securities – FVTPL 12 12 12 Derivative financial instruments 4,771 4,771 4,771 2 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk (note ii) 1,774 1,774 1,774 1 43,933 43,933 43,933 17 Total 245,697 (786) 244,911 11,416 256,327 100 Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 145 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Overview (continued) Strategic report Maximum exposure to credit risk 2019 Gross Impairment Carrying Commitments Maximum % of total balances provisions value (note i) credit risk credit risk exposure exposure (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m % Amortised cost loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgages 185,940 (206) 185,734 12,051 197,785 79 Consumer banking 4,586 (418) 4,168 33 4,201 2 Commercial and other lending 8,178 (41) 8,137 872 9,009 4 Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk (note ii) 883 883 883 Governance 199,587 (665) 198,922 12,956 211,878 85 FVTPL loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgages (note iii) 72 72 72 Commercial and other lending 57 57 57 129 129 129 Other items: Cash 12,493 12,493 12,493 5 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 4,009 4,009 4,009 2 Investment securities – FVOCI 14,500 14,500 14,500 6 Risk report Investment securities – Amortised cost 1,656 1,656 1,656 1 Investment securities – FVTPL 78 78 78 Derivative financial instruments 3,562 3,562 3,562 1 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk (note ii) 411 411 411 36,709 36,709 36,709 15 Total 236,425 (665) 235,760 12,956 248,716 100 Financial statements Notes: i. In addition to the amounts shown above, Nationwide has revocable commitments of £10,139 million (2019: £9,475 million) in respect of credit card and overdraft facilities. These commitments represent agreements to lend in the future, subject to certain considerations. Such commitments are cancellable by Nationwide, subject to notice requirements, and given their nature are not expected to be drawn down to the full level of exposure. ii. The fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk and the fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk (which relates to the commercial lending portfolio) represent hedge accounting adjustments. They are indirectly exposed to credit risk through the relationship with the underlying loans covered by Nationwide’s hedging programmes. iii. FVTPL residential mortgages include equity release and shared equity loans. Commitments Other information Irrevocable undrawn commitments to lend are within the scope of provision requirements. The commitments in the table above consist of overpayment reserves and separately identifiable irrevocable commitments for the pipeline of residential mortgages, personal loans, commercial loans and investment securities. These commitments are not recognised on the balance sheet, and the total associated provision of £0.4 million (2019: £0.4 million) is included within provisions for liabilities and charges. Revocable commitments relating to overdrafts and credit cards are included in ECL provisions, with the allowance for future drawdowns made as part of the exposure at default element of the ECL calculation. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 146 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages Strategic report Summary Nationwide’s residential mortgages comprise both prime and specialist loans. Prime residential mortgages are mainly Nationwide-branded advances made through the branch network and intermediary channels. Specialist lending consists principally of buy to let (BTL) mortgages originated under The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) brand, together with smaller legacy portfolios in run-off. Over the year, as we continued to grow our lending in line with established credit criteria, the credit performance of our residential mortgages has remained stable and credit quality continues to be strong. Residential mortgage gross balances 2020 2019 Governance (Audited) £m % £m % Prime 151,069 80 151,445 82 Specialist: Buy to let (note i) 35,539 19 32,012 17 Other (note ii) 2,160 1 2,483 1 37,699 20 34,495 18 Amortised cost loans and advances to customers 188,768 100 185,940 100 Risk report FVTPL loans and advances to customers 71 72 Total residential mortgages 188,839 186,012 Notes: i. Buy to let mortgages originated under the TMW brand are £34,031 million (2019: £30,305 million). ii. Other includes self-certified, near prime and sub-prime lending, all of which were discontinued in 2009. Financial statements Total balances across the residential mortgage portfolios have grown by 2% during the year to £189 billion (2019: £186 billion), which relates solely to the specialist portfolio, as we continue to support the buy to let sector. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 147 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Impairment losses for the year Impairment losses/(reversals) for the year 2020 2019 (Audited) £m £m Prime 13 (1) Specialist 40 (16) Total 53 (17) Governance % % Impairment charge as a % of average gross balance 0.03 (0.01) Due to the high quality of residential mortgage portfolios and continued low levels of arrears, impairment losses remain low. The impairment losses for the year include an additional provision of £51 million, which has been included to reflect the expected impact of Covid-19. The level of this provision reflects the estimated impact on expected credit losses based upon a revised central economic scenario and the credit risk associated with payment holidays granted in response to Covid-19. The following table shows residential mortgage lending balances carried at amortised cost, the stage allocation of the loans, impairment provisions and the resulting provision coverage ratios: Risk report Residential mortgages staging analysis 2020 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Covid-19 Total total Up to date 1 – 30 DPD >30 DPD (note ii) additional (note i) (note i) (note i) provision (note iii) (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Gross balances Financial statements Prime 148,355 1,953 998 698 257 761 151,069 Specialist 29,399 7,642 7,115 270 257 503 155 37,699 Total 177,754 9,595 8,113 968 514 1,264 155 188,768 Provisions Prime 27 8 2 3 3 10 11 56 Specialist 13 117 87 11 19 27 (1) 40 196 Total 40 125 89 14 22 37 (1) 51 252 Other information Provisions as a % of total balance % % % % % % % % % Prime 0.02 0.41 0.22 0.46 1.02 1.30 0.04 Specialist 0.05 1.53 1.23 3.93 7.22 5.33 0.52 Total 0.02 1.30 1.11 1.42 4.12 2.90 0.13 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 148 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Residential mortgages staging analysis 2019 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total total Up to date 1 – 30 DPD >30 DPD (note ii) (note i) (note i) (note i) (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Gross balances Prime 148,639 2,048 1,086 695 267 758 151,445 Specialist 27,384 6,431 5,947 271 213 513 167 34,495 Total 176,023 8,479 7,033 966 480 1,271 167 185,940 Governance Provisions Prime 22 12 5 4 3 10 44 Specialist 15 115 91 10 14 32 162 Total 37 127 96 14 17 42 206 Provisions as a % of total balance % % % % % % % % Prime 0.01 0.57 0.38 0.62 1.19 1.38 0.03 Specialist 0.06 1.80 1.53 3.83 6.78 6.15 0.47 Risk report Total 0.02 1.50 1.35 1.52 3.65 3.31 0.11 Notes: i. Days past due (DPD) is a measure of arrears status. ii. POCI loans are those which were credit-impaired on purchase or acquisition. The POCI loans shown in the table above were recognised on the balance sheet when the Derbyshire Building Society was acquired in December 2008. These balances, which are mainly interest-only, were 90 days or more in arrears when they were acquired and so have been classified as credit-impaired on acquisition. The gross balance for POCI is shown net of the lifetime ECL of £6 million (2019: £6 million). Financial statements iii. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £51 million has been added to the impairment provisions for residential mortgages. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. At 4 April 2020, 94% (2019: 95%) of the residential mortgage portfolio is in stage 1, reflecting the portfolio’s underlying strong credit quality. During the year there has been an increase in stage 2 balances to £9,595 million (2019: £8,479 million). The increase is within the specialist portfolio, and is due to refinance risk associated with interest only loans, together with an increase in lifetime probability of default (PD) compared to the PD at origination, resulting partially from changes in the macroeconomic assumptions used. The stage 2 provision as a percentage of stage 2 balances has reduced as the average quality of loans in the portfolio continues to improve, partly through maturity of older higher risk loans. Stage 3 loans in the residential mortgage portfolio equate to 1% (2019: 1%) of the total residential mortgage exposure. Of the total £1,264 million (2019: £1,271 million) stage 3 loans, £679 million (2019: £705 million) is in respect of loans with amounts which are more than 90 days past due, with the remainder being impaired due to other indicators of unlikeness to pay such as forbearance Other information or the bankruptcy of the borrower. For loans subject to forbearance, accounts are transferred back to stage 1 or 2 only after being up to date and meeting contractual obligations for a period of 12 months; £244 million (2019: £226 million) of the stage 3 balances in forbearance are in this probation period. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 149 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report The table below summarises the movements in the Group’s residential mortgages held at amortised cost, including the impact of ECL impairment provisions. The movements within the table are an aggregation of monthly movements over the year. Reconciliation of movements in gross residential mortgage balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired (note i) Subject to 12-month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 and POCI Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances balances Governance (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 176,023 37 8,479 127 1,438 42 185,940 206 Stage transfers: Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (15,257) (15) 15,257 15 Transfers to Stage 3 (315) (779) (31) 1,094 31 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 12,923 66 (12,923) (66) Transfers from Stage 3 199 1 539 13 (738) (14) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (52) 72 (12) 8 Risk report Net movement arising from transfer of stage (2,450) 2,094 3 356 5 8 New assets originated or purchased 30,501 5 30,501 5 Further lending/(repayments) (8,230) (3) (140) 1 (45) (2) (8,415) (4) Changes in risk parameters in relation to credit quality 4 3 3 10 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) (including (4) (4) recoveries) Financial statements Redemptions (18,090) (3) (838) (9) (295) (1) (19,223) (13) Additional provision for Covid-19 (note ii) 51 Income statement charge for the year 53 Decrease due to write-offs (35) (11) (35) (11) Other provision movements 4 4 4 April 2020 (note ii) 177,754 40 9,595 125 1,419 36 188,768 252 Net carrying amount (note ii) 177,714 9,470 1,383 188,516 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 150 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Reconciliation of movements in gross residential mortgage balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired (note i) Subject to 12-month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 and POCI Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances balances (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 156,647 17 19,072 171 1,395 47 177,114 235 Governance Stage transfers: Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (27,661) (8) 27,661 8 Transfers to Stage 3 (294) (837) (30) 1,131 30 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 35,956 141 (35,956) (141) Transfers from Stage 3 185 1 547 13 (732) (14) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (131) 120 (8) (19) Net movement arising from transfer of stage 8,186 3 (8,585) (30) 399 8 (19) New assets originated or purchased 35,279 6 35,279 6 Risk report Further lending/(repayments) (7,459) (3) (293) (1) (43) (1) (7,795) (5) Changes in risk parameters in relation to credit quality 16 1 5 22 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) (including 1 1 (4) 2 (4) recoveries) Redemptions (16,631) (2) (1,715) (14) (273) (1) (18,619) (17) Income statement charge for the year (17) Decrease due to write-offs (41) (16) (41) (16) Financial statements Other provision movements 4 4 4 April 2019 176,023 37 8,479 127 1,438 42 185,940 206 Net carrying amount 175,986 8,352 1,396 185,734 Notes: i. Gross balances of credit impaired loans include £155 million (2019: £167 million) of POCI loans, which are presented net of lifetime ECL impairment provisions of £6 million (2019: £6 million). ii. An additional provision for credit losses has been recognised to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on ECLs. For residential mortgages, the additional provision at 4 April 2020 is £51 million. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans or attributed to stages but is shown in the total column of the table. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. Other information Gross balances increased by £2,828 million over the year as a result of positive net lending in specialist residential mortgages. The stage 2 gross balance increased by £1,116 million, primarily due to net transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 for specialist residential mortgages. The value of transfers between stages 1 and 2 was lower as the prior year values included changes to staging criteria and model assumptions. As the stage of individual loans is assessed monthly, the gross movements between stages 1 and 2 include transfers caused by relatively small changes in PD leading to their breaching the threshold for transferring assets to stage 2 and vice versa. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 151 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Total impairment provisions increased by £46 million. The main driver of this increase is the £51 million of additional provision related to Covid-19, offset by the impact of redemptions and writeoffs. Further information on movements in total gross loans and advances to customers and impairment provisions, including the methodology applied in preparing the table, is included in note 14 to the financial statements. Reason for residential mortgages being included in stage 2 (notes i, ii) 2020 Prime Specialist Total Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Governance balances balances balances £m £m £m £m £m £m Quantitative criteria: Payment status (greater than 30 DPD) 257 3 257 19 514 22 Increase in PD since origination (less than 30 DPD) 1,509 5 2,697 27 4,206 32 Qualitative criteria: Forbearance (less than 30 DPD) 165 5 170 Interest only – significant risk of inability to refinance at maturity (less than 30 DPD) 4,678 71 4,678 71 Risk report Other qualitative criteria 22 5 27 Total Stage 2 gross balances 1,953 8 7,642 117 9,595 125 Reason for residential mortgages being included in stage 2 (note i) 2019 Prime Specialist Total Gross Gross Gross Financial statements Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances £m £m £m £m £m £m Quantitative criteria: Payment status (greater than 30 DPD) 267 3 213 14 480 17 Increase in PD since origination (less than 30 DPD) 1,613 8 2,186 24 3,799 32 Qualitative criteria: Forbearance (less than 30 DPD) 148 1 7 155 1 Interest only – significant risk of inability to refinance at maturity (less than 30 DPD) 4,018 77 4,018 77 Other information Other qualitative criteria 20 7 27 Total Stage 2 gross balances 2,048 12 6,431 115 8,479 127 Notes: i. Where loans satisfy more than one of the criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding gross balance has been assigned in the order in which the categories are presented above. ii. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £51 million has been added to the impairment provisions for residential mortgages. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 152 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Loans which are reported within stage 2 are those which have experienced a significant increase in credit risk since origination, determined through both quantitative and qualitative indicators. The increase in stage 2 balances during the year is within the specialist portfolio and includes the impact of changes to the economic scenarios and their weightings to reflect uncertainty in the economic outlook. The value of loans reported within stage 2 as a result of being in arrears by 30 days or more remains low at £514 million (2019: £480 million). This category includes all loans greater than 30 days past due (DPD), including those where the original reason for being classified as stage 2 was other than arrears over 30 DPD. The total value of loans in stage 2 due solely to payment status is less than 0.1% (2019: <0.1%) of total stage 2 balances. The primary quantitative indicators are the outputs of internal credit risk assessments. For retail exposures, PDs are derived using modelled scorecards, which use external information such as that from credit reference agencies, as well as internal information such as known instances of arrears or other financial difficulty. While different approaches are used within each portfolio, current and Governance historical data relating to the exposure are combined with forward-looking macroeconomic information to determine the likelihood of default. The credit risk of each loan is evaluated at each reporting date by calculating the residual lifetime PD of each loan. For retail loans, the main indicators of a significant increase in credit risk are either of the following: • the residual lifetime probability of default (PD) exceeds a benchmark determined by reference to the maximum credit risk that would have been accepted at origination • the residual lifetime PD has increased by at least 75bps and a 4x multiple of the original lifetime PD. Risk report Qualitative indicators are also used to complement the above. These indicators include the increased risk associated with interest only loans which may not be able to refinance at maturity. Also included are forbearance events where full repayment of principal and interest is still anticipated, on a discounted basis. In addition, loans will be moved to stage 2 when certain “backstop” events occur, including arrears of greater than 30 DPD. Credit quality The residential mortgages portfolio comprises many relatively small loans which are broadly homogenous, have low volatility of credit risk outcomes and are geographically diversified. The table below shows the loan balances and provisions for residential mortgages held at amortised cost, by PD range. The PD distributions shown are based on 12-month IFRS 9 PDs at the reporting date. Financial statements Loan balance and provisions by PD (notes i and ii) 2020 Gross balances Provisions Provision (Audited) Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total coverage and POCI and POCI PD Range £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % 0.00 to < 0.15% 168,240 5,124 103 173,467 33 40 73 0.04 0.15 to < 0.25% 4,756 945 23 5,724 3 9 12 0.20 0.25 to < 0.50% 2,317 477 35 2,829 2 7 9 0.29 Other information 0.50 to < 0.75% 1,227 287 12 1,526 1 5 6 0.37 0.75 to < 2.50% 1,109 866 54 2,029 1 18 19 0.96 2.50 to < 10.00% 105 1,102 111 1,318 19 19 1.51 10.00 to < 100% 794 203 997 27 2 29 2.97 100% (default) 878 878 34 34 3.80 Total 177,754 9,595 1,419 188,768 40 125 36 201 0.11 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 153 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Loan balance and provisions by PD (note i) 2019 Gross balances Provisions Provision (Audited) Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total coverage and POCI and POCI PD Range £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % 0.00 to < 0.15% 165,949 4,278 88 170,315 30 43 73 0.04 0.15 to < 0.25% 4,631 731 23 5,385 3 9 12 0.23 0.25 to < 0.50% 2,471 490 34 2,995 2 8 10 0.33 0.50 to < 0.75% 1,689 270 16 1,975 1 5 6 0.29 0.75 to < 2.50% 1,157 879 57 2,093 1 18 19 0.93 Governance 2.50 to < 10.00% 126 1,057 129 1,312 18 1 19 1.45 10.00 to < 100% 774 189 963 26 3 29 3.00 100% (default) 902 902 38 38 4.18 Total 176,023 8,479 1,438 185,940 37 127 42 206 0.11 Notes: i. Includes POCI loans of £155 million (2019: £167 million). ii. The £51 million additional Covid-19 provision has not been allocated to underlying loans or attributed to stages and is therefore excluded from this table. The additional provision increases the total provision coverage to 0.13%. Risk report Over the year, the PD distribution has remained stable, reflecting the high quality of the residential mortgage portfolios. At 4 April 2020, 98% (2019: 98%) of the portfolio had a PD of less than 2.5%. The provisions allocated to the lowest PD range primarily reflect the fact that the majority of loans are in this range. Changes in provision coverage in the year are principally due to the continued run-off of balances in specialist legacy lending portfolios, together with the impact of updating economic assumptions. Distribution of new business by borrower type (by value) Distribution of new business by borrower type (by value) (note i) Financial statements 2020 2019 % % Prime: First time buyers 33 35 Home movers 24 25 Remortgages 20 25 Other 1 1 Total prime 78 86 Other information Specialist: Buy to let new purchases 6 3 Buy to let remortgages 16 11 Total specialist 22 14 Total new business 100 100 Note: i. All new business measures exclude further advances and product switches. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 154 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report New business by borrower type remains diversified. During the year there has been a shift in the distribution of new business from prime to specialist lending, reflecting TMW’s strong presence in the buy to let market, including lending to limited companies, recognising that landlords are increasingly using these as a vehicle for their investment. In October 2014, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) introduced a 15% limit on the proportion of new lending for residential mortgages, excluding buy to let, that may be written at income multiples of 4.5 and above. The proportion of new lending at income multiples of 4.5 or higher was 7.8% in the year (2019: 7.7%). This is closely monitored and controlled to remain within risk appetite and FPC limits. LTV and credit risk concentration Loan to value (LTV) is calculated by weighting the borrower level LTV by the individual loan balance to arrive at an average LTV. This approach is considered to reflect most appropriately the Governance exposure at risk. LTV distribution of new business (by value) (note i) Average LTV of new business (by value) (note i) 2020 2019 2020 2019 % % % % 0% to 60% 22 25 Prime 74 73 60% to 75% 34 33 Specialist (buy to let) 65 60 75% to 80% 7 7 Group 72 71 Risk report 80% to 85% 11 10 85% to 90% 22 22 Average LTV of loan stock (by value) (note ii) 90% to 95% 4 3 2020 2019 Over 95% % % Total 100 100 Prime 58 57 Specialist 59 58 Notes: Group 58 58 Financial statements i. The LTV of new business excludes further advances and product switches. ii. The average LTV of loan stock includes both amortised cost and FVTPL balances. There have been no new FVTPL advances during the year. Over the year, the maximum LTV for new prime residential borrowers has remained at 95% and the average LTV of prime new business has remained broadly stable at 74%, as we continue to support first time buyers. In the specialist (buy to let) portfolio, the average LTV of new business increased from 60% to 65% following a shift towards business on longer terms at higher LTVs. The average indexed LTV of total loan stock has remained stable at 58%. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 155 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Residential mortgage balances by LTV and region Geographical concentration by stage The following table shows residential mortgages, excluding FVTPL balances, by LTV and region across stages 1 and 2 (non credit-impaired) and stage 3 (credit-impaired): Residential mortgage gross balances by LTV and region 2020 Greater Central Northern South East South West Scotland Wales Northern Total London England England England England Ireland Governance (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % Stage 1 and 2 loans Fully collateralised LTV ratio: Up to 50% 22,883 10,946 7,695 8,033 5,713 3,040 1,606 913 60,829 50% to 60% 10,973 6,151 4,726 4,051 3,080 1,715 1,004 373 32,073 60% to 70% 10,701 6,871 6,552 4,180 3,418 2,351 1,386 412 35,871 70% to 80% 9,018 5,659 5,593 3,795 3,030 2,466 1,085 419 31,065 80% to 90% 8,360 4,047 3,665 3,448 2,375 1,574 666 346 24,481 90% to 100% 764 562 249 386 503 269 46 91 2,870 Risk report 62,699 34,236 28,480 23,893 18,119 11,415 5,793 2,554 187,189 99.1 Not fully collateralised Over 100% LTV 5 5 16 2 3 6 123 160 0.1 Collateral value 4 4 13 2 2 6 106 137 Negative equity 1 1 3 1 17 23 Total stage 1 and 2 loans 62,704 34,241 28,496 23,895 18,122 11,421 5,793 2,677 187,349 99.2 Stage 3 and POCI loans Financial statements Fully collateralised LTV ratio: Up to 50% 214 81 70 66 40 20 12 11 514 50% to 60% 109 48 46 32 26 13 9 4 287 60% to 70% 52 61 53 31 29 19 8 4 257 70% to 80% 27 48 55 16 20 17 14 6 203 80% to 90% 16 13 44 7 5 8 8 3 104 90% to 100% 2 1 15 3 1 5 27 420 252 283 152 120 80 52 33 1,392 0.8 Not fully collateralised Other information Over 100% LTV 1 4 1 1 1 19 27 Collateral value 1 3 1 1 1 16 23 Negative equity 1 _3 4 Total stage 3 and POCI loans 420 253 287 153 120 81 53 52 1,419 0.8 Total residential mortgages 63,124 34,494 28,783 24,048 18,242 11,502 5,846 2,729 188,768 100.0 Total geographical concentrations 34% 18% 15% 13% 10% 6% 3% 1% 100% Annual Report and Accounts 2020 156 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Residential mortgage gross balances by LTV and region 2019 Greater Central Northern South East South West Northern Scotland Wales Total London England England England England Ireland (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % Stage 1 and 2 loans Fully collateralised LTV ratio: Up to 50% 24,171 10,927 7,408 8,286 5,833 3,104 1,439 970 62,138 50% to 60% 11,296 6,122 4,382 4,221 3,143 1,714 814 382 32,074 60% to 70% 10,060 6,743 6,434 3,928 3,385 2,458 1,285 413 34,706 Governance 70% to 80% 8,078 5,498 5,682 3,480 2,757 2,516 1,172 428 29,611 80% to 90% 5,876 3,331 3,679 2,595 2,019 1,488 744 282 20,014 90% to 100% 2,645 705 543 916 517 208 167 84 5,785 62,126 33,326 28,128 23,426 17,654 11,488 5,621 2,559 184,328 99.1 Not fully collateralised Over 100% LTV 5 3 17 1 2 6 2 138 174 0.1 Collateral value 4 3 14 1 1 6 1 118 148 Negative equity 1 3 1 1 20 26 Total stage 1 and 2 loans 62,131 33,329 28,145 23,427 17,656 11,494 5,623 2,697 184,502 99.2 Risk report Stage 3 and POCI loans Fully collateralised LTV ratio: Up to 50% 233 83 61 61 39 23 11 11 522 50% to 60% 115 50 39 35 25 15 9 5 293 60% to 70% 54 58 56 31 25 20 9 5 258 70% to 80% 15 48 57 17 21 17 11 4 190 80% to 90% 9 14 50 4 3 13 10 4 107 Financial statements 90% to 100% 3 1 22 1 1 3 3 5 39 429 254 285 149 114 91 53 34 1,409 0.8 Not fully collateralised Over 100% LTV 1 6 1 1 20 29 Collateral value 1 5 1 1 17 25 Negative equity 1 3 4 Total stage 3 and POCI loans 429 255 291 149 114 92 54 54 1,438 0.8 Total residential mortgages 62,560 33,584 28,436 23,576 17,770 11,586 5,677 2,751 185,940 100 Other information Total geographical concentrations 34% 18% 15% 13% 10% 6% 3% 1% 100% Over the year, the geographical distribution of residential mortgages across the UK has remained stable, with the highest concentration continuing to be in Greater London, at 34% of the total (2019: 34%). In addition to balances held at amortised cost shown in the table above, there are £71 million (2019: £72 million) of residential mortgages held at FVTPL which have an average LTV of 39% (2019: 40%). The largest geographical concentration within the FVTPL balances is in Greater London, at 49% (2019: 44%). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 157 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Arrears and possessions Residential mortgage lending continues to have a low risk profile as demonstrated by the low level of arrears compared to the industry average: Number of cases more than 3 months in arrears as % of total book (note i) Number of properties in possession as % of total book 2020 2019 2020 2019 % % Number of Number of % % 0.33 0.35 properties properties Prime Governance Specialist 0.74 0.82 Prime 98 0.01 78 0.01 Total 0.41 0.43 Specialist 150 0.05 153 0.05 Total 248 0.02 231 0.01 UK Finance (UKF) industry average 0.74 0.78 UKF industry average 0.03 0.02 Note: i. The methodology for calculating mortgage arrears is based on the UKF definition of arrears, where months in arrears is determined by dividing the arrears balance outstanding by the latest monthly Risk report contractual payment. During the year, arrears levels have reduced in both the prime and specialist portfolios. The number of specialist cases more than 3 months in arrears as a percentage of total book includes both TMW (buy to let) and other cases in smaller legacy portfolios which are in run-off. For TMW alone, the number of cases more than 3 months in arrears is 0.27% of the total TMW book (2019: 0.32%). The reduction in the number of specialist cases more than 3 months in arrears as a percentage of the total book to 0.74% (2019: 0.82%), is principally due to a change in the treatment of deceased Financial statements accounts, where a 12 month non-arrears bearing concession has been applied to allow time for the estate to redeem the account. If the full contractual payment is not received during the period of the concession the account is classed as forborne and is not considered to be past due. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 158 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Residential mortgages by payment status The following table shows the payment status of all residential mortgages. Residential mortgages gross balances by payment status 2020 2019 Prime Specialist Total Prime Specialist Total (Audited) £m £m £m % £m £m £m % Not past due 149,387 36,684 186,071 98.5 149,771 33,468 183,239 98.5 Governance Past due 0 to 1 month 1,062 356 1,418 0.8 1,038 392 1,430 0.8 Past due 1 to 3 months 311 307 618 0.3 318 265 583 0.3 Past due 3 to 6 months 177 142 319 0.2 177 159 336 0.2 Past due 6 to 12 months 112 109 221 0.1 122 121 243 0.1 Past due over 12 months 82 81 163 0.1 84 69 153 0.1 Possessions 9 20 29 7 21 28 Total residential mortgages 151,140 37,699 188,839 100 151,517 34,495 186,012 100 The proportion of loans in arrears has remained stable at 1.5% (2019: 1.5%) and arrears levels remain low across prime and specialist lending, reflecting the low interest rate environment, supported Risk report by robust credit assessment and affordability controls at the point of lending. In total, £352 million (2019: £370 million) of specialist lending balances were more than 3 months past due or in possession, which includes the impact of the change in the treatment of arrears on deceased accounts described above. Of the £352 million (2019: £370 million), £220 million (2019: £233 million) relates to legacy portfolios in run-off. As at 4 April 2020, the mortgage portfolios include 1,556 (2019: 1,491) mortgage accounts, including those in possession, where payments were more than 12 months in arrears. The total principal outstanding in these cases was £181 million (2019: £165 million), and the total value of arrears was £22 million (2019: £20 million) or 0.01% (2019: 0.01%) of total mortgage balances. Financial statements We are providing support to customers who have been financially affected by Covid-19. Payment holidays granted in this respect will suppress the impact of the pandemic on arrears in the short term. Details of payment holidays are given below. Interest only mortgages Interest only balances for prime residential mortgages relate primarily to historical balances which were originally advanced as interest only mortgages or where a subsequent change in terms to an interest only basis was agreed. Maturities on interest only mortgages are managed closely, engaging regularly with borrowers to ensure the loan is redeemed or to agree a strategy for repayment. The majority of the specialist lending portfolio comprises buy to let loans, with 89% of the portfolio relating to interest only balances (2019: 89%). Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 159 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Interest only mortgages (gross balance) – term to maturity (note i) Term expired Due after one Due after two % of Due within one Due after more year and before years and before Total (still open) year than five years book two years five years 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m % Prime 68 258 370 1,412 7,726 9,834 6.5 Specialist 134 211 334 1,236 31,737 33,652 89.3 Total 202 469 704 2,648 39,463 43,486 23.0 Governance 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m % Prime 69 278 329 1,532 9,288 11,496 7.6 Specialist 133 166 272 1,281 28,785 30,637 88.8 Total 202 444 601 2,813 38,073 42,133 22.7 Note: i. Balances subject to forbearance with agreed term extensions are presented based on the latest agreed contractual term. Interest only loans that are term expired (still open) are not considered to be past due where contractual interest payments continue to be met, pending renegotiation of the facility. These loans are, Risk report however, treated as credit impaired and categorised as stage 3 balances from three months after the maturity date. Forbearance Nationwide is committed to supporting borrowers facing financial difficulty by working with them to find a solution through proactive arrears management and forbearance. In addition, we are supporting borrowers financially affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Further details of this support are provided at the end of this forbearance section. The Group applies the European Banking Authority (EBA) definition of forbearance. Financial statements The following concession events are included within the forbearance reporting for residential mortgages: Past term interest only concessions Nationwide works with borrowers who are unable to repay the capital at term expiry of their interest only mortgage. Where a borrower is unable to renegotiate the facility within six months of maturity, but no legal enforcement is pursued, the account is considered forborne. Should another concession event such as a term extension occur within the six month period, this is also classed as forbearance. Other information Interest only concessions Where a temporary interest only concession is granted the loans do not accrue arrears for the period of the concession and are not categorised as impaired, unless already impaired, provided the revised interest only repayment amount is maintained. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 160 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Capitalisation When a borrower emerges from financial difficulty and provided they have made at least six full monthly instalments, they are offered the option to capitalise arrears. This results in the account being repaired and the loans are categorised as not impaired provided contractual repayments are maintained. Capitalisation – temporary suspension of payments following notification of death of borrower When we are notified of the death of a borrower, we offer a 12 month capitalisation concession to allow time for the estate to redeem the account. The loan does not accrue arrears for the period of the concession although interest will continue to be added. Accounts subject to this concession will be classed as forborne if the full contractual payment is not received. Governance Term extensions (within term) Customers in financial difficulty may be allowed to extend the term of their mortgage. On a capital repayment mortgage this will reduce their monthly commitment; interest only borrowers will benefit by having a longer period to repay the capital at maturity. Permanent interest only conversions In the past, some borrowers in financial difficulty were granted a permanent interest only conversion, normally reducing their monthly commitment. This facility was withdrawn in March 2012. Risk report The table below provides details of residential mortgages held at amortised cost subject to forbearance. Accounts that are currently subject to forbearance are assessed as in either stage 2 or stage 3: Gross balances subject to forbearance (note i) 2020 2019 Prime Specialist Total Prime Specialist Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial statements Past term interest only (note ii) 117 120 237 122 134 256 Interest only concessions 533 48 581 525 59 584 Capitalisation 75 42 117 42 51 93 Capitalisation – notification of death of borrower 156 60 216 150 150 Term extensions (within term) 34 13 47 35 13 48 Permanent interest only conversions 2 35 37 3 33 36 Total forbearance (note iii) 917 318 1,235 877 290 1,167 Impairment provisions on forborne loans 5 12 17 5 11 16 Other information Notes: i. Where more than one concession event has occurred, balances are reported under the latest event. ii. Includes interest only mortgages where a customer is unable to renegotiate the facility within six months of maturity and no legal enforcement is pursued. Should a concession event such as a term extension occur within the six-month period, this will also be classed as forbearance. iii. For loans subject to concession events, accounts are transferred back to stage 1 or 2 only after being up to date and meeting contractual obligations for a period of 12 months. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 161 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Residential mortgages (continued) Strategic report Over the year, total balances subject to forbearance have increased to £1,235 million (2019: £1,167 million), which includes an increase in the level of prime mortgage capitalisations agreed for those borrowers who would benefit from this concession, and a change in the treatment of deceased accounts, where a 12 month capitalisation concession has been applied to allow time for the estate to redeem the account. The prior year comparative has been restated to include the accounts impacted by this change to the treatment of deceased accounts. The forborne balances as a percentage of total residential mortgage lending have also increased to 0.65% (2019: 0.62%). In addition to the amortised cost balances above, there are £71 million FVTPL balances (2019: £72 million), of which £9 million (2019: £4 million) are forborne. Support for borrowers impacted by Covid-19 Governance We recognise that the impact of Covid-19 is a concern for our borrowers and we are offering them help and support in these challenging times. One way in which we are providing this support is by offering three-month mortgage payment holidays. These are a temporary break from mortgage payments that gives borrowers a period of flexibility where they are experiencing or reasonably expect to experience payment difficulties caused by Covid-19. These payment holidays have no negative impact on the customer’s credit file, and in accordance with regulatory guidance, have not been included within the forbearance population and do not automatically have an impact on the reported staging balances. The following table shows the value of residential mortgages with a payment holiday related to Covid-19 as used in the calculation of the Covid-19 additional provision. Further information is included in note 10 to the financial statements. Gross balances subject to a payment holiday due to Covid-19 Risk report 2020 % of gross balance Weighted Average LTV (Audited) £m % % Prime 23,541 16 63 Specialist 5,037 13 61 Total 28,578 15 62 The balances included in the table above represent 13% of our prime mortgage lending and 9% of our specialist mortgage lending when calculated on a volume basis. Financial statements We are continuing to support borrowers financially affected by the impact of Covid-19. At 30 April, 15% of our prime lending, representing 17% of prime mortgage balances, and 12% of our specialist lending, representing 14% of specialist mortgage balances, have received temporary concessions. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 162 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking Strategic report Summary The consumer banking portfolio comprises balances on unsecured retail banking products: overdrawn current accounts, personal loans and credit cards. Over the year, total balances across these portfolios have grown by £408 million to £4,994 million (2019: £4,586 million), equating to 9% growth, and credit quality has remained stable. During the year, personal loan balances have increased by 24% to £3,030 million (2019: £2,449 million), due to a combination of competitive pricing and increased personal loan lending to existing members. Consumer banking gross balances 2020 2019 (Audited) £m % £m % Governance Overdrawn current accounts 280 5 324 7 Personal loans 3,030 61 2,449 53 Credit cards 1,684 34 1,813 40 Total consumer banking 4,994 100 4,586 100 All consumer banking loans are classified and measured at amortised cost. Impairment losses for the year 2020 2019 Risk report (Audited) £m £m Overdrawn current accounts 21 9 Personal loans 82 38 Credit cards 56 67 Total 159 114 % % Financial statements Impairment charge as a % of average gross balance 3.27 2.65 The impairment losses for the year include an additional provision of £43 million, which has been included to reflect the expected impact of Covid-19. The level of this provision reflects the estimated impact on expected credit losses based upon a revised central economic scenario and the credit risk associated with concessions granted in response to Covid-19. The losses also include the impact of continued personal loan book growth. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 163 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report The following table shows consumer banking balances by stage, with the corresponding impairment provisions and resulting provision coverage ratios: Consumer banking product and staging analysis 2020 2019 Covid-19 additional provision Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 (note i) Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Governance Gross balances Overdrawn current accounts 149 89 42 280 187 100 37 324 Personal loans 2,597 296 137 3,030 2,140 186 123 2,449 Credit cards 1,111 442 131 1,684 1,211 475 127 1,813 Total 3,857 827 310 4,994 3,538 761 287 4,586 Provisions Overdrawn current accounts 2 17 37 3 59 2 18 33 53 Personal loans 15 33 119 23 190 11 22 107 140 Risk report Credit cards 15 91 122 17 245 14 92 119 225 Total 32 141 278 43 494 27 132 259 418 Provisions as a % of total balance % % % % % % % % Overdrawn current accounts 1.75 19.06 87.02 21.21 1.30 17.42 89.92 16.37 Personal loans 0.56 11.15 86.78 6.27 0.53 12.11 86.58 5.74 Credit cards 1.33 20.67 92.86 14.55 1.12 19.33 93.61 12.38 Financial statements Total 0.82 17.09 89.39 9.90 0.77 17.32 90.12 9.11 Note: i. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £43 million has been added to the impairment provisions for consumer banking. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. Total gross balances increased to £4,994 million, primarily due to book growth in personal loans. The decreases in overdrawn current account and credit card balances are due to reduced transaction volumes at year end. As at 4 April 2020, 77% (2019: 77%) of the consumer banking portfolio is in stage 1. Over the year, consumer banking balances in stages 2 and 3 have increased in absolute terms, reflecting the growth of the portfolio. The combined stage 2 and 3 proportion of total balances has, however, remained stable at 23% (2019: 23%), reflecting stable underlying credit Other information performance. The majority of the portfolio growth has been in the personal loan portfolio, where the proportion of balances by stage and provisions as a percentage of total balances have remained broadly stable. The increase in the overdrawn current account and credit card provisions as a percentage of balances is a result of additional provisions to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid19 pandemic on expected credit losses, combined with lower overall gross balances as transaction volumes reduced towards the end of the year. Consumer banking stage 3 gross balances and provisions include charged off balances. These are accounts which are closed to future transactions and are held on the balance sheet for an extended period (up to 36 months) whilst recovery activities take place. Excluding these charged off balances and related provisions, the provisions as a percentage of total balances is 5.7% (2019: 5.0%). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 164 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report The table below summarises the movements in the Group’s consumer banking balances held at amortised cost, including the impact of ECL impairment provisions. The movements within the table are an aggregation of monthly movements over the year. Reconciliation of movements in gross consumer banking balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Subject to 12-month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances balances Governance (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 3,538 27 761 132 287 259 4,586 418 Stage transfers: Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,505) (25) 1,505 25 Transfers to Stage 3 (15) (141) (79) 156 79 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,334 160 (1,334) (160) Transfers from Stage 3 2 2 14 10 (16) (12) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (132) 189 29 86 Risk report Net movement arising from transfer of stage (184) 5 44 (15) 140 96 86 New assets originated or purchased 2,248 26 2,248 26 Further lending/(repayments) (1,123) (23) 77 (11) (27) (16) (1,073) (50) Changes in risk parameters in relation to credit quality (3) 38 28 63 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) (including 1 (1) (4) (4) recoveries) Financial statements Redemptions (623) (55) (3) (2) (2) (680) (5) Additional provision for Covid-19 (note i) 43 Income statement charge for the year 159 Decrease due to write-offs (87) (87) (87) (87) Other provision movements 4 4 4 April 2020 3,857 32 827 141 310 278 4,994 494 Net carrying amount 3,825 686 32 4,500 Note: Other information i. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £43 million has been added to the impairment provisions for consumer banking. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 165 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Reconciliation of movements in gross consumer banking balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Subject to 12-month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances balances (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 3,264 25 575 103 268 237 4,107 365 Governance Stage transfers: Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,332) (22) 1,332 22 Transfers to Stage 3 (12) (121) (76) 133 76 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,130 125 (1,130) (125) Transfers from Stage 3 2 2 16 11 (18) (13) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (105) 167 19 81 Net movement arising from transfer of stage (212) 97 (1) 115 82 81 New assets originated or purchased 1,787 23 1,787 23 Risk report Further lending/(repayments) (761) (15) 126 (8) (19) (17) (654) (40) Changes in risk parameters in relation to credit quality (6) 41 31 66 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) (including 2 (1) (13) 1 (13) recoveries) Redemptions (542) (37) (3) (2) (581) (3) Income statement charge for the year 114 Decrease due to write-offs (74) (74) (74) (74) Financial statements Other provision movements 13 13 4 April 2019 3,538 27 761 132 287 259 4,586 418 Net carrying amount 3,511 629 28 4,168 Gross balances increased by £408 million over the year as a result of personal loan lending. The stage 2 gross balance increased by £66 million reflecting the book growth in personal loans. The stage 2 balance at 4 April 2020 as a proportion of the total balance is consistent with the prior year at 16.6%. As the stage of individual loans is assessed monthly, the gross movements between stages 1 and 2 include transfers caused by relatively small changes in PD leading to their breaching the threshold for transferring assets to stage 2 and vice versa. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 166 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Total impairment provisions increased by £76 million. £43 million of the increase relates to the additional provision related to Covid-19, with the majority of the remaining increase reflecting the growth in personal loans. Excluding the additional Covid-19 amount, total provisions as a percentage of total gross balances at 4 April 2020 is 9.0%, in line with the prior year (2019: 9.1%). Further information on movements in total gross loans and advances to customers and impairment provisions, including the methodology applied in preparing the table, is included in note 14 to the financial statements. Reason for consumer banking balances being included in stage 2 (note i) 2020 Overdrawn current accounts Personal loans Credit cards Total Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions Governance balances balances balances balances £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Quantitative criteria: Payment status (greater than 30 DPD) (note ii) 4 3 12 5 7 5 23 13 Increase in PD since origination (less than 30 DPD) 74 13 278 28 399 78 751 119 Qualitative criteria: Forbearance (less than 30 DPD) (note iii) 2 2 Other qualitative criteria (less than 30 DPD) 9 1 6 36 8 51 9 Risk report Total Stage 2 gross balances 89 17 296 33 442 91 827 141 Reason for consumer banking balances being included in stage 2 2019 Overdrawn current accounts Personal loans Credit cards Total Gross Gross Gross Gross Provisions Provisions Provisions Provisions balances balances balances balances £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial statements Quantitative criteria: Payment status (greater than 30 DPD) (note ii) 3 2 9 4 6 4 18 10 Increase in PD since origination (less than 30 DPD) 84 14 172 18 414 76 670 108 Qualitative criteria: Forbearance (less than 30 DPD) (note iii) 2 1 2 1 Other qualitative criteria (less than 30 DPD) 11 1 5 55 12 71 13 Total Stage 2 gross balances 100 18 186 22 475 92 761 132 Other information Notes: i. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £43 million has been added to the impairment provisions for consumer banking. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. ii. This category includes all loans greater than 30 DPD, including those whose original reason for being classified as stage 2 was not arrears over 30 DPD. iii. Stage 2 forbearance relates to cases where full repayment of principal and interest is still anticipated, on a discounted basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 167 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Balances reported within stage 2 are those which have experienced a significant increase in credit risk since origination. The significant increase is determined through both quantitative and qualitative indicators. Of the £827 million stage 2 balances (2019: £761 million), only 3% (2019: 2%) are in arrears by 30 days or more, with the majority of balances in stage 2 due to an increase in PD since origination. For the personal loan portfolio, the increase in PD since origination includes the impact of the annual recalibration of the model. The majority of credit card balances included in stage 2 due to qualitative factors relate to exposures where there is increased risk as a result of persistent debt, reflecting regulatory requirements. The primary quantitative indicators are the outputs of internal credit risk assessments. For retail exposures, PDs are derived using modelled scorecards, which use external information such as that from credit reference agencies as well as internal information such as known instances of arrears or other financial difficulty. While different approaches are used within each portfolio, current and historic data relating to the exposure are combined with forward-looking macroeconomic information to determine the likelihood of default. Governance The credit risk of each loan is evaluated at each reporting date by calculating its residual lifetime PD. For retail loans, the main indicators of a significant increase in credit risk are either of the following: • the residual lifetime PD exceeds a benchmark determined by reference to the maximum credit risk that would have been accepted at origination • the residual lifetime PD has increased by at least 75 basis points and a 4x multiple of the original lifetime PD. Qualitative criteria include both forbearance events and, within the credit card portfolio, recognition of the risk related to borrowers in persistent debt. In addition, loans are moved to stage 2 when certain “backstop” events occur, including arrears of greater than 30 days past due. Risk report Credit quality Nationwide adopts robust credit management policies and processes designed to recognise and manage the risks arising from the portfolio. The following table shows gross balances and provisions for consumer banking balances held at amortised cost, by PD range. The PD distributions shown are based on a 12-month probability of default under IFRS 9 at the reporting date: Consumer banking gross balances and provisions by PD (note i) Financial statements 2020 Gross balances Provisions Provision (Audited) coverage Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total PD range £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % 0.00 to <0.15% 934 4 938 3 3 0.36 0.15 to < 0.25% 479 6 485 2 2 0.40 0.25 to < 0.50% 719 19 738 3 1 4 0.61 0.50 to < 0.75% 376 26 402 2 2 4 1.05 0.75 to < 2.50% 970 205 1,175 11 18 29 2.44 Other information 2.50 to < 10.00% 371 378 1 750 10 54 64 8.47 10.00 to < 100% 8 189 4 201 1 66 3 70 34.51 100% (default) 305 305 275 275 90.28 Total 3,857 827 310 4,994 32 141 278 451 9.02 Note: i. The £43 million additional Covid-19 provision has not been allocated to underlying loans or attributed to stages and is therefore excluded from this table. The additional provision increases the total provision coverage to 9.90%. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 168 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Consumer banking gross balances and provisions by PD 2019 Gross balances Provisions Provision (Audited) coverage Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total PD range £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % 0.00 to <0.15% 1,016 5 1,021 3 3 0.29 0.15 to < 0.25% 364 9 373 1 1 2 0.48 0.25 to < 0.50% 542 24 566 2 2 4 0.74 0.50 to < 0.75% 332 26 358 2 2 4 1.19 Governance 0.75 to < 2.50% 911 190 1,101 9 21 30 2.71 2.50 to < 10.00% 366 349 1 716 9 53 62 8.74 10.00 to < 100% 7 158 4 169 1 53 2 56 33.19 100% (default) 282 282 257 257 90.98 Total 3,538 761 287 4,586 27 132 259 418 9.11 The credit quality of the consumer banking portfolio has remained broadly stable, benefiting from the continued low interest rate environment, with 90% of the portfolio (2019: 90%) considered good quality with a PD of less than 10%. Changes in provision coverage for loans in different PD ranges are principally due to changes in the mix of products. Risk report Consumer banking balances by payment due status Credit risk in the consumer banking portfolios is primarily monitored and reported based on arrears status which is set out below: Consumer banking gross balances by payment due status 2020 2019 Overdrawn Personal Credit Overdrawn Personal Credit current Total current loans cards Total Financial statements accounts loans cards accounts (Audited) £m £m £m £m % £m £m £m £m % Not past due 226 2,830 1,528 4,584 91.8 279 2,282 1,667 4,228 92.2 Past due 0 to 1 month 11 53 23 87 1.7 8 37 18 63 1.3 Past due 1 to 3 months 5 12 13 30 0.6 4 11 12 27 0.6 Past due 3 to 6 months 4 11 9 24 0.5 3 8 11 22 0.5 Past due 6 to 12 months 3 14 2 19 0.4 3 15 2 20 0.4 Past due over 12 months 3 12 15 0.3 3 14 17 0.4 Charged off (note i) 28 98 109 235 4.7 24 82 103 209 4.6 Other information Total 280 3,030 1,684 4,994 100 324 2,449 1,813 4,586 100 Note: i. Charged off balances relate to accounts which are closed to future transactions and are held on the balance sheet for an extended period (up to 36 months, depending on the product) whilst recovery procedures take place. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 169 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Total balances subject to arrears, excluding charged off balances, have increased to £175 million (2019: £149 million). The largest increase is in personal loans, reflecting the growth of this portfolio over the year. Balances on accounts in arrears excluding charged off balances have remained broadly stable at 3.8% (2019: 3.4%). Payment holidays which have been granted in respect of Covid-19 will suppress the impact of the pandemic on arrears in the short term. Forbearance Nationwide is committed to supporting customers facing financial difficulty by working with them to find a solution through proactive arrears management and forbearance. In addition, we are supporting borrowers financially affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Further details of this support are provided at the end of this forbearance section. Governance The Group applies the European Banking Authority definition of forbearance. The following concession events are included within the forbearance reporting for consumer banking: Payment concession This concession consists of reduced monthly payments over an agreed period and may be offered to customers with an overdraft or credit card. For credit cards subject to such a concession, arrears do not increase provided the payments are made. Risk report Interest suppressed payment arrangement This temporary interest payment concession results in reduced monthly payments and may be offered to customers with an overdraft, credit card or personal loan. Interest payments and fees are suppressed during the period of the concession and arrears do not increase. Cases subject to this concession are classified as impaired. Balances re-aged/re-written Financial statements As customers repay their debt in line with the terms of their new arrangement, we will restate their accounts, bringing them into an up-to-date and performing position. For personal loans we will re-write their account over a longer term, to maintain a reduced monthly payment. For credit cards we re-age the account and set the payment status to ‘up-to-date’, at which point the customer is treated in the same way as any other performing account. The table below provides details of consumer banking balances subject to forbearance. Accounts that are currently subject to a concession are all assessed as either stage 2, or stage 3 (creditimpaired) where full repayment of principal and interest is no longer anticipated. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 170 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Consumer banking (continued) Strategic report Gross balances subject to forbearance (note i) 2020 2019 Overdrawn Personal Credit Overdrawn Personal Credit current loans cards Total current loans cards Total accounts accounts £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Payment concession 14 1 15 16 2 18 Interest suppressed payment concession 7 39 15 61 6 34 15 55 Balance re-aged/re-written 1 3 4 1 3 4 Total forbearance 21 40 19 80 22 35 20 77 Impairment provisions on forborne loans 12 27 13 52 12 29 14 55 Governance Note: i. Where more than one concession event has occurred, balances are reported under the latest event. Over the year, total balances subject to forbearance have increased slightly to £80 million (2019: £77 million), with forborne balances as a percentage of the total consumer banking lending improving to 1.6% (2019: 1.7%), largely as a result of book growth. Support for borrowers impacted by Covid-19 We recognise that the impact of Covid-19 is a concern for our consumer banking customers, and we are offering them help and support in these challenging times by introducing several additional Risk report concession tools intended to support borrowers who have been financially affected by the coronavirus pandemic. These include the creation of payment holidays on credit cards and personal loans, allowing borrowers to temporarily reduce payments to a nominal amount for 3 months following successful application. Overdraft charges have been reduced for a period of 3 months from 39.9% APR to 18.9% and all customers with current accounts can also apply for an interest free overdraft for 3 months. There will be no negative impacts on the customer’s credit file as a result of these measures, and in accordance with regulatory guidance, these concessions are not included within the forbearance population above and do not automatically impact the reported staging balances. The following table shows the value of consumer credit products with a payment holiday or using an interest free period related to Covid-19 as used to calculate the Covid-19 additional provision. Financial statements Further information is included in note 10 to the financial statements. Gross balances subject to a payment or interest holiday due to Covid-19 2020 % of gross balance (Audited) £m % Payment Holiday Personal Loans 225 7 Credit Cards 64 4 Interest Holiday Other information Current Accounts 8 3 Total 297 6 During April, we have continued to support those borrowers financially affected by the impact of Covid-19 and at 30 April the balances subject to a payment or interest holiday represented 7.7% of gross balances. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 171 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending Strategic report Summary The commercial portfolio comprises loans which have been provided to meet the funding requirements of registered social landlords, commercial real estate investors and project finance initiatives. The project finance and commercial real estate portfolios are closed to new business. Commercial and other lending gross balances 2020 2019 (Audited) £m £m Registered social landlords (note i) 5,425 5,980 Governance Commercial real estate (CRE) 996 1,383 Project finance (note ii) 712 807 Other lending 8 Commercial and other lending balances at amortised cost 7,133 8,178 Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk (note iii) 741 883 Commercial lending balances – FVTPL 57 57 Total 7,931 9,118 Notes: Risk report i. Loans to registered social landlords are secured on residential property. ii. Loans advanced in relation to project finance are secured on cash flows from government or local authority backed contracts under the Private Finance Initiative. iii. Micro hedged risk relates to loans hedged on an individual basis. Over the year, total balances across the commercial portfolios have reduced, reflecting run-off of the closed CRE and project finance books, with borrowers repaying loans at or before loan maturity. As the portfolio balances have reduced, the quality and performance of the portfolios has remained stable. In the registered social landlord portfolio, reductions are due to early repayments and amortisation, and reflect that there has been no material new lending. Financial statements Impairment (reversals)/losses for the year for commercial and other lending 2020 2019 (Audited) £m £m Total (3) 16 The £3 million impairment reversal for the year primarily relates to a single credit exposure, where an improved outlook has driven a positive reassessment of potential future losses, offset by a £7 million additional provision to reflect the expected impact of Covid-19 on credit losses. The level of this additional provision reflects the estimated impact based upon a revised central economic scenario and the extent of concessions granted in response to Covid-19. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 172 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report The following table shows commercial and other lending balances carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet, with the stage allocation of the exposures, impairment provisions and resulting provision coverage ratios: Commercial and other lending product and staging analysis 2020 2019 Covid-19 additional Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total provision (note i) (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Governance Gross balances Registered social landlords 5,385 40 5,425 5,923 57 5,980 CRE 791 155 50 996 1,122 213 48 1,383 Project finance 616 73 23 712 754 29 24 807 Other lending 8 8 Total 6,792 268 73 7,133 7,807 299 72 8,178 Provisions Risk report Registered social landlords 1 1 1 1 CRE 2 2 18 7 29 2 2 18 22 Project finance 1 9 10 1 17 18 Other lending Total 3 3 27 7 40 4 2 35 41 Provisions as a % of total balance % % % % % % % % % Registered social landlords 0.02 0.12 0.02 0.02 0.18 0.02 Financial statements CRE 0.25 1.29 36.00 2.91 0.19 0.96 37.11 1.58 Project finance 1.37 39.13 1.40 0.15 0.97 71.54 2.20 Other lending Total 0.04 1.12 36.99 0.56 0.05 0.81 48.74 0.50 Note: i. In recognition of the financial impact that Covid-19 may have on our borrowers, an additional provision of £7 million has been added to the impairment provisions for commercial lending. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and therefore has not been attributed to stages. Further detail on the calculation of the additional provision is given in note 10 to the financial statements. Other information Over the year, the performance of the commercial portfolio has remained stable, with 95% (2019: 95%) of balances remaining in stage 1. Of the £268 million (2019: £299 million) stage 2 loans, which represent 3.8% (2019: 3.7%) of total balances, less than £1 million (2019: £1 million) is in arrears by 30 days or more, with the remainder in stage 2 due to non-arrears factors such as a deterioration in risk rating or placement on a watchlist. Within the registered social landlord portfolio, there are no stage 3 assets, and only 1% (2019: 1%) of the exposure is in stage 2. The CRE stage 2 and 3 balances are in respect of a small number of loans that are subject to increased risk of failure to redeem in full at term maturity, with stage 3 (credit-impaired) loans at £50 million (2019: £48 million) equating to 5% (2019: 3%) of the total CRE exposure. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 173 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report Loans in the project finance portfolio benefit from long-term cash flows, which typically emanate from the provision of assets such as schools, hospitals, police stations, government buildings and roads, procured under the Private Finance Initiative. 97% of these balances are in respect of fully developed assets. During the year, the project finance stage 3 provisions have reduced to £9 million (2019: £17 million) reflecting an improved outlook for one impaired case. Credit quality Nationwide applies robust credit management policies and processes to identify and manage the risks arising from the portfolio. The following table shows the CRE portfolio by risk grade and the provision coverage for each category. The table includes balances held at amortised cost only. Governance CRE gross balances by risk grade and provision coverage (note i) 2020 2019 Provision Provision Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total coverage coverage (Audited) £m £m £m £m % £m £m £m £m % Strong 433 18 451 0.1 676 57 733 0.3 Good 289 67 356 0.6 381 76 457 0.1 Satisfactory 69 10 79 1.7 65 8 73 0.4 Risk report Weak 60 60 1.2 72 72 1.4 Impaired 50 50 36.2 48 48 37.1 Total 791 155 50 996 2.3 1,122 213 48 1,383 1.6 Note: i. The £7 million additional Covid-19 provision has not been allocated to underlying loans or attributed to stages and is therefore excluded from this table. The additional provision increases the total provision coverage to 2.91% Financial statements The risk grades in the table above are based upon supervisory slotting criteria, under which exposures are classified into categories depending on the underlying credit risk, with the assessment based upon financial strength, asset characteristics, the strength of the sponsor and the security. As CRE balances reduce, principally due to early redemptions, the credit quality of the portfolio has remained broadly stable, with 89% (2019: 91%) of the portfolio rated as satisfactory or better. Risk grades for the project finance portfolio are also based upon supervisory slotting criteria, with 90% of the exposure rated strong or good. The registered social landlord portfolio is risk rated using an internal PD rating model with the major drivers being financial strength, supported by evaluations of the borrower’s oversight and management, alongside their type and size. The distribution of exposures is weighted towards the stronger risk ratings and against a backdrop of zero defaults in the portfolio, the credit quality remains high, with an average 12-month PD of 0.04% across the portfolio. Other information In addition to the above, £57 million (2019: £57 million) of commercial lending balances are classified as FVTPL, of which £54 million (2019: £53 million) relates to CRE loans with a risk grade of satisfactory. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 174 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report CRE balances by LTV and region The following table includes both amortised cost and FVTPL CRE balances. CRE lending gross balances by LTV and region (note i) 2020 2019 London Rest of UK Total London Rest of UK Total (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m Fully collateralised Governance LTV ratio (note ii): Less than 25% 62 59 121 89 70 159 25% to 50% 315 254 569 559 298 857 51% to 75% 167 115 282 181 175 356 76% to 90% 3 43 46 1 20 21 91% to 100% 1 6 7 547 471 1,018 831 569 1,400 Not fully collateralised: Risk report Over 100% LTV 32 32 36 36 Collateral value 19 19 19 19 Negative equity 13 13 17 17 Total CRE loans 547 503 1,050 831 605 1,436 Geographical concentration 52% 48% 100% 58% 42% 100% Financial statements Notes: i. A CRE loan may be secured on assets located in different regions, with the allocation being based upon the value of the underlying assets in each region. ii. The approach to revaluing assets charged as security is determined by the industry sector, the loan balance outstanding and the indexed value of the most recent independent external collateral valuation, with higher risk loans subject to more frequent revaluations to determine provision requirements. The LTV ratio is calculated using the on-balance sheet carrying amount of the loan divided by the indexed value. The Investment Property (IPD) monthly index is used. Changes to the regional distribution of the CRE portfolio reflect the managed reduction of the portfolio, with 52% (2019: 58%) of the CRE exposure now being secured against assets located in London. As the portfolio reduces, the LTV distribution of the CRE balances has also changed, with 93% (2019: 96%) of the portfolio now having an LTV of 75% or less, and 66% (2019: 71%) of the portfolio having an LTV of 50% or less. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 175 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report Credit risk concentration by industry sector The following table includes balances held at amortised cost only. CRE lending gross balances and provisions by industry sector (note i) 2020 2019 Gross balances Provisions Gross balances Provisions £m £m £m £m Retail 202 3 274 1 Governance Office 222 12 281 11 Residential 419 1 625 3 Industrial and warehouse 56 2 74 Leisure and hotel 84 110 1 Other 13 4 19 6 Total CRE lending 996 22 1,383 22 Note: i. The £7 million additional Covid-19 provision has not been allocated to underlying loans and is therefore excluded from this table. Risk report Credit risk exposure by industry sector is broadly unchanged from the prior year, continuing to be spread across the retail, office, residential investment, industrial and leisure sectors. Where a CRE loan is secured on assets crossing different sectors, the sector allocation is based upon the value of the underlying assets in each sector. For CRE exposures, excluding FVTPL balances, the largest exposure is to the residential sector, which represents 42% (2019: 45%) of the total CRE portfolio balance. Over the year, our exposure to retail assets has reduced to £202 million (2019: £274 million), with a weighted average LTV of 53% (2019: 46%). Exposure to the leisure and hotel sector has also reduced to £84 million (2019: £110 million), with a weighted average LTV of 46% (2019: 49%). In addition to the amortised cost balances included in the table above, there are £54 million (2019: £53 million) of FVTPL commercial lending balances, of which £42 million (2019: £42 million) relates to the office sector and £12 million (2019: £12 million) relates to the retail sector. Financial statements CRE balances by payment due status Of the £1,050 million (2019: £1,436 million) CRE exposure, including FVTPL balances, £14 million (2019: £24 million) relates to balances with arrears. Of these, £6 million (2019: £2 million) have arrears greater than 3 months, driven principally by one case which has exceeded its contractual maturity date, and where an exit strategy is being pursued. Forbearance Nationwide is committed to supporting borrowers facing financial difficulty by working with them to find a solution through proactive arrears management and forbearance. In addition, we are Other information supporting borrowers financially affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Further details of this support are provided at the end of this forbearance section. Forbearance is recorded and reported at borrower level and applies to all commercial lending, including impaired exposures and borrowers subject to enforcement and recovery action. The Group applies the European Banking Authority definition of forbearance. For commercial customers in financial difficulty, the following concession events are included within forbearance reporting: Annual Report and Accounts 2020 176 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report Refinance Debt restructuring, either mid-term or at maturity, will be considered where asset sales or external refinance cannot be secured to repay facilities in full and where a restructure is considered to provide the best debt recovery outcome for both the customer and Nationwide. Interest concession The temporary postponement of interest or a reduction to the interest rate charged, during which period the loans do not accrue arrears, may be considered where the customer is experiencing payment difficulties. Capital concession Capital concessions consist of temporary suspensions to capital repayments to allow the customer time to overcome payment difficulties, the full or partial consolidation of previous payment arrears Governance or the partial write-off of debt. Security amendment Where a customer seeks the release of assets charged to Nationwide as security for their commercial loan, this will be treated as forbearance where Nationwide’s position is weakened in terms of either the loan to value of the remaining exposure or the level of interest cover available. Extension at maturity Customers who are unable to repay the loan at term expiry may be given short term maturity extensions to allow them time to negotiate the repayment of facilities in full either via asset sales or Risk report external refinance. Breach of covenant Where a customer is unable to comply with either financial or non-financial covenants, as specified in their loan agreement, a temporary waiver or amendment to the covenants will be considered, as appropriate. Financial statements The table below provides details of commercial loans that are currently subject to forbearance by concession event. Gross balances subject to forbearance (note i) 2020 2019 £m £m Refinance 43 44 Modifications: Payment concession 31 2 Security amendment 8 6 Other information Extension at maturity 19 12 Breach of covenant 126 122 Total 227 186 Total impairment provision on forborne loans 14 23 Note: i. Loans where more than one concession event has occurred are reported under the latest event. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 177 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Commercial and other lending (continued) Strategic report During the year, amortised cost balances subject to forbearance have increased, principally reflecting the support measures put in place as we manage the runoff of the CRE portfolio. The reduction in the total impairment provision on forborne loans to £14 million (2019: £23 million) principally reflects an improved outlook for one impaired case. In addition to the amortised cost balances included in the table above, there are £57 million (2019: £57 million) of FVTPL commercial lending balances, none (2019: none) of which are forborne. Support for borrowers impacted by Covid-19 We recognise the impact of Covid-19 on our commercial customers, and we are offering them help and support in these challenging times. Temporary measures granted, to give our customers a period of flexibility, include 3 month capital and interest repayment holidays, 6 month capital repayment holidays and extensions at loan maturity of up to 12 months. In accordance with regulatory Governance guidance, these concessions are not included within the forbearance population above and do not automatically have an impact on the reported staging of balances. No concessions have been required in the registered social landlord or project finance portfolios. The following table shows the value of the CRE portfolio with a concession related to Covid-19 at the balance sheet date: Gross CRE balances subject to a concession due to Covid-19 (note i) 2020 Weighted (Audited) Risk report % of book Average LTV £m % % 3 month capital and interest repayment holiday 112 11.2 49 6 month capital repayment holiday 96 9.7 41 Extension at maturity 1 0.1 29 3 month capital and interest repayment holiday and extension 1 0.1 38 6 month capital repayment holiday and extension 4 0.4 37 Financial statements Total 214 21.5 45 Note: i. Where a concession is granted on a commercial loan, the total exposure to the borrower is reported in the table above. Balances subject to Covid-19 related temporary measures, at £214 million, represent 21.5% of the CRE portfolio balances and 11% of our CRE borrowers. The cases that have received these temporary concessions have a weighted average LTV of 45%, and only £2.2 million of loan balances have an LTV greater than 65%. Concessions have been agreed across all industry sectors, with a weighting towards the residential sector, which accounts for 47% of the balances subject to a concession due to Covid-19, reflecting the portfolio concentration to this industry sector. We are continuing to support borrowers financially affected by the impact of Covid-19 and at 30 April 2020, 21% of our CRE borrowers, representing 40% of CRE portfolio balances, had received Other information temporary concessions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 178 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Treasury assets Strategic report Summary The treasury portfolio is held primarily for liquidity management and, in the case of derivatives, for market risk management. As at 4 April 2020 treasury assets represented 17.0% (2019: 15.2%) of total assets. There are no exposures to emerging markets, hedge funds or credit default swaps. Investment activity remains restricted to high quality liquid assets, including assets eligible for central bank operations. The size of the portfolio has increased, predominantly from higher government bond holdings that now include exposure to Japan and several Canadian issuers; no changes in policy or risk appetite are proposed as a result of Covid-19. Derivatives are used to economically hedge financial risks inherent in core lending and funding activities and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. Governance This table shows the classification of treasury asset balances: Treasury asset balances 2020 2019 (Audited) Classification £m £m Cash Amortised cost 13,748 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions Amortised cost 3,636 4,009 Investment securities FVOCI 18,367 14,500 Investment securities FVTPL 12 78 Risk report Investment securities Amortised cost 1,625 1,656 Liquidity and investment portfolio 37,388 32,736 Derivative instruments (note i) FVTPL 4,771 3,562 Treasury assets 42,159 36,298 Note: i. Derivatives are classified as assets where their fair value is positive and liabilities where their fair value is negative. As at 4 April 2020, derivative liabilities were £1,924 million (2019: £1,593 million). Financial statements Managing treasury credit risks Credit risk within the treasury portfolio arises primarily from the instruments held and transacted by the Treasury function for operational, liquidity and investment purposes. In addition, counterparty credit risk arises from the use of derivatives to reduce exposure to market risks; these are only transacted with highly rated organisations and are collateralised under market standard documentation. The treasury credit risk function manages all aspects of credit risk in accordance with the Society’s risk governance frameworks, under the supervision of the Credit Committee. A monthly review is undertaken of the current and expected future performance of treasury assets that determines expected credit loss (ECL) provision requirements. There were no impairment losses for the year ended 4 April 2020 (2019: £nil). For financial assets classified as FVTPL, no provisions are calculated as credit risk is reflected in the carrying value of the asset; no additional provision information is therefore disclosed in respect of these assets. For financial assets held at amortised cost or at FVOCI, reflecting the credit quality of treasury assets, all exposures within the Other information table below are classified as stage 1. There are no assets in stage 2 (2019: £1.5 million) or stage 3. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 179 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Treasury assets (continued) Strategic report Impairment provisions on treasury assets 2020 2019 Gross balances Provisions Gross balances Provisions (Audited) £m £m £m £m Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 4,009 Investment securities – FVOCI 18,367 14,500 Investment securities – amortised cost 1,625 1,656 Liquidity and investment portfolio The liquidity and investment portfolio of £37,388 million (2019: £32,736 million) comprises liquid assets and other securities. An analysis of the on-balance sheet portfolios is set out below: Governance Liquidity and investment portfolio by credit rating (note i) 2020 AAA AA A Other UK US Europe Other (Audited) £m % % % % % % % % Liquid assets: Cash and reserves at central banks 13,748 100 100 Risk report Government bonds (note ii) 14,914 34 58 8 47 25 16 12 Supranational bonds 983 87 13 100 Covered bonds (note iii) 1,583 100 68 16 16 Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) 483 100 72 28 Asset backed securities (other) 351 100 59 41 Liquid assets total 32,062 26 70 4 70 11 9 10 Other securities (note iv): Financial statements RMBS FVOCI 17 100 100 RMBS amortised cost 1,625 83 12 5 100 Other investments (note v) 48 62 38 38 62 Other securities total 1,690 81 13 4 2 98 2 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 79 20 1 92 3 4 1 Total 37,388 26 69 5 73 10 9 8 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 180 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Treasury assets (continued) Strategic report Liquidity and investment portfolio by credit rating (note i) 2019 AAA AA A Other UK US Europe Other (Audited) £m % % % % % % % % Liquid assets: Cash and reserves at central banks 12,493 100 100 Government bonds (note ii) 11,581 29 71 63 23 14 Supranational bonds 725 100 100 Covered bonds (note iii) 1,202 100 59 18 23 Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) 556 100 54 46 Governance Asset backed securities (other) 258 100 49 51 Liquid assets total 26,815 23 77 78 10 8 4 Other securities (note iv): RMBS FVOCI 142 35 20 45 100 RMBS amortised cost 1,656 84 6 8 2 100 Other investments (note v) 114 29 52 19 19 52 29 Other securities total 1,912 75 9 13 3 95 3 2 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 4,009 51 49 86 7 6 1 Risk report Total 32,736 24 70 6 80 9 8 3 Notes: i. Ratings used are obtained from Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and from Moody’s or Fitch if no S&P rating is available. For loans and advances to banks and similar institutions, internal ratings are used. ii. Balances classified as government bonds include government guaranteed and agency bonds. iii. Prior year ratings have been restated to be consistent with the current year presentation. iv. Includes RMBS (UK buy to let and UK Non-conforming) not eligible for the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). v. Includes investment securities held at FVTPL of £12 million (2019: £78 million). Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 181 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Treasury assets (continued) Strategic report Country exposures This table summarises the exposure (shown at the balance sheet carrying value) to institutions outside the UK. None of the exposures were in stage 2 or 3 as at 4 April 2020: Country exposures 2020 Government Mortgage backed Covered bonds Supranational Loans and Other assets Total bonds securities bonds advances to banks and similar institutions (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Governance Austria 369 369 Belgium 390 390 Finland 381 25 406 France 265 22 30 317 Germany 639 31 162 144 976 Ireland 44 44 Netherlands 194 133 327 Spain 1 1 Total Eurozone 2,282 133 78 163 174 2,830 Risk report USA 3,703 94 3,797 Rest of world (note i) 1,958 424 983 43 3,408 Total 7,943 133 502 983 300 174 10,035 Country exposures 2019 Government Mortgage backed Covered bonds Supranational Loans and Other Total bonds securities bonds advances to banks assets Financial statements and similar institutions (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Belgium 208 208 Finland 244 24 268 France 185 24 33 242 Germany 673 15 190 132 1,010 Netherlands 178 255 433 Spain 18 18 Total Eurozone 1,488 255 39 232 165 2,179 Other information USA 2,642 265 59 2,966 Rest of world (note i) 140 455 725 60 1,380 Total 4,270 255 494 725 557 224 6,525 Note: i. Rest of world exposure is to Australia, Canada, Denmark, Japan, Norway and Sweden. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 182 Risk report (continued) Credit risk – Treasury assets (continued) Strategic report Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are used to manage exposure to market risks, and not for trading or speculative purposes, although the application of accounting rules can create volatility in the income statement in a given financial year. The fair value of derivative assets as at 4 April 2020 was £4.8 billion (2019: £3.6 billion) and the fair value of derivative liabilities was £1.9 billion (2019: £1.6 billion). To comply with EU regulatory requirements, Nationwide, as a direct member of a central counterparty (CCP), has central clearing capability which it uses to clear standardised derivatives. Where derivatives are not cleared at a CCP they are transacted under the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement. A Credit Support Annex (CSA) is always executed in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement. Under the terms of a CSA, collateral is passed between parties to mitigate the market-contingent counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding positions. CSAs are two-way agreements where both parties post collateral dependent on the exposure of the derivative. Collateral is paid or received on a regular basis (typically daily) to mitigate Governance the mark to market exposures. Market standard CSA collateral allows GBP, EUR and USD cash, and in some cases, extends to high grade sovereign debt securities; both cash and securities are currently held as collateral by the Society. Nationwide’s CSA legal documentation for derivatives grants legal rights of set-off for transactions with the same counterparty. Accordingly, the credit risk associated with such positions is reduced to the extent that negative mark to market values offset positive mark to market values in the calculation of credit risk within each netting agreement. Under the terms of CSA netting agreements, outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and settled on a net basis following a default, or another predetermined event. Under these arrangements, netting benefits of £1.6 billion (2019: £1.4 billion) were available and £3.0 billion of collateral (2019: £2.1 billion) was held. This table shows the exposure to counterparty credit risk for derivative contracts after netting benefits and collateral: Derivative credit exposure Risk report 2020 2019 Counterparty credit quality AA A BBB Total AA A BBB Total (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Gross positive fair value of contracts as reported on the balance sheet 1,470 3,291 10 4,771 1,096 2,460 6 3,562 Netting benefits (481) (1,157) (10) (1,648) (350) (1,007) (6) (1,363) Financial statements Net current credit exposure 989 2,134 3,123 746 1,453 2,199 Collateral (cash) (982) (1,924) (2,906) (732) (1,398) (2,130) Collateral (securities) (91) (91) Net derivative credit exposure 7 119 126 14 55 69 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 183 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk Strategic report Summary Liquidity risk is the risk that Nationwide is unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due and maintain member and external stakeholder confidence. Funding risk is the risk that Nationwide is unable to maintain diverse funding sources in wholesale and retail markets and manage excessive concentrations of funding types. Liquidity and funding risks are managed within a comprehensive risk framework which includes policies, strategy, limit setting and monitoring, stress testing and robust governance controls. This framework ensures that Nationwide maintains stable and diverse funding sources and a sufficient holding of high quality liquid assets such that there is no significant risk that liabilities cannot be met as they fall due. Governance Liquidity and funding levels continued to be within Board risk appetite and regulatory requirements throughout the year. This includes the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), which ensures that sufficient high-quality liquid assets are held to survive a short term severe but plausible liquidity stress. Nationwide’s average LCR over the 12 months ending 4 April 2020 increased to 152% (2019: 143%). The LCR as at 4 April 2020 was 163% (2019: 150%). Nationwide continues to manage its liquidity against its internal risk appetite, which is more prudent than regulatory requirements. The position against the longer-term funding metric, the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) is also monitored. Based on current interpretations of expected European regulatory requirements and guidance, the NSFR at 4 April 2020 was 134% (2019: 130%) which exceeds the expected 100% minimum future requirement. Funding risk Funding strategy Nationwide’s funding strategy is to remain predominantly retail funded, as set out below. Risk report Funding profile Assets 2020 2019 Liabilities 2020 2019 (note i) £bn £bn £bn £bn Retail mortgages 188.6 185.8 Retail funding 159.7 154.0 Financial statements Treasury assets (including liquidity portfolio) 37.4 32.7 Wholesale funding 62.3 61.2 Commercial lending 7.9 9.1 Other liabilities 3.5 3.0 Consumer lending 4.5 4.2 Capital and reserves (note ii) 22.5 20.1 Other assets 9.6 6.5 248.0 238.3 248.0 238.3 Notes: i. The figures in the above table are stated net of impairment provisions where applicable. ii. Capital and reserves include all subordinated liabilities and subscribed capital. Other information At 4 April 2020, Nationwide’s loan to deposit ratio, which represents loans and advances to customers divided by the total of shares and other deposits, was 122.4% (2019: 125.2%). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 184 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Wholesale funding The wholesale funding portfolio comprises a range of secured and unsecured instruments to ensure that a stable and diversified funding base is maintained across a range of instruments, currencies, maturities and investor types. Part of Nationwide’s wholesale funding strategy is to remain active in core markets and currencies. A funding risk limit framework also ensures that a prudent funding mix and maturity concentration profile is maintained and limits the level of encumbrance to ensure enough contingent funding capacity is retained in the event of a stress. Wholesale funding has increased by £1.1 billion to £62.3 billion during the year. The wholesale funding ratio (on-balance sheet wholesale funding as a proportion of total funding liabilities) was 28.5% at 4 April 2020 (2019: 28.6%). Governance The table below sets out Nationwide’s wholesale funding by currency. Wholesale funding by currency 2020 2019 GBP EUR USD Other Total % of GBP EUR USD Other Total % of £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn total £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn total Repos 0.5 0.1 0.6 1 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.8 1 Deposits 6.2 1.2 1.3 8.7 14 6.0 1.2 0.1 7.3 12 Certificates of deposit 1.5 0.4 0.1 2.0 3 3.2 1.1 0.5 4.8 8 Risk report Commercial paper 1.6 1.6 3 0.3 2.9 3.2 5 Covered bonds 5.0 13.4 0.8 0.6 19.8 31 3.8 12.9 0.1 16.8 28 Medium term notes 1.9 2.5 2.2 0.6 7.2 12 2.0 3.0 1.9 0.6 7.5 12 Securitisations 2.2 0.9 1.1 4.2 7 0.7 1.1 1.2 3.0 5 Term Funding Scheme (TFS) 17.0 17.0 27 17.0 17.0 28 Other 0.2 0.8 0.2 1.2 2 0.2 0.6 0.8 1 Total 34.5 19.3 7.3 1.2 62.3 100 33.3 20.5 6.7 0.7 61.2 100 Financial statements The residual maturity of the wholesale funding book, on a contractual maturity basis, is set out below. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 185 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Wholesale funding – residual maturity 2020 Not more than Over one Over three Over six Subtotal less Over one year Over two years Total one month month but not months but not months but not than one year but not more more than more than more than than two years three months six months one year £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn Repos 0.6 0.6 0.6 Deposits 5.2 1.6 1.9 8.7 8.7 Certificates of deposit 0.1 1.7 0.2 2.0 2.0 Commercial paper 0.9 0.7 1.6 1.6 Governance Covered bonds 0.9 2.6 3.5 2.6 13.7 19.8 Medium term notes 0.2 0.2 0.7 6.3 7.2 Securitisations 0.3 0.5 0.4 1.2 0.7 2.3 4.2 TFS 6.0 6.0 11.0 17.0 Other 0.2 1.0 1.2 Total 6.2 4.2 4.2 9.2 23.8 15.2 23.3 62.3 Of which secured 0.9 1.2 1.4 9.0 12.5 14.5 16.8 43.8 Of which unsecured 5.3 3.0 2.8 0.2 11.3 0.7 6.5 18.5 % of total 10.0 6.7 6.7 14.8 38.2 24.4 37.4 100.0 Wholesale funding – residual maturity Risk report 2019 Not more than Over one Over three Over six Subtotal less Over one year but Over two years Total one month month but not months but not months but not than one year not more more than more than more than than two years three months six months one year £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn Financial statements Repos 0.8 0.8 0.8 Deposits 4.5 0.6 2.2 7.3 7.3 Certificates of deposit 2.3 2.3 0.2 4.8 4.8 Commercial paper 2.0 1.2 3.2 3.2 Covered bonds 0.8 0.9 1.7 3.3 11.8 16.8 Medium term notes 0.6 0.4 0.9 1.9 0.1 5.5 7.5 Securitisations 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.8 1.0 1.2 3.0 TFS 6.0 11.0 17.0 Other 0.2 0.6 0.8 Total 6.5 6.4 6.2 1.4 20.5 10.6 30.1 61.2 Other information Of which secured 2.0 0.9 0.1 0.3 3.3 10.5 24.6 38.4 Of which unsecured 4.5 5.5 6.1 1.1 17.2 0.1 5.5 22.8 % of total 10.6 10.5 10.1 2.3 33.5 17.3 49.2 100.0 At 4 April 2020, cash, government bonds and supranational bonds included in the liquid asset buffer represented 122% of wholesale funding maturing in less than one year, assuming no rollovers (2019: 120%). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 186 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Liquidity risk Liquidity strategy Sufficient liquid assets, both in terms of amount and quality, are held to meet daily cash flow needs as well as simulated stressed requirements driven by the Society’s risk appetite and regulatory assessments. This includes prudent management of the currency mix of liquid assets to ensure there is no undue reliance on currencies not consistent with the profile of stressed outflows. Liquid assets are held and managed centrally by the Treasury function. A high-quality liquidity portfolio is maintained, predominantly comprising reserves held at central banks and highly rated debt securities issued by a restricted range of governments, central banks and supranationals. Governance The Society’s risk appetite, as set by the Board, defines the size and mix of the liquid asset buffer, and is translated into a set of liquidity risk limits. The buffer composition is also influenced by other relevant considerations such as stress testing and regulatory requirements. Liquid assets The table below sets out the sterling equivalent fair value of the liquidity portfolio, by issuing currency. It includes off-balance sheet liquidity, such as securities received through reverse repurchase (repo) agreements, and excludes securities encumbered through repo agreements and for other purposes. Liquid assets Risk report 2020 2019 Other Other GBP EUR USD Total GBP EUR USD Total (note i) £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn £bn Cash and reserves at central banks 13.7 13.7 12.4 0.1 12.5 Government bonds (note ii) 6.8 2.3 3.8 1.5 14.4 7.8 0.7 2.8 11.3 Supranational bonds 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.9 0.5 0.2 0.7 Financial statements Covered bonds 0.5 1.0 0.1 1.6 0.4 0.7 1.1 Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) (note iii) 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.6 0.3 0.1 1.0 Asset-backed securities and other securities 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 Total 22.0 3.9 4.2 1.5 31.6 21.8 1.9 3.2 26.9 Notes: i. Other currencies primarily consist of Japanese Yen and Canadian dollars. ii. Balances classified as government bonds include government guaranteed and agency bonds. iii. Balances include all RMBS held by the Society which can be monetised through sale or repo. Other information The average combined month end balance during the year of cash and reserves at central banks, and government and supranational bonds, was £29.3 billion (2019: £27.8 billion). Nationwide also holds a portfolio of high quality, central bank eligible covered bonds, RMBS and asset-backed securities. Other securities are held that are not eligible for central bank operations but can be monetised through repurchase agreements with third parties or through sale. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 187 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Nationwide undertakes securities financing transactions in the form of repurchase agreements. This demonstrates the liquid nature of the assets held in its liquid asset buffer as well as satisfying regulatory requirements. Cash is borrowed in return for pledging assets as collateral and because settlement is on a simultaneous ‘delivery versus payment’ basis, the main credit risk arises from intra-day changes in the value of the collateral. This is largely mitigated by Nationwide’s collateral management processes. Repo market capacity is regularly assessed and tested to ensure there is sufficient capacity to monetise the liquid asset buffer rapidly in a stress. For contingent purposes, Nationwide pre-positions unencumbered mortgage assets at the Bank of England which can be used in the Bank of England’s liquidity operations if market liquidity is severely disrupted. Governance Residual maturity of financial assets and liabilities The table below segments the carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the final contractual maturity date (residual maturity): Residual maturity (note i) 2020 Due less than Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after Total one month one and three and six and nine and one and two and more than (note ii) three months six months nine months twelve months two years five years five years £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Risk report Cash 13,748 13,748 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 2,832 804 3,636 Investment securities 18 495 376 107 137 373 4,715 13,783 20,004 Derivative financial instruments 33 77 347 35 212 862 978 2,227 4,771 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 25 65 124 150 122 388 554 346 1,774 Loans and advances to customers 2,856 1,395 2,067 2,152 2,129 8,629 23,624 158,126 200,978 Total financial assets 19,512 2,032 2,914 2,444 2,600 10,252 29,871 175,286 244,911 Financial statements Financial liabilities Shares 139,870 1,205 1,905 2,003 1,932 5,219 6,377 1,180 159,691 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 3,610 1,202 2,000 4,000 11,000 21,812 Of which repo 638 638 Of which TFS 2,000 4,000 11,000 17,000 Other deposits 2,164 377 1,881 17 23 10 10 4,482 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 5 2 1 2 7 12 29 Secured funding – ABS and covered bonds 242 26 1,475 548 2,474 3,425 10,062 6,703 24,955 Senior unsecured funding 150 2,673 824 117 750 3,866 2,628 11,008 Other information Derivative financial instruments 152 95 12 33 44 29 266 1,293 1,924 Subordinated liabilities 32 729 2 2,577 5,977 9,317 Subscribed capital (note iii) 1 1 1 250 253 Total financial liabilities 146,226 5,581 6,828 4,605 8,590 20,440 23,170 18,031 233,471 Off-balance sheet commitments (note iv) 11,416 11,416 Net liquidity difference (138,130) (3,549) (3,914) (2,161) (5,990) (10,188) 6,701 157,255 24 Cumulative liquidity difference (138,130) (141,679) (145,593) (147,754) (153,744) (163,932) (157,231) 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 188 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Residual maturity (note i) 2019 Due less than Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after Total one month one and three and six and nine and one and two and more than (note ii) three months six months nine months twelve months two years five years five years £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Cash 12,493 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,363 646 4,009 Investment securities 16 20 114 284 78 971 5,558 9,193 16,234 Derivative financial instruments 18 127 29 33 70 535 1,183 1,567 3,562 Governance Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk (2) 4 11 26 26 132 71 143 411 Loans and advances to customers 3,024 1,393 1,982 2,003 1,974 8,303 23,549 156,823 199,051 Total financial assets 18,912 1,544 2,136 2,346 2,148 9,941 30,361 168,372 235,760 Financial liabilities Shares 131,451 3,039 4,070 1,482 1,475 3,926 7,386 1,140 153,969 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 3,026 1 122 6,000 11,000 20,149 Of which repo 849 849 Of which TFS 1 6,000 11,000 17,001 Risk report Other deposits 2,295 625 2,094 25 19 4 12 5,074 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk (1) (1) (1) (2) (12) (17) Secured funding – ABS and covered bonds 1,183 887 132 141 148 4,367 7,754 5,777 20,389 Senior unsecured funding 43 4,890 3,979 512 466 99 2,297 3,267 15,553 Derivative financial instruments 36 118 21 10 12 127 69 1,200 1,593 Subordinated liabilities 18 54 3 662 756 5,213 6,706 Subscribed capital (note iii) 1 1 1 247 250 Financial statements Total financial liabilities 138,053 9,560 10,472 2,173 2,119 15,183 29,262 16,844 223,666 Off-balance sheet commitments (note iv) 12,956 12,956 Net liquidity difference (132,097) (8,016) (8,336) 173 29 (5,242) 1,099 151,528 (862) Cumulative liquidity difference (132,097) (140,113) (148,449) (148,276) (148,247) (153,489) (152,390) (862) Notes: i. The analysis excludes certain non-financial assets (including property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, other assets, deferred tax assets and accrued income and prepaid expenses) and non-financial liabilities (including provisions for liabilities and charges, accruals and deferred income, current tax liabilities and other liabilities). The retirement benefit surplus/deficit and lease liabilities have also been excluded. ii. Due less than one month includes amounts repayable on demand. iii. The principal amount for undated subscribed capital is included within the due after more than five years column. Other information iv. Off-balance sheet commitments include amounts payable on demand for undrawn loan commitments, customer overpayments on residential mortgages where the borrower can draw down the amount overpaid, and commitments to acquire financial assets. In practice, customer behaviours mean that liabilities are often retained for longer than their contractual maturities and assets are repaid earlier. This gives rise to funding mismatches on the balance sheet. The balance sheet structure and risks are managed and monitored by Nationwide’s Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO). Judgement and past behavioural performance of each asset and liability class are used to forecast likely cash flow requirements. As part of its response to Covid-19, as at 4 April 2020 the Group offered penalty-free early access to savings from fixed term accounts. Additionally, as a result of interest rate reductions prior to the balance sheet date, commercial notice accounts also became notice-free for a temporary period. These changes may result in a portion of customers accessing their savings before the contractual maturity date. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 189 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Financial liabilities – gross undiscounted contractual cash flows The tables below provide an analysis of gross contractual cash flows. The totals differ from the analysis of residual maturity as they include estimated future interest payments, calculated using balances outstanding at the balance sheet date, contractual maturities and appropriate forward-looking interest rates. Amounts are allocated to the relevant maturity band based on the timing of individual contractual cash flows. Gross contractual cash flows 2020 Due less than Due between Due between Due between Due between Due Due between Due after Total Governance one month one and three and six and nine and between two and more than (note i) three months six months nine months twelve months one and five years five years two years (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Shares 139,870 1,260 1,958 2,052 1,977 5,358 6,597 1,180 160,252 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 3,610 1,206 4 2,004 4,003 11,005 21,832 Other deposits 2,164 382 1,883 17 23 10 10 4,489 Secured funding – ABS and covered bonds 247 34 1,506 581 2,644 3,589 10,526 6,609 25,736 Senior unsecured funding 151 2,681 871 4 182 890 4,145 2,621 11,545 Subordinated liabilities 36 806 43 96 276 3,188 6,304 10,749 Risk report Subscribed capital (note ii) 1 1 4 3 4 13 40 255 321 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 146,079 5,564 7,032 4,704 8,929 21,141 24,506 16,969 234,924 Derivative financial liabilities: Gross settled derivative outflows (1,124) (967) (791) (165) (665) (427) (6,495) (5,915) (16,549) Gross settled derivative inflows 1,101 928 771 142 621 387 6,146 5,605 15,701 Gross settled derivatives – net flows (23) (39) (20) (23) (44) (40) (349) (310) (848) Financial statements Net settled derivative liabilities (70) (175) (174) (258) (300) (865) (1,373) (1,224) (4,439) Total derivative financial liabilities (93) (214) (194) (281) (344) (905) (1,722) (1,534) (5,287) Total financial liabilities 145,986 5,350 6,838 4,423 8,585 20,236 22,784 15,435 229,637 Off-balance sheet commitments (note iii) 11,416 11,416 Total financial liabilities including off-balance sheet 157,402 5,350 6,838 4,423 8,585 20,236 22,784 15,435 241,053 commitments Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 190 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Gross contractual cash flows 2019 Due less than Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after Total one month one and three and six and nine and one and two and more than (note i) three months six months nine months twelve two years five years five years months (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Shares 131,451 3,098 4,121 1,525 1,514 4,063 7,605 1,141 154,518 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 3,026 32 153 31 31 6,102 11,119 20,494 Other deposits 2,295 630 2,096 25 19 4 12 5,081 Governance Secured funding – ABS and covered bonds 1,199 835 172 185 186 4,313 7,493 5,901 20,284 Senior unsecured funding 43 4,670 4,270 518 524 252 2,656 3,486 16,419 Subordinated liabilities 20 123 28 75 888 607 6,412 8,153 Subscribed capital (note ii) 1 1 4 3 4 13 68 217 311 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 138,035 9,266 10,939 2,315 2,353 15,635 29,560 17,157 225,260 Derivative financial liabilities: Gross settled derivative outflows (439) (2,565) (1,243) (76) (71) (1,951) (2,840) (5,349) (14,534) Gross settled derivative inflows 427 2,485 1,185 58 45 1,783 2,595 5,086 13,664 Gross settled derivatives – net flows (12) (80) (58) (18) (26) (168) (245) (263) (870) Risk report Net settled derivative liabilities (28) (125) (101) (130) (119) (368) (579) (916) (2,366) Total derivative financial liabilities (40) (205) (159) (148) (145) (536) (824) (1,179) (3,236) Total financial liabilities 137,995 9,061 10,780 2,167 2,208 15,099 28,736 15,978 222,024 Off-balance sheet commitments (note iii) 12,956 12,956 Total financial liabilities including off-balance sheet 150,951 9,061 10,780 2,167 2,208 15,099 28,736 15,978 234,980 commitments Financial statements Notes: i. Due less than one month includes amounts repayable on demand. ii. The principal amount for undated subscribed capital is included within the due more than five years column. iii. Off-balance sheet commitments include amounts payable on demand for undrawn loan commitments, customer overpayments on residential mortgages where the borrower is able to draw down the amount overpaid and commitments to acquire financial assets. Asset encumbrance Encumbrance arises where assets are pledged as collateral against secured funding and other collateralised obligations and therefore cannot be used for other purposes. The majority of asset Other information encumbrance arises from the use of prime mortgage pools to collateralise the Covered Bond and securitisation programmes (further information is included in note 14 to the financial statements) and from participation in the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme (TFS). The increase in encumbrance as a result of securitisation reflects additional collateral added to the Group's Silverstone secured funding programme during the year to provide future funding capacity. Certain unencumbered assets are readily available to secure funding or meet collateral requirements. These include prime mortgages and cash and securities held in the liquid asset buffer. Other unencumbered assets, such as non-prime mortgages, are capable of being encumbered with a degree of further management action. Assets which do not fall into either of these categories are classified as not being capable of being encumbered. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 191 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report An analysis of Nationwide’s encumbered and unencumbered on-balance sheet assets is set out below. This disclosure is not intended to identify assets that would be available in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy. Asset encumbrance 2020 Assets encumbered as a result of transactions with Other assets (comprising assets encumbered at the Total counterparties other than central banks central bank and unencumbered assets) Assets not positioned Assets positioned at the at the central bank As a result of covered central bank (i.e. Other assets that Governance Readily available As a result of prepositioned plus are capable of Cannot be bonds securitisations Other encumbered) for encumbrance being encumbered encumbered Total Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Cash 600 657 1,257 12,193 298 12,491 13,748 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 1,555 1,555 1,355 726 2,081 3,636 Risk report Investment securities 2,506 2,506 16,006 1,492 17,498 20,004 Derivative financial instruments 4,771 4,771 4,771 Loans and advances to customers 28,003 15,177 43,180 42,217 65,687 49,894 157,798 200,978 Non-financial assets 3,130 3,130 3,130 Other financial assets 1,774 1,774 1,774 Total 28,603 15,834 4,061 48,498 43,572 93,886 49,894 12,191 199,543 248,041 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial statements Cash (note i) 590 660 1,250 10,999 244 11,243 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 1,352 1,352 1,276 1,381 2,657 4,009 Investment securities 1,694 1,694 30 13,043 1,467 14,540 16,234 Derivative financial instruments 3,562 3,562 3,562 Loans and advances to customers 22,656 6,936 29,592 39,558 82,561 47,340 169,459 199,051 Non-financial assets 2,541 2,541 2,541 Other financial assets 411 411 411 Total 23,246 7,596 3,046 33,888 40,864 106,603 47,340 9,606 204,413 238,301 Other information Note: i. The prior year comparative for cash not positioned at the central bank, readily available for encumbrance, has been restated by £140 million to £10,999 million. The £140 million was previously shown under assets positioned at the central bank (i.e. prepositioned plus encumbered). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 192 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report Managing liquidity and funding risk Nationwide’s management of liquidity and funding risks aims to ensure that there are sufficient liquid assets at all times, both as to amount and quality, to: • cover cash flow mismatches and fluctuations in funding • retain public confidence • meet financial obligations as they fall due, even during episodes of stress. This is achieved through the management and stress testing of business cash flows, and through the translation of Board risk appetite into appropriate risk limits. This ensures a prudent funding Governance mix and maturity profile, sufficient levels of high-quality liquid assets and appropriate encumbrance levels are maintained. The liquidity and funding risk framework is reviewed by the Board as part of the annual Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). ALCO is responsible for managing the balance sheet structure, including the Funding Plan, and its risks. This includes setting and monitoring more granular limits within Board limits. A consolidated cash flow forecast is maintained and reviewed weekly to support ALCO in monitoring key risk metrics. A Liquidity Contingency Plan (LCP), which is part of the wider recovery plan framework, is maintained which describes early warning triggers for indicating an emerging liquidity or funding stress as well as escalation procedures and a range of actions that could be taken in response to ensure sufficient liquidity is maintained. The LCP is tested annually to ensure it remains robust. Nationwide’s Recovery Plan describes potential actions that could be utilised in a more extreme stress. Risk report Liquidity stress testing To mitigate liquidity and funding risks generated by its business activities, Nationwide aims to maintain a liquid asset buffer of at least 100% of the anticipated outflows seen under internal stress test scenarios and the regulatory-prescribed LCR. Potential contractual and behavioural stress outflows are assessed across a range of liquidity risk drivers over 30 calendar days, with the key assumptions shown below. An assessment over three months is also performed against which LCP capacity is assessed. Internal stress assumptions are reviewed regularly with changes approved by ALCO and approved annually by the Board as part of Financial statements the ILAAP. Liquidity risk driver Modelling assumptions used Retail funding Significant unexpected outflows are experienced with no new deposits received. Wholesale funding Following a credit rating downgrade: • zero roll-over of maturing long-term wholesale funding; • zero roll-over of maturing short-term funding received from financial counterparties and partial roll-over from non-financial counterparties; and Other information • no new wholesale funding received. Off-balance sheet Contractual outflows occur in relation to secured funding programmes due to credit rating downgrades. Lending commitments continue to be met. Collateral outflows arise due to adverse movements in market rates. Expected inflows from mortgages or retail and commercial loans are recognised. Intra-day Liquidity is needed to pre-fund outgoing payments. Liquid assets Asset values are reduced in recognition of the stressed conditions assumed. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 193 Risk report (continued) Liquidity and funding risk (continued) Strategic report At 4 April 2020, under the most severe internal 30 calendar day stress test (a combined market-wide and Nationwide-specific stress scenario), the liquid asset buffer as a percentage of stressed net outflows equated to 140% (2019: 119%). External credit ratings The Group’s long-term and short-term credit ratings are shown in the table below. The long-term rating for both Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s is the senior preferred rating. The long-term rating for Fitch is the senior non-preferred rating. Credit ratings Governance Senior Short-term Senior Tier 2 Date of last rating Outlook preferred non-preferred action / confirmation Standard & Poor’s A A-1 BBB+ BBB April 2020 Stable Moody’s A1 P-1 Baa2 Baa2 April 2020 Negative Fitch A+ F-1 A BBB+ April 2020 Negative In April 2020 S&P revised Nationwide’s outlook to stable from positive based on the economic impact of Covid-19 and affirmed the ratings 'A/A-1' longand short-term issuer credit ratings (ICRs). This follows S&P’s previous affirmation in January 2020 which took into account Nationwide's increase of loss-absorbing capacity, principally through senior non-preferred debt issuance. S&P therefore raised the additional loss-absorbing capacity (ALAC) uplift in the long-term issuer credit ratings to two notches from one. S&P offset the additional notch, however, by introducing a Risk report negative adjustment notch based on a rating comparison with global peers. In April 2020, Moody’s downgraded Nationwide’s long-term rating from Aa3 to A1 citing their expectation that the decline in the Society’s profitability in recent years is now unlikely to be reversed. Nationwide’s short-term rating of P-1 was affirmed. The outlook remains on negative and reflects uncertainties embedded in Moody’s forward-looking view on the loss given failure of the Society’s senior debt. In April 2020, Fitch revised the outlook on Nationwide’s Long Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to negative, along with five other UK building societies and affirmed the IDRs. The rating actions Financial statements reflected the economic and financial market fallout from the Covid-19 outbreak. Previously in March 2019, Fitch placed the IDR of Nationwide, along with eighteen other UK banking groups, on Ratings Watch Negative. The Ratings Watch Negative reflected the heightened uncertainty over the ultimate outcome of the Brexit process and the increased risk that a disruptive ‘no-deal’ Brexit could result in negative action on the UK banks, with the likelihood that negative outlooks will be assigned. Fitch reaffirmed this in September 2019. In December 2019, Fitch removed the Ratings Watch Negative and revised Nationwide’s Outlook to Stable. The table below sets out the amount of additional collateral Nationwide would need to provide in the event of a one and two notch downgrade by external credit rating agencies. Cumulative adjustment for Cumulative adjustment for a one notch downgrade a two notch downgrade Other information £bn £bn 2020 (note i) 0.2 3.8 2019 3.0 3.4 Note: i. The impact of a one notch downgrade has reduced in 2020 as a result of contractual changes in secured funding programme agreements. The contractually required cash outflow would not necessarily match the actual cash outflow as a result of management actions that could be taken to reduce the impact of the downgrades. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 194 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk Strategic report Solvency risk is the risk that Nationwide fails to maintain sufficient capital to absorb losses throughout a full economic cycle and sufficient to maintain the confidence of current and prospective investors, members, the Board and regulators. Capital is held to protect members, cover inherent risks, provide a buffer for stress events and support the business strategy. In assessing the adequacy of capital resources, risk appetite is considered in the context of the material risks to which Nationwide is exposed and the appropriate strategies required to manage those risks. Managing solvency risk A number of tools are employed to support the management of solvency risk. The Board is responsible for setting risk appetite with respect to solvency risk, which is articulated through its risk appetite statements, and it defines minimum levels of capital, including leverage, that it is willing to operate with. These are translated into specific risk metrics, which are monitored by the Board Risk Committee (BRC), Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) and other internal management reviews. Governance The capital structure is managed to ensure that Nationwide continues to meet minimum regulatory requirements, as well as meeting the expectations of other key stakeholders. As part of the risk appetite framework, strong capital ratios are targeted relative to both regulatory requirements and major banking peers. Any planned changes to the balance sheet, potential regulatory developments and other factors (such as trading outlook, movements in the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve and defined benefit pension deficit) are all considered. The capital strategy is to manage capital ratios through retained earnings, supplemented by external capital where appropriate. With general reserves forming the majority of capital resources, profitability is an important factor when considering the ability to meet capital requirements. A return on capital framework is in place, based upon an allocation of overall capital requirements, which forms part of the Society’s Board risk appetite metrics as well as forming part of the performance monitoring activity for individual product segments. In recent years, Nationwide’s ability to supplement retained earnings through the issuance of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), Additional Tier 1 (AT1) and Tier 2 capital instruments has been demonstrated. Risk report Capital is held to meet Pillar 1 requirements for credit, operational and market risks. In addition, the PRA requires firms to hold capital to meet Pillar 2A requirements, which form an Individual Capital Requirement (ICR). This is a point in time estimate, set by the PRA on an annual basis based on the submission of the results of the annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). This process confirms the amount of capital required to be held to meet risks partly covered by Pillar 1 such as credit concentration and operational risk, and risks not covered by Pillar 1 such as pension and interest rate risk. The combination of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements form Nationwide’s Total Capital Requirement (TCR). The ICR and TCR replace the former Individual Capital Guidance (ICG). Nationwide’s latest Pillar 2A ICR and TCR were received in October 2019. The ICR equates to £2.6 billion, of which at least £1.4 billion must be met by CET1 capital. The ICR was equivalent to 7.6% of Financial statements risk weighted assets (RWAs) as at 4 April 2020 (2019: 7.4%), largely reflecting the low average risk weight, given that approximately 76% (2019: 78%) of total assets are in the form of secured residential mortgages. To protect against the risk of consuming Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements (thereby breaching TCR), firms are subject to regulatory capital buffers which are set out in Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV). The PRA may set an additional firm-specific PRA buffer based upon supervisory judgement informed by the results of the Bank of England’s stress testing scenarios. This assessment will consider the impacts on a firm’s capital requirements and resources and take into account other factors including leverage, systemic importance and any weaknesses in firms’ risk management and governance procedures. The ICAAP process also considers appropriate internal capital buffers to ensure that the impact of a severe but plausible stress can be absorbed. Regular stress tests are undertaken, covering Nationwide and its subsidiaries, to enhance the understanding of potential vulnerabilities and how management actions might be deployed in the event Other information of stressed conditions developing. These stress tests project capital resources and requirements over a multi-year period, during severe but plausible scenarios that cover a range of macro-economic or market-wide stresses, and idiosyncratic scenarios that test particular risks to Nationwide’s business model. Stress test results are reported to the Board Risk Committee. Nationwide aims to be in a position where it would maintain strong capital and leverage ratios in the event of a severe but plausible economic or idiosyncratic stress. Embedded in the risk appetite framework is an expectation to maintain the CET1 and leverage ratios in excess of regulatory minima under stressed conditions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 195 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk (continued) Strategic report Nationwide maintains a Recovery Plan under UK regulatory rules implementing the European Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD). This contains a set of management actions that would be available to support our capital position in the event of a breach of one or more of our risk metrics. In addition, reverse stress testing is carried out using extreme, highly improbable scenarios to further test the viability of our business model. During 2019, the major UK banks and building societies, including Nationwide, took part in the PRA’s annual concurrent stress test (CST), which included two scenarios. The main scenario, the Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS), assessed firms’ resilience to a severe economic downturn, characterised by an increase in the Bank of England base rate to 4%, a 33% fall in UK house prices and a 4.7% fall in UK GDP. The Financial Policy Committee (FPC) uses these results to assess the resilience of participating firms to periods of severe but plausible stress. Despite the severity of the ACS, the results illustrate the strength and resilience of Nationwide, with low point CET1 and UK leverage ratios of 13.1% and 4.8% respectively after the application of management actions. Whilst the leverage ratio remained relatively stable, risk weighted assets increased significantly causing a reduction in the CET1 ratio, largely due to the use of Point in Time (PiT) Governance modelling approaches for secured portfolios. As part of the Bank of England announcement on 20 March 2020 in relation to Covid-19, the planned concurrent stress testing activities for 2020 were cancelled. This was intended to aid participants in their continued focus on the provision of services during the Covid-19 pandemic, where the Bank of England and PRA noted that the 2019 stress test showed that the UK banking system was resilient to periods of stress that are more severe overall than that caused by the 2007-08 global financial crisis. Whilst it is not clear how the impacts relating to Covid-19 will play out in the future, it is likely to lead to some RWA inflation and therefore a lower CET1 ratio in the short to medium term. Nationwide is undertaking planning activities which reflect a range of potential outcomes. However, the current capital position and the published stress testing results show that Nationwide is currently well capitalised and well positioned to meet such periods of financial stress. Risk report Capital position The capital disclosures included in this report are on a CRD IV end point basis with IFRS 9 transitional arrangements applied. This assumes that all CRD IV requirements are in force during the period, with no CRD IV transitional provisions permitted. In addition, the disclosures are on a consolidated Group basis, including all subsidiary entities, unless otherwise stated. Capital ratios 2020 2019 Financial statements Solvency % % Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio (note i) 31.9 32.2 Total Tier 1 ratio (note i) 33.7 35.2 Total regulatory capital ratio (note i) 43.6 44.3 Leverage £m £m UK leverage exposure (note i,ii) 240,707 235,317 CRR leverage exposure (note i,iii) 254,388 247,757 Tier 1 capital 11,258 11,509 % % Other information UK leverage ratio 4.7 4.9 CRR leverage ratio 4.4 4.6 Notes: i. The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased total RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal place. ii. The UK leverage ratio is calculated using the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) definition of Tier 1 for the capital amount and the Delegated Act definition of the exposure measure, excluding eligible central bank reserves. iii. The CRR leverage ratio is calculated using the CRR definition of Tier 1 for the capital amount and the Delegated Act definition of the exposure measure. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 196 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk (continued) Strategic report The CET1 ratio reduced to 31.9% (2019: 32.2% 1) primarily as a result of a £0.7 billion increase in risk weighted assets (RWAs). This was driven primarily by the application of the new securitisation framework per Regulation (EU) 2017/2401, which from 1 January 2020 was applicable to all securitisation positions. Securitisations that are yet to comply with the Simple, Transparent, and Standardised (STS) criteria, generally those issued prior to the introduction of the framework, incur a higher risk weight. In addition, there was an increase in the balance sheet value of fixed assets following the change to accounting for leases on adoption of IFRS 16. CET1 capital resources increased by £0.1 billion, due to profit after tax for the financial year of £0.4 billion, partially offset by distributions. On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England made an announcement regarding its responses to the impacts of Covid-19. This included reducing the UK countercyclical buffer rate from 1% to 0%, which is intended to release capital to support the banks and building societies operating in the UK, to lend to individuals and businesses. This reduced Nationwide’s CRD IV combined capital buffer requirement by 1% to 3.5% of RWAs. Governance Risk-based capital ratios remain in excess of regulatory requirements with the CET1 ratio of 31.9% (2019: 32.2%1) above Nationwide’s CET1 capital requirement of 12.3%. This includes a minimum CET1 capital requirement of 8.8% (Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A) and the CRD IV combined buffer requirements of 3.5% of RWAs. The economic impacts relating to Covid-19 are also likely to lead to some RWA inflation and therefore a lower CET1 ratio in the short to medium term. However, based on the Bank of England’s published stress testing results, Nationwide expects to maintain a surplus above the CRD IV combined buffer requirements and the threshold at which a maximum distributable amount would be imposed. The CET1 ratio is expected to be impacted by future regulatory developments. The implementation of new IRB models is expected to cause an increase in RWAs which will lead to an estimated reduction in the CET1 ratio of approximately one third based on the current capital position. The implementation of these models has been delayed by the Bank of England by one year from January Risk report 2021 to January 2022, as part of its response to the impacts of Covid-19. It is expected that the CET1 ratio will be impacted further by the finalised Basel III reforms which come into effect progressively between 2023 and 2028. Further details are given in the regulatory developments section below. CRD IV requires firms to calculate a non-risk-based leverage ratio, to supplement risk-based capital requirements. The UK leverage ratio of 4.7% (2019: 4.9%) remains in excess of Nationwide’s capital requirement of 3.6%, which comprises a minimum Tier 1 capital requirement of 3.25% and buffer requirements of 0.35%. This reflects a 0% countercyclical leverage ratio buffer due to the impact of the Bank of England Covid-19 announcement noted above. Financial statements Nationwide’s UK leverage ratio reduced to 4.7% (2019: 4.9%) with Tier 1 capital reducing by £0.2 billion, as a result of the net redemption of £0.4 billion of AT1 capital instruments. This was in conjunction with an increase in UK leverage exposure of £5.4 billion primarily as a result of net retail lending and treasury investments over the year. The CRR leverage ratio is based on the Delegated Act definition and therefore exposures include central bank reserves. This also reduced by 0.2%, closing at 4.4% (2019: 4.6%). Leverage requirements continue to be Nationwide’s binding capital constraint, as they are in excess of risk-based requirements, and it is expected that this will continue despite the impact of IRB model changes and Basel III reforms on risk-based capital requirements. The expected impact of the Basel III reforms on Nationwide’s UK leverage ratio is negligible. The risk of excessive leverage is managed through regular monitoring and reporting of the leverage ratio, which forms part of risk appetite. Further details on the leverage exposure can be found in the Group’s annual Pillar 3 Disclosure 2020 at nationwide.co.uk Other information 1 The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures; this increased RWAs by 0.5%, leading to a reduction of 0.2% in the CET1 ratio. There is no change to the UK or CRR leverage ratio to 1 decimal point. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 197 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk (continued) Strategic report The table below reconciles the general reserves to total regulatory capital on an end-point basis and so does not include non-qualifying instruments. Total regulatory capital 2020 2019 (Audited) £m £m General reserve 10,749 10,418 Core capital deferred shares (CCDS) 1,325 1,325 Revaluation reserve 48 64 FVOCI reserve (17) 50 Governance Regulatory adjustments and deductions: Foreseeable distributions (note i) (61) (68) Prudent valuation adjustment (note ii) (54) (50) Own credit and debit valuation adjustments (note iii) (3) Intangible assets (note iv) (1,200) (1,274) Goodwill (note iv) (12) (12) Defined-benefit pension fund assets (note iv) (190) Excess of regulatory expected losses over impairment provisions (note v) (2) IFRS 9 transitional arrangements (note vi) 80 66 Total regulatory adjustments and deductions (1,440) (1,340) Risk report Common Equity Tier 1 capital 10,665 10,517 Additional Tier 1 capital securities (AT1) 593 992 Total Tier 1 capital 11,258 11,509 Dated subordinated debt (notes vii) 3,265 2,976 Excess of impairment provisions over regulatory expected losses (note v) 113 46 IFRS9 transitional arrangements (note vi) (58) (46) Financial statements Tier 2 capital 3,320 2,976 Total regulatory capital 14,578 14,485 Notes: i. Foreseeable distributions in respect of CCDS and AT1 securities are deducted from CET1 capital under CRD IV. ii. A prudent valuation adjustment (PVA) is applied in respect of fair valued instruments as required under regulatory capital rules. iii. Own credit and debit valuation adjustments are applied to remove balance sheet gains or losses of fair valued liabilities and derivatives that result from changes in our own credit standing and risk, in accordance with CRD IV rules. iv. Intangible, goodwill and defined-benefit pension fund assets are deducted from capital resources after netting associated deferred tax liabilities. Other information v. Where capital expected loss exceeds accounting impairment provisions, the excess balance is removed from CET1 capital, gross of tax. In contrast, where impairment provisions exceed capital expected loss, the excess balance is added back to Tier 2 capital, gross of tax. This calculation is not performed for equity exposures, in line with Article 159 of CRR. The expected loss amounts for equity exposures are deducted from CET1 capital, gross of tax. vi. The transitional adjustments to capital resources apply scaled relief for the impact of IFRS 9, over a five-year transition period. Further detail regarding these adjustments is provided in the Annual Pillar 3 disclosures at nationwide.co.uk vii. Subordinated debt includes fair value adjustments related to changes in market interest rates, adjustments for unamortised premiums and discounts that are included in the consolidated balance sheet, and any amortisation of the capital value of Tier 2 instruments required by regulatory rules for instruments with fewer than five years to maturity. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 198 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk (continued) Strategic report As part of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), the Bank of England, in its capacity as the UK resolution authority, has published its policy for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) and provided firms with indicative MREL. From 1 January 2020, Nationwide was subject to a requirement to hold twice the minimum capital requirements (6.5% of UK leverage exposure), plus the applicable capital requirement buffers, which amount to 0.35% of UK leverage exposure. In order to meet this requirement, Nationwide issued a further £1.6 billion of MREL eligible senior non-preferred notes during the year. At 4 April 2020, total MREL resources were equal to 8.4% (2019: 7.8% 2) of UK leverage ratio exposure above the 2020 loss-absorbing requirement of 6.85% described above. Risk weighted assets Governance The table below shows the breakdown of risk weighted assets (RWAs) by risk type and business activity. Market risk has been set to zero as permitted by the CRR, as the exposure is below the threshold of 2% of own funds. Risk weighted assets 2020 2019 Credit Risk Operational Total Risk Credit Risk Operational Total Risk (note i) Risk (note ii) Weighted Assets (note i) Risk (note ii) Weighted Assets £m £m £m £m £m £m Retail mortgages 14,498 3,145 17,643 14,072 3,393 17,465 Retail unsecured lending 6,029 887 6,916 5,581 778 6,359 Risk report Commercial loans 3,183 143 3,326 3,604 176 3,780 Treasury 1,541 304 1,845 779 152 931 Counterparty credit risk (note iii, iv) 1,619 1,619 1,708 1,708 Other (note v) 1,783 267 2,050 2,095 344 2,439 Total 28,653 4,746 33,399 27,839 4,843 32,682 Notes: Financial statements i. This column includes credit risk exposures, securitisations, counterparty credit risk exposures and exposures below the thresholds for deduction that are subject to a 250% risk weight. ii. RWAs have been allocated according to the business lines within the standardised approach to operational risk, as per article 317 of CRR. iii. Counterparty credit risk relates to derivative financial instruments, securities financing transactions and exposures to central counterparties. iv. The figures for 4 April 2019 have been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures, increasing total RWAs by 0.5%. v. Other relates to equity, fixed and other assets. RWAs increased by £0.7 billion, primarily due to the new securitisation framework which increased treasury credit risk RWAs. Retail mortgage credit risk RWAs also increased due to an increase in net mortgage balances. More detailed analysis of RWAs is included in the Group’s annual Pillar 3 Disclosure 2020 at nationwide.co.uk Other information 2 The figure for 4 April 2019 has been restated in respect of counterparty credit risk exposures, leading to a 0.1% reduction in MREL Annual Report and Accounts 2020 199 Risk report (continued) Solvency risk (continued) Strategic report IRB model risk The performance and accuracy of IRB models is critical to the calculation of credit risk capital requirements. The effectiveness of the models is achieved through clear allocation of roles and responsibilities covering model ownership, approval and governance, ongoing model monitoring, review and independent validation. Further information can be found in the ‘model risk management of IRB risk ratings systems’ section of the Group’s annual Pillar 3 Disclosure 2020 at nationwide.co.uk Regulatory developments Key areas of regulatory change are set out below. Nationwide will remain engaged in the development of the regulatory approach to ensure it is prepared for any change. Governance New residential mortgage IRB models have been submitted to the PRA for approval with the expectation that these models will be implemented by January 2022. This is in line with the revised deadline set by the Bank of England on 20 March 2020 which delays implementation by 1 year from the original January 2021 implementation date set out in PS13/17. The new models will also need to reflect the PRA’s approach to implementing the European Banking Authority’s (EBA’s) recommendations relating to Probability of Default (PD) estimation, Loss Given Default (LGD) estimation and the treatment of defaulted exposures. This is as part of the IRB approach to credit risk as set out in PS 11/20. It is currently estimated that the impact of these models will reduce the reported CET1 ratio by approximately one third from the current level, given the material increase in risk weighted assets. The Basel Committee published their final reforms to the Basel III framework in December 2017. The amendments include changes to the standardised approaches for credit and operational risks and the introduction of a new RWA output floor. The rules are subject to a lengthy revised transitional period from 2023 to 2028. These reforms will lead to a significant increase in the Group’s risk Risk report weights over time. Nationwide currently expect the consequential impact on the reported CET1 ratio to ultimately be a reduction of approximately a half relative to the current capital position. The change relates to the application of standardised floors which override IRB model outputs. Organic earnings through the transition will mitigate this impact such that the reported CET1 ratio is expected to remain in excess of the pro forma levels implied by this change. These reforms represent a re-calibration of regulatory requirements with no underlying change in the capital resources held or the risk profile of assets. Final impacts are uncertain as they are subject to future balance sheet size and mix, and because the final detail of some elements of the regulatory changes remain at the PRA’s discretion. Since 4 April 2020, the European Commission has announced amendments to the treatment of IFRS9 transitional capital relief. This is intended to provide relief for an increase in provisions as a result of the economic impacts of Covid-19. This is expected to be implemented by 30 June 2020 and as such any impacts of this change will be captured within future capital disclosures. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 200 Risk report (continued) Market risk Strategic report Summary Market risk is the risk that the net value of, or net income arising from, assets and liabilities is impacted as a result of changes in market prices or rates, specifically interest rates, currency rates or equity prices. Nationwide has limited appetite for market risk and does not have a trading book. Market risk is closely monitored and managed to ensure the level of risk remains within appetite. Market risks are not taken unless they are essential to core business activities and they provide stability of earnings, minimise costs or enable operational efficiency. The principal market risks, linked to Nationwide’s balance sheet assets and liabilities, are listed in the table below, irrespective of materiality. Market risk linkage to the balance sheet Governance Market risk 2020 £bn Interest rate risk Product option Basis risk Swap spread risk Currency risk risk Assets Cash 13.7 ● ● Loans and advances to banks 3.6 ● ● ● Investment securities 20.0 ● ● ● ● Derivative financial instruments 4.8 ● ● ● ● ● Loans and advances to customers 201.0 ● ● ● ● Risk report Other assets (note i) 4.9 ● ● ● Total assets 248.0 Liabilities Shares (customer deposits) 159.7 ● ● ● Deposits from banks 21.8 ● ● ● Other deposits 4.5 ● ● ● Financial statements Due to customers 0.0 ● ● ● ● Debt securities in issue 36.0 ● ● ● Derivative financial instruments 1.9 ● ● ● ● ● Subordinated liabilities 9.3 ● ● ● Other liabilities 1.8 ● ● ● Total liabilities 235.0 Note: i. Other assets include the difference between the assets and liabilities of the Nationwide Pension Fund (a defined benefit pension scheme). Nationwide’s obligations to the Nationwide Pension Fund result in Pension Other information risk, which includes exposure to market risk factors such as interest rate risk, inflation risk, and equity risk (share prices). Pension risk is managed separately from the market risk arising from Nationwide’s core business. For further details, see the ‘Pension risk’ section of this report. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 201 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report Global market conditions During the year, general market conditions have been dominated by the uncertainty primarily caused by Brexit and at the end of the financial year the uncertain impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the responses to it. At 4 April 2020, sterling was below its 2019 peak against the dollar in December, and swap rates fell by approximately 80% over the year, approaching historic lows. The Bank of England (BoE) reduced the bank base rate twice in quick succession by 0.5% and then 0.15% to 0.1% in March, primarily in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Globally, economies continued to report low levels of growth through the last year, including the UK and Eurozone, with significant economic uncertainty ahead from the Covid-19 pandemic. As at the year end, the global response to Covid-19 has led to central bank rate cuts, the introduction of further monetary easing, and the announcement of significant support for the broader UK economy from the UK Government. Governance Regulation The UK regulators have reiterated their intention to transition from Libor to alternative benchmark rates by the end of 2021. Nationwide is directly impacted through exposure to Libor-linked assets, liabilities and derivative transactions. Nationwide is closely engaged with the Bank of England’s Working Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates and other industry bodies, and activity is underway to progress and manage the impacts of this transition. The European Banking Authority’s (EBA) final guidelines on Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB) became effective in June 2019, Nationwide monitors its exposures against the prescribed shocks, as well as against internally generated shock scenarios. Final standardised market disclosures for IRRBB are expected to be implemented through ongoing revisions to the CRDV and CRR2. Risk report Market risk appetite Nationwide’s market risk exposure arises in the banking book; it does not have a trading book. Most of the exposure to market risk arises from fixed rate mortgages or savings and changes in the market value of the liquidity portfolio. There is a limited amount of currency risk on non-sterling financial assets and liabilities held. The Board is responsible for setting market risk appetite and the Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) is responsible for managing Nationwide’s market risk profile within this defined risk appetite. Market risk is managed within a comprehensive risk framework which includes policies, limit setting and monitoring, stress testing and robust governance controls. Relevant market risk Financial statements metrics are reported monthly to ALCO. Market risk management The principal market risks that affect Nationwide are listed below together with the types of risk reporting measures used: Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 202 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report Market risk Definition Reporting measure exposure Interest rate risk The impact of market movements in interest rates, which affects the interest rate margin realised from lending and borrowing Value sensitivity / Value at risk / Net interest activities. Volatility in short term interest rates can also impact the net income contribution from rate insensitive liabilities. Income sensitivity / Economic value of equity sensitivity The impact on earnings of relative changes in short term interest rate benchmarks, for example between bank base rate and Basis risk Earnings sensitivity LIBOR Swap spread risk The impact on the market value of treasury investments arising from changes in the spread between bond yields and swap rates Value at risk Governance Currency risk The impact on earnings due to changes in exchange rates Value sensitivity / Value at risk Product option risk The impact from changes to hedging which may be required when customer behaviour deviates from expectations, principally Value at risk resulting from early repayment of fixed rate loans Nationwide has a capital requirement for each of the above market risks. In addition, stress analysis is used to evaluate the impact of more extreme, but plausible events. These analytical techniques are described below with a review of the exposures during the year. Value and earning sensitivities Risk report Sensitivity analysis is used to assess the change in value of the net exposure to defined parallel and non-parallel shifts in interest rates. For example, a one basis point (0.01%) shift is measured using PV01. This analysis is performed daily by currency. Earning sensitivity metrics are used to measure and quantify exposure to interest rate risks, including basis risk. These techniques assess the impact on earnings when rate shocks are applied to the rates paid on liabilities and to the rates earned on assets. Nationwide also measures interest rate risk through net interest income (NII) and economic value of equity (EVE) measures, under a range of shock scenarios which include behavioural assumptions for retail products as interest rates change. These measures are assessed based on the standard shocks prescribed by European Banking Authority (EBA) guidelines, as well as against internally generated shock scenarios. Financial statements • NII sensitivities assess the impact to earnings in different interest rate shocks over a one-year period. Sensitivities are calculated based on a static balance sheet, where all assets and liabilities maturing within the year are reinvested in like for like products. The sensitivity also includes the impact arising from off-balance sheet exposures. • EVE sensitivities measure the change in value of interest rate sensitive items, both on and off-balance sheet, under a range of interest rate shocks. Sensitivities are calculated on a run-off balance sheet basis. Both NII and EVE sensitivities are measured monthly, with risk limits set against the various shocks. Value at risk (VaR) Other information VaR is a technique that estimates the minimum potential losses that could occur from risk positions because of future movements in market rates and prices, over a specified time horizon, to a given level of statistical confidence. VaR is based on historic market behaviour and uses a series of recorded market rates and prices to derive plausible future scenarios. This considers interrelationships between different markets and rates. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 203 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report The VaR model incorporates risk factors based on historic interest rate and currency movements. A 10-day horizon and a 99% confidence level is typically used in day to day VaR monitoring. VaR is used to monitor interest rate, swap spread, currency and product option risks and is not used to model income. Exposures against limits are reviewed daily by management. Actual outcomes are monitored on an ongoing basis by management to test the validity of the assumptions and factors used in the VaR calculation. The values reported below are on the same basis as those used internally. Although VaR is a valuable risk measure, it needs to be viewed in the context of the following limitations which may mean that exposures could be higher than modelled: • The use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take account of changes in value that might occur beyond this level of confidence; • VaR models often under-predict the likelihood of extreme events and over-predict the benefits of offsetting positions in those extreme events; Governance • The VaR model uses historical data to predict future events. Extreme market moves outside of those used to calibrate the model will deliver exceptions. In periods where volatility is increasing, the model is likely to under-predict market risks and in periods where volatility is decreasing it is likely to over-predict market risks; • Historical data may not adequately predict circumstances arising from government interventions and stimulus packages, which increase the difficulty of evaluating risks. To seek to mitigate these limitations, backtesting of the VaR model is undertaken regularly to ensure that the model is appropriate. This process compares actual performance against the estimated VaR numbers. An exception is created when a loss occurs that is greater than the VaR on any given day. The chart below shows the results of this backtesting. The loss exceptions seen were all driven by significant movements in market rates, most notably in the period leading up to year end with the unprecedented events causing three exceptions in as many weeks. The dynamic recalibration of the VaR model has increased the VaR model output following the incorporation of the period of heightened market volatility caused by Covid-19. In 2019/20, the backtesting and broader model governance did not highlight any model deficiencies. VaR backtesting 99%/1-day Risk report Key: Actual return Backtesting loss exception 99% 1-day VaR £m 4.00 3.00 Financial statements 2.00 1.00 0.00 -1.00 -2.00 Other information -3.00 -4.00 Apr-19 Jul-19 Oct-19 Jan-20 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 204 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report The model will continue to be subject to an annual review process to ensure it remains appropriate for risk reporting. The types of risks not captured in VaR include: • Market liquidity risk – this has a limited impact because, whilst Nationwide requires an appropriate level of market liquidity to manage market risk, it does not have a high ongoing dependency on liquidity for market risk purposes as it does not operate a trading book; • Level 3 asset valuation uncertainty – only a very small portfolio of these assets is held so the impact is limited. Any valuation uncertainty is included within the Prudent Valuation Adjustment reflected in capital resources; and • Interest rate movements that can impact credit/debit valuation adjustments (CVA/DVA). These are not captured in the VaR or sensitivity analysis but are negligible. Stress analysis Governance To evaluate the potential impact of more extreme but plausible events or movements in a set of financial variables, the standard VaR metric is supported with sensitivity and stress analysis. For example, for interest rate risk exposures, the standard PV01 sensitivity analysis is supplemented by the production of stressed sensitivity measures. A more severe 200 basis point (2.0%) parallel shift in interest rates is calculated in a similar manner to PV01; this sensitivity analysis is known as PV200. PV200 numbers are generated and monitored daily. In addition, stressed VaR is used to estimate the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements in a stressed environment. It is calculated in the same way as standard VaR, calibrated over a two-year period and on a 99% 10-day basis, but uses market data from a period of significant financial stress. Interest rate risk Risk report Nationwide’s main market risk is interest rate risk. Market movements in interest rates affect the interest rate margin realised from lending and borrowing activities. To reduce the impact of such movements, hedging activities are undertaken by Nationwide’s Treasury function. For example, interest rate risks generated by lending to and receiving deposits from customers are offset against each other internally where possible. The remaining net exposure is managed using derivatives, within parameters set by ALCO. In addition to primary lending and borrowing activities, income volatility arising from certain rate insensitive products (including reserves and CCDS) are structurally hedged. Nationwide’s interest rate risk is measured using a combination of value-based assessments and earnings sensitivity assessments. The table below demonstrates Nationwide’s limited exposure to interest rate risk, shown against a range of value-based assessments. The risk exposure is calculated each day and summarised over the financial year: Financial statements Interest rate risk 2020 2019 Average High Low Average High Low £m £m £m £m £m £m VaR (99%/10-day) (audited) 1.3 4.2 0.4 1.1 3.1 0.4 Sensitivity analysis (PV01) (audited) 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 (0.1) Stress testing (PV200: all currencies) 6.1 22.6 (14.1) 6.1 21.4 (23.4) Other information The interest rate sensitivities in the table above do not include retail product behavioural changes, which are captured by other measures. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 205 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report Net interest income (NII) Earnings sensitivity assessments measure the risk that income is adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates is measured monthly using a forecasting model and potential interest rate scenarios. The table below sets out the sensitivity of pre-tax future earnings over a one-year period to instantaneous parallel rises and falls in interest rates. Potential favourable/(adverse) impact on annual earnings (Audited) 2020 2019 Governance £m £m +200 basis points shift 124 132 +100 basis points shift 64 64 -25 basis points shift (70) (26) The following key judgements should be noted in respect of the table above: • the interest rate sensitivities set out above are illustrative only and are based on a static balance sheet; all assets and liabilities maturing within the year are assumed to reinvest in like for like products; Risk report • the reported sensitivities will vary over time due to several factors, such as the timing of maturing assets and liabilities, market conditions, and strategic changes to the balance sheet mix, and should not therefore be considered a guide to future performance; • the sensitivity analysis includes all financial assets and liabilities held at balance sheet date; • the model assumes that changes in interest rates are fully passed through to managed variable rate products, unless a 0% floor is reached; and • the sensitivities do not take account of any management actions. The increase in sensitivity in the -25 basis point shift in 2020 reflects the lower bank rate environment and resulting negative rate environment within the modelled shock. Most of Nationwide’s NII Financial statements sensitivity arises from its managed rate savings portfolio and its ability to pass through rate changes. To provide an illustrative example, for every 0.01% of interest rate change not passed through to managed rate savings products, a £12 million change in NII would occur. Economic value of equity (EVE) Nationwide also measures interest rate risk through EVE sensitivity which identifies the change in value of interest rate sensitive items, both on and off-balance sheet, under a range of interest rate shocks prescribed by EBA guidelines. This measure includes behavioural assumptions using a run-off balance sheet basis. EVE is managed against internal and regulatory risk limits and is monitored monthly at ALCO. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 206 Risk report (continued) Market risk (continued) Strategic report Basis risk Basis risk arises where variable rate assets and liabilities re-price with reference to differing short term interest rate benchmarks. The primary interest rates that Nationwide is exposed to are the Bank of England base rate, Sterling Overnight Index Average (Sonia) and three-month sterling Libor. If the difference between these interest rates changes over time, this may impact earnings. Assets and liabilities are offset when their reference rate, or ‘basis’ type, is matched. Exposure to the net mismatch is mitigated, where required, by transacting basis swaps to ensure Nationwide remains within internally agreed risk limits. Swap spread risk Governance A liquidity portfolio is held to manage Nationwide’s liquidity risk. These assets are predominantly fixed rate sovereign debt securities. Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the interest rate risk associated with these assets. However, there remains a residual risk associated with the possible movement in the spread between sovereign debt yields and swap rates. This ‘swap spread risk’ reflects the fact that the market value of the liquidity portfolio assets can change due to movements in bond yields and the swaps due to movements in swap rates. In economic terms, this risk is only realised if a bond is sold and the swap is cancelled ahead of maturity. Swap spread risk is monitored using a historical VaR metric and the risk is controlled via internal limits linked to capital requirements. Exposures are monitored daily and are reported monthly to ALCO. Currency risk Currency exposure is managed through natural offsetting on the balance sheet, with derivatives used to maintain the net exposures within limits. ALCO sets and monitors limits on the net currency Risk report exposure. The table below sets out the limited extent of the residual exposure to currency risk: Currency risk 2020 2019 Average High Low Average High Low Financial statements (Audited) £m £m £m £m £m £m VaR (99%/10-day) 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.1 2.4 0.0 Product option risk Market risk also arises when customers exercise options contained within fixed rate products which can require changes to hedging. The key product risks are prepayment risk (early redemption or underor over-payment of fixed rate mortgages), access risk (early withdrawal of fixed rate savings), and take-up risk (higher or lower completions of fixed rate mortgages than expected). These risk exposures are quantified under a range of stress scenarios using models that predict customer behaviour in response to changes in interest rates. The potential impacts are then closely monitored. These stressed risk measures are subject to a set of limits and are reported to ALCO, along with proposed management actions where necessary to bring the exposures within limits. This approach Other information is also used to assess internal capital requirements for product option risks. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 207 Risk report (continued) Pension risk Strategic report Summary Pension risk is defined as the risk that the value of the pension schemes’ assets will be insufficient to meet the estimated liabilities, creating a pension deficit. Pension risk can negatively impact Nationwide’s capital position and may result in increased cash funding obligations to the pension schemes. Nationwide has funding obligations to a number of defined benefit pension schemes, the largest of which is the Nationwide Pension Fund (the Fund) which represents over 99% of the Society’s pension obligations. The Fund has over 29,000 participants (Fund members), the majority of whom are deferred members (former employee members, not yet retired). The Fund is closed to new employees, although some employees continue to accrue benefits. A decision has been made during 2019/20 to close the Fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021. Further detail is set out below and in note 30 to the financial statements. Governance In accordance with UK legislation, the assets of the Fund are held in a legally separate trust from Nationwide’s assets and are administered by a board of trustees (the Trustee) which has fiduciary responsibilities to Fund members. Nationwide has a responsibility to ensure that Fund members are paid the pension they have been promised. To support this aim, Nationwide has a specialist pensions team to ensure that pension risk is appropriately monitored and managed, whilst helping to educate and engage Fund members about their pension benefits. Risk factors Volatility in investment returns from the assets and the value of the liabilities both cause volatility in the Fund’s net deficit or surplus position. The key risk factors which impact this position are set Risk report out below. These factors can have a positive or negative effect on the position. Asset performance The Fund’s liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to high quality bond yields. This creates a risk that the Fund’s assets perform worse than those bond yields, resulting in the Fund’s net position being volatile or worsening. Financial statements The Fund holds a significant proportion of return-seeking assets, including equities and credit investments. Return seeking assets are expected to outperform liabilities in the long-term, but they are risky and volatile in the short to medium-term. Investments in return-seeking assets are monitored by both the Trustee and Nationwide to ensure they remain appropriate given the Fund’s longterm objectives. Further details are set out in note 30 to the accounts. Liabilities There is a risk that the Fund’s liabilities increase to a level which is not supported by asset performance, whether through discount rate changes, increases in long-term inflation expectations, or increases in the life expectancy (longevity) of Fund members. Other information Actuarial assumptions There is a risk that a change in the methodology used to derive key actuarial assumptions (for example, the discount rate or longevity assumptions) results in a step change in the assessment of the liabilities and therefore the net surplus or deficit (potentially impacting Nationwide's capital and/or deficit funding requirements). The ultimate cost of providing pension benefits over the life of the Fund will depend on actual future events, rather than assumptions made. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 208 Risk report (continued) Pension risk (continued) Strategic report Changes in the year During the year, £61 million of employer deficit contributions were paid. These deficit contributions are included in employer contributions in the table below, together with employer contributions in respect of employee benefit accrual during the period. Following the 31 March 2016 Triennial Valuation, which was completed in 2017, annual employer deficit contributions of £61 million are payable over the years 2018 to 2021, in line with an agreed Deficit Recovery Plan, and employer contributions in respect of employee benefit accrual will be paid in line with an agreed Schedule of Contributions. Nationwide can cease paying deficit contributions in certain circumstances, such as the Fund reaching a funding surplus. The 31 March 2019 Triennial Valuation of the Fund is underway. The Society and Trustee are negotiating, among other things, a new Schedule of Contributions and Deficit Recovery Plan, and this is expected to be agreed in 2020. On 17 February 2020, Nationwide announced that it would be closing the Nationwide Pension Fund to future accrual from 31 March 2021, following a formal consultation in late 2019. This will result in current active members’ benefits being linked to CPI before retirement rather than RPI and salary increases. More detail on this is shown in the case study in the Strategic Report. The one-off Governance reduction in the liabilities is included within the Pension credit shown below. The retirement benefit position on the balance sheet as at 4 April 2020 is a £294 million surplus within assets, (£105 million deficit as at 4 April 2019 in liabilities), as set out below: Changes in the present value of net defined benefit asset/(liability) 2020 2019 £m £m At 5 April (105) (345) Pension credit/(charge) 74 (98) Risk report Net interest credit/(cost) 3 (6) Benefits paid directly by the Group 3 Actuarial remeasurement 195 210 Employer contributions (including deficit contributions) 127 131 At 4 April 294 (105) The movement in the retirement benefit obligation is primarily as a result of an increase in credit spreads (due to a perceived increase in risk associated with the Covid-19 outbreak) which reduces Financial statements the liabilities relative to the assets, as well as the impact of the decision to close the Fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021. This has been partially offset by a fall in the value of equities and illiquid assets held by the Fund, due to market volatility driven by Covid-19. A pension credit of £74 million (2019: £98 million pension charge) was recognised in the income statement, mainly driven by the one-off reduction in the liabilities as a result of the decision to close the Fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021. The actuarial remeasurement quantifies the impact on the deficit from updating financial assumptions (e.g. discount rate and long-term inflation), demographic assumptions (e.g. longevity), reflecting up-to-date membership data, and the return on Fund assets being greater than expected. Further details can be found in the retirement benefit obligation note 30 to the financial statements. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 209 Risk report (continued) Pension risk (continued) Strategic report Outlook Regular analysis, insight and monitoring supports pension risk management and helps Nationwide to anticipate any management actions that may be required. This includes risk appetite articulation and regular reporting to governance committees. In addition, pension risk is embedded into Nationwide’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework and stress testing processes. Nationwide monitors all pension regulation and legislation change which may impact Nationwide’s obligations to the Fund. Over the long term, the Trustee intends to further reduce the Fund’s risk, and Nationwide actively engages with the Trustee to ensure broad alignment on investment objectives and implementation. This is supported by Nationwide’s representation at the Trustee’s Investment and Funding Committee and investment working groups, and the sharing of management information between Nationwide and the Trustee in order to consider specific risk management initiatives. Governance Potential risk management initiatives include, but are not limited to, adjusting the asset allocation (for example reducing the allocation to equities and increasing the allocation to bonds), implementing derivative hedging strategies and adjusting contribution levels. A consultation on the future of RPI (the measure of UK inflation most widely used in financial markets) was announced by the Government in early September 2019 and commenced in March 2020, with a response to be published in Autumn 2020. An expected reduction in the gap between RPI and CPI has been reflected in the year ended 4 April 2020. Business risk Risk report Summary Nationwide defines business risk as the risk that volumes decline or margins shrink relative to the cost base, affecting the sustainability of the business and the ability to deliver the strategy, due to external or internal factors. We actively manage this risk so that we continue to benefit our current and future members, with a focus on long-term sustainability rather than short-term metrics. Nationwide ensures that it can generate sustainable profits by focusing on recurrent sources of income that provide value commensurate with risk appetite. The Society monitors this risk as part of ongoing business performance reporting to senior management and the Board. Financial statements Nationwide’s business model is reliant upon generating net interest margin, primarily the difference between the interest rate paid to savers and that paid to mortgage customers. In the current competitive and low interest rate environment, this margin is being squeezed. In response, the Society is looking to diversify its income streams through the introduction of new products and propositions. Managing business risk Business risks are identified as part of the Society’s strategy and financial planning processes. These risks inform potential areas of strategy development and are assessed using a range of sensitivities to the financial plan. This activity is complemented by ongoing financial forecasting and monitoring as well as a range of stress testing activity to consider tail risks or longer-term risks to the Society. Ongoing strategy development ensures that the strategy and associated plans continue to evolve to address risks to the business model by considering changes in the external Other information environment including new technology, consumer behaviour, regulation or market conditions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 210 Risk report (continued) Business risk (continued) Strategic report These risks are assessed against Board risk appetite, and our approach to ensure we have the right balance between distributing value to members, investing in the business and maintaining financial strength. Business risk is managed and mitigated through a range of measures which include: • Financial forecasting – As part of the financial planning process Nationwide forecasts income and costs over a five year period with an updated forecast reviewed by management regularly, taking into consideration the key risks and sensitivities. • Monitoring of financial and business performance – The various components of financial performance are monitored monthly against internal forecasts, limits and triggers across a variety of committees and forums, which consider potential risks and possible mitigating actions. In addition, business areas monitor the demand for products and services to ensure we continue to provide propositions that our members want and need. Governance • Stress testing and sensitivity analysis – Business risk is regularly stress tested as part of internal management reporting such as the financial plan downside and upside scenarios, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and reverse stress tests. In addition, the Prudential Regulatory Authority’s Concurrent Stress Test scenarios provide a test of the business model and the risks it is exposed to. As an output from these activities the Society identifies potential actions that can be taken if risks crystallise. To effectively manage more extreme events the Society maintains a Recovery Plan, in line with regulatory guidance, that contains a range of strategic actions that could be taken if necessary to protect the Society from severe stresses and ensure it remains sustainable over the long term. Risk report Outlook Business risks are closely intertwined with the top and emerging risks outlined on page 40. The Covid-19 outbreak, and the global response to it, has materially impacted the economic environment. Whilst stress testing results demonstrate that Nationwide is resilient against significant short-term economic shocks, the pandemic is likely to cause interest rates to remain at historically low levels for the foreseeable future, and will result in longer term economic effects, which will have an impact on the Society’s financial performance. The external environment is expected to remain competitive, heightening the level of business risk for Nationwide. The Society’s strong capital position and low risk lending portfolios mean that it is well-placed to respond to these risks. Financial statements Model risk Summary Model risk is the risk of an adverse outcome as a direct result of weaknesses or failures in the development, implementation or use of a model. A model is defined as ‘a simplification of a business system using assumptions and mathematical concepts to help describe, predict or forecast’ and may include approaches which are partially or wholly qualitative, or based on expert judgement. There is an inherent risk associated with models because, by their very nature, they are imperfect and incomplete representations that rely on assumptions and theoretical methodologies, and use historic data which may not represent future outcomes, leading to the potential for errors and uncertainty. Other information Model errors can arise when models are implemented incorrectly or misused, for instance when applied to uses that they were not designed for, or where there is a failure to update key assumptions where appropriate. Model errors and uncertainty are the primary sources of model risk and, if crystallised, could result in poor lending decisions, holding inappropriate levels of capital or provisions, inappropriate pricing decisions, financial loss or inadequate reporting. Nationwide relies on models to support a broad range of business and risk management activities across the Society. Key examples include the use of model outputs in the credit approval process, capital and liquidity assessments, stress testing, financial planning, loss provisioning, regulatory reporting, and pricing strategies. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 211 Risk report (continued) Model risk (continued) Strategic report Managing model risk Nationwide manages model risk at an enterprise level through the Model Risk Framework, which provides the foundation for the management of model risk within defined risk appetite set by the Board. The framework prescribes Society-wide requirements including roles and responsibilities, governance, independent oversight, risk appetite, monitoring and independent assurance. The framework is supported by model risk policies and standards covering documentation, development, implementation, validation, change processes, and monitoring. This ensures that all models are developed consistently, are of sufficient quality, adequately maintained and controlled to support effective business decisions, and meet regulatory requirements where applicable. Responsibility for oversight of model risk is delegated from the Executive Risk Committee to the Model Risk Oversight Committee (MROC). MROC assesses whether models are fit for purpose and monitors model risk exposure on a Society-wide aggregated basis. Model risk appetite is expressed through assessments of the most material risk models. This considers the percentage of models that have been independently assessed as meeting internal Governance standards. Issues are escalated to the Executive Risk Committee when necessary, or where a breach of risk appetite has occurred. Responsibilities under the three lines of defence Each model is required to have a first line model owner who is responsible for ensuring that their models comply with the requirements of the framework. Responsibility for approving the use of material models resides with first line risk committees, such as the Asset & Liability Committee and Credit Committee. The role of these committees is to review and approve all material aspects of the models within their remit, including monitoring reports. The second line oversight of model risk is performed by the Model Risk Oversight (MRO) function which provides independent validation, development of model standards, reporting of the model Risk report risk profile and maintenance of the Society’s model inventory. The scope of independent validation includes a review of model inputs, model design and model outputs. This is further broken down into detailed dimensions covering areas such as data, methodology, performance, use and documentation. The outcome of the validation is a report which includes a model risk score, key risks, model capabilities, conditions for use, limitations, validation findings and a recommendation for approval or rejection. Financial statements While all material models are reviewed and re-approved for continued use each year, the validation frequency and level of challenge applied by MRO is tailored to the materiality and complexity of each model. Once validated and correctly implemented, models are subject to regular monitoring. A central model inventory is used to maintain data on models and validation issues raised by MRO are tracked through to resolution. An annual model universe assessment is used ensure the completeness and accuracy of the model inventory. Nationwide’s Internal Audit function, the third line of defence, considers model risk to be an area of focus and the Model Risk Framework is subject to review through a cyclical programme of audits that assess the appropriateness of its design and overall effectiveness, and may assess how specific models used in Nationwide comply with it. The findings of the audit reviews are reported to model owners, senior management, first line committees and appropriate stakeholders. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 212 Risk report (continued) Model risk (continued) Strategic report Developments in the year Over the past year, Nationwide has been implementing improvements in the management of model risk and significant progress has been achieved across several areas including: • Enhanced model risk reporting provided to the Board Risk Committee to support their understanding of the key capabilities and limitations of material models; areas covered include models used to support the Concurrent Stress Testing exercise and the operational risk capital model. • Development of a centralised model information management system that consolidates Nationwide’s model inventory, model risk reporting and model issue tracking, resulting in an improved ability to identify and resolve potential areas of control weakness. • Development of the model risk taxonomy to enable better understanding and management of the key sources of model error risk, the types of controls that can be used in mitigation and the key Governance sources of model uncertainty to support quantification of model risk. • Redevelopment and validation of a number of key models, particularly those used in credit loss provisioning, operational risk and Internal Rating Based (IRB) systems. Outlook The emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic has increased model risk across Nationwide as the historical relationships used to calibrate the models have become less representative in the current environment. To assess and mitigate the risk, model monitoring has been enhanced across key models and analysis of the most recent data is being used to inform adjustments to ensure the model outputs remain robust. Risk report The Society remains subject to ongoing significant levels of regulatory change and scrutiny relating to models. The impact of upcoming changes in regulation continues to be a significant factor driving model development, validation and model risk management activity. The IRB models, used in credit risk capital calculations, are undergoing significant regulatory reform with a view to bringing more consistency across financial services firms. Nationwide is well advanced through the programme of work designed to redevelop all the IRB models to ensure compliance with the new regulations when they come into force from 2022. Model redevelopments are also underway to comply with the new regulations on interest risk management on the banking book. More broadly, there is scope to further improve the measurement and understanding of the uncertainty inherent in models, such as quantifying the impact of choosing one type of model over another. Operational and conduct risk Financial statements Summary Operational and conduct risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, conduct and compliance management, people and systems, or from external events. Nationwide manages operational and conduct risk across a number of sub-categories, which include cyber, IT resilience and security, business continuity, payments, fraud, financial crime and regulatory compliance. Nationwide operates a three lines of defence model to manage operational risk. Details on this approach are set out in the Managing risk section on page 135. The operational and conduct risk profile is informed by risk assessments from across the business, and by review and challenge by both management and the Risk Oversight function, which operates as a second line of defence. Risk Other information Oversight supports management in managing the risks it faces in its normal day-to-day activities and when implementing change programmes. Nationwide continues to enhance and embed its operational and conduct risk framework, expanding the use of techniques such as scenario analysis to support the understanding of current and future risks and to optimise risk-based decision making. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 213 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report Our strategy recognises that the environment in which Nationwide operates is continuously evolving. Digital technologies are influencing how our members manage their money and also how and when they communicate with Nationwide. Increasingly our members demand an always-on, constantly developing and improving digital service. To ensure we keep meeting our members’ needs in the future, we have committed to building a more reliant, simpler, more agile and innovative organisation that’s fit to compete in a digital world. Member impact and the potential for member harm are considered as a matter of course throughout the Society as we deliver our strategy. This gives us the confidence that our strategy will be successfully delivered with the management of risk, especially risks with the potential to harm members, at its core. Additionally, Nationwide monitors and reports on the operational and conduct risk events which have occurred, to better understand those exposures and drive sustainable mitigation to prevent recurrence. For the purposes of this report, operational risk events include only those where a financial loss arises from an operational risk incident. Operational risk events are recorded against causal categories, as well as reporting them against the operational risk categories defined by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in Basel II. This allows comparison of operational risk Governance experience with its peer group. Operational and conduct risk experience A significant proportion of operational and conduct risk events were recorded against three of the Basel categories: ‘Clients, Products & Business Practices’, ‘External Fraud’ and ‘Execution, Delivery and Process Management’. These categories account for 99.9% by value, and 99.0% by number, of Nationwide’s operational risk events (2019: 99.6 % by value and 98.2% by number). Whilst the highest losses are against the Clients, Products and Business Practices (C,P&BP) category, this is where Nationwide records the cost of administration and customer redress for Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claims, however due to treating these losses as a single event, this does not represent a high volume of reported instances. During the year, the Financial Conduct Authority continued its PPI awareness campaign up to the complaints deadline of 29 August 2019. Nationwide maintained its programme of activity to respond to the increase in complaints arising Risk report from the campaign. In line with the industry higher than expected increases in PPI enquiries and complaints were seen during this period. The FCA has acknowledged the high volumes of claims received by the industry in the build up to the deadline and flagged the possibility claims will take longer than normal to process, but this will not disadvantage those with successful claims. Nationwide continues to experience a high volume of events with relatively low individual loss amounts in the External Fraud category. This is in line with other financial institutions and predominantly relates to Card Not Present fraud. 0perational risk events by Basel risk category, % of total events by value (note i) Operational risk events by Basel risk category, % of total events by number (note i) 2020 2019 (note ii) 2020 2019 (note ii) Financial statements % % % % Clients, products and business practices (note iii) 59.4 72.7 Clients, products and business practices (note iii) 1.7 2.8 External fraud 10.9 10.7 External fraud 90.6 84.6 Execution, delivery and process management (note iv) 29.6 16.2 Execution, delivery and process management 6.7 10.8 Internal fraud 0.0 0.1 Internal fraud 0 .2 0.7 Business disruption and system failure 0 .0 0.0 Business disruption and system failure 0 .0 0.2 Damage to physical assets 0 .0 0.3 Damage to physical assets 0.1 0.8 Employment practices and workplace safety 0 .1 0.0 Employment practices and workplace safety 0.7 0.1 Total 100.0 100.0 Total 100.0 100.0 Other information Notes: i. Risk events with losses over £5,000; multiple losses relating to the same event are only counted once. ii. Comparatives were restated to include additional historic data where more information has been received. iii. Includes the costs of administration and customer redress in relation to ongoing payment protection insurance claims. iv. Increase in execution, delivery and process management relates to payments in connection with customer redress matters. Further information on customer redress is included in note 27 to the financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 214 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report Current environment Nationwide’s operational and conduct risk profile has been impacted by Covid-19. Nationwide was quick to invoke the highest level of risk management response to minimise the impact on our risk profile while continuing to provide the services customers expect, in a way that considered the safety of colleagues and customers alike. Notwithstanding the impact of Covid-19, over the course of the year, the operational and conduct risks profile has remained relatively stable, with the main risks continuing to relate to IT resilience and cyber security; Nationwide continues to meet the high standards expected by members with regards to management of these risks. There is a focus on being safe, secure and dependable in order to ensure that service availability and customer data are protected. Active monitoring of the external environment ensures where possible Nationwide is able to learn from other organisations. The regulatory environment remains challenging, with a variety of complex regulatory changes to be embedded, as regulators continue to drive an agenda committed to rebuilding trust and Governance confidence whilst increasing competition by encouraging digital innovation in the UK financial services market. As the UK government negotiates the terms under which it will continue its relationship with the European Union, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) are working to ensure a robust regulatory system is in place by the end of the transitional period. Working with government, the regulators have put in place a number of measures to minimise the potential for disruption, including Temporary Transitional Powers and the Temporary Permissions Regime. Nationwide continues to prepare for all potential outcomes to ensure we continue to provide reliable services to our members once the transition period comes to an end. Nationwide received Directions from the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) in relation to failures in providing accurate annual PPI statements, and also in relation to failures in providing text alerts relating to customers’ usage of overdraft facilities. To comply with the Directions, Nationwide has submitted a PPI action plan to the CMA and has carried out the required improvements Risk report following the independent audit of the ‘text alerts’ procedures, processes and outcomes. Following its high-cost credit review, the FCA published final rules to simplify the pricing of overdrafts and to end higher prices for unarranged overdrafts. Nationwide took the decision to introduce the single interest rate for arranged overdrafts and remove all fees for unarranged overdrafts from 11 November 2019, ahead of the new rules to coming in to force on 6 April 2020. Cyber security Financial statements The impact which a successful cyber attack could have on our members and their ability to access and manage their funds remains a very significant focus of attention, as we both manage our current IT systems and also plan to deliver new technology for the future. Nationwide continually reviews the external threat landscape and our ability to combat the rapidly changing threat environment we face. In line with advice from Government and alongside other financial institutions, Nationwide not only continues to invest in the ability to prevent and detect cyber attacks, but also practice how we should respond to attacks in order to protect our members’ interests should an attack be successful. Ransomware and Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks across the UK, alongside malicious e-mails, phishing attacks and network access compromises, are a concern, in common with other Financial services organisations, Nationwide remains a high profile, high impact target for criminals, activists or hostile nations. The last year has seen an increase in cyber security compromises across the UK in supply chains, including new Cloud services. These services represent both a route which attackers may use to get past defences, and a means of improving our defences by virtue of the investment made in security by large cloud providers. For this reason, security standards are carefully reviewed when adopting new member services supported by third parties. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 215 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report Significant effort is put into testing cyber risk management capabilities, learning lessons from this process and applying those lessons to our ongoing investment in new technology and processes to manage this risk effectively. In the last year, this has included testing of our multi layered approach to protecting our information by the Bank of England which has allowed us to keep on top of the challenges financial institutions face, by better understanding how future attacks could be prevented. Working closely with the National Cyber Security Centre and other government bodies as well as the wider industry helps Nationwide to remain vigilant and informed about both the potential threats and responses, whilst sharing best practice to help combat cyber crime. Nationwide remains committed to a programme of increasing cyber security awareness across both its member and employee landscape, as well as continuing to build its resilience to cyber attacks. Data Governance The continued expansion of data used in digital services increases the complexity and cost of managing data securely and effectively. There is a steady flow of regulation impacting how data is managed. Monitoring these developments and continuing to be agile and react to the evolving requirements is an important component of managing data. Nationwide is committed to protecting customer data and has a dedicated programme of work in place to ensure there is a holistic view of customer data. The scope of the programme includes: the processes and architecture used in change, to govern and store customer data; the training and support given to its employees; how Nationwide ensures compliance with requirements such as the General Data Protection Regulation; and how products are designed. This joined up view will help to protect customer data now and help future proof our data as the expansion of data and digital services continues IT and operational resilience Members rightly expect services to be available when they want to use them. Continued investment in technology ensures that Nationwide remains resilient and secure, whilst also delivering new Risk report features and services to our members more quickly. Members have experienced fewer impacts of outages in the last year as ways to allow members to view accounts via the Mobile Application and Internet bank were developed, even if some other features such as making a payment are unavailable for a short period of time. During planned and unplanned outages, members are now able to carry out more transactions than previously possible. We continue to invest in new systems and processes to make further improvements to member experience, and continue to test internal capability through a series of resilience exercises. This will ensure that Nationwide can respond effectively to incidents when they occur. Financial statements As the focus of IT and operational resilience continues to evolve, it will be necessary for Nationwide, as well as other firms, to develop its approach for when, not if, systems fail. There is significant regulatory focus in this area with nine consultation papers from the Bank of England, FCA and PRA in the last year emphasising this. The focus of recent consultation papers will drive a move away from an understanding of how long it takes to return to normal operation, and developing service level agreements, to understanding better the impact on members and the services they consume for example: making payments, withdrawing cash and viewing account balance, rather than the background systems and processes which support them. People risk Nationwide relies on the talent and dedication of its people to deliver its strategy, provide first class service and operate a strong risk and control culture. Attracting, retaining and developing the right people remains a key focus, particularly in specialist areas such as technology, where the appropriate skill sets are scarce or in high demand. Nationwide continues to monitor and closely manage the impact on its people requirements as it delivers the products, services and experience members want, to ensure the required levels of skill, knowledge and engagement are maintained. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 216 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report In September 2018 a significant investment in IT infrastructure was announced to ensure Nationwide remains resilient and secure and has increased agility to deliver new features and services to our members. An important enabler to facilitate this investment is having the right people with the right skills. Further steps were taken in August 2019 to support delivery of this when we announced plans for expansion of our offices in Swindon as well as a new location in London. This will help attract the talent needed for the future, build on the existing skills of the workforce with internal staff development programmes as well as address risks associated with scarcity of resource in specialist technology areas. Pace of change Nationwide is committed to responding to the varied and evolving needs of its members, making it easier for them to transact through a range of channels, and making sure we are able to meet our members’ needs now and in the future. The scale and pace of change this creates brings its own challenges; such challenges have the potential to disrupt Nationwide’s operating environment and negatively impact the service experienced by members. These operational risks are managed through a strong focus on service management, transformation governance and programme Governance management disciplines. Further enhancements have been made to the way change is delivered, taking advantage of an agile methodology, tools and ways of thinking. This includes operating a more devolved approach to delivering change, where the business areas responsible for the changes have more direct control and accountability over delivery. This approach also supports the development of in-house capabilities, reducing reliance on third parties and contingent workers. There remains a high volume of change driven by regulation; this is outlined further below. External fraud Nationwide recognises the impact fraud has on its members and is committed to raising awareness of fraud scams, as well as working closely with the Payments Service Regulator and UK Finance to combat customer losses. The increased authentication requirements introduced in September 2019 with the EU Payments Services Directive (PSD2) should help protect our members from Card Not Present fraud and are a welcome change. Debit and credit card fraud remains the largest driver of fraud losses, driven by increasing transaction volumes as a result of business growth and Risk report customer behaviour. Developments continue to be made in fraud detection and prevention capabilities. Losses incurred through the digital channels remain low; however, in common with the industry there is an increasing sophistication of attacks. It is vital to keep pace with the increases in digital capability and sophistication of attacks by investing in fraud defences. Nationwide is one of nine firms which have signed up to the Lending Standards Board’s Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This voluntary code provides extra protection for our members who are victims of Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams; where members are tricked into authorising a payment to an account they believe to belong to a legitimate payee, but which in fact belongs to a fraudster. The code sets out increased consumer protection standards, which will help reduce the number of APP scams. Financial statements Use of third parties Nationwide relies on a network of third parties to provide both core and non-core services covering IT infrastructure, back office systems and customer facing services. Nationwide is committed to ensuring that while we may outsource activities to our partners, we maintain responsibility for all services provided to both the wholesale markets and our members. Significant work has been undertaken to focus resource on our most critical suppliers including increased site visits and evaluations, uplifting our risk assessment processes as well as tightening our contractual arrangements to meet enhanced regulatory requirements under the European Banking Association’s Guidelines on Outsourcing. These improvements have helped the Society to deliver resilience across the supply chain. The use of cloud-based solutions is a key strategic enabler and offers the potential to reduce aspects of the operational risk profile, for example the opportunity to improve operational resilience in a controlled way. Significant progress has been made in addressing the associated risks in this area. This includes the creation of a Cloud Control Framework, which details control expectations for Other information business areas looking to utilise cloud services. Cloud surgeries, to share best practice and challenge assumptions, and a cloud governance board, bring a higher level of scrutiny and governance to cloud adoption. The use of cloud services is an area of focus for the regulators, and the risks associated with increasing reliance on cloud services must clearly be properly understood and managed. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 217 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report Climate Change Both the FCA and PRA have recognised the potential impact that climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy could have on the UK’s economy and financial services sector, and how this transition relates to the regulators’ respective statutory objectives. The PRA has set expectations for how firms should identify, monitor and mitigate the financial risks from climate change, and how they disclose these. The FCA is also considering how firms intend to provide suitable consumer protection, while ensuring regulation does not stifle positive innovation in green financial services. Nationwide is planning for further expected developments in this area over the coming year. Further information on climate change is included on page 32. Strong Customer Authentication The FCA has delayed the implementation of certain requirements under new Strong Customer Authentication rules, which increase security of electronic payments, to allow greater preparation Governance across the industry due to the potentially significant impact on consumers. Nationwide is supportive of the delayed implementation and continues to gather additional customer contact data to improve the delivery of authentication options. Open Banking to Open Finance Open Banking aims to increase innovation and competition in banking and payment services for the benefit of consumers through the sharing of customer data and provision of third party access to payment accounts. While huge industry progress has been made in delivering Open Banking, consumer take up levels were disappointingly low, causing participating firms to question the costs against the benefits case. Against this backdrop, the FCA has made it a priority to open a debate around the evolution of Open Banking into ‘Open Finance’ and took the first step in December 2019 by issuing a call for input on the topic. Open Finance could bring all financial service products into a single ecosystem, enabling consumers to compare and switch products with ease. After taking a Risk report leading industry role in the implementation of Open Banking, Nationwide will respond to the call for input to influence the FCA’s Open Finance strategy. While there are consumer benefits from Open Finance, the delivery costs and implementation challenges of this for the industry will be important factors to consider before any legal and/or regulatory compulsion to adopt Open Finance can be agreed. Vulnerable Customers Continuing its focus on vulnerable consumers, the FCA published draft guidance for consultation in July 2019, which set the expectation that vulnerable consumers receive ‘at least as good’ Financial statements outcomes from their financial services provider as non-vulnerable consumers. While not a radical departure from the FCA’s previous papers on the topic, the guidance provides greater detail on expectations from firms at all stages of the product lifecycle. A further round of consultation on the guidance is expected in spring 2020, with finalised guidance due by the end of the year. Nationwide welcomes the draft guidance. Our strategic focus is on embedding consideration of the additional needs of vulnerable consumers into our culture, making it the responsibility of all colleagues whose work impacts our member products and services. Resolvability Assessment Framework Since the last financial crisis, significant steps were taken to ensure that banks and building societies are fully resolvable, an outcome which the PRA and Bank of England are required to achieve by 2022. The Resolvability Assessment Framework is the final major piece of this work. Work is underway to ensure Nationwide is resolvable and compliant with the incoming rules. In due course, we Other information will perform an assessment of our resolvability and make a subsequent public disclosure of this assessment. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 218 Risk report (continued) Operational and conduct risk (continued) Strategic report The transition away from Libor In the light of the planned discontinuation of Libor beyond 2021, work has been undertaken across Nationwide to prepare for this. Nationwide has a number of retail and commercial loans which reference Libor; work is underway to explore proactive solutions to manage the impact on Nationwide and our customers. We are also engaged with both the PRA and FCA, and with industry bodies, to work towards an industry solution. Nationwide will actively engage with the regulators to respond to these complex regulatory changes. We will continue to prioritise resilience across the organisation to provide a secure and dependable variety of products and services which are designed to meet the needs of our customers. Outlook Nationwide’s operational and conduct risk outlook is impacted by the environment it operates in and its strategy. The drivers of operational and conduct risk are expected to remain broadly Governance consistent, with the main themes being: • the ongoing volume of complex regulatory change impacting the financial services industry • the scale and pace of change, particularly in a digital environment, partly driven by the Society’s technology strategy • IT resilience, the continued increase in the sophistication of cyber security threats and external fraud • the continued reliance on strategic third-party partners, including increased adoption of cloud-based solutions Risk report • operational challenges for Nationwide and its suppliers as a result of Brexit, and the pandemic, which will need to be closely monitored. Nationwide continues to invest in all these areas to maintain and develop appropriate controls to ensure residual risk exposures are managed within appetite. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 219 Financial statements Strategic report Governance 220 Independent auditor’s report Note 7 Note 19 Note 28 233 Income statements Losses/gains from derivatives Subordinated liabilities Leasing and hedge accounting Note 20 Note 29 234 Statements of comprehensive income Note 8 Subscribed capital Contingent liabilities Administrative expenses Note 21 235 Balance sheets Employee benefits Note 9 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets 236 Statements of movements in Employees Note 30 and liabilities held at fair value members’ interests and equity Retirement benefit obligations Note 10 Note 22 238 Cash flow statements Impairment losses and provisions on Fair value of financial assets and Capital and equity instruments Risk report 239  Notes to the financial loans and advances to customers liabilities held at fair value – Level 3 Note 31 statements Note 11 portfolio Core capital deferred shares (CCDS) Note 1 Taxation Note 23 Note 32 Statement of accounting policies Financial assets and liabilities Fair value of financial assets and Other equity instruments Note 2 liabilities measured at amortised cost Note 12 Scope of consolidation Judgements in applying accounting Classification and measurement Note 24 Offsetting financial assets Note 33 policies and critical accounting Note 13 Investments in Group undertakings estimates and financial liabilities Investment securities Note 34 Financial statements Performance/return Note 14 Other assets and investments Structured entities Note 3 Loans and advances to customers Note 25 Other disclosure matters Interest receivable and similar income Note 15 Intangible assets Derivative financial instruments Note 35 Note 4 Note 26 Related party transactions Interest expense and similar charges Note 16 Property, plant and equipment Deposits from banks and similar Note 36 Note 5 Accruals, provisions, contingent Notes to the cash flow statements Fee and commission income and institutions liabilities and other legal Note 37 expense Note 17 proceedings Capital management Note 6 Other deposits Note 18 Note 27 Note 38 Other operating income Other information Debt securities in issue Provisions for liabilities and charges Registered office Tyler, member since 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 220 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Nationwide Building Society Strategic report Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements: • Give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s and the Society’s affairs as at 4 April 2020 and of the Group’s and the Society’s income and expenditure for the year then ended; and • Governance Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Building Societies Act 1986 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 (the “Annual Report”) of Nationwide Building Society which comprise: Group Society Consolidated income statement for the year ended 4 April 2020 Income statement for the year ended 4 April 2020 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 4 April Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 4 April 2020 2020 Consolidated balance sheet as at 4 April 2020 Balance sheet as at 4 April 2020 Risk report Consolidated statement of movements in members’ interests and equity for Statement of movements in members’ interests and equity for the year ended 4 the year ended 4 April 2020 April 2020 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 4 April 2020 Cash flow statement for the year ended 4 April 2020 Related notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements, including a statement of Related notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements, including a statement of accounting policies accounting policies Information identified as ‘audited’ in the Report of directors on remuneration Financial statements Information identified as ‘audited’ in the Risk report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below. We are independent of the Group and Society in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC)’s Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Other information responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 221 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Performing a first-year audit In preparation for our first-year audit of the 4 April 2020 financial statements, we performed a number of transitional procedures. Strategic report Following our selection, we undertook procedures to establish our independence of the Group. This involved considering previous commercial relationships and personal financial arrangements and confirming that all staff who work on the audit are independent of the Group. We held discussions with the Group’s predecessor auditor and reviewed their 2019 financial statement audit work papers, where available, to obtain evidence regarding the opening balances. We performed alternative procedures where required. We gained an understanding of the Group’s processes, including the risk assessment and key judgements made by the predecessor auditors. At the outset of our audit we gained an understanding of the business issues and met with executive and key management of the Group. We used the understanding the audit team had formed to establish our audit base and assist in the formulation of our audit strategy for the 2020 Group audit. Governance Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement The directors have voluntarily complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and Listing Rule 9.8.6(R)(3)(a) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and provided a statement in relation to going concern, required for companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange. We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs (UK) require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: • the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 138 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; Risk report • the directors’ confirmation set out on page 138 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; • the directors’ statement set out on page 239 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; • whether the directors’ statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • the directors’ explanation set out on page 132 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that Financial statements period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 222 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters • Impact of Covid-19 Strategic report • IFRS 9 expected credit losses • Recoverability of capitalised software costs • Customer redress provisioning • Risk of fraud in revenue recognition relating to effective interest rate (EIR) accounting • Closure of Nationwide’s defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual • IT Privileged access Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of two entities within the Nationwide group and audit procedures on specific balances for a further three entities. • The entities where we performed audit procedures over complete financial information or over specific balances accounted for 99% of the adjusted PBT Governance measure used to calculate materiality, 93% of revenue, and 89% of total assets. Materiality • Overall Group materiality of £31.2 million and Society materiality of £13.3 million, which represents in both cases 5% of adjusted profit before tax. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter Our response to the key audit matter Risk report Impact of Covid-19 Going concern: Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We evaluated whether the directors’ going concern assessment appropriately considered the 239); and note 10 of the consolidated financial statements (page 264) impacts arising from Covid-19. Financial statements The Covid-19 pandemic and government measures taken in response will have a significant We first confirmed the opening position in the Group forecast agreed to the audited balances as economic impact on the UK, but as of the date of our audit report, the precise extent of that of 4 April. impact remains uncertain. This uncertainty had an impact on our risk assessment and, as a result, on our audit of the financial statements, in the following areas: We reviewed the reasonableness of the Group’s revised financial plan. We used EY financial modelling specialists to assist the core audit team in assessing the assumptions used to develop Going concern: forecasted results using relevant peer and sector comparatives. We challenged the trading volume assumptions and assessed the refinancing risk of wholesale funding maturing in the 12 months The directors have assessed the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in light of the from the date of our opinion. downturn in the UK’s economic condition. They have further considered the potential impacts of stress tests on the Group’s liquidity and solvency ratios, as well as considering reverse stress tests We used economic specialists to assist the core audit team in assessing the macroeconomic Other information on the Society’s resources. assumptions in the plan through benchmarking to institutional forecasts, HMT consensus and Bank of England fan charts. The directors have assessed the Group’s viability by reviewing the financial plan over the forthcoming three-year period, adjusting economic and trading volume assumptions as well as considering the above noted stress testing results. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Independent auditor’s report Auditor’s report members to theto of Nationwide the members Building Society of Nationwide (continued) Building Society (continued) We reviewed the results of management’s stress testing, including its reverse stress testing The duration and impact of the Covid-19 pandemic remain highly uncertain. There is a risk that exercise, to assess the reasonableness of the economic assumptions in light of the impact of Strategic report the directors’ going concern analysis has not appropriately considered the full effect of Covid-19 Covid-19 and their impact on the Group’s solvency and liquidity. on the Group. We separately considered the reasonableness of the viability statement disclosure in the financial There is a risk that the disclosures in the financial statements related to going concern are not in statements, using the work described above on the medium-term financial plan, as adjusted for compliance with reporting requirements. the impacts of Covid-19. We assessed the reasonableness of the economic and trading assumptions for this period and again considered the results of stress tests on the Group’s solvency and liquidity. IFRS 9 expected credit losses: IFRS 9 expected credit losses: Governance There is increased risk of material misstatement of expected credit losses (ECL) due to the degree We reviewed management’s modelled output, which was used to generate the additional of judgement and inherent uncertainty in the assumptions underlying the Covid-19 related provision. We assessed the reasonableness of the economic assumptions underlying the Covidadditional provision. specific forward-looking scenario, and the probability weightings applied in calculating the additional provision. Management modelled an additional provision to capture the economic impact of Covid19. This comprised a reassessment of the economic scenarios and their respective weightings; an We tested the completeness and existence of payment holiday requests and assessed assessment of the significant increase in credit risk and expected credit loss impact of customer management’s approach in performing risk assessment of the cohort requesting payment payment holiday requests, and a review of individual provision assessments in light of declining holidays and its application in the modelling of the additional provision. collateral values. We further assessed the collateral valuation estimates of management’s expert in reviewing the Risk report Management further considered the appropriateness of disclosures, including the provision of individual provision assessments. further sensitivity analysis to support the assumptions made at 4 April 2020. We reviewed the adequacy of credit related disclosures in respect of Covid-19, including the sensitivity of key assumptions in the additional provision. Significant judgement related to fair value: Significant judgement related to fair value: The volatility in financial markets as a result of Covid-19 impacted the availability of observable We reviewed the fair value adjustments made by management to reflect the impacts of Covid-19 Financial statements valuation inputs for certain asset classes. The increased risk in valuation primarily related to fair on the impacted pension asset portfolios. value adjustments within the Society’s pension assets, as they relate to the pension surplus, where for certain asset classes, particularly property holdings and private equity exposures, the We established our own independent range of reasonable valuations and then reviewed the economic conditions have reduced the availability of current and observable inputs to these asset results of management’s analysis and associated valuation adjustments in the context of our valuations. range. In addition to their established valuation procedures, management undertook a review of the We tested the underlying calculation of these estimates and their related journal postings to asset valuations for those portfolios where availability of observable inputs was more prevalent, ensure they were correctly applied. stratifying the portfolio by sector as well as by the nature of the investment held. Management used this analysis to inform valuation adjustments to the portfolio and adjusted the valuation of Other information pension assets in the defined benefit scheme accordingly. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 224 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Independent auditor’s report Auditor’s report members to theto of Nationwide the members Building Society of Nationwide (continued) Building Society (continued) Events after the balance sheet date: Events after the balance sheet date: Strategic report Covid-19 was an evolving crisis as of the 4 April 2020 year end. As a result, judgements were We reviewed all available, relevant management information, as well as key meeting minutes, and made by management to determine and evidence the conditions that existed at the balance sheet held discussions with management. We also reviewed and assessed the implications for the date, and in concluding whether events occurring after that date were adjusting or non-adjusting Society and Group of external market pronouncements. events. We evaluated the completeness and appropriateness of the financial statement disclosures as Management undertook a review of events that had occurred after the balance sheet date and they pertain to events after the balance sheet date and the disclosures provided in relation to concluded that there were none that required adjustment to the year-end position as at 4 April Covid-19 impacts on all aspects of the financial statements for appropriateness in the context of 2020. They also considered the adequacy of disclosure and determined there were no events the above information. occurring after the balance sheet date which warranted disclosure in the financial statements. Governance Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee As a result of our procedures, we concluded on the matters described above as follows: Going concern: The directors have an appropriate basis on which to conclude that there is no material uncertainty relating to going concern. We have reviewed the disclosures relating to going concern and determined that they are appropriate. IFRS9 expected credit losses: Management’s IFRS9 expected credit loss additional provision in response to the Covid-19 pandemic is reasonably stated and appropriate related disclosures have been made. Significant judgement related to fair value: We were satisfied that management’s valuation adjustments, which were within our range of expected outcomes, were reasonable. Events after the balance sheet date: We were satisfied that the disclosure in the financial statements captured the significant items which had been considered by management and the directors, and Risk report that additional subsequent events disclosure was not required based on information available to us up to the date of our report. Measurement of IFRS 9 expected credit losses Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We developed a thorough understanding of management’s overall approach and accounting 239); and note 10 of the consolidated financial statements (page 264) policies to ensure compliance with the requirements of IFRS9. We further assessed the appropriateness of the staging criteria and their logical application through the modelled Financial statements In addition to the Covid-19 additional provision described above, we assessed the following environment. aspects of management’s ECL provision: We reperformed the staging for all of the retail portfolio by redeveloping the staging model code Staging: The risk that management’s qualitative and quantitative criteria applied do not and re-running the results in our own environment. adequately identify significant increases in credit risk (stage 2) or credit impairments (stage 3) on a timely basis. We obtained model documentation and governance, including implementation and validation for all significant models. Our specialist credit risk review team substantively tested a sample of Modelling: The risk that the Group’s ECL, probability of default (PD), loss given default (LGD) and higher risk models to confirm their accuracy. exposure at default (EAD) models are inaccurate due to modelling and data complexities. We also tested the accuracy of loan data lineage from source systems to the expected credit loss Other information Multiple Economic Scenarios (MES): The risk that the Group’s forward-looking elements are not models. Our specialist EY economics team evaluated the reasonableness of the MES used in the incorporated into the ECL appropriately. estimate and their ascribed weightings, comparing them to consensus forecasts, and confirmed their appropriate application in the models. They similarly assessed the adjustment in weightings Post Model Adjustments (PMAs): The risk that management apply inappropriate adjustments to and the Covid-19 scenario which were applied to the year-end ECL calculation. base model outputs. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 225 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Independent auditor’s report Auditor’s report members to theto of Nationwide the members Building Society of Nationwide (continued) Building Society (continued) We assessed whether the inventory of PMAs was complete and whether each was appropriate. In Individual assessment: The risk that impairment recorded on individually assessed assets is not performing our desktop review of each model, we considered whether there were any Strategic report complete and reasonably measured. shortcomings that could require further PMA. We reviewed risk registers and governance meeting materials to identify potential risk not captured in existing models, and we performed a benchmarking exercise between management’s model adjustment register and those seen in the market. We also evaluated the appropriate application and independently re-calculated the PMAs to confirm they were properly recorded. We assessed the completeness and reasonableness of impairment recorded for individually assessed loans by selecting a sample to recalculate the expected credit loss. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Governance Based on the work we performed, we were satisfied that the staging, modelling, MES, PMAs, including the Covid-19 addition to modelled outputs, and individually assessed loans were reasonably measured. Accordingly, we were satisfied that the expected credit loss impairments were reasonably stated. Recoverability of capitalised software costs Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We reviewed the software capitalisation policy, ensured its compliance with the requirements of 239); and note 25 of the consolidated financial statements (page 298) IFRS, and obtained an understanding of its application to individual projects. We tested the key controls in the Group’s new asset capitalisation process. We assessed the appropriateness of The Group capitalises software and IT costs associated with serving its members where the capitalised costs for a sample of asset additions during the year, including both externally economic benefits are established and amortises them over their useful economic lives. generated and internally generated costs. Management undertakes bi-annual impairment assessments to assess whether the capitalised Risk report costs should be written down to lower recoverable amounts. We identified the following risks We assessed the reasonableness of the amortisation charge by testing and validating the associated with capitalised software costs: underlying calculations. Newly capitalised costs: Whether project costs being capitalised are appropriate for newly created We reviewed the impairment assessment at both the individual project level and the Cash software; and Generating Unit level, taking into account the impacts of the technology strategy and likely future use. Impairment of currently capitalised software: Whether amortisation is appropriate, including whether the length of the useful economic lives being set for newly capitalised software are We reviewed and recalculated the impairment charge for those assets deemed to be impaired Financial statements suitable, and whether the impairment assessment of existing assets is reasonable. and challenged completeness of impairments taken and the rationale for impairment, ensuring the judgements made were reasonable and appropriate. We reconciled the calculated asset additions, amortisation charges, impairment charges and resultant closing asset balance to the underlying accounting records. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the procedures performed, we were satisfied that Nationwide’s policy on capitalisation of new assets was in accordance with accounting rules, that existing capitalised costs were appropriate, that the amortisation of these assets during the year was appropriately recorded, and that management’s conclusions over impairment were supported by the evidence obtained. Customer redress provisioning Other information Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We tested the completeness and accuracy of the customer populations identified as eligible for 239); and note 27 of the consolidated financial statements (page 301) redress. We reconciled this relevant population to that used in management’s models to measure the provision. Management has recognised provisions for certain customer redress projects. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 226 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Independent auditor’s report Auditor’s report members to theto of Nationwide the members Building Society of Nationwide (continued) Building Society (continued) In our risk assessment, we considered those projects which would have a material impact on the We reviewed a sample of redress payments to ensure they were reasonably stated and in line with financial statements on account of the risks not being fully known or where there was uncertainty the policy. We involved EY conduct risk specialists to help assess compliance with relevant Strategic report over the full customer population impacted. This risk is solely focused on those projects. financial conduct requirements, with all assumptions being included within management’s provisioning model. We considered the risk within the impacted provisions to constitute the completeness and accuracy of data used in provision calculations, and the reasonable measurement of the redress We analysed the provision model and focused our testing on the data inputs, the assumptions and associated administration costs. applied within the model and the underlying calculations supporting the provision in the financial statements. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, we found the judgements applied to calculate the provision for customer redress to be appropriate. Risk of fraud in revenue recognition relating to effective interest rate (EIR) accounting Governance Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We reviewed the appropriateness of the accounting policy and the types of fees and expenses 239); and note 3 of the consolidated financial statements (page 255) being deferred and amortised. We assessed two elements of the EIR calculation as most critical and requiring increased audit For those fees and expenses that were deferred, we assessed the reasonableness of the period focus. over which they were being amortised by assessing the behavioural loan lives with reference to historical behaviour as well as the future economic outlook. These comprise the nature of the fees and expenses eligible to be deferred as a result of being integral to the yield of the products; and the period over which deferred upfront fees and We reviewed the clerical accuracy of the amortisation models and confirmed its inputs, and we expenses are amortised into earnings, which is determined based on analysis of historic customer recalculated a sample of the amortisation profiles used to amortise the fees and expenses. behaviours and future outlook. Risk report We confirmed the amounts posted from the model into the general ledger. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, we were satisfied that the fees and expenses being deferred were reasonable, and that they were being amortised appropriately. Closure of Nationwide’s defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86); Accounting policies (page We reviewed and assessed the accounting treatment applied to the decision to close the pension 239); and note 30 of the consolidated financial statements (page 305) scheme to future accrual, including presentation in the financial statements. Financial statements In February 2020, the Board approved the closure of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme We reviewed the underlying documentation and confirmed that there was evidence of approval by to future accrual on 31 March 2020, resulting in a gain from the plan amendment of £164 million. all parties to the closure of the scheme to future accrual. The Group will also provide impacted employees with a payment for mitigation, payable in March 2021. We involved EY actuarial specialists in the audit to help assess the valuation assumptions within the pension scheme, with particular consideration of the liability valuation assumptions, in order We identified a risk of material misstatement in measuring Nationwide’s defined benefit to evaluate the gain and the overall net surplus. obligations, in particular over the gain arising from the decision in February 2020 to close the scheme to future accrual on 31 March 2021. We assessed the reasonableness of recognition and measurement of the provision for employee mitigation costs, payable in March 2021. Other information Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, we were satisfied with the recognised gain on the closure of the scheme to future accrual and associated mitigation cost as well as the recognition of the year end actuarial assumptions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Independent Independent auditor’s report Auditor’s report members to theto of Nationwide the members Building Society of Nationwide (continued) Building Society (continued) IT privileged access Group and Society; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 86) and Accounting policies (page We tested the design and operating effectiveness of those key controls identified that manage IT Strategic report 239) privileged access across the in-scope IT platforms. In previous years, management recognised that there were a number of issues with privileged We assessed the inventory of privileged access accounts and tested whether they were user accounts across the IT landscape. During 2019, the Society commenced a privileged access appropriately controlled on the privileged access management tool. management (PAM) remediation programme. For systems where we deemed unmitigated privileged access risks still existed, we considered the The project, which consisted of onboarding systems onto a suite of enhanced PAM controls, has existence of compensating controls in mitigating the underlying risk. Where necessary, we continued to run into the 2020 financial year. developed bespoke, incremental procedures to address these risks. Controls over access to accounts with elevated IT privileges are critical to the audit in order to Governance determine appropriateness of data and system functionality. Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, we noted no inappropriate changes to systems during our testing. Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 228 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Strategic report Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size and risk profile, when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity. In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements of the Group, we selected five entities, which represent the principal business units within the Group. Of the five entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of two entities (“full scope entities”) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining three entities (“specific scope entities”), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within each entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the Governance significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Risk report Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. We determined materiality for the Group to be £31.2 million which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax, and 0.24% of net assets. We determined materiality for the Society to be £13.3 million, which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax, and 0.13% of net assets. We assessed adjusted profit before tax, which is normalised to take into account estimated impacts of Covid-19 in the last 6 weeks of the year, an appropriate basis for materiality given the users of the financial statements, including the Society’s members and regulators, focus on pre-tax profit in assessing the Society’s performance. Financial statements In 2019, the predecessor auditor adopted materiality of £42.3 million for the Group, and £18 million for the Society, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax. Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality. On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was £15.6 million, being 50% of our planning materiality. We have set performance materiality at this percentage since this is a first-year audit. Other information Audit work for underlying entities for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was £3 million to £11 million. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 229 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial. Strategic report We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. Other information Other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other Governance information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. Risk report We have nothing to report in this regard. The directors have voluntarily complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and prepare a Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). The directors have requested that we review the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Society’s compliance with the Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) as if the Society were a premium listed company. Financial statements In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: • Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 132 – the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • Audit committee reporting set out on page 86 – the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee; or Other information • Directors’ statement of compliance with the Code set out on page 131 – the parts of the directors’ statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Society’s compliance with the Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 230 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Building Societies Act 1986 In our opinion: Strategic report • The Annual business statement and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Building Societies Act 1986; • The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the accounting records and the financial statements; and • The information given in the Annual business statement (other than the information upon which we are not required to report) gives a true representation of the matters in respect of which it is given. Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Building Societies Act 1986 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Governance • Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Society; or • The Group or Society’s financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records; or • We have not received all the information and explanations and access to documents we require for our audit. Other voluntary reporting matters Report of the directors on remuneration Risk report The Society voluntarily prepares a Report of the directors on remuneration in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The directors have requested that we audit the part of the Report of the directors on remuneration specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the Society were a quoted company. In our opinion, the part of the Report of the directors on remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Responsibilities of directors Financial statements As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 133, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and Society’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Society or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s Other information report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 231 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud; to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence Strategic report regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses; and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management. Our approach was as follows: − We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant were the regulations, licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Building Societies Act 1986 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974. − We understood how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for legal and compliance matters. We Governance also reviewed correspondence between the Group and UK regulatory bodies; reviewed minutes of the Board and Board Risk Committee; and gained an understanding of the Group’s approach to governance, demonstrated by the Board’s approval of the Group’s governance framework and the Board’s review of the Group’s Operational Risk Framework and internal control processes. − Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above. Our procedures involved inquiries of legal counsel, executive management, internal audit, and focused testing, as referred to in the Key audit matters section above. − We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud. We also considered performance and incentive plan targets and their potential to influence management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of investors and stakeholders. Our procedures to address the risks identified also included incorporation of unpredictability into the nature, timing and/or extent of our testing, challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, and testing year-end adjustments and other targeted journal entries. Risk report − The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment. As such the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of specialists where appropriate. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Other matters we are required to address Financial statements • We were appointed by the Society at the Annual General Meeting in July 2019 and engaged on 2 August 2019 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 4 April 2020 and subsequent financial periods. • The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Society and we remain independent of the Group and the Society in conducting the audit. • The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee Use of our report Other information This report is made solely to the Society’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 78 of the Building Societies Act 1986. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Society’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Society and the Society’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 232 Independent Independent Auditor’s auditor’s to theto report report the members members of Nationwide of Nationwide Building Building Society Society (continued) (continued) Strategic report Javier Faiz (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Governance 28 May 2020 Notes: i. The maintenance and integrity of the Nationwide Building Society’s web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. ii. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 233 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Income statements Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) Notes £m £m £m £m Interest receivable and similar income/(expense): Calculated using the effective interest rate method 3 5,157 5,141 4,792 4,827 Other 3 (27) (23) (27) (31) Total interest receivable and similar income 3 5,130 5,118 4,765 4,796 Governance Interest expense and similar charges 4 (2,320) (2,203) (2,412) (2,313) Net interest income 2,810 2,915 2,353 2,483 Fee and commission income 5 439 449 435 446 Fee and commission expense 5 (270) (248) (270) (248) Other operating income 6 67 54 105 80 (Losses)/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting 7 (7) 36 19 (7) Total income 3,039 3,206 2,642 2,754 Administrative expenses 8 (2,312) (2,254) (2,309) (2,251) Impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 10 (209) (113) (170) (129) Risk report Provisions for liabilities and charges 27 (52) (6) (53) (6) Profit before tax 466 833 110 368 Taxation 11 (101) (197) (30) (96) Profit after tax 365 636 80 272 Note: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. Financial statements The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 234 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Statements of comprehensive income Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) Notes £m £m £m £m Profit after tax 365 636 80 272 Other comprehensive (expense)/income Governance Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations: Retirement benefit remeasurements before tax 30 195 210 195 210 Taxation 11 (76) (57) (76) (57) 119 153 119 153 Revaluation of property: Revaluation before tax 26 (13) (2) (13) (2) Taxation 11 2 1 2 1 (11) (1) (11) (1) Risk report 108 152 108 152 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedge reserve (note ii): Fair value movements taken to members’ interests and equity 56 540 64 434 Amount transferred to income statement (65) (100) (12) (249) Taxation 11 (5) (112) (16) (47) (14) 328 36 138 Financial statements Other hedging reserve (note ii): Fair value movements taken to members’ interests and equity (57) (21) Taxation 11 15 15 (42) (6) Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve: Fair value movements taken to members’ interests and equity (51) 12 (51) 13 Amount transferred to income statement (40) (28) (40) (27) Taxation 11 24 4 23 3 (67) (12) (68) (11) Other information Other comprehensive (expense)/income (15) 468 70 279 Total comprehensive income 350 1,104 150 551 Notes: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. ii. The Group adopted IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting from 5 April 2019; this resulted in the creation of a new other hedging reserve and the discontinuance of certain cash flow hedging relationships. Further information is included in note 1. The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 235 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Balance sheets Strategic report At 4 April 2020 Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 Notes £m £m £m £m Assets Cash 13,748 12,493 13,748 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 4,009 3,617 3,994 Investment securities 13 20,004 16,234 19,996 16,232 Derivative financial instruments 15 4,771 3,562 3,636 2,614 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 1,774 411 1,774 411 Loans and advances to customers 14 200,978 199,051 163,206 164,447 Governance Investments in Group undertakings 33 35,207 32,220 Intangible assets 25 1,239 1,324 1,227 1,312 Property, plant and equipment 26 1,172 889 1,172 887 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 205 184 1,660 1,299 Deferred tax 11 76 53 62 39 Current tax assets 65 62 Other assets 79 91 69 87 Retirement benefit assets 30 294 296 Total assets 248,041 238,301 245,732 236,035 Liabilities Risk report Shares 159,691 153,969 159,691 153,969 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 16 21,812 20,149 20,636 19,091 Other deposits 17 4,482 5,074 6,024 6,619 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 29 (17) 29 (17) Debt securities in issue 18 35,963 35,942 30,894 32,354 Derivative financial instruments 15 1,924 1,593 3,673 2,959 Other liabilities 915 583 4,513 2,857 Provisions for liabilities and charges 27 176 199 176 198 Accruals and deferred income 310 346 307 346 Financial statements Subordinated liabilities 19 9,317 6,706 9,317 6,706 Subscribed capital 20 253 250 253 250 Deferred tax 11 207 144 108 33 Current tax liabilities 89 49 Retirement benefit obligations 30 105 103 Approved by the Board of directors on 28 May 2020. Total liabilities 235,079 225,132 235,621 225,517 D L Roberts Chairman Members’ interests and equity J D Garner Chief Executive Officer Core capital deferred shares 31 1,325 1,325 1,325 1,325 C S Rhodes Chief Financial Officer Other equity instruments 32 593 992 593 992 General reserve 10,749 10,418 8,102 8,056 Other information Revaluation reserve 48 64 48 64 Note: Cash flow hedge reserve 306 320 61 25 i. The Group adopted IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting from Other hedging reserve (note i) (42) (6) 5 April 2019; this resulted in the creation of a new other hedging reserve. Further Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (17) 50 (12) 56 information is included in note 1. Total members’ interests and equity 12,962 13,169 10,111 10,518 Total members’ interests, equity and liabilities 248,041 238,301 245,732 236,035 The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 236 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Group statement of movements in members’ interests and equity Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Core capital Other equity General Revaluation Cash flow Other FVOCI Total deferred instruments reserve reserve hedge hedging reserve shares reserve reserve (note i) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 1,325 992 10,418 64 320 50 13,169 Profit for the year 365 365 Net remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 119 119 Governance Net revaluation of property (11) (11) Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve (14) (14) Net movement in other hedging reserve (42) (42) Net movement in FVOCI reserve (67) (67) Total comprehensive income 484 (11) (14) (42) (67) 350 Reserve transfer 5 (5) Issuance of Additional Tier 1 capital 593 593 Redemption of Additional Tier 1 capital (992) (8) (1,000) Distribution to the holders of core capital deferred shares (108) (108) Risk report Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (42) (42) At 4 April 2020 1,325 593 10,749 48 306 (42) (17) 12,962 For the year ended 4 April 2019 Core capital Other equity General Revaluation Cash flow Other FVOCI Total deferred instruments reserve reserve hedge hedging reserve shares reserve reserve (note i) Financial statements £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 1,325 992 9,802 68 (8) 62 12,241 Profit for the year 636 636 Net remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 153 153 Net revaluation of property (1) (1) Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 328 328 Net movement in FVOCI reserve (12) (12) Total comprehensive income 789 (1) 328 (12) 1,104 Reserve transfer 3 (3) Other information Distribution to the holders of core capital deferred shares (108) (108) Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (note ii) (68) (68) At 4 April 2019 1,325 992 10,418 64 320 50 13,169 Notes: i. The Group adopted IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting from 5 April 2019; this resulted in the creation of a new other hedging reserve. Further information is included in note 1. ii. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 237 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Society statement of movement in members’ interests and equity Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Core capital Other equity General Revaluation Cash flow Other FVOCI Total deferred instruments reserve reserve hedge hedging reserve shares reserve reserve (note i) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 1,325 992 8,056 64 25 56 10,518 Profit for the year 80 80 Net remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 119 119 Governance Net revaluation of property (11) (11) Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 36 36 Net movement in other hedging reserve (6) (6) Net movement in FVOCI reserve (68) (68) Total comprehensive income 199 (11) 36 (6) (68) 150 Reserve transfer 5 (5) Issuance of Additional Tier 1 capital 593 593 Redemption of Additional Tier 1 capital (992) (8) (1,000) Distribution to the holders of core capital deferred shares (108) (108) Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (42) (42) Risk report At 4 April 2020 1,325 593 8,102 48 61 (6) (12) 10,111 For the year ended 4 April 2019 Core capital Other equity General Revaluation Cash flow Other FVOCI Total deferred instruments reserve reserve hedge hedging reserve shares reserve reserve (note i) Financial statements £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 1,325 992 7,804 68 (113) 67 10,143 Profit for the year 272 272 Net remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 153 153 Net revaluation of property (1) (1) Net movement in cash flow hedge reserve 138 138 Net movement in FVOCI reserve (11) (11) Total comprehensive income 425 (1) 138 (11) 551 Reserve transfer 3 (3) Other information Distribution to the holders of core capital deferred shares (108) (108) Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (note ii) (68) (68) At 4 April 2019 1,325 992 8,056 64 25 56 10,518 Notes: i. The Group adopted IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting from 5 April 2019; this resulted in the creation of a new other hedging reserve. Further information is included in note 1. ii. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 238 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Cash flow statements Strategic report For the year ended 4 April 2020 Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) Notes £m £m £m £m Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities Profit before tax 466 833 110 368 Adjustments for: Non-cash items included in profit before tax 36 933 735 875 804 Governance Changes in operating assets and liabilities 36 2,264 (334) 2,581 (29) Taxation (252) (135) (139) (41) Net cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities 3,411 1,099 3,427 1,102 Cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities Purchase of investment securities (13,162) (9,227) (13,180) (9,225) Sale and maturity of investment securities 10,138 6,324 10,138 6,324 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (264) (156) (267) (156) Sale of property, plant and equipment 27 12 27 12 Risk report Purchase of intangible assets (403) (371) (403) (371) Net cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities (3,664) (3,418) (3,685) (3,416) Cash flows generated from/(used in) from financing activities Distributions paid to the holders of core capital deferred shares (108) (108) (108) (108) Distributions paid to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (42) (68) (42) (68) Issuance of Additional Tier 1 capital 593 593 Redemption of Additional Tier 1 capital (1,000) (1,000) Financial statements Issue of subordinated liabilities 1,603 1,029 1,603 1,029 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities (202) (161) (202) (161) Redemption of subscribed capital (13) (13) Interest paid on subscribed capital (5) (5) (5) (5) Repayment of lease liabilities (note ii) (27) (27) Net cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities 812 674 812 674 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 41 9 42 5 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 600 (1,636) 596 (1,635) Other information Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 13,874 15,510 13,859 15,494 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 36 14,474 13,874 14,455 13,859 Notes: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. ii. Disclosed on adoption of IFRS 16 as detailed in note 1. The notes on pages 239 to 319 form part of these financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 239 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial statements Strategic report ‘Financial Instruments’. IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ also became 1. Statement of accounting policies effective from 1 January 2019. The adoption of these amendments and interpretations had no significant impact on the Group, except for the amendment to IAS 12 which is set out further Basis of preparation below. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 were also issued in September 2019 which Reporting Standards (IFRS) as published by the International Accounting Standards Board modified specific hedge accounting requirements so that entities apply those hedge (IASB) and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee of the IASB, as accounting requirements assuming that the interest rate benchmark on which the hedged adopted by the European Union. These financial statements have also been prepared in cash flows and cash flows of the hedging instrument are based is not altered as a result of Governance accordance with those parts of the Building Societies (Accounts and Related Provisions) interest rate benchmark reform. These amendments are applicable to the Group from 5 April Regulations 1998 (as amended) applicable to organisations reporting under IFRS. 2020 with early adoption permitted. The Group has adopted the applicable amendments from 5 April 2019. Further information is included in note 15. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, branches and non-specialised buildings, financial IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), and derivatives and certain other financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss The Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS 16 from 5 April 2019. For lessee accounting (FVTPL). As stated in the Directors’ report, the directors consider that it is appropriate to there is no longer a distinction between operating and finance leases. Lessees capitalise continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. leases through the recognition of assets representing the contractual rights of use and Risk report recognise a lease liability for the present value of contractual payments. A summary of the Group’s accounting policies is set out below. The accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for changes arising from adoption of new and revised IFRSs The Group has adopted IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, under which the and certain voluntary changes in accounting policy, as described below. cumulative effect of initial application is recognised in retained earnings at 5 April 2019. Comparative figures for the prior year have therefore not been restated. Further information about judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates is provided in note 2. At transition, lease liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate which was 2.8% as at 5 Financial statements Adoption of new and revised IFRSs April 2019. The balance sheet increases as a result of recognition of the lease liabilities and right-of-use assets as of 5 April 2019 were £192 million and £181 million respectively, with no The Group has adopted the following standards with effect from 5 April 2019: adjustment to retained earnings. The difference between the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities recognised on transition is due to existing prepayments, accruals and onerous lease • IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ provisions recognised under IAS 17 ‘Leases’ as at 5 April 2019 being included in the • IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Hedge Accounting. measurement of the right-of-use assets. The assets are presented in property, plant and equipment and the liabilities are presented in other liabilities. Further information on the impacts of adopting these new standards is set out below. The recognition of lease liabilities totalling £192 million upon adoption of IFRS 16 exceeds the Other information In addition, a number of amendments and improvements to accounting standards have been total operating lease commitments disclosed under IAS 17 as at 4 April 2019 of £189 million. issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) with an effective date of Lease liabilities recognised on the balance sheet include reasonably certain extensions to the 1 January 2019. Those relevant to these financial statements include minor amendments to lease term, whereas the disclosure of operating lease commitments included payments only IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’, IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, and IFRS 9 to the point of contractual break clauses. This increase was almost entirely offset by the impact of discounting, as lease liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet at their present value and the previous IAS 17 disclosure was made on an undiscounted basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 240 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) change in fair value of these spreads directly in the ‘other hedging reserve’. The value of this reserve at 4 April 2020 was a cumulative loss of £42 million (Society: £6 million). Strategic report The Group has taken advantage of the following practical expedients upon transition: Amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ • Relied upon the previous assessment under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 as to whether contracts entered into prior to the date of adoption represented a lease. The amendment to IAS 12 clarifies that an entity should recognise the tax consequences of • Applied a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics. dividends where the transactions or events that generated the distributable profits are • Adjusted the right-of-use assets by the amount of IAS 37 onerous contract provision recognised. As a result of its application, the income tax consequences of distributions on immediately before the date of adoption as an alternative to an impairment review. Additional Tier 1 instruments are presented in the income statement rather than directly in • Applied the exemption not to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with members’ interests and equity. Comparative information has been restated as shown below. less than 12 months of remaining lease term. Governance • Excluded initial direct costs from measuring the right-of use asset at adoption. Income statements and statements of comprehensive income extracts for the year ended • Used hindsight when determining the lease term if the contract contains options to 4 April 2019 extend or terminate the lease. Previously Adjustment Restated published IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ – Hedge Accounting £m £m £m Group The transition requirements of IFRS 9 include an option to continue to apply the existing Taxation (215) 18 (197) hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 until the development of a separate standard on Profit after tax 618 18 636 accounting for dynamic risk management (macro hedge accounting). In its financial Society Risk report statements for the year ended 4 April 2019, the Group continued to apply IAS 39. From Taxation (114) 18 (96) 5 April 2019 the Group voluntarily adopted the micro hedge accounting provisions of IFRS 9 Profit after tax 254 18 272 on a prospective basis and continues to apply IAS 39 fair value hedge accounting for portfolio hedges of interest rate risk (macro hedge accounting). Statement of movements in members’ interests and equity extracts for the year ended 4 April 2019 The changes resulting from adoption of the hedge accounting provisions of IFRS 9 for micro Previously Adjustment Restated hedges, which are applicable to the Group, include: published £m £m £m Financial statements • The ability to choose to exclude currency basis spreads from hedge designation and Group instead report this element of fair valuation directly in a hedge reserve within equity. Profit after tax 618 18 636 • The performance of hedge effectiveness testing on a prospective basis only, in line with Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 risk management strategy. (50) (18) (68) capital • The inability to voluntarily de-designate hedging relationships, unless there has been a Society change to risk management objectives. Profit after tax 254 18 272 Distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 Adoption, which did not have a significant impact for the Group, has resulted in the creation (50) (18) (68) capital of an ‘other hedging reserve’ within equity to include the impact of foreign currency basis Other information spreads. Comparatives have not been restated. For the year ended 4 April 2020, adoption of this amendment resulted in reducing the taxation charge and increasing profit after tax for the Group and Society by £13 million. This Effective 5 April 2019, and concurrent with the adoption of the micro hedge accounting change has had no impact on the Group’s or Society’s net assets or members’ interests and provisions of IFRS 9, the Group discontinued a number of cash flow hedge relationships, equity. resulting in reduced activity in the cash flow hedge reserve. The Group immediately replaced these hedges with a number of new fair value hedge accounting relationships. The Group chose to exclude foreign currency basis spreads from the new hedges and instead reports the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 241 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes Notes to financial statements the financial to the statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Changes to the cash flow statements Cash flow statement extract for the year ended 4 April 2019 Previously Adjustment Restated The presentation of the cash flow statement involves judgement by management as to the published categorisation of different transactions between operating, financing and investing activities Group £m £m £m in a manner which is most appropriate to the business. To provide a better representation of Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities the Group’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, a number of Non-cash items included in profit before tax (notes i-iv) 1,401 (666) 735 reclassifications and adjustments have been made relating to the following areas: Changes in operating assets and liabilities (notes i-vi) (2,514) 2,180 (334) Cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities • Reclassification of certain balances out of cash equivalents due to restrictions on the Purchase of investment securities (note ii) (9,020) (207) (9,227) ability to withdraw the funds. Sale and maturity of investment securities (notes ii and iv) 6,298 26 6,324 Governance • Separate presentation of the effects of foreign exchange differences on cash and cash Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities equivalents. Issue of debt securities (note i) 27,956 (27,956) • Adjustments to the classification of cash flows between operating, investing and financing Redemption of debt securities in issue (note i) (25,970) 25,970 activities to better reflect the nature of the cash flows and, where relevant, associated Interest paid on debt securities in issue (note i) (592) 592 hedging impacts. Interest paid on subordinated liabilities (note iv) (222) 61 (161) • Reclassifications within the components of cash flows from operating activities. Interest paid on subscribed capital (note iv) (14) 9 (5) Cash and cash equivalents Comparatives for the year ended 4 April 2019 have been restated as shown opposite. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (note v) 9 9 Risk report Comparatives included within the disclosure of the components of cash flows (used Cash and cash equivalents at start of period (note vi) 17,510 (2,000) 15,510 in)/generated from operating activities in note 36 have also been restated accordingly. Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (note vi) 15,856 (1,982) 13,874 These changes had no impact on the Group’s or Society’s net assets or members’ interests and equity at 4 April 2019. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 242 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Change in presentation of intercompany services Cash flow statement extract for the year ended 4 April 2019 Previously Adjustment Restated To better reflect the nature of services provided by the Society to its subsidiaries, published administrative expenses relating to such services and the corresponding amounts recharged Society £m £m £m are now presented on a gross basis within administrative expenses and other operating Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities income respectively. Previously, recharges were netted within administrative expenses. Non-cash items included in profit before tax (notes i-iv) 1,409 (605) 804 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (notes i-vi) (2,874) 2,845 (29) Comparatives for the year ended 4 April 2019 have been restated as shown below: Cash flows (used in)/generated from investing activities Purchase of investment securities (note ii) (9,018) (207) (9,225) Income statement extract for the year ended 4 April 2019 Governance Sale and maturity of investment securities (notes ii and iv) 6,298 26 6,324 Previously Adjustment Restated Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities published Issue of debt securities (note i) 27,956 (27,956) Society £m £m £m Redemption of debt securities in issue (note i) (25,288) 25,288 Other operating income 52 28 80 Interest paid on debt securities in issue (note i) (552) 552 Administrative expenses (2,223) (28) (2,251) Interest paid on subordinated liabilities (note iv) (222) 61 (161) Interest paid on subscribed capital (note iv) (14) 9 (5) Cash and cash equivalents This change had no impact on the Society’s net assets or members’ interests and equity, or Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents at 4 April 2019. Risk report (note v) 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period (note vi) 17,494 (2,000) 15,494 Future accounting developments Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (note vi) 15,841 (1,982) 13,859 The IASB has issued a number of minor amendments to IFRSs that are effective from 1 Notes: January 2020, some of which have been endorsed for use in the EU. These amendments are i. Reclassification of gross cash inflows and outflows arising from the issuance, disposal and interest not expected to have a significant impact for the Group. on debt securities in issue from financing activities to present a net cash movement within operating activities, reflecting the use of these securities as part of the Group’s day to day IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, Financial statements operations. presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within the scope of the standard. IFRS 17 is ii. Adjustments to cash flows on acquisition and disposal of investment securities within investing effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 and has not yet been activities to appropriately reflect the proceeds paid or received, inclusive of the effects of premiums, endorsed for use by the EU. The requirements of IFRS 17 are currently being assessed; discounts and gains/(losses) on disposal. however, it is not expected that the new standard will have a significant impact for the Group. iii. Reclassifications within cash flows from operations between categories of non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. iv. Presentation of cash flows associated with derivative contracts hedging investing and financing activities in the same category as the cash flows of the hedged items. v. Separate presentation of the effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents. vi. Reclassification of certain collateral balances from cash equivalents to loans and advances to banks Other information and similar institutions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 243 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Basis of consolidation The Group has also entered into self-issuances of debt to be used as collateral for repurchase (‘repo’) and similar transactions. Investments in self-issued debt and the related obligation, The assets, liabilities and results of the Society and its undertakings, which include together with the related income, expenditure and cash flows, are not recognised in the subsidiaries and structured entities, are included in the financial statements on the basis of Society’s or Group’s financial statements. This avoids the ‘grossing-up’ of the financial accounts made up to the reporting date. statements that would otherwise arise. The Group consolidates an entity from the date on which the Group: (i) has power over the To manage interest rate risk, the Society enters into derivative transactions with the entity; (ii) is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity; structured entities, receiving a rate of interest based on the securitised mortgages and paying and (iii) has the ability to affect those returns through the exercise of its power. The a rate inherent in the debt issuances. These internal derivatives are treated as part of the assessment of control is based on all facts and circumstances. The Group reassesses whether deemed loan and not separately fair valued because the relevant mortgage loans are not Governance it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more derecognised. All other derivatives relating to securitisations are treated as explained in the of the three elements of control. The Group ceases to consolidate subsidiaries from the date derivatives and hedge accounting policy below. that control ceases. Interest receivable and interest expense A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the relationship For instruments measured at amortised cost the effective interest rate (EIR) method is used indicates control. The Group considers factors such as the purpose and design of the entity, to measure the carrying value of a financial asset or liability and to allocate associated interest size and exposure to variability of returns and nature of the relationship. income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial Risk report Upon consolidation, all intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated. asset or financial liability. Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the Society accounts at cost less In calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all provisions for any impairment in value. The directors consider it appropriate for contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example early redemption penalty charges) administrative and commercial reasons that subsidiary undertakings have financial years and anticipated customer behaviour but does not consider future credit losses. The ending on 31 March. Adjustment is made for individually significant transactions arising calculation includes all fees received and paid and costs borne that are an integral part of the Financial statements between 31 March and the Society’s year end. effective interest rate, transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts above or below market rates. Securitisation transactions Interest income is calculated by applying the EIR to the gross carrying amount of non-credit The Group has securitised certain mortgage loans by the transfer of the loans to structured impaired financial assets. For credit-impaired financial assets the interest income is entities controlled by the Group. The securitisation enables a subsequent issuance of debt, calculated by applying the EIR to the amortised cost of the credit-impaired financial assets either by the Society or the structured entities, to investors who gain the security of the (i.e net of the allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs)). Where loans are credit impaired underlying assets as collateral. Those structured entities are fully consolidated into the Group on origination, or when purchased from third parties, the carrying amount at initial accounts. recognition is net of the lifetime ECL at that date. For these assets the EIR reflects the ECLs in determining the future cash flows expected to be received from the financial asset. Other information The transfers of the mortgage loans to the structured entities are not treated as sales by the Society. The Society continues to recognise the mortgage loans on its own balance sheet after Interest receivable and similar income/(expense) calculated using the effective interest rate the transfer because it retains their risks and rewards through the receipt of substantially all method also includes interest on financial assets classified as fair value through other of the profits or losses of the structured entities. In the accounts of the Society, the proceeds comprehensive income, and on derivatives in qualifying hedge relationships. received from the transfer are accounted for as a deemed loan repayable to the structured entities. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 244 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes Notes to financial statements the financial to the statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Intangible assets Strategic report Interest income not calculated using the effective interest rate method, including interest on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss and derivatives not in qualifying Intangible assets held by the Group consist primarily of externally acquired and internally hedge relationships, is presented as other interest receivable and similar income/(expense). developed computer software which is held at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. In accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’, software development costs are Fees and commissions capitalised if it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits. Costs incurred to establish technological feasibility or to maintain existing levels of Fees and commission income and expense includes fees other than those that are an integral performance are recognised as an expense. part of EIR. Fees and commissions relating to current accounts, mortgages and credit cards are either: Web development costs are capitalised where the expenditure is incurred on developing an income generating website. Governance • transaction-based and therefore recognised when the performance obligation related to the transaction is fulfilled, or Where applicable, directly attributable borrowing costs incurred in the construction of • related to the provision of services over a period of time and therefore recognised on a qualifying assets are capitalised. systematic basis over the life of the agreement as services are provided. Computer software intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their The transaction prices and provision of services are defined within the product terms and estimated useful lives which generally range between 3 and 10 years. Amortisation conditions. commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted, if appropriate, in the light of technological developments, Trail commission relating to investments under administration, general insurance and usage and other relevant factors. Risk report protection products sold on behalf of third parties may include variable consideration. Where this is the case the trail commission is recognised either on the accruals basis over the period Intangible assets, including computer software, are reviewed for indicators of impairment at to which the commission relates or, if the uncertainties are more significant, once the each reporting date and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the uncertainties are resolved. carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where the carrying amount is not recoverable the asset is written down immediately to the estimated recoverable amount, based on value in Fee and commission income is generally earned from short-term contracts with payment use calculations. terms that do not include a significant financing component. Financial statements Property, plant and equipment Segmental reporting Freehold and long leasehold properties comprise mainly branches and office buildings. The Nationwide Leadership Team (NLT) is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance of the business and is therefore identified as the chief operating decision Branches and non-specialised buildings are stated at revalued amounts, being the fair value, maker. determined by market-based evidence at the date of the valuation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent impairment. Valuations are completed annually, The Group has determined that it has one reportable segment as the NLT reviews as at 4 April, by external, independent and qualified surveyors who have recent experience in performance and makes decisions based on the Group as whole. No segmental analysis is the location and type of properties. Valuations are performed in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards and are performed on a Other information required on geographical lines as substantially all of the Group’s activities are in the United Kingdom. As a result, no segmental disclosure is provided. vacant possession basis, using a comparative method of valuation with reference to sales prices and observable market rents for similar properties in similar locations. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 245 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Increases in the valuations of branches and non-specialised buildings are credited to other Leases comprehensive income except where they reverse decreases for the same asset previously recognised in the income statement, in which case the increase in the valuation is recognised Accounting for leases under IFRS 16 (for the year ended 4 April 2020) in the income statement. Decreases in valuations are recognised in the income statement except where they reverse amounts previously credited to other comprehensive income for At inception, the Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease. This assessment the same asset, in which case the decrease in valuation is recognised in other comprehensive involves exercising judgment as to whether the contract conveys the right to control the use income. of an identified asset, and the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from this asset, for a period of time. The leases held by the Group as a lessee consist primarily of The Group holds a small number of investment properties comprising properties held for property contracts for branches and office buildings. rental. These are stated at fair value, determined by market-based evidence at the date of the Governance valuation. Valuations are completed annually, as at 4 April, by independent surveyors. The Group recognises a right-of-use (RoU) asset and a lease liability at the commencement of Changes in fair value are included in the income statement. Depreciation is not charged on the lease, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of less than 12 investment properties. months) and leases of low value assets. Payments for short-term leases and leases of low value assets are generally recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis. Other property, plant and equipment, including specialised administration buildings, are included at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the payments over the lease includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items, major term, with the rate used to discount the payments reflecting the rate implicit in the lease or, if alterations and refurbishments. this is not readily determinable, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The lease term includes the non-cancellable period of the lease, together with an assessment of any Risk report Where applicable, directly attributable borrowing costs incurred in the construction of extension or termination options which are reasonably certain to be exercised. The lease qualifying assets are capitalised. liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and remeasured (with a corresponding adjustment to the RoU asset) when there is a change in Land is not depreciated. The depreciation of other assets commences when the assets are future lease payments due to renegotiation, changes to an index or rate, or a reassessment of ready for their intended use and is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their options. cost or valuation over the following estimated useful lives: The RoU asset is initially measured based on the value of the corresponding lease liability, Financial statements Branches and non-specialised buildings 60 years plus any initial direct costs and any lease payments made at or before the commencement, Specialised administration buildings up to 60 years less any incentives received. The RoU asset is subsequently measured at cost less Plant and machinery 5 to 15 years depreciation and any accumulated impairment. Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the Equipment, fixtures, fittings and vehicles 3 to 10 years lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset. The Group applies IAS 36 to determine whether a RoU asset is impaired, as described in the property, plant and equipment Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjusted, if appropriate, accounting policy. RoU assets are included in the ‘Property, plant and equipment’ balance in the light of technological developments, usage and other relevant factors. sheet line item and the lease liabilities are included in the ‘Other liabilities’ line item. Assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date and whenever events All leases where the Group is lessor are classified as operating leases, as substantially all risks or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Other information and rewards of ownership have been retained. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line Where the carrying amount is not recoverable the asset is written down immediately to the basis over the term of the lease. estimated recoverable amount. Accounting for leases under IAS 17 (for the year ended 4 April 2019) Gains and losses on disposals are included in other operating income/(expense) in the income statement. Operating leases are leases that do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the lessee. Operating lease payments and receipts are charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 246 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Tax related to remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations, which are charged or Strategic report Taxation including deferred tax credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the general reserve, is also credited or charged to other comprehensive income. Current tax payable on profits, based on the applicable tax law in each jurisdiction, is recognised as an expense in the period in which profits arise. Current tax assets and liabilities Employee benefits are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. (a) Pensions Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial arrangements. statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Governance substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related Defined benefit pension arrangements deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. A defined benefit plan is one that defines the benefit an employee will receive on retirement, Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be depending on such factors as age, length of service and salary. available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets, after applying the asset ceiling test, where difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The tax effects of tax losses available for a net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and carry forward are recognised as a deferred tax asset when it is probable that future taxable reductions in future contributions to the plan. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by Risk report profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised. independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and assumptions agreed with the Group. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the estimated future cash flows derived from yields of high-quality corporate bonds that have current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where the deferred tax assets and terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle on a net basis. Actuarial remeasurements arise from experience adjustments (the effects of differences between previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred) and changes in Financial statements Tax related to the fair value remeasurement of financial assets measured at FVOCI, which is forward looking actuarial assumptions. Actuarial remeasurements are recognised in full, in charged or credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the FVOCI reserve, is the year they occur, in other comprehensive income. also credited or charged to other comprehensive income and is subsequently reclassified from other comprehensive income to the income statement together with the associated Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. deferred loss or gain. Defined contribution pension arrangements Tax related to movements in the fair value of derivatives that are subject to cash flow hedge accounting, which are charged or credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated A defined contribution arrangement is one into which the Group and the employee pay fixed in the cash flow hedge reserve, is also credited or charged to other comprehensive income contributions, without any further obligation to pay additional contributions. Payments to and is subsequently reclassified from other comprehensive income to the income statement defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due. Other information together with the associated deferred loss or gain from cash flow hedge accounting. (b) Other post-retirement obligations Tax related to movements in the valuation of property, which are charged or credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the revaluation reserve, is also credited or The Group provides post-retirement healthcare to a small number of former employees. The charged to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the revaluation reserve. Group recognises this obligation and the actuarial remeasurement in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 247 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report (c) Other long-term employee benefits The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price (plus directly attributable transaction costs for financial assets which are not subsequently The cost of bonuses payable 12 months or more after the end of the year in which they are measured at fair value through profit or loss). On initial recognition, it is presumed that the earned is accrued over the period from the start of the performance year until all relevant transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active criteria have been met. market to the contrary. Any difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price is recognised immediately as a gain or loss in the income statement where (d) Short-term employee benefits the fair value is based on a quoted price in an active market or a valuation using only observable market data. In all other cases, any gain or loss is deferred and recognised over The cost of short-term employee benefits, including wages and salaries, social security costs the life of the transaction, or until valuation inputs become observable. and healthcare for current employees, is recognised in the year of service. Governance Modification of contractual terms Provisions An instrument that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is a new agreement is made on substantially different terms (such as renegotiations of probable that the obligation will be settled, and it can be reliably estimated. This includes commercial loans). Residential mortgages reaching the end of a fixed interest deal period are management’s best estimate of amounts payable for customer redress. deemed repricing events, rather than a modification of contractual terms, as the change in interest rate at the end of the fixed rate period was envisaged in the original mortgage The Group has an obligation to contribute to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme contract. (FSCS) to enable the FSCS to meet compensation claims from, in particular, retail depositors Risk report of failed banks. A provision is recognised, to the extent that it can be reliably estimated, when Where an instrument is renegotiated and not derecognised (for example forbearance), the the levy is legally enforceable, in line with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. The amount provided is based on change is considered a modification of contractual terms. Where this arises, the gross information received from the FSCS and the Group’s historic share of industry protected carrying amount of the loan is recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or deposits. modified contractual cash flows, discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. Any gain or loss on recalculation is recognised immediately in the income statement. Financial assets Classification and measurement Financial statements Financial assets comprise cash, loans and advances to banks and similar institutions, investment securities, derivative financial instruments and loans and advances to customers. The classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets is based on an assessment of the Group’s business models for managing the assets and their contractual cash flow Recognition and derecognition characteristics. Financial assets are classified into the following three categories: All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value. Purchases and sales of financial assets (a) Amortised cost are accounted for at trade date. Financial assets acquired through a business combination or portfolio acquisition are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Financial assets are Financial assets held to collect contractual cash flows and where contractual terms comprise derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or where the assets have solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI) are classified as amortised cost. This category been transferred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been of financial assets includes cash, loans and advances to banks and similar institutions, the Other information transferred. majority of the Group’s residential and commercial mortgage loans, all unsecured lending, and certain investment securities within a ‘hold to collect’ business model. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 248 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Financial assets within this category are recognised on either the receipt of cash or deposit of (c) Fair value through profit or loss funds into one of the Group’s bank accounts (for cash and loans and advances to banks and similar institutions), when the funds are advanced to borrowers (for residential, commercial All other financial assets are measured at FVTPL. Financial assets within this category include and unsecured lending) or on the trade date for purchases of investment securities. After derivative instruments and a small number of residential and commercial loans and initial recognition, the assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate investment securities with contractual cash flow characteristics which do not meet the SPPI method, less provisions for expected credit losses. criteria. The contractual terms for these cash flows include contingent or leverage features, or returns based on movements in underlying collateral values such as house prices. (b) Fair value through other comprehensive income Fair values are based on observable market data, valuations obtained by third parties or, Debt instruments held in a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting where these are not available, internal models. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair Governance contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and where contractual terms comprise value of these instruments and on disposal are recognised in the income statement within solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI), are classified and measured at FVOCI. This other operating income. category of financial assets includes most of the Group’s investment securities which are held to manage liquidity requirements. Hedge accounting is not applied to assets classified as FVTPL; however, hedging may be applied for economic purposes. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of Financial assets within this category are recognised on trade date. The assets are measured derivatives economically hedging FVTPL financial assets is also included within other at fair value using, in the majority of cases, market prices or, where there is no active market, operating income. prices obtained from market participants. In sourcing valuations, the Group makes use of a consensus pricing service, in line with standard industry practice. In cases where market Impairment of financial assets Risk report prices or prices from market participants are not available, discounted cash flow models are used Financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 expected credit loss (ECL) requirements comprise all financial debt instruments measured at either amortised cost or FVOCI. These include Interest on FVOCI assets is recognised in interest receivable and similar income in the income cash, loans and advances to banks and similar institutions, and the majority of investment statement, using the effective interest rate method. securities and loans and advances to customers. Also within scope are irrevocable undrawn commitments to lend and intra-group lending (the latter being eliminated on consolidation in Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in value are recognised in other the Group accounts). Financial statements comprehensive income. Provisions for expected credit losses and foreign exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement. The ECL represents the present value of expected cash shortfalls following the default of a financial instrument, including any undrawn commitment. A cash shortfall is the difference Cumulative gains or losses arising on sale are recognised in the income statement within between the cash flows that are due in accordance with the contractual terms of the other operating income/(expense), net of any credit or foreign exchange gains or losses instrument and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive. already recognised. The allowance for ECLs is based on an assessment of the probability of default, exposure at default and loss given default, discounted at the effective interest rate to give a net present value. The estimation of ECLs is unbiased and probability weighted, taking into account all reasonable and supportable information, including forward looking economic assumptions Other information and a range of possible outcomes. ECLs are typically calculated from initial recognition of the financial asset for the maximum contractual period that the Group is exposed to the credit risk. However, for revolving credit loans such as credit cards and overdrafts, the Group’s credit risk is not limited to their contractual period and therefore the expected life of the loan and associated undrawn commitment is calculated based on the behavioural life of the loan. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 249 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report For financial assets recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost, the allowance for ECLs Qualitative factors that may indicate a significant change in credit risk include concession is offset against the gross carrying value so that the amount presented in the balance sheet is events where full repayment of principal and interest is envisaged, on a discounted basis. net of impairment provisions. For financial assets classified as FVOCI, any credit losses recognised are offset against cumulative fair value movements within the other Further information about the identification of significant increases in credit risk is provided comprehensive income reserve. For separately identifiable irrevocable loan commitments, in note 10. where the related financial asset has not yet been advanced, the provision is presented in provisions for liabilities and charges in the balance sheet. Stage 3: credit impaired (or defaulted) loans Forward looking economic inputs Financial assets are transferred into stage 3 when there is objective evidence that an instrument is credit impaired. Provisions for stage 3 assets are made on the basis of credit Governance ECLs are calculated by reference to information on past events, current conditions and default events expected to occur over the lifetime of the instrument. Assets are considered forecasts of future economic conditions. Multiple economic scenarios are incorporated into credit impaired when: ECL calculation models. These scenarios are based on external sources where available and appropriate, and internally generated assumptions in all other cases. To capture any non• contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due by more than 90 days; linear relationship between economic assumptions and credit losses, a minimum of three • there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay such as signs of financial scenarios is used. This includes a central scenario which reflects the Group’s view of the most difficulty, probable bankruptcy, breaches of contract and concession events which have a likely future economic conditions, together with an upside and a downside scenario detrimental impact on the present value of future cash flows; or representing alternative plausible views of economic conditions, weighted based on • the loan is otherwise considered to be in default. management’s view of their probability. Risk report Interest income on stage 3 credit impaired loans is recognised in the income statement on Credit risk categorisation the loan balance net of the ECL provision. The balance sheet value of stage 3 loans reflects the contractual terms of the assets, and continues to increase over time with the contractually For the purpose of calculating ECLs, assets are categorised into three 'stages' as follows: accrued interest. Stage 1: no significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition Purchased or originated credit impaired (POCI) loans On initial recognition, and for financial assets where there has not been a significant increase Financial statements in credit risk since the date of advance, provision is made for losses from credit default events Where loans are credit impaired on origination, or when purchased from third parties, the expected to occur within the next 12 months. Expected credit losses for these stage 1 assets carrying amount at initial recognition is net of the lifetime ECL at that date. Thereafter, any continue to be recognised on this basis unless there is a significant increase in the credit risk subsequent change (favourable or unfavourable) in the lifetime ECL is recognised in the of the asset. income statement. POCI loans are separately disclosed as credit impaired loans and cannot be transferred out of the POCI designation, even if there is a significant improvement in credit Stage 2: significant increase in credit risk quality. Financial assets are categorised as being within stage 2 where an instrument has Transfers between stages experienced a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. For these assets, provision is made for losses from credit default events expected to occur over the lifetime of Transfers from stage 1 to 2 occur when there has been a significant increase in credit risk and Other information the instrument. from stage 2 to 3 when credit impairment is indicated as described above. Whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred is ascertained by comparing the For assets in stage 2 or 3, loans can transfer back to stage 1 or 2 once the criteria for a probability of default at the reporting date to the probability of default at origination, based significant increase in credit risk or impairment are no longer met. For loans subject to on quantitative and qualitative factors. Quantitative considerations take into account changes concession events such as forbearance, accounts are transferred back to stage 1 or 2 only in the residual lifetime probability of default (PD) of the asset. As a backstop, all assets with an after being up to date for a period of 12 months. arrears status of more than 30 days past due on contractual payments are considered to be in stage 2. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 250 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Write-off Level 1 – Valuation using quoted market prices Loans remain on the balance sheet, net of associated provisions, until they are deemed to Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. have no reasonable expectation of recovery. Loans are generally written off after realisation of Such instruments are valued by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or any proceeds from collateral and upon conclusion of the collections process, including liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price reflects consideration of whether an account has reached a point where continuing attempts to actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. An active market recover are no longer likely to be successful. Where a loan is not recoverable, it is written off is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing against the related provision for loan impairment once all the necessary procedures have information on an ongoing basis. been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the value of impairment losses recorded in the Level 2 – Valuation technique using observable inputs Governance income statement. Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are Financial liabilities observable in an active market. Valuations based on observable inputs include derivative financial instruments such as swaps and forward rate agreements which are valued using Borrowings, including shares, deposits, debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and market standard pricing techniques, and options that are commonly traded in markets where permanent interest-bearing shares (subscribed capital) are recognised initially at fair value, all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable. They also include being the issue proceeds net of premiums, discounts and transaction costs incurred. investment securities valued using consensus pricing or other observable market prices. All borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate Level 3 – Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs Risk report method. Amortised cost is adjusted for the amortisation of any premiums, discounts and transaction costs. The amortisation is recognised in interest expense and similar charges Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs using the effective interest rate method. that are not based on observable market data (‘unobservable inputs’). A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or Derivative financial liabilities are measured at FVTPL. Borrowings that are designated as if there is compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price. An input is hedged items are subject to measurement under the hedge accounting requirements deemed significant if it is shown to contribute more than 10% to the valuation of a financial described in the derivatives and hedge accounting policy below. instrument. Unobservable input levels are generally determined based on observable inputs Financial statements of a similar nature, historical observations or other analytical techniques. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or has expired. The financial liabilities of dormant shares and deposit accounts are extinguished Derivatives and hedge accounting when balances have been transferred to the Government-backed unclaimed asset scheme under the terms of the Dormant Accounts and Building Society Accounts Act 2008 with no Derivatives are entered into to reduce exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, exchange impact on the income statement. rates, market indices and credit risk, and are not used for speculative purposes. Fair value of assets and liabilities (a) Derivative financial instruments IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ requires an entity to classify assets and liabilities held at fair Derivatives are carried at fair value with movements in fair values recorded in the income Other information value, and those not measured at fair value but for which the fair value is disclosed, according statement. Derivative financial instruments are principally valued by discounted cash flow to a hierarchy that reflects the significance of observable market inputs in calculating those models using yield curves that are based on observable market data or are based on fair values. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below: valuations obtained from third parties. For collateralised positions the Group uses discount curves based on overnight indexed swap rates such as Sonia, and for non-collateralised positions the Group uses discount curves based on term Libor rates. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 251 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report In the first instance fair values are calculated using mid prices. An adjustment is then made to (c) Hedge accounting derivative assets and liabilities to value them on a bid and offer basis respectively. The bidoffer adjustment is calculated on a portfolio basis and reflects the costs that would be The Group adopted the general hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 from 5 April 2019 incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed out using available but has continued to apply the scope exception which allows ongoing application of IAS 39 hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding actual positions. The methodology for for fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio (macro) hedge of interest rate risk. When determining the bid-offer adjustments involves netting between long and short positions and transactions meet the criteria specified in IFRS 9, the Group can apply two types of hedge the grouping of risk by type, in accordance with hedging strategy. Bid-offer spreads are accounting: either hedges of the changes in fair value of the financial asset or liability (fair derived from market sources such as broker data and are reviewed periodically. value hedge accounting) or hedges of the variability in cash flows of the financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge accounting). The Group does not have hedges of net investments. In measuring fair value, separate credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments are made Governance for counterparty or own credit risk to the extent not already included in the valuation. From At inception each hedge relationship is formally documented, including a description of the the year ended 4 April 2020, funding valuation adjustments are also made to reflect an hedged item (a financial asset or liability which is being economically hedged) and the estimate of the adjustment a market participant would make to incorporate funding costs hedging instrument (a derivative), as well as the methods which will be used to assess the and benefits that arise in relation to derivative exposures. effectiveness of the hedge. Hedges accounted for under IFRS 9 are required to be effective on a prospective basis, in line with risk management strategy. Macro hedges which continue to All derivatives are classified as assets where their fair value is positive and liabilities where be accounted for under IAS 39 are required to be highly effective on both a retrospective and their fair value is negative. Where there is the legal right and intention to settle net, then the a prospective basis. derivative is classified as a net asset or liability, as appropriate. Fair value and cash flow hedges may have residual hedge ineffectiveness. This is the degree Risk report Where cash collateral is received, to mitigate the risk inherent in amounts due to the Group, it to which the change in fair value of the hedging instrument does not offset the change in fair is included as a liability within deposits from banks and similar institutions. Similarly, where value of the hedged item. This ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement and cash collateral is given, to mitigate the risk inherent in amounts due from the Group, it is typically arises from: included as an asset in loans and advances to banks and similar institutions. Where securities collateral is received the securities are not recognised in the accounts as the Group does not i) differences in the magnitude or timing of future expected cash flows in the hedged obtain the risks and rewards of the securities. Where securities collateral is given, the item and hedging instrument; securities have not been derecognised as the Group has retained substantially all the risks ii) differences in the market curves used to value the hedged item and hedging Financial statements and rewards of ownership. instrument; iii) unexpected adjustments to either the hedged item or hedging instrument, due to (b) Embedded derivatives early repayments or disposals; iv) the ongoing amortisation of any existing balance sheet mismatch between the fair Some complex contracts may be hybrid in nature, in that a derivative element is included value of the hedged item and hedging instrument. within a non-derivative host contract, in which case the derivative is termed an embedded derivative. If the host contract is an asset within the scope of IFRS 9’ the entire contract has The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: its accounting classification assessed under IFRS 9. If the host contract is a liability or an asset which does not fall within the scope of IFRS 9, the embedded derivative is separated and i) it is evident from testing that a hedging instrument ceases to meet the hedge treated as a standalone derivative instrument if: effectiveness requirements; Other information ii) the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised; • its economic characteristics are not closely related to the host, iii) the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid or, in the case of a forecasted item, is • a separate instrument with the same terms would meet the definition of a derivative, and no longer deemed to be highly probable to occur. • the hybrid contract is not already being fair valued through the income statement. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 252 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report For macro hedges which continue to be accounted for under IAS 39, the Group may also In fair value hedge accounting relationships, if the hedging instrument no longer meets the decide to cease hedge accounting even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value hedge adjustment is amortised over effective by ceasing to designate the financial instrument as a hedge. For hedges accounted the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship. If the hedged item is for under IFRS 9, the Group is unable to voluntarily de-designate hedging relationships, sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is immediately recognised in the unless there has been a change to risk management objectives. income statement. Fair value hedge accounting Cash flow hedge accounting Fair value hedge accounting results in the carrying value of the hedged item being adjusted In a cash flow hedge accounting relationship, the portion of the hedging instrument’s fair to reflect changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. This creates an offset to value movement that is deemed to be an effective hedge is deferred to the cash flow hedge Governance the fair value movements of the hedging instrument. Changes in the fair value of the hedged reserve, instead of being immediately recognised in the income statement. The ineffective items and hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, except for changes in portion of the derivative fair value movement is recognised immediately in the income the fair value of hedging instruments accounted for under IFRS 9 which are attributable to statement. foreign currency basis spreads. Where foreign currency basis spreads are excluded from hedge designation, this element of fair valuation of the hedging instrument is instead Amounts deferred to the cash flow hedge reserve are subsequently recycled to the income recognised directly within equity within the ‘other hedging reserve’. statement. This recycling occurs when the underlying asset or liability being hedged impacts the income statement, for example when interest payments are recognised. In cash flow For larger and distinctively identifiable assets and liabilities, such as investment securities and hedge accounting relationships, if the derivative no longer meets the criteria for hedge debt securities in issue, a single or small number of hedging instruments may be used. This is accounting, the cumulative gain or loss from the effective portion of the movement in the fair Risk report referred to as a micro fair value hedge. If the hedge is effective, the Group adjusts the carrying value of the derivative remains in other comprehensive income until the cash flows from the value of that specific asset or liability to reflect changes in its fair value due to movements in underlying hedged item are recognised in the income statement. If the hedged item is sold or the designated benchmark rate, such as Libor or Sonia. This creates an offset to the fair value repaid, the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income is immediately recognised movement of the hedging instruments. in the income statement. For hedged items which are classified as FVOCI, such as investment securities, there is no Offsetting financial instruments further need to adjust their carrying value as they are already held at fair value. Instead, Financial statements hedge accounting results in an amount being removed from the FVOCI reserve and instead Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported on the balance sheet if, reported in the income statement, to create an offset to the change in fair value of the and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised amounts and hedging instrument. there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously. For balances within portfolios of homogeneous instruments, such as mortgages, savings and commercial loans, derivatives may be used to hedge risks on a portfolio basis. The Group creates separate portfolio (macro) hedges for assets and liabilities. The Group determines the hedged item by identifying portfolios of similar assets or liabilities and scheduling the expected future cash flows from these items into repricing time buckets, based on expected rather than actual repricing dates. A portion of the total cash flow from each time bucket is Other information then included in the hedged item. The size of this portion is set so that it is expected to create a highly effective fair value offset to the equivalent future cash flows from the hedging instruments. If the hedge is highly effective the Group records an adjustment in the fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk category on the balance sheet. Macro hedges are frequently rebalanced to include new business. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 1. Statement of accounting policies (continued) Strategic report Sale and repurchase agreements (including securities borrowing and lending) and Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing at collateralised total return swaps the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these items are recognised in the income statement as disclosed in note 7. Investment and other securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a pre-determined price (a repo) or a right to continue to receive all future cash flows Cash and cash equivalents and changes in capital value on collateral pledged (a total return swap). Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise balances (typically, the interest rate risk and credit risk on the asset) remain within the Group, and the with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition, included within cash and counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet within deposits from banks loans and advances to banks and similar institutions on the balance sheet. and similar institutions as appropriate. Governance Contingent liabilities Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to a commitment to resell them (a reverse repo) or settle all future cash flows and changes in capital value to a third Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence is dependent on the outcome party on collateral held (a reverse total return swap) but does not acquire the risks and of uncertain future events, or those where the outflow of resources is uncertain or cannot be rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as collateralised loans within loans and measured reliably. advances to banks and similar institutions, and the securities are not included on the balance sheet. During the ordinary course of business, the Group may be subject to threatened or actual legal proceedings. Any such material cases are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the life of the agreements external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of incurring a Risk report using the effective interest rate method. liability. The Group does not disclose amounts in relation to contingent liabilities associated with such claims where the likelihood of any payment is remote or where such disclosure Equity instruments could be seriously prejudicial to the conduct of the claims. Issued financial instruments are classified as equity instruments where the contractual Grants arrangement with the holder does not result in the Group having a present obligation to deliver cash, another financial asset or a variable number of equity instruments. Where the Grants are initially recognised on the balance sheet at the point where it is clear that the Financial statements Group does have a present obligation, the instrument is classified as a financial liability. Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will be received. The grants are then recognised in the income statement as a reduction to expense on a The proceeds of the issuance of equity instruments are included in equity. Costs incurred that systematic basis that matches them with the related costs that they are intended to are incremental and directly attributable to the issuance are deducted from the proceeds (net compensate. of applicable tax). IFRS disclosures Distributions to holders of equity instruments are recognised when they become irrevocable and are deducted from the general reserve. The audited sections in the Risk report and the Report of the directors on remuneration form an integral part of these financial statements. These disclosures (where marked as ‘audited’) Foreign currency translation are covered by the Independent auditor’s report for this Annual Report and Accounts. Other information The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Society. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using sterling which is also the functional currency of each entity. Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 254 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 2. Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates Strategic report The preparation of the Group’s financial statements in accordance with IFRS involves management making judgements and estimates when applying those accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense. Actual results may differ from those on which management’s estimates are based. Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable. For the year ended 4 April 2020, this evaluation has considered the potential impacts of Covid-19. The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty made by management in applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are deemed critical to the Group’s results and financial position, are disclosed in the following notes, including any additional information relating to Covid-19 where relevant. These accounting estimates include areas of significant judgement. Area with significant judgements or estimates Note Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers 10 Governance Provisions for customer redress 27 Retirement benefit obligations (pensions) 30 Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 255 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 3. Interest receivable and similar income Strategic report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m On financial assets measured at amortised cost: Residential mortgages 4,553 4,469 3,407 3,377 Connected undertakings 798 783 Other loans 655 656 642 644 Other liquid assets 152 137 148 137 Investment securities 27 27 27 27 Governance On investment securities measured at FVOCI 172 167 172 166 On financial instruments hedging assets in a qualifying hedge (402) (315) (402) (307) accounting relationship Total interest receivable and similar income calculated using 5,157 5,141 4,792 4,827 the effective interest rate method Interest on net defined benefit pension asset (note 30) 3 3 Other interest and similar expense (note i) (30) (23) (30) (31) Total 5,130 5,118 4,765 4,796 Risk report Note: i. Includes interest on financial instruments hedging assets that are not in a qualifying hedge accounting relationship. 4. Interest expense and similar charges Group Society Financial statements 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m On shares held by individuals 1,361 1,335 1,361 1,335 On subscribed capital 14 14 14 14 On deposits and other borrowings: Subordinated liabilities 309 238 309 238 Connected undertakings 54 48 Other 240 207 241 210 On debt securities in issue 745 673 678 612 Other information Net income on financial instruments hedging liabilities (349) (270) (245) (150) Interest on net defined benefit pension liability (note 30) 6 6 Total 2,320 2,203 2,412 2,313 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 256 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 5. Fees and commission income and expense Strategic report 2020 2019 Income Expense Net Income Expense Net Group £m £m £m £m £m £m Current account and savings 266 (217) 49 261 (202) 59 General insurance 50 50 65 65 Protection and investments 59 59 63 63 Mortgage 15 (6) 9 13 (1) 12 Credit card 44 (43) 1 43 (39) 4 Other fees and commissions 5 (4) 1 4 (6) (2) Governance Total 439 (270) 169 449 (248) 201 The Society’s fee and commission income and expense is as shown above for the Group, except that it excludes £4 million (2019: £3 million) of mortgage income. 6. Other operating income Risk report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Gains on financial assets measured at FVTPL 17 23 17 22 Gains on disposal of FVOCI investment securities 40 27 40 27 Recharges for services to connected undertakings (note i) 38 28 Other income 10 4 10 3 Financial statements Total 67 54 105 80 Note: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. Other income includes gains in relation to contingent consideration received on previous investment disposals, the net amount of rental income, profits or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment and increases or decreases in the valuations of branches and non-specialised buildings which are not recognised in other comprehensive income. There were no gains or losses on disposal of financial assets measured at amortised cost in the year ended 4 April 2020 (2019: £nil). Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 257 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 7. Losses/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting Strategic report As a part of its risk management strategy, the Group uses derivatives to economically hedge financial assets and liabilities. More information on how the Group manages market risk can be found in the Risk report. Hedge accounting is employed by the Group to minimise the accounting volatility associated with the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments. This volatility does not reflect the economic reality of the Group’s hedging strategy. The Group only uses derivatives for the hedging of risks; however, income statement volatility can still arise due to hedge accounting ineffectiveness or because hedge accounting is either not applied or is not currently achievable. The overall impact of derivatives will remain volatile from period to period as new derivative transactions replace those which mature to ensure that interest rate and other market risks are continually managed. Note 1 describes how fair value and cash flow hedge accounting affect the financial statements and the main sources of the residual hedge ineffectiveness remaining in the income statement. Further information on the current derivative portfolio and the allocation to hedge accounting types is included in note 15. Effective 5 April 2019, and concurrent with the adoption of the micro hedge accounting provisions of IFRS 9, the Group discontinued a number of cash flow hedge relationships and immediately replaced these hedges with a number of new fair value hedge accounting relationships. Governance Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Gains from fair value hedge accounting 61 24 24 8 (Losses)/gains from cash flow hedge accounting (2) 23 (1) (34) Fair value (losses)/gains from other derivatives (note i) (74) (18) (13) 8 Foreign exchange retranslation (note ii) 8 7 9 11 Risk report Total (7) 36 19 (7) Notes: i. This category includes derivatives used for economic hedging purposes, but which are not currently in a hedge accounting relationship, as well as valuation adjustments which are applied at a portfolio level and so are not allocated to individual hedge accounting relationships. ii. Gains or losses arise from the retranslation of foreign currency monetary items not subject to effective hedge accounting. Financial statements Gains of £61 million (2019: £24 million) from fair value hedge accounting include gains of £53 million (2019: losses of £9 million) from macro hedges, due to hedge ineffectiveness and the amortisation of existing balance sheet amounts, and gains of £8 million (2019: £33 million) relating to micro hedges which arise due to a combination of hedge ineffectiveness, disposals and restructuring, and the amortisation of existing balance sheet amounts. Losses of £74 million (2019: £18 million) from other derivatives include a loss of £51 million (2019: £3 million) from adverse movements in bid-offer spreads, the majority of which occurred in the more volatile financial markets observed at the end of the financial year. There were also losses of £18 million (2019: £8 million) on swaps economically hedging the pipeline of new mortgage business. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 258 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 7. Losses/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (continued) Strategic report Fair value hedge accounting The Group’s risk management approach is to use interest rate and currency derivatives to economically hedge the fair value of fixed rate assets and liabilities. The market risk from fixed rate assets and liabilities may be netted down before deciding to use derivatives. The derivatives used are predominantly interest rate swaps, which convert fixed rate cash flows to a benchmark floating rate such as Libor or Sonia, and cross currency swaps which convert foreign currency cash flows to GBP cash flows. In addition, bond forwards are used to reduce swap spread risk within the investment securities portfolio and inflation swaps are used to economically hedge contractual inflation risk within investment securities. The table below provides further information on the Group’s fair value hedges: Fair value hedge accounting Governance 2020 Change in fair value used Hedge Carrying Of which: for determining hedge ineffectiveness amount accumulated ineffectiveness recognised in of the fair value the income hedged item adjustment Group statement Hedged item balance sheet Hedging instrument Risk category Hedged Instrument classification item (note i) £m £m £m £m £m Assets: Loans and advances to customers (note ii) Interest rate swaps Interest rate 1,220 (1,169) 51 106,163 2,514 Risk report Investment securities Interest rate swaps, bond forwards Interest rate 158 (159) (1) 6,322 406 Interest rate swaps, cross currency Interest rate and foreign Investment securities 277 (291) (14) 8,439 352 interest rate swaps exchange Investment securities Inflation swaps Interest rate and inflation 39 (41) (2) 2,427 58 Total assets 1,694 (1,660) 34 123,351 3,330 Liabilities: Shares (note iii) Interest rate swaps Interest rate (46) 48 2 4,562 29 Financial statements Debt securities in issue Interest rate swaps, Interest rate (11) 19 8 3,309 191 Interest rate swaps, cross currency Interest rate and foreign Debt securities in issue (503) 508 5 22,961 965 interest rate swaps exchange Interest rate swaps, cross currency Interest rate and foreign Subordinated liabilities (598) 611 13 9,304 635 interest rate swaps exchange Subscribed capital Interest rate swaps Interest rate (3) 2 (1) 243 43 Total liabilities (1,161) 1,188 27 40,379 1,863 Total fair value hedges 533 (472) 61 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 259 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 7. Losses/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (continued) Strategic report Fair value hedge accounting 2019 Change in fair value used for Hedge Carrying Of which: determining hedge ineffectiveness amount accumulated fair ineffectiveness recognised in of the value adjustment the income hedged item Group statement Hedged item balance sheet Hedging instrument Risk category Hedged item Instrument classification £m £m £m £m £m Assets: Loans and advances to customers (note ii) Interest rate swaps Interest rate 396 (406) (10) 94,635 1,294 Governance Investment securities Interest rate swaps, bond forwards Interest rate 230 (193) 37 13,292 323 Investment securities Inflation swaps Interest rate and inflation 16 (15) 1 1,439 19 Total assets 642 (614) 28 109,366 1,636 Liabilities: Shares (note iii) Interest rate swaps Interest rate (37) 38 1 4,131 (17) Debt securities in issue Interest rate swaps Interest rate (31) 28 (3) 4,662 642 Subordinated liabilities Interest rate swaps Interest rate (3) 4 1 2,407 37 Subscribed capital Interest rate swaps Interest rate (3) (3) 240 40 Total liabilities (71) 67 (4) 11,440 702 Risk report Total fair value hedges 571 (547) 24 Notes: i. The Group does not include cross currency basis spreads within its hedge accounting relationships. The change in fair value is instead deferred to an ‘other hedging reserve’ and so is not included in the change in value of the hedging instrument. ii. Some of the Group’s loans and advances to customers have been included as hedged items in macro fair value hedges of interest rate risk. £1,774 million (2019: £411 million) of the accumulated fair value hedge adjustment is recognised in the separate balance sheet asset ‘Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk.’ The remaining amount relates to the fair value adjustment to commercial loans in a micro fair value hedge accounting relationship and is included in the carrying value of these loans as shown in note 14. Financial statements iii. Some of the Group’s shares have been included as hedged items in macro fair value hedges of interest rate risk. All of the accumulated fair value hedge adjustment has been recognised in the separate balance sheet liability for ‘Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk.’ Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 260 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 7. Losses/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (continued) Strategic report Cash flow hedge accounting The Group’s risk management approach may involve creating future cash flow certainty. The Group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge non-sterling debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities. A portion of the interest rate flows within these derivatives has been included as a hedging instrument in cash flow hedges. In addition, inflation swaps are used to hedge RPI-linked debt securities in issue. The table below provides further information on the Group’s cash flow hedges: Cash flow hedge accounting 2020 Change in fair value Changes in instrument fair value reported as Amounts accumulated used for determining Hedge Foreign exchange Net amounts in the cash flow hedge reserve hedge ineffectiveness deferred to (excluding deferred taxation) Governance ineffectiveness retranslation recognised in recycled to the other Group the income income statement comprehensive Hedged item balance sheet Hedging instrument Risk category Hedged Hedging statement (note i) income Continuing Discontinued classification item instrument (note ii) hedges hedges £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Assets: Loans and advances to Interest rate swaps Interest rate 2 (3) (1) (2) customers Total assets 2 (3) (1) (2) Risk report Liabilities: Interest rate and Debt securities in issue Inflation swaps 8 (7) 1 (8) (2) inflation Cross currency interest rate Interest rate and Debt securities in issue (11) 9 (2) 11 11 318 swaps foreign exchange Cross currency interest rate Interest rate and Subordinated liabilities (55) 55 55 55 37 swaps foreign exchange Financial statements Total liabilities (58) 57 (1) 58 64 355 Total cash flow hedges (56) 54 (2) 56 64 355 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 261 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 7. Losses/gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (continued) Strategic report Cash flow hedge accounting 2019 Change in fair value used for Changes in instrument fair value reported as Amounts accumulated determining hedge Hedge Foreign exchange Net amounts in the cash flow hedge reserve ineffectiveness ineffectiveness retranslation deferred to (excluding deferred taxation) recognised in recycled to the other Group the income income statement comprehensive Hedged item balance sheet Hedging instrument Risk category Hedged Hedging statement (note i) income Continuing Discontinued classification item instrument (note ii) hedges hedges £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Assets: Governance Loans and advances to Interest rate swaps Interest rate (2) 2 2 2 customers Total assets (2) 2 2 2 Liabilities: Interest rate and Debt securities in issue Inflation swaps (10) 10 10 6 inflation Interest rate swaps, cross Interest rate and Debt securities in issue (49) 85 10 (190) 265 357 19 currency interest rate swaps foreign exchange Interest rate swaps, cross Interest rate and Subordinated liabilities (308) 335 13 159 163 44 Risk report currency interest rate swaps foreign exchange Total liabilities (367) 430 23 (31) 438 407 19 Total cash flow hedges (369) 432 23 (31) 440 409 19 Notes: i. The foreign exchange retranslation recycled to the income statement offsets foreign exchange retranslation on the hedged item. No amounts have been recognised in the year ended 4 April 2020 due to the migration of existing cash flow hedges to fair value hedges as at 5 April 2019. ii. The net deferral to other comprehensive income of gains before tax of £56 million (2019: £440 million) is shown within the cash flow hedge reserve section of the statements of comprehensive income. The cash flow Financial statements hedge reserve also includes amounts previously deferred on instruments which have since been migrated to fair value hedges. Amortisation of these amounts of £65 million (2019: £nil) is presented within the fair value hedge accounting table within the change in fair value of the hedging instrument. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 262 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 8. Administrative expenses Strategic report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) Notes £m £m £m £m Employee costs: Wages and salaries 561 525 561 525 Bonuses 21 55 21 55 Social security costs 65 65 65 65 Pension costs (note ii) 30 15 181 15 181 Governance 662 826 662 826 Other administrative expenses: Other staff related costs (note ii) 178 129 178 129 Property lease rental 9 31 9 31 Other property running costs 96 91 96 91 Printing, postage and stationery 32 32 32 32 IT and communications 323 264 323 264 Marketing and advertising 71 63 71 63 Product operating costs 48 58 47 57 Risk report Legal, professional and consultancy 95 108 94 108 Other operating costs 77 60 76 58 929 836 926 833 Bank levy 27 55 43 55 43 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 666 549 666 549 Total 2,312 2,254 2,309 2,251 Financial statements Notes: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. ii. In the year ended 4 April 2020, pension costs include a gain of £164 million and other staff related costs include an expense of £60 million relating to the closure of the Nationwide Pension Fund to future accrual from 31 March 2021. Further information is included in note 30. The bonus expense within employee costs in the above table includes £4 million (2019: £6 million) of long-term bonuses which will be paid more than one year from the balance sheet date. Executive directors and certain senior executives are entitled to bonus payments under the Directors’ Performance Award (DPA) scheme. Under this scheme, awards are based on current year results but are paid over a period of up to seven years, with part of the awards linked to the value of Nationwide’s core capital deferred shares (CCDS). The payment of deferred elements remains Other information subject to further discretion by the Remuneration Committee. These bonuses are recognised in the income statement over the period from the start of the performance year until all relevant criteria have been met. For the 2019/20 performance year the Renumeration Committee has exercised discretion to award no long-term bonuses. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 263 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 8. Administrative expenses (continued) Strategic report The table below shows actual and expected charges to the income statement in respect of all DPA bonuses for each relevant scheme year: Income statement charge for long-term bonuses Group and Society Actual Actual Expected Expected 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 and (note i) (note ii) beyond (note ii) £m £m £m £m Directors Performance Award: Governance 2017/18 and previous years 6.1 4.1 1.5 1.5 2018/19 8.8 3.7 1.3 2.0 2019/20 Income statement charge for long-term bonuses 14.9 7.8 2.8 3.5 Notes: i. In the year ended 4 April 2020, £4 million (2019: £5 million) was recognised in the income statement in relation to awards linked to share based payments, being amounts dependent on the performance of the Group’s CCDS. This payment is deferred and therefore included in accruals and deferred income on the balance sheet. ii. The amount expected is an estimate based on past performance together with current assumptions of future leaver rates and future CCDS performance. Risk report Directors’ emoluments, including details of the bonus scheme, are shown in the Report of the directors on remuneration in accordance with Schedule 10A, paragraphs 1 to 9 of the Building Societies Act 1986. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) stepped down as auditor to the Group at the AGM in July 2019 and were succeeded by Ernst & Young LLP (EY). The figures shown in the table below for 2020 relate to fees paid to PwC until July 2019, and to EY as external auditor to the Group for the full financial year. The figures for 2019 relate exclusively to fees paid to PwC. External auditors’ remuneration Financial statements Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Audit fees for the Group and Society statutory audit (note i) 3.5 3.6 3.5 3.6 Fees payable for other services: Audit of Group subsidiaries 0.3 0.4 Audit-related assurance services (note ii) 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7 Total audit and audit-related assurance services 4.6 4.7 4.3 4.3 Other non-audit services (note iii) 0.8 2.1 0.8 2.1 Other information Total 5.4 6.8 5.1 6.4 Notes: i. In the year ended 4 April 2020, audit fees of £3.5 million include £0.3 million relating to the PwC audit for the year ended 4 April 2019. ii. Audit-related assurance services fees of £0.8 million include £0.3 million relating to services provided by PwC for the year ended 4 April 2020. iii. Other non-audit services of £0.8 million relate to services provided by PwC for the year ended 4 April 2020. Fees for ‘other non-audit services’ for the year ended 4 April 2020 are primarily for assurance work undertaken in relation to the delivery of the Group’s technology investment. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 264 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 9. Employees Strategic report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 The average number of persons employed during the year was: Full time 13,980 13,841 13,973 13,834 Part time 4,594 4,444 4,594 4,444 Total 18,574 18,285 18,567 18,278 Society: Central administration (note i) 11,810 11,296 11,810 11,296 Governance Branches 6,757 6,982 6,757 6,982 Subsidiaries 7 7 Total 18,574 18,285 18,567 18,278 Note: i. Includes employees engaged in direct customer facing operations in administrative centres. 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers The following tables set out impairment losses and reversals during the year and the closing provision balances which are deducted from the relevant asset values in the balance sheet: Risk report Impairment losses/(reversals) Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Financial statements Prime residential 13 (1) 13 (1) Specialist residential 40 (16) 1 Consumer banking 159 114 159 114 Commercial and other lending (3) 16 (3) 16 Total 209 113 170 129 Impairment provisions Group Society 4 April 4 April 4 April 4 April 2020 2019 2020 2019 Other information £m £m £m £m Prime residential 56 44 55 44 Specialist residential 196 162 4 3 Consumer banking 494 418 494 418 Commercial and other lending 40 41 40 41 Total 786 665 593 506 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 265 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report The values in the tables above include an additional provision to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on expected credit losses (ECLs) (Group: £101 million, Society: £62 million). Additional detail on the calculation of this value is included in the ‘Impact on expected credit losses of Covid-19’ section below. Provisions are based on a probability-weighted application of multiple economic scenarios (MES). The impact of applying MES is to increase provisions by £123 million (2019: £133 million), compared with provisions based on the new central economic scenario. Further information is set out in the ‘Use of forward-looking information’ section below. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment is measured as the impact of credit risk on the present value of management’s estimate of future cash flows. In determining the required level of impairment provisions, the Group uses outputs from statistical models, incorporating a number of estimates and judgements to determine the Probability of Default (PD), the Exposure at Default, and the Loss Given Default (LGD) for each Governance loan. The most significant areas of estimation uncertainty are: • the impact on expected credit losses of Covid-19 • the use of forward-looking information • the performance of interest only mortgages at maturity • the level of future recoveries for consumer banking Risk report The most significant area of judgement is: • the approach to identifying significant increases in credit risk and impairment (and therefore transfers between IFRS 9 stages) The Group’s approach to each of these estimates and judgements is described in more detail below. The allowance for the severe downside economic scenario and the impact of Covid-19 are both calculated as additional provisions. In both cases therefore, the Group has considered the consequences of changes to staging in quantifying the additional provision, but has not reflected these changes in the reported staging outcomes and analyses in the Credit risk section of the Risk report. Financial statements Impact on expected credit losses of Covid-19 An additional provision for credit losses has been recognised in the financial statements to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on ECLs. Due to the limited observable data available at the reporting date, this additional provision is subject to significant levels of estimation. The analysis and estimates set out below were all subject to full internal governance at management and Board committee level. The additional provision at 4 April 2020 is £101 million. A revised Covid-19 central economic scenario has been modelled to estimate additional losses in the residential mortgage, consumer banking and commercial portfolios (the impact on expected losses within the treasury portfolio is immaterial). This scenario takes into account the significant impact of the pandemic and also the government support measures announced in advance of the Other information year end. Further information regarding the assumptions for, and ECL associated with, this scenario is included in the forward-looking economic information section below. As a result of the pandemic, probability weights for the central and upside scenarios were also changed with the upside scenario now allocated a 5% weighting (30 September 2019: 15%, 4 April 2019: 20%) and the central scenario allocated a weighting of 50% (30 September 19: 40%, 4 April 2019: 50%). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 266 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Retail lending The estimation of losses relating to Covid-19 was performed using the latest IFRS 9 models and data, and has been recognised as an additional provision. Together, the revised scenario and probability weightings increased reported provisions by £55 million for retail lending. In addition, the Group has estimated the credit losses associated with payment holidays granted to borrowers as a result of Covid-19, recognising that in some cases borrowers will experience longer term financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic. Payment holidays or other similar concessions have been offered on all retail products. Unlike other concessions granted to borrowers in financial difficulty, these payment holidays have not been subject to detailed affordability assessments, and therefore the level of financial difficulty of the members and customers who apply for them Governance requires estimation in a number of areas. Analysis of the risk characteristics of the payment holiday population was carried out to estimate the proportion of these loans judged to have increased credit risk. This proportion varies between 20% and 30% of the highest risk loans (measured by PD) by product. For these loans the modelled PD was then uplifted by a multiple of 2.5 or 3.0, based on experience of the performance of lending with similar concessions granted following the previous financial crisis (where available) or on more recent performance of other types of forbearance. The increase in expected credit loss includes the impact of loans transferring to stage 2 as a result of the higher PD, as well as the impact of the PD increase itself. The increase in reported provisions to reflect the risk associated with borrowers who requested payment holidays as a result of Covid-19 is £39 million. A 10% change in the number of payment holidays would increase/decrease the additional provision by £4 million. Inclusion of a further 10% of the higher risk loans with payment holidays would Risk report increase provisions by £5 million. If the payment holiday PDs were uplifted by a multiple of 3.0 or 3.5 rather than 2.5 or 3.0 respectively, the increase in provisions would be £12 million. The analysis of portfolios by stage in the ‘Credit risk’ section of the Risk report has not been updated to include this revised staging for loans with payment holidays. If the staging was updated to reflect the staging of the balances as used in the calculation of the additional provision, reflecting the PD uplift, the proportion of balances in stage 2 would be increased as shown below: Proportion of total gross balance in stage 2 at 4 April 2020 As reported If PD uplifts applied Financial statements 2020 % % Prime mortgages 1.3 1.9 Specialist mortgages 20.3 20.6 Personal loans 9.8 10.5 Credit cards 26.2 26.3 Commercial lending Similar analysis was carried out for the commercial lending portfolio. Revised modelling of the alternative economic scenario together with evaluation of a small number of higher risk and impaired Other information loans increased provisions by £7 million. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 267 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Use of forward-looking economic information Management exercises judgement in estimating future economic conditions which are incorporated into provisions through modelling of multiple scenarios. The economic scenarios are reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. The provision recognised is the probability-weighted sum of the provisions calculated under a range of economic scenarios. The scenarios and associated probability weights are derived using external data and statistical methodologies, together with management judgement, to determine scenarios which span an appropriately wide range of plausible economic conditions. The Group continues to model four economic scenarios, which together encompass an appropriate range of potential economic outcomes. As noted above, the scenario assumptions were changed at year end to reflect the impact of Covid-19 through an additional provision. The tables below therefore show the revised Covid-19 central scenario economic assumptions used in determining this additional provision, as well as the previous central scenario. At 4 April 2020, the probability weightings for each scenario were reviewed and the probabilities allocated to the upside and downside scenarios were revised due to the impact of Covid-19, as Governance noted above. Changes made to probability weightings applied to the scenarios over the year are shown in the table below: Scenario probability weighting (%) Upside Previous Covid-19 Downside Severe scenario central central scenario downside scenario scenario scenario 4 April 2020 5 0 50 35 10 Risk report 30 September 2019 15 40 35 10 4 April 2019 20 50 20 10 The impact of the severe downside scenario is calculated as an additional provision separately from the other three scenarios, using information from internal stress testing models to estimate the non-linear impacts that could arise from severe scenarios. In the Covid-19 scenario, both GDP and house prices fall sharply during 2020, and unemployment rises significantly, though less than if government measures had not been in place. Economic Financial statements recovery takes place from early 2021, reverting to longer term trends by 2024, reflecting an assumption that the pandemic impact will be severe but temporary. The downside scenario reflects a weak economy during 2020 and 2021, accompanied by a fall in house prices during this period, followed by gradual recovery in subsequent years and reversion to a lower long-term growth rate by 2029. The upside scenario reflects stable economic growth over the projection period. The severe downside scenario continues to be aligned with internal stress testing and reflects a severe nonlinear impact arising from disruption to the UK economy. Whilst the Covid-19 scenario shows a severe but temporary decline in the key economic variables over the first 12 months, the key variables of house price index (HPI) and unemployment are less severe than the downside and severe downside scenarios from 2022 onwards, due to an assumed recovery from 2021. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 268 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) The graphs below show the historical and forecasted GDP level, average house price and unemployment rate for the Group’s economic scenarios, including the new central scenario used in calculating the additional provision for Covid-19. Governance Risk report The tables below provide a summary of the values of the key UK economic variables used within the economic scenarios over the first five years of the scenario: Economic variables (five-year average) GDP growth HPI Unemployment BoE base rate 2020 % % % % Financial statements Upside scenario 2.2 4.8 3.7 1.7 Previous central scenario 1.6 2.9 4.0 1.0 Covid-19 central scenario 0.8 0.6 5.3 0.1 Downside scenario 0.6 (1.8) 5.4 0.2 Severe downside scenario (0.1) (5.3) 8.0 3.5 2019 % % % % Upside scenario 2.3 5.0 3.8 2.2 Central scenario 1.8 2.4 4.3 1.1 Downside scenario 1.0 (2.4) 5.5 0.1 Other information Severe downside scenario (0.1) (5.2) 8.3 3.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 269 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Economic variables (from reporting date to peak/trough) GDP growth HPI Unemployment BoE base rate (note i) (note i) (note ii) (note ii) 2020 % % % % Upside scenario 12.3 27.9 3.5 2.75 Previous central scenario 8.9 16.4 4.1 1.50 Covid-19 central scenario (9.6) (13.8) 7.4 0.10 Governance Downside scenario (1.2) (10.7) 6.0 0.10 Severe downside scenario (4.7) (32.9) 9.2 4.0 2019 % % % % Upside scenario 12.5 27.9 3.6 3.50 Central scenario 9.5 13.9 3.9 1.75 Downside scenario 5.6 (12.0) 6.3 0.75 Severe downside scenario (4.7) (32.3) 9.5 4.00 Notes: Risk report i. GDP growth and HPI are shown as the largest cumulative growth/fall from 4 April 2020 over the forecast period. ii. Unemployment and BoE base rate are shown as the highest/lowest rate over the forecast period. Economic variables (average annual rate in the 12 months to March) 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 % % % % % GDP growth Financial statements Upside scenario 1.8 2.3 2.6 2.3 2.4 Previous central scenario 1.3 1.5 1.8 1.9 2.0 Covid-19 central scenario (8.8) 4.2 4.8 2.1 1.9 Downside scenario 0.5 (1.4) 0.6 1.7 1.8 Severe downside scenario (2.1) (1.6) 1.2 1.0 1.0 HPI Upside scenario 5.0 5.5 5.7 4.1 4.2 Previous central scenario 2.5 3.0 3.0 3.5 3.6 Covid-19 central scenario (13.0) 6.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 (2.5) (5.0) (1.5) 0.5 1.6 Other information Downside scenario Severe downside scenario (11.1) (16.4) (8.9) 5.5 5.7 Unemployment Upside scenario 3.8 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.5 Previous central scenario 4.0 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9 Covid-19 central scenario 6.9 5.6 4.9 4.7 4.6 Downside scenario 4.3 5.5 6.0 5.9 5.7 Severe downside scenario 6.4 9.2 8.8 8.2 7.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 270 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) To give an indication of the sensitivity of ECLs to different economic scenarios, the table below shows the ECL if 100% weighting is applied to each scenario: Sensitivity analysis impact of multiple economic scenarios ECL Upside Previous Covid-19 Downside Severe scenario central central scenario downside scenario scenario scenario 2020 £m £m £m £m £m Governance Residential mortgages 136 118 149 254 674 Consumer banking 432 410 438 466 736 Commercial and other lending 37 30 37 40 55 Total 605 558 624 760 1,465 2019 £m £m £m £m £m Residential mortgages 99 112 n/a 242 714 Consumer banking 381 383 n/a 400 684 Commercial and other lending 37 37 n/a 37 80 Risk report Total 517 532 n/a 679 1,478 The increase in ECLs by applying the new Covid-19 scenario (weighted at 100%) instead of the previous central scenario is £66 million. In estimating ECLs under the upside and downside scenarios above it is assumed that the economic impact of the pandemic has a similar impact on ECLs as in the central scenario. Therefore, when probability weights are applied across the scenarios, the provision impact of the Covid-19 economic assumptions is 90% of £66 million, the 90% representing the total weightings of the upside, central and downside scenarios. The table does not include the additional provision calculated for the impact of payment holidays granted due to Covid-19. Financial statements The ECL for each scenario multiplied by the scenario probability will not reconcile to the overall provision. Whilst the stage allocation of loans varies in each individual scenario, each loan is allocated to a single stage in the overall provision calculation; this is based on a weighted average PD which takes into account the economic scenarios. A probability weighted 12 month or lifetime ECL (which takes into account the economic scenarios) is then calculated based on the stage allocation. The economic scenarios used reflect the Group’s view of the range of potential future economic conditions at the balance sheet date. The impact of increasing/reducing the probability of a severe economic downside by 5% (and reducing/increasing the downside by a corresponding 5%) is an increase/reduction in provisions of £38 million. For prime and specialist residential mortgages, the estimate of future HPI movements is a key assumption in estimating the eventual loss. The table below shows the sensitivity of provisions, in the Covid-19 central scenario only, to a decrease/increase in LGD as a result of an immediate decrease/increase in house prices, with no change to subsequent house price inflation or to other Other information assumptions. As this is single-factor sensitivity analysis, it should not be extrapolated due to the likely non-linear effect: Residential mortgages change in key assumptions Increase/(decrease) in provision 2020 £m 10% decrease in HPI 43 10% increase in HPI (28) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 271 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 10. Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Performance of interest only mortgages at maturity An additional key area of management estimation is the allowance for the risk that a proportion of interest only mortgages will not be redeemed at their contractual maturity date, because a borrower does not have a means of capital repayment or has been unable to refinance the loan. Buy to let mortgages are typically advanced on an interest only basis. Interest only balances for prime residential mortgages relate primarily to historical balances which were originally advanced as interest only mortgages or where a change in terms to an interest only basis has been agreed. The impact of the allowance for unredeemed interest only mortgages at contractual maturity in the Covid-19 central scenario amounts to £44 million (2019: £47 million), and has also been calculated for the other modelled scenarios, with an additional impact of £28 million (2019: £24 million) included in the impact of forward looking economic information above. Interest only loans which are judged to have a significantly increased risk of inability to refinance at maturity are transferred to stage 2. Consumer banking future recoveries Governance For consumer banking, the estimate of future recoveries is a key source of estimation uncertainty. The Group uses a combination of both historical data and management judgement in estimating the level and timing of future recoveries. If the rate of future recoveries was reduced in absolute terms by 10%, provisions would increase by £48 million. Identifying significant increases in credit risk (stage 2) Loans are allocated to stage 1 or stage 2 according to whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. The Group has used judgement to select both quantitative and qualitative criteria Risk report which are used to determine whether a significant increase in credit risk has taken place. The primary quantitative indicators are the outputs of internal credit risk assessments. While different approaches are used within each portfolio, the intention is to combine current and historical data relating to the exposure with forward-looking macroeconomic information to determine the probability of default (PD) at each reporting date. For retail loans, the main indicators of a significant increase in credit risk are either of the following: • the residual lifetime PD exceeds a benchmark determined by reference to the maximum credit risk that would have been accepted at origination • the residual lifetime PD has increased by at least 75bps and a 4x multiple of the original lifetime PD. Financial statements These complementary criteria have been reviewed through detailed back-testing, using management performance indicators and actual default experience, and found to be effective in capturing events which would constitute a significant increase in credit risk. The sensitivity of ECLs to stage allocation is such that a transfer of 1% of current stage 1 balances to stage 2 would increase provisions by £8 million for residential mortgages, and £5 million for consumer banking. Identifying credit impaired loans (stage 3) The identification of credit impaired loans is an important judgement within the IFRS 9 staging approach. A loan is credit impaired where it has an arrears status of more than 90 days past due, is considered to be in default or it is considered unlikely that the borrower will repay the outstanding balance in full, without recourse to actions such as realising security. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 272 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 11. Taxation Strategic report Tax charge in the income statement Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) £m £m £m £m Current tax: UK corporation tax 168 126 86 113 Adjustments in respect of prior years (4) (12) (4) (12) Total current tax 164 114 82 101 Governance Deferred tax: Current year (credit)/charge (48) 50 (35) (9) Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 9 2 9 Effect of deferred tax provided at different tax rates (17) 24 (19) (5) Total deferred taxation (63) 83 (52) (5) Tax charge 101 197 30 96 Note: i. Comparatives for the Group and Society have been restated to reduce the tax charge for the effects of distributions to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital, as detailed in note 1. In addition, £65 million has been Risk report reclassified between current and deferred taxation for the Group, related to cash flow hedging, with no impact on the total tax charge previously reported. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 273 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 11. Taxation (continued) Strategic report The actual tax charge differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as follows: Reconciliation of tax charge Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) £m £m £m £m Profit before tax: 466 833 110 368 Tax calculated at a tax rate of 19% 89 158 21 70 Adjustments in respect of prior years (2) (3) (2) (3) Governance Tax credit on distribution to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital (note i) (9) (13) (9) (13) Banking surcharge (note i) 24 32 24 32 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes/(income not taxable): Depreciation on non-qualifying assets 3 3 3 3 Bank levy 11 8 11 8 Effect of results of LLP structured entity (note ii) (7) (6) Customer redress 4 8 4 8 Other (2) 1 1 Effect of deferred tax provided at different tax rates (17) 3 (16) (3) Risk report Tax charge 101 197 30 96 Notes: i. Comparatives have been restated as set out in note 1 to reduce the tax charge by £18 million, through the £13 million of tax credit on distributions to the holders of Additional Tier 1 capital and a £5 million credit to the banking surcharge. ii. The Society is liable for tax on the results of Nationwide Covered Bonds LLP, the profit or loss of which is reported within that entity. The tax on items through other comprehensive income is as follows: Financial statements Tax (credit)/charge on items through other comprehensive income Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Relating to: FVOCI investment securities (24) (4) (23) (3) Cash flow hedges 5 112 16 47 Other hedging (15) (15) Other information Property revaluation (2) (1) (2) (1) Retirement benefit obligations 76 57 76 57 Total 40 164 52 100 The Group tax credit through the fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) reserve of £24 million (2019: £4 million) is made up of a charge of £3 million (2019: £4 million) for current tax and a credit of £27 million (2019: £8 million) for deferred tax. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 274 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 11. Taxation (continued) Strategic report Deferred tax Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that are expected to apply in the period when the deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability is settled based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, including the banking surcharge where applicable. The main rate of corporation tax of 19% was announced in the Budget on 11 March 2020 and was substantively enacted on 17 March 2020. The movements on the deferred tax account are as follows: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: Movements in deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities Group Society Group Society Governance 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April (91) 95 6 104 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax (charge)/credit in the income Accelerated capital allowances 13 (2) 13 (5) statement: IFRS 9 transition 39 41 26 28 Accelerated capital allowances 10 4 10 4 Property revaluation 1 1 Effect of deferred tax provided at different tax rates 17 (24) 19 5 Cash flow hedges (24) (24) Other items 36 (63) 23 (4) Other hedging 15 15 Risk report Taxation on items through the income statement 63 (83) 52 5 FVOCI assets 4 (22) 4 (22) Retirement benefit obligations 28 27 Deferred tax (charge)/credit in other Other provisions 28 7 28 11 comprehensive income: 76 53 62 39 FVOCI investment securities 18 6 18 6 Deferred tax liabilities Cash flow hedges 1 (41) (35) Property revaluation (6) (10) (6) (10) Property revaluation 3 1 3 1 Cash flow hedges (98) (119) (9) Financial statements Retirement benefit obligations (76) (45) (76) (45) Retirement benefit obligations (104) (104) Effect of deferred tax provided at different tax rates (49) (24) (49) (30) Other provisions 1 (15) 2 (14) Taxation on items through other comprehensive (207) (144) (108) (33) (103) (103) (104) (103) income Net deferred tax (liability)/asset (131) (91) (46) 6 At 4 April (131) (91) (46) 6 Note: Note: i. Comparatives have been restated to reclassify £11 million between cash flow hedges and other i. Comparatives have been restated to reclassify £65 million between current and deferred taxation provisions for the Group, relating to cash flow hedging, with no impact on the total deferred tax for the Group, relating to cash flow hedging, with no impact on the total tax charge previously balances previously reported. reported. Other information The majority of deferred tax assets are anticipated to be recoverable after one year. The Group considers that there will be sufficient future trading profits in excess of profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences to utilise the deferred tax assets. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 275 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 12. Classification and measurement Strategic report As the majority of the Group’s assets and liabilities are held within the Society, the disclosures in this note and notes 21 to 24 are on a consolidated basis. The following table summarises the classification of carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2020 2019 Amortised Fair value Fair value Total Amortised Fair value Fair value Total cost through other through profit cost through other through profit comprehensive or loss comprehensive or loss income income Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Governance Financial assets Cash 13,748 13,748 12,493 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 3,636 4,009 4,009 Investment securities 1,625 18,367 12 20,004 1,656 14,500 78 16,234 Derivative financial instruments 4,771 4,771 3,562 3,562 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 1,774 1,774 411 411 Loans and advances to customers 200,850 128 200,978 198,922 129 199,051 Total financial assets 221,633 18,367 4,911 244,911 217,491 14,500 3,769 235,760 Other non-financial assets 3,130 2,541 Risk report Total assets 248,041 238,301 Financial liabilities Shares 159,691 159,691 153,969 153,969 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 21,812 21,812 20,149 20,149 Other deposits 4,482 4,482 5,074 5,074 Fair value adjustment for portfolio hedged risk 29 29 (17) (17) Financial statements Debt securities in issue 35,963 35,963 35,942 35,942 Derivative financial instruments 1,924 1,924 1,593 1,593 Subordinated liabilities 9,317 9,317 6,706 6,706 Subscribed capital 253 253 250 250 Lease liabilities 265 265 Total financial liabilities 231,812 1,924 233,736 222,073 1,593 223,666 Other non-financial liabilities 1,343 1,466 Total liabilities 235,079 225,132 As at 4 April 2020, the Group had no financial assets or liabilities (2019: none) for which it had taken the option to designate at FVTPL. Further information on the fair value of financial assets and Other information liabilities is included in notes 21 to 23. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 276 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 13. Investment securities Strategic report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Government and supranational investment securities 15,897 12,306 15,897 12,306 Other debt investment securities 4,094 3,909 4,092 3,909 Investments in equity shares 13 19 7 17 Total 20,004 16,234 19,996 16,232 The Group may use its investment securities as collateral. No investment securities have been pledged as collateral for UK payment schemes at 4 April 2020 (2019: £30 million). Investment Governance securities with a fair value of £2,506 million (2019: £1,694 million) have been used as collateral in short term repurchase agreements. The Group also holds £1,824 million (2019: £1,333 million) of investment securities as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements which are not recognised in the table above. Further information on investment securities is included in the ‘Credit risk Treasury assets’ section of the Risk report. 14. Loans and advances to customers 2020 2019 Risk report Loans held at amortised cost Loans held Total Loans held at amortised cost Loans held Total Gross Provisions Other Total at FVTPL Gross Provisions Other Total at FVTPL (note i) (note i) Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Prime residential mortgages 151,069 (56) 151,013 71 151,084 151,445 (44) 151,401 72 151,473 Specialist residential mortgages 37,699 (196) 37,503 37,503 34,495 (162) 34,333 34,333 Consumer banking 4,994 (494) 4,500 4,500 4,586 (418) 4,168 4,168 Commercial and other lending 7,133 (40) 741 7,834 57 7,891 8,178 (41) 883 9,020 57 9,077 Financial statements Total 200,895 (786) 741 200,850 128 200,978 198,704 (665) 883 198,922 129 199,051 2020 2019 Loans held at amortised cost Loans held Total Loans held at amortised cost Loans held Total Gross Provisions Other Total at FVTPL Gross Provisions Other Total at FVTPL (note i) (note i) Society £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Prime residential mortgages 150,740 (55) 150,685 71 150,756 151,073 (44) 151,029 72 151,101 Other information Specialist residential mortgages 526 (4) 522 522 590 (3) 587 587 Consumer banking 4,994 (494) 4,500 4,500 4,586 (418) 4,168 4,168 Commercial and other lending 6,682 (40) 741 7,383 45 7,428 7,703 (41) 883 8,545 46 8,591 Total 162,942 (593) 741 163,090 116 163,206 163,952 (506) 883 164,329 118 164,447 Note: i. ‘Other’ represents a fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk for commercial loans that were previously hedged on an individual basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 277 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report The tables below summarise the movements in gross loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost, including the impact of ECL impairment provisions and excluding the fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk. The lines within the tables are an aggregation of monthly movements over the year. Residential mortgages represent the majority of the Group’s loans and advances to customers. Additional tables summarising the movements for the Group’s residential mortgages and consumer banking are presented in the Credit risk section of the Risk report. Reconciliation of movements in gross balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired (note i) Subject to 12 month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 and POCI Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions balances balances balances balances Governance Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 187,368 68 9,539 261 1,797 336 198,704 665 Stage transfers: Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (16,930) (39) 16,930 39 Transfers to Stage 3 (330) (938) (110) 1,268 110 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 14,397 226 (14,397) (226) Transfers from Stage 3 202 2 554 23 (756) (25) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (184) 262 18 96 Risk report Net movement arising from transfer of stage (note ii) (2,661) 5 2,149 (12) 512 103 96 New assets originated or purchased (note iii) 34,049 31 34,049 31 Further lending/repayments (note iv) (9,947) (24) (77) (10) (81) (21) (10,105) (55) Changes in risk parameters in relation to credit quality (note v) (1) 42 26 67 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) including recoveries (1) (11) (1) (11) Redemptions (note vi) (20,406) (4) (921) (12) (302) (4) (21,629) (20) Additional provision for Covid-19 (note vii) 101 Financial statements Income statement charge for the year 209 Decrease due to write-offs (123) (99) (123) (99) Other provision movements 11 11 4 April 2020 (note vii) 188,403 75 10,690 269 1,802 341 200,895 786 Net carrying amount (note vii) 188,328 10,421 1,461 200,109 The reasons for key movements shown in the table above are as follows: • The movement in gross balances is principally a result of £34,049 million of new lending, offset by a reduction of £31,734 million from repayments and redemptions. The majority of these Other information movements relate to residential mortgages. • Of the £99 million of write-offs, £87 million relates to unsecured lending, £11 million to residential mortgages and £1 million to commercial and other lending. • Impairment provisions increased by £121 million in the period to £786 million. This increase includes an additional £101 million provision for Covid-19. Further detail on the impairment provisions and losses by portfolio is shown in note 10. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 278 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Reconciliation of movements in gross balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired (note i) Subject to 12 month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 and POCI Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions balances balances balances balances Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 169,049 48 20,012 284 1,700 297 190,761 629 Stage transfers: Governance Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (29,278) (30) 29,278 30 Transfers to Stage 3 (305) (1) (1,022) (113) 1,327 114 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 37,282 266 (37,282) (266) Transfers from Stage 3 187 3 573 24 (760) (27) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (237) 287 20 70 Net movement arising from transfer of stage (note ii) 7,886 1 (8,453) (38) 567 107 70 New assets originated or purchased (note iii) 38,717 30 38,717 30 Further lending/repayments (note iv) (8,835) (17) (199) (10) (63) (13) (9,097) (40) Risk report Changes in risk parameters in related to credit quality (note v) 8 42 42 92 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) including recoveries 2 (1) (19) 1 (19) Redemptions (note vi) (19,451) (2) (1,821) (17) (285) (1) (21,557) (20) Income statement charge for the year 113 Decrease due to write-offs (121) (96) (121) (96) Other provision movements 19 19 4 April 2019 187,368 68 9,539 261 1,797 336 198,704 665 Financial statements Net carrying amount 187,300 9,278 1,461 198,039 Notes: i. Group gross balances of credit impaired loans include £155 million (2019: £167 million) of purchased or originated credit impaired (POCI) loans, which are presented net of lifetime ECL impairment provisions of £6 million (2019: £6 million). ii. The remeasurement of provisions arising from a change in stage is reported within the stage to which the assets are transferred. iii. If a new asset is generated in the month, the value included is the closing gross balance and provision for the month. All new business written is included in Stage 1. iv. This comprises further lending and capital repayments where the asset is not derecognised. The value for gross balances is calculated as the closing gross balance for the month less the opening gross balance for the month. The value for provisions is calculated as the change in exposure at default (EAD) multiplied by opening provision coverage for the month. v. This comprises changes in risk parameters, and changes to modelling inputs and methodology. The provision movement for the change in risk parameters is calculated for assets that do not move stage in the Other information month. vi. For any asset that is derecognised in the month, the value disclosed is the provision at the start of that month. vii. An additional provision for credit losses has been recognised to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on ECLs. For the Group, the additional provision at 4 April 2020 is £101 million. This additional provision has not been allocated to underlying loans nor has it been attributed to stages, but is shown in the total column of the table. Additional detail on the calculation of this value is included in note 10. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 279 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Reconciliation of movements in gross balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Subject to 12 month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 and POCI Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions balances balances balances balances Society £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2019 159,592 54 3,243 148 1,117 304 163,952 506 Stage transfers: Governance Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (7,137) (27) 7,137 27 Transfers to Stage 3 (226) (568) (85) 794 85 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 6,480 176 (6,480) (176) Transfers from Stage 3 120 2 302 13 (422) (15) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (147) 209 28 90 Net movement arising from transfer of stage (note i) (763) 4 391 (12) 372 98 90 New assets originated or purchased (note ii) 27,441 30 27,441 30 Further lending/repayments (note iii) (9,575) (23) (42) (11) (60) (20) (9,677) (54) Risk report Changes in risk parameters related to credit quality (note iv) 37 24 61 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) including recoveries (1) (7) (1) (7) Redemptions (note v) (18,083) (3) (409) (5) (180) (4) (18,672) (12) Additional provision for Covid-19 (note vi) 62 Income statement charge for the year 170 Decrease due to write-offs (101) (89) (101) (89) Other provision movements 6 6 4 April 2020 (note vi) 158,612 62 3,183 157 1,147 312 162,942 593 Financial statements Net carrying amount (note vi) 158,550 3,026 835 162,349 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 280 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Reconciliation of movements in gross balances and impairment provisions Non-credit impaired Credit impaired Subject to 12 month ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Subject to lifetime ECL Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions Gross Provisions balances balances balances balances Society £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 2018 146,762 37 9,471 146 1,021 262 157,254 445 Stage transfers: Governance Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (19,307) (24) 19,307 24 Transfers to Stage 3 (207) (600) (88) 807 88 Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 24,327 189 (24,327) (189) Transfers from Stage 3 105 2 297 14 (402) (16) Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage (168) 218 27 77 Net movement arising from transfer of stage (note i) 4,918 (1) (5,323) (21) 405 99 77 New assets originated or purchased (note ii) 33,751 28 33,751 28 Further lending/repayments (note iii) (8,570) (15) (167) (10) (48) (12) (8,785) (37) Risk report Changes in risk parameters related to credit quality (note iv) 6 38 38 82 Other items impacting income statement charge/(reversal) including recoveries 1 (1) (14) (14) Redemptions (note v) (17,270) (1) (738) (5) (164) (1) (18,172) (7) Income statement charge for the year 129 Decrease due to write-offs (96) (82) (96) (82) Other provision movements 14 14 4 April 2019 159,592 54 3,243 148 1,117 304 163,952 506 Net carrying amount 159,538 3,095 813 163,446 Financial statements Notes: i. The remeasurement of provisions arising from a change in stage is reported within the stage to which the assets are transferred. ii. If a new asset is generated in the month, the value included is the closing gross balance and provision for the month. All new business written is included in stage 1. iii. This comprises further lending and capital repayments where the asset is not derecognised. The value for gross balances is calculated as the closing gross balance for the month less the opening gross balance for the month. The value for provisions is calculated as the change in exposure at default (EAD) multiplied by opening provision coverage for the month. iv. This comprises changes in risk parameters, and changes to modelling inputs and methodology. The provision movement for the change in risk parameters is calculated for assets that do not move stage in the month. v. For any asset that is derecognised in the month, the value disclosed is the provision at the start of that month. vi. An additional provision for credit losses has been recognised to reflect the estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on ECLs. For the Society, the additional provision at 4 April 2020 is £62 million. This additional Other information provision has not been allocated to underlying loans nor has it been attributed to stages, but is shown in the total column of the table. Additional detail on the calculation of this value is included in note 10. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 281 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Maturity analysis The following table shows the residual maturity of loans and advances to customers, based on their contractual maturity: Residual maturity of loans and advances to customers Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Repayable: Governance On demand 1,965 2,146 1,965 2,146 In not more than three months 2,302 2,285 2,137 2,099 In more than three months but not more than one year 6,371 5,976 6,182 5,836 In more than one year but not more than five years 32,352 31,919 30,669 30,234 In more than five years 158,033 156,507 122,105 123,755 201,023 198,833 163,058 164,070 Impairment provision on loans and advances (786) (665) (593) (506) Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk 741 883 741 883 Risk report Total 200,978 199,051 163,206 164,447 The maturity analysis is produced on the basis that where a loan is repayable by instalments, each such instalment is treated as a separate repayment. The analysis is based on contractual maturity rather than actual redemption levels experienced, which are likely to be materially different. Arrears are spread across the remaining term of the loan. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 282 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report Asset backed funding Certain prime residential mortgages have been pledged to the Group’s asset backed funding programmes or utilised as whole mortgage loan pools for the Bank of England’s (BoE) Term Funding Scheme (TFS) and other short-term liquidity facilities. The programmes have enabled the Group to obtain secured funding. Mortgages pledged and the carrying values of the notes in issue are as follows: Mortgages pledged to asset backed funding programmes 2020 2019 Notes in issue Notes in issue Mortgages Held by Held by the Group Mortgages Held by Held by the Group Governance pledged third parties Drawn Undrawn Total notes pledged third parties Drawn Undrawn Total notes (note i) (note ii) (note iii) (note iv) in issue (note i) (note ii) (note iii) (note iv) in issue Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Covered bond programme 28,003 20,740 20,740 22,656 17,339 17,339 Securitisation programme 15,177 4,215 2,533 6,748 6,936 3,051 339 3,390 Whole mortgage loan pools 23,570 18,183 18,183 24,117 17,001 17,001 Total 66,750 24,955 18,183 2,533 45,671 53,709 20,390 17,001 339 37,730 Notes: Risk report i. Mortgages pledged include £14.3 billion (2019: £7.7 billion) in the covered bond and securitisation programmes that are in excess of the amount contractually required to support notes in issue. ii. Notes in issue which are held by third parties are included within debt securities in issue (note 18). iii. Notes in issue, held by the Group and drawn are whole mortgage loan pools securing amounts drawn with the BoE under the TFS and US dollar (USD) funding operations. At 4 April 2020 the Group had outstanding TFS drawings of £17.0 billion (2019: £17.0 billion) and USD funding operations of £1.2 billion (2019: £nil). iv. Notes in issue, held by the Group and undrawn, are debt securities issued by the programmes to the Society and mortgage loan pools that have been pledged to the BoE but not utilised. Mortgages pledged under the Nationwide Covered Bond programme provide security for issues of covered bonds made by the Society. During the year ended 4 April 2020, £4.3 billion (sterling equivalent) of notes were issued, and £1.6 billion (sterling equivalent) of notes matured. Financial statements The securitisation programme notes are issued by Silverstone Master Issuer plc and the issuance proceeds are used to purchase, for the benefit of note holders, a share of the beneficial interest in the mortgages pledged by the Society and are consolidated into the accounts of the Group. The remaining beneficial interest in the pledged mortgages of £8.2 billion (2019: £3.9 billion) stays with the Society and includes its required minimum seller share in accordance with the rules of the programme. The Group is under no obligation to support losses incurred by the programme or holders of the notes and does not intend to provide such further support. The entitlement of note holders is restricted to payment of principal and interest to the extent that the resources of the programme are sufficient to support such payment and the holders of the notes have agreed not to seek recourse in any other form. During the year ended 4 April 2020, £2.0 billion (sterling equivalent) of notes were issued, and £1.0 billion (sterling equivalent) of notes matured. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 283 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 14. Loans and advances to customers (continued) Strategic report The securitisation programme notes are issued by Silverstone Master Issuer plc and are not included in the accounts of the Society. Silverstone Master Issuer plc is fully consolidated into the accounts of the Group. The whole mortgage loan pools are pledged at the BoE Single Collateral Pool. Notes are not issued when pledging the mortgage loan pools at the BoE. Instead, the whole loan pool is pledged to the BoE and drawings are made directly against the eligible collateral, subject to a haircut. At 4 April 2020, £23.6 billion (2019: £24.1 billion) of pledged collateral supported £17.0 billion (2019: £17.0 billion) of TFS drawdowns and £1.2 billion (2019: £nil) of USD Funding Operations. In accordance with accounting standards, notes in issue and held by the Group are not recognised in the Group’s or Society’s balance sheets. Mortgages pledged are not derecognised from the Group or Society balance sheets as the Group has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The Group and Society continue to be exposed to the liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk of the mortgages. No gain or loss has been recognised on pledging the mortgages to the programmes. The following table sets out the carrying value and fair value of the transferred assets and liabilities for the Silverstone Master Trust: Governance Carrying value Fair value Transferred Associated Total Transferred Associated Total assets liabilities assets liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m At 4 April 2020 15,177 (6,748) 8,429 15,210 (6,604) 8,606 Risk report At 4 April 2019 6,936 (3,390) 3,546 6,743 (3,418) 3,325 The Society holds cash deposited by the Nationwide Covered Bond programme of £0.6 billion (2019: £0.6 billion) and by the Silverstone programme of £0.7 billion (2019: £0.7 billion). Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 284 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 15. Derivative financial instruments Strategic report All of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage economic risk, although not all of the derivatives are subject to hedge accounting. Note 7 sets out the link between economic risk management and the hedge accounting applied by the Group. The table below provides an analysis of the notional amount and fair value of derivatives by both hedge accounting type and instrument type. The amount of ineffectiveness recognised for each hedge type is shown in note 7. Contract/notional amount is the amount on which payment flows are derived and does not represent amounts at risk. Derivatives by instrument and hedge type 2020 2019 Group Society Group Society Contract/ Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Contract/ Contract/ Contract/ notional Governance notional notional notional amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities amount amount amount (note i) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Micro fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 47,955 1,512 129 40,462 1,181 129 12,673 68 178 17,054 171 181 Cross currency interest rate swaps 35,392 2,876 371 28,024 1,928 385 Bond forwards 1,650 94 1,650 94 2,625 58 2,625 58 Inflation swaps 2,340 10 42 2,340 10 42 1,403 1 14 1,403 1 14 Risk report 87,337 4,398 636 72,476 3,119 650 16,701 69 250 21,082 172 253 Macro fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 148,610 1 991 148,610 1 991 128,704 2 882 128,704 2 882 148,610 1 991 148,610 1 991 128,704 2 882 128,704 2 882 Cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 47,472 1,129 26 23,031 51 2 Cross currency interest rate swaps 28,661 71 60 21,293 69 28 23,860 2,023 232 7,413 139 113 Inflation swaps 280 36 280 36 280 34 280 34 Financial statements 28,941 107 60 21,573 105 28 71,612 3,186 258 30,724 224 115 Not subject to hedge accounting: Interest rate swaps 77,250 80 59 84,852 80 983 63,827 72 21 85,526 724 731 Cross currency interest rate swaps 3,534 58 118 11,262 204 961 6,866 215 91 26,232 1,474 891 Foreign exchange swaps 5,860 126 44 5,860 126 44 6,037 15 80 6,037 15 80 Other derivatives 741 1 16 741 1 16 4,301 3 11 4,301 3 7 87,385 265 237 102,715 411 2,004 81,031 305 203 122,096 2,216 1,709 Total 352,273 4,771 1,924 345,374 3,636 3,673 298,048 3,562 1,593 302,606 2,614 2,959 Other information Note: i. Where the same derivative contract has been used in more than one hedge type, for example where one risk component has been included in a fair value hedge and another risk component has been included in a cash flow hedge, the Group has included the full notional amount in both categories. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 285 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 15. Derivative financial instruments (continued) Strategic report The contractual maturity of derivatives used as hedging instruments in micro fair value and cash flow hedges is provided in the table below. As described in note 1, macro fair value hedges are frequently rebalanced to include new business. As a result, these hedges have not been included in the analysis below. Contractual maturity of hedging instruments (contract/notional amount) 2020 Group Society Less than Between one More than Total Less than Between one More than Total one year and five five years one year and five five years years years £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Micro fair value hedges Governance Interest rate swaps 5,422 18,422 24,111 47,955 3,439 13,794 23,229 40,462 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4,869 16,073 14,450 35,392 3,178 11,275 13,571 28,024 Bond forwards 1,650 1,650 1,650 1,650 Inflation swaps 716 1,624 2,340 716 1,624 2,340 11,941 35,211 40,185 87,337 8,267 25,785 38,424 72,476 Cash flow hedges Cross currency interest rate swaps 4,755 14,065 9,841 28,661 3,065 9,267 8,961 21,293 Inflation swaps 280 280 280 280 4,755 14,345 9,841 28,941 3,065 9,547 8,961 21,573 Contractual maturity of hedging instruments (contract/notional amount) Risk report 2019 Group Society Less than Between one More than Total Less than Between one More than five Total one year and five years five years one year and five years years £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Micro fair value hedges Financial statements Interest rate swaps 358 5,722 6,593 12,673 1,866 6,276 8,912 17,054 Bond forwards 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,625 Inflation swaps 233 367 803 1,403 233 367 803 1,403 3,216 6,089 7,396 16,701 4,724 6,643 9,715 21,082 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 19,155 16,615 11,702 47,472 14,180 4,560 4,291 23,031 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2,017 11,474 10,369 23,860 191 2,985 4,237 7,413 Inflation swaps 280 280 280 280 21,172 28,369 22,071 71,612 14,371 7,825 8,528 30,724 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 286 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 15. Derivative financial instruments (continued) Strategic report The weighted average rates of hedging instruments which achieve fixed rates are summarised in the table below. Fair value and cash flow hedging instruments which do not achieve a fixed rate have not been included in this analysis. Average rates achieved 2020 Group Society Less than Between one More than Total Less than Between one More than Total one year and five five years one year and five five years years years Cross currency interest rate swaps Average EUR/GBP rate 1.25 1.26 1.23 1.25 1.20 1.23 1.26 1.23 Governance Average USD/GBP rate 1.36 1.32 1.35 1.33 1.36 1.32 1.35 1.34 Average JPY/GBP rate 142.20 137.46 137.62 138.04 142.20 137.46 137.62 138.04 Average NOK/GBP rate 9.19 10.06 11.23 10.59 9.19 10.06 11.23 10.59 Average HKD/GBP rate 11.89 11.85 11.85 11.89 11.85 11.85 Average CHF/GBP rate 1.24 1.24 1.24 1.24 Inflation swaps Average fixed interest rate (GBP %) 3.55 3.55 3.55 3.55 Average inflation rate (RPI index) 256.07 256.07 256.07 256.07 Average rates achieved Risk report 2019 Group Society Less than Between one More than Total Less than Between one More than Total one year and five years five years one year and five years five years Cross currency interest rate swaps Financial statements Average EUR/GBP rate 1.24 1.29 1.22 1.26 1.15 1.15 1.12 1.14 Average USD/GBP rate 1.50 1.35 1.38 1.38 1.34 1.34 1.33 Average JPY/GBP rate 147.50 145.41 145.83 147.50 145.41 145.83 Average NOK/GBP rate 9.19 11.05 10.59 10.88 10.88 Average HKD/GBP rate 11.89 11.85 11.85 Interest rate swaps Average fixed interest rate (GBP %) 0.76 0.76 0.76 0.76 Inflation swaps Other information Average fixed interest rate (GBP %) 3.55 3.55 3.55 3.55 Average inflation rate (RPI index) 256.07 256.07 256.07 256.07 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 287 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 15. Derivative financial instruments (continued) Strategic report A variety of benchmark interest rates are used in global financial markets to calculate interest payments and fair values for derivative contracts. The Group’s derivative portfolio includes contracts which reference GBP Libor and other benchmark rates, which are expected to either be reformed or be replaced by alternative reference rates. GBP Libor is expected to be discontinued on 31 December 2021, with the alternative benchmark rate being the reformed sterling overnight index average (Sonia). The Group is already using Sonia as the reference rate for new derivative contracts where it is possible to do so. The Group’s Libor Transition Working Group, which reports to the Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO), is managing the full range of transition-related issues, including the conversion of existing contracts and the impact on valuations and systems. The Group has used basis swaps, which convert one benchmark rate to another, to reduce the economic exposure to affected benchmark rates within the portfolio of existing contracts. For new transactions which mature after an expected discontinuation date, the Group is avoiding the use of affected benchmark rates. A number of the Group’s current fair value and cash flow hedge accounting structures are expected to be affected by benchmark rate reforms. As referenced in note 1, effective on 5 April 2019 the Governance Group adopted the amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 which provide relief to the potential adverse hedge accounting impacts caused by benchmark reform. Significant judgement will be required in determining when uncertainty is expected to be resolved and therefore when the temporary exceptions will cease to apply. However, at 4 April 2020, the uncertainty continued to exist and so the temporary exceptions apply to all of the Group’s hedge accounting relationships that reference benchmarks subject to reform or replacement. The table below summarises the current amount of hedging instrument expected to be affected by benchmark reform. The hedged item exposure is approximate to that of the hedging instrument: Contact/notional amount affected by benchmark reform Current benchmark Expected future benchmark Hedging instruments (note i) £m Risk report GBP Libor Sterling overnight index average (Sonia) 84,591 USD Libor Secured overnight financing rate (Sofr) 12,387 GBP Libor and USD Libor (note ii) Sonia and Sofr 11,560 Other benchmarks (note ii) Various 3,257 Total 111,795 Notes: Financial statements i. The Group expects that Euribor will continue as a benchmark rate for the foreseeable future; Euribor hedging instruments and hedged items have therefore been excluded from the table. ii. Some hedging instruments, such as cross currency swaps, may reference more than one affected benchmark rate. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 288 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 16. Deposits from banks and similar institutions Strategic report Deposits from banks and similar institutions are repayable from the balance sheet date in the ordinary course of business as follows: Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Accrued interest 3 3 Repayable: On demand 2,957 2,176 1,781 1,118 In not more than three months 1,855 848 1,855 848 Governance In more than three months but not more than one year 6,000 122 6,000 122 In more than one year but not more than five years 11,000 17,000 11,000 17,000 Total 21,812 20,149 20,636 19,091 For the Group and Society, deposits from banks and similar institutions include £17.0 billion (2019: £17.0 billion) drawn down against the Bank of England Term Funding Scheme (TFS) and £1.2 billion (2019: £nil) of USD Funding Operations. Event after the reporting period Risk report On 5 May 2020, the Society drew down £1.5 billion against the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme with additional incentives for SMEs (TFSME). 17. Other deposits Other deposits are repayable from the balance sheet date in the ordinary course of business as follows: Financial statements Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Accrued interest 1 1 1 1 Repayable: On demand 1,977 2,141 3,519 3,686 In not more than three months 563 778 563 778 In more than three months but not more than one year (note i) 1,921 2,138 1,921 2,138 Other information In more than one year but not more than five years 20 16 20 16 Total 4,482 5,074 6,024 6,619 Note: i. Includes £9 million (2019: £nil) of other financial liabilities relating to contractual indemnity obligations. Other deposits primarily comprise wholesale and commercial deposits. The Society’s other deposits as at 4 April 2020 include £1,542 million (2019: £1,545 million) of deposits from subsidiary undertakings. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 289 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 18. Debt securities in issue Strategic report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Certificates of deposit and commercial paper 3,613 7,975 3,613 7,975 Medium term notes 7,157 7,535 7,157 7,534 Covered bonds 19,826 16,738 19,832 16,746 Asset backed securities 4,211 3,052 34,807 35,300 30,602 32,255 Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk 1,156 642 292 99 Governance Total 35,963 35,942 30,894 32,354 Debt securities in issue are repayable from the balance sheet date in the ordinary course of business as follows: Accrued interest 167 167 156 156 Residual maturity repayable: In not more than one year 8,328 12,205 7,056 11,424 In more than one year 26,312 22,928 23,390 20,675 34,807 35,300 30,602 32,255 Risk report Fair value adjustment for micro hedged risk 1,156 642 292 99 Total 35,963 35,942 30,894 32,354 The total for debt securities in issue in the Group includes £24,955 million (2019: £20,390 million), and in the Society includes £19,832 million (2019: £16,746 million), secured on certain loans and advances to customers. Further information is given in note 14. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 290 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 19. Subordinated liabilities Strategic report Group and Society 2020 2019 Issuance date Next call date Maturity date £m £m Senior non-preferred 3.766% senior non-preferred notes (US Dollar 1 billion) 8 March 2018 8 March 2023 8 March 2024 818 766 1.5% senior non-preferred notes (Euro 1 billion) 8 March 2018 8 March 2025 8 March 2026 882 858 4.302% senior non-preferred notes (US Dollar 0.75 billion) 8 March 2018 8 March 2028 8 March 2029 613 575 4.363% senior non-preferred notes (US Dollar 1 billion) 1 August 2018 1 August 2023 1 August 2024 822 769 3.4675% senior non-preferred notes (Norwegian Kroner 1 billion) 5 October 2018 5 October 2026 79 90 Governance 0.805% senior non-preferred notes (Japanese Yen 1 billion) 24 October 2018 24 October 2023 24 October 2024 7 7 0.9925% senior non-preferred notes (Japanese Yen 4 billion) 30 October 2018 30 October 2025 30 October 2026 30 27 3.875% senior non-preferred notes (Norwegian Kroner 0.3 billion) 13 November 2018 13 November 2028 23 27 3.9% senior non-preferred notes (Norwegian Kroner 1 billion) 13 November 2018 13 November 2028 79 90 1.2775% senior non-preferred notes (Japanese Yen 3 billion) 14 November 2018 14 November 2028 14 November 2029 23 21 3.622% senior non-preferred notes (US Dollar 1 billion) 26 April 2019 26 April 2022 26 April 2023 829 3.96% senior non-preferred notes (US Dollar 1 billion) 18 July 2019 18 July 2029 18 July 2030 822 0.85% senior non-preferred notes (Japanese Yen 5 billion) 16 August 2019 16 August 2029 16 August 2030 38 Risk report Tier 2 Eligible 6.75% subordinated notes (Euro 0.75 billion) 22 July 2010 22 July 2020 692 673 4% subordinated notes (US Dollar 1.25 billion) 14 September 2016 14 September 2026 1,022 957 2% subordinated notes (Euro 1 billion) 25 July 2017 25 July 2024 25 July 2029 894 867 4.125% subordinated notes (US Dollar 1.25 billion) 18 October 2017 18 October 2027 18 October 2032 1,039 973 8,712 6,700 Fair value hedge accounting adjustments 635 37 Unamortised premiums and issue costs (30) (31) Financial statements Total 9,317 6,706 Senior non-preferred notes are a class of subordinated liability which rank equally with each other and behind the claims against the Society of all depositors, creditors and investing members other than holders of Tier 2 eligible subordinated notes, permanent interest-bearing shares (PIBS), Additional Tier 1 (AT1) instruments and core capital deferred shares (CCDS). The Tier 2 eligible subordinated notes rank equally with each other and ahead of claims against the Society of holders of PIBS, AT1 instruments and CCDS. During the year the Group issued US Dollar 2 billion (£1,565 million equivalent) and Japanese Yen 5 billion (£38 million equivalent) of senior non-preferred notes as detailed above. The issuance of senior non-preferred notes will contribute to meeting the Society’s minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) and loss absorbing requirements. Other information The interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from the issuance of fixed rate and foreign currency subordinated liabilities have been mitigated through the use of derivatives. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 20. Subscribed capital Strategic report Group and Society 2020 2019 Notes Next call date £m £m 7.25% permanent interest-bearing shares i 5 December 2021 34 34 6.25% permanent interest-bearing shares i 22 October 2024 45 45 5.769% permanent interest-bearing shares i 6 February 2026 84 84 7.859% permanent interest-bearing shares i 13 March 2030 39 39 Floating rate (6-month Libor + 2.4%) permanent interest-bearing shares ii 10 10 212 212 Governance Fair value hedge accounting adjustments 43 40 Unamortised premiums and issue costs (2) (2) Total 253 250 Notes: i. Repayable, at the option of the Society, in whole on the initial call date or every fifth anniversary thereafter. If not repaid on a call date, then the interest rate is reset at a margin to the yield on the then prevailing fiveyear benchmark gilt rate. ii. Only repayable in the event of winding up the Society. Risk report All PIBS are denominated in sterling and only repayable with the prior consent of the PRA. PIBS rank equally with each other and the Group’s AT1 instruments. They are deferred shares of the Society and rank behind the claims against the Society of all noteholders, depositors, creditors and investing members of the Society, other than the holders of CCDS. The interest rate risk arising from the issuance of fixed rate PIBS has been mitigated through the use of interest rate swaps. Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 292 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 21. Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value Strategic report As the majority of the Group’s assets and liabilities are held within the Society, the disclosures in notes 21 to 24 are on a consolidated basis. The following tables show the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are held at fair value by fair value hierarchy, balance sheet classification and product type: 2020 2019 Fair values based on Fair values based on Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets 15,897 15,897 Governance Government and supranational investments 12,306 12,306 Other debt investment securities 1,583 881 5 2,469 1,202 989 62 2,253 Investments in equity shares 13 13 19 19 Total investment securities (note i) 17,480 881 18 18,379 13,508 989 81 14,578 Interest rate swaps 1,593 1,593 1,271 1,271 Cross currency interest rate swaps 3,005 3,005 2,238 2,238 Foreign exchange swaps 126 126 15 15 Inflation swaps 46 46 35 35 Bond futures 1 1 Swaptions 3 3 Risk report Total derivative financial instruments 4,771 4,771 3,562 3,562 Loans and advances to customers 128 128 129 129 Total financial assets 17,480 5,652 146 23,278 13,508 4,551 210 18,269 Financial liabilities Interest rate swaps (1,179) (1,179) (1,107) (1,107) Cross currency interest rate swaps (549) (549) (324) (324) Financial statements Foreign exchange swaps (44) (44) (80) (80) Inflation swaps (52) (52) (21) (21) Bond forwards (94) (94) (58) (58) Swaptions (6) (6) (3) (3) Total derivative financial instruments (1,924) (1,924) (1,593) (1,593) Total financial liabilities (1,924) (1,924) (1,593) (1,593) Note: i. Investment securities shown here exclude £1,625 million of investment securities held at amortised cost (2019: £1,656 million). Other information The Group’s Level 1 portfolio comprises government and other highly rated securities for which traded prices are readily available. Asset valuations for Level 2 investment securities are sourced from consensus pricing or other observable market prices. None of the Level 2 investment securities are valued using models. Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities are valued using observable market data for all significant valuation inputs. More detail on the Level 3 portfolio is provided in note 22. Transfers between fair value hierarchies Instruments move between fair value hierarchies primarily due to increases or decreases in market activity or changes to the significance of unobservable inputs to valuation, and are recognised at the date of the event or change in circumstances which caused the transfer. There were no transfers between the Level 1 and Level 2 portfolios during the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 22. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value – Level 3 portfolio Strategic report The main constituents of the Level 3 portfolio are as follows: Loans and advances to customers Certain loans and advances to customers have been classified as FVTPL. Level 3 assets in this category include a closed portfolio of residential mortgages and a small number of commercial loans. During the year ended 4 April 2019, a portfolio of residential mortgages was transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 after a market price was obtained. These assets were subsequently sold. Investment securities Governance The Level 3 items in this category primarily include £14 million (2019: £18 million) of investments made in Fintech companies and £4 million (2019: £62 million) of investments in industry-wide banking and credit card service operations. Derivative financial instruments During the year ended 4 April 2019, derivatives economically hedging a small closed portfolio of equity release mortgages were settled upon sale of the associated loans. The tables below set out movements in the Level 3 portfolio, including transfers in and out of Level 3. Risk report Movements in Level 3 portfolio 2020 2019 Loans and Investment Loans and Investment Derivative advances to securities advances to securities financial customers customers instruments £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 129 81 247 45 (4) Financial statements Gains/(losses) recognised in the income statement, within: Net interest income 3 8 Gains from derivatives and hedge accounting (note i) 1 4 Other operating income 7 11 6 15 2 (Losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income, within: Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (1) Additions 6 18 Disposals (80) Settlements/repayments (11) (21) (1) 2 Transfers out of Level 3 portfolio (111) Other information At 4 April 128 18 129 81 Note: i. Includes foreign exchange revaluation gains/losses. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 294 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 22. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value – Level 3 portfolio (continued) Strategic report Level 3 portfolio sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs The fair value of financial instruments is, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation techniques based on market prices that are not observable in an active market or significant unobservable market inputs. Reasonable alternative assumptions can be applied for sensitivity analysis, taking account of the nature of valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historic data. The following table shows the sensitivity of the Level 3 fair values to reasonable alternative assumptions (as set out in the table of significant unobservable inputs below) and the resultant impact of such changes in fair value on the income statement or members’ interests and equity: Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values 2020 2019 Income statement Income statement Governance Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Fair value changes changes Fair value changes changes £m £m £m £m £m £m Loans and advances to customers 128 4 (5) 129 4 (5) Investment securities 18 2 (1) 81 36 (39) Total 146 6 (6) 210 40 (44) Alternative assumptions are considered for each product and varied according to the quality of the data and variability of the underlying market. The following table discloses the significant unobservable inputs underlying the above alternative assumptions for assets and liabilities recognised at fair value and classified as Level 3, along with the range of values for those significant Risk report unobservable inputs. Where sensitivities are described the inverse relationship will also generally apply. Some of the significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement are interdependent. Where this is the case, a description of those interrelationships is included below. Significant unobservable inputs 2020 2019 Total Valuation Significant Range Weighted Units Total Valuation Significant Range Weighted Units assets technique unobservable (note i) average assets technique unobservable (note i) average Financial statements inputs (note ii) inputs (note ii) £m Loans and advances to Discounted Discounted 128 Discount rate 2.94 9.75 4.33 % 129 Discount rate 2.34 9.00 4.12 % customers cash flows cash flows Discount rate 10.00 12.00 11.00 % Discounted Discounted Investment securities 18 Discount rate 10.00 15.00 12.70 % 81 Share cash flows cash flows 100.00 65.85 % conversion Notes: i. The range represents the values of the highest and lowest levels used in the calculation of favourable and unfavourable changes as presented in the table of sensitivities above. Other information ii. Weighted average represents the input values used in calculating the fair values for the above financial instruments. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 22. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value – Level 3 portfolio (continued) Strategic report Discount rate The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future cash flows. The level of the discount rate takes into account the time value of money, but also the risk or uncertainty of future cash flows. Typically, the greater the uncertainty, the higher the discount rate. A higher discount rate leads to a lower valuation and vice versa. Share conversion Where the fair value of a security is affected by potential conversion into another instrument, share conversion is factored into the fair value. The higher the share conversion, the higher the valuation and vice versa. 23. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost Governance The following table summarises the carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on the Group’s balance sheet: Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (note i) 2020 2019 Carrying Fair values based on Total fair Carrying Fair values based on Total fair value value Risk report Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions 3,636 3,636 3,636 4,009 4,009 4,009 Investment securities 1,625 1,594 1,594 1,656 1,651 1,651 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgages 188,516 190,580 190,580 185,734 186,151 186,151 Consumer banking 4,500 4,452 4,452 4,168 4,104 4,104 Financial statements Commercial and other lending 7,834 8,010 8,010 9,020 8,973 8,973 Total 206,111 5,230 203,042 208,272 204,587 5,660 199,228 204,888 Financial liabilities Shares 159,691 159,891 159,891 153,969 153,989 153,989 Deposits from banks and similar institutions 21,812 21,810 21,810 20,149 20,149 20,149 Other deposits 4,482 4,474 9 4,483 5,074 5,074 5,074 Debt securities in issue 35,963 19,618 16,396 36,014 35,942 16,566 20,154 36,720 Subordinated liabilities 9,317 8,658 8,658 6,706 6,681 6,681 Subscribed capital 253 230 230 250 235 235 Other information Total 231,518 19,618 211,459 9 231,086 222,090 16,566 206,282 222,848 Note: i. The tables above exclude cash for which fair value approximates to carrying value. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 296 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 23. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (continued) Strategic report The fair values of loans and advances to customers are further analysed, between those credit-impaired and those non-credit impaired, as follows: Fair value of loans and advances to customers 2020 2019 Non-credit impaired Credit-impaired Covid-19 Non-credit impaired Credit-impaired (Stages 1 and 2) (Stage 3 and POCI) additional provision Total (Stages 1 and 2) (Stage 3 and POCI) Total (note i) (note ii) (note i) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value value value value value value value value value value value £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Governance Residential mortgages 187,184 189,233 1,383 1,398 (51) (51) 188,516 190,580 184,338 184,752 1,396 1,399 185,734 186,151 Consumer banking 4,511 4,463 32 32 (43) (43) 4,500 4,452 4,140 4,076 28 28 4,168 4,104 Commercial and other lending 7,795 7,966 46 51 (7) (7) 7,834 8,010 8,983 8,933 37 40 9,020 8,973 Total 199,490 201,662 1,461 1,481 (101) (101) 200,850 203,042 197,461 197,761 1,461 1,467 198,922 199,228 Notes: i. POCI loans are those which were credit-impaired when purchased or originated. ii. An additional ECL provision for the impact of Covid-19 has been recognised; this has not been allocated to a provisioning stage. Risk report Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions Shares, deposits and amounts due to customers The fair value of loans and advances to banks and similar institutions is estimated by discounting expected cash flows at a market discount rate. The estimated fair value of shares, deposits and amounts due to customers with no stated maturity, including non-interest-bearing deposits, is the amount repayable on demand. For items without quoted Investment securities market prices the estimated fair value represents the discounted amount of estimated future cash flows based on expectations of future interest rates, customer withdrawals and interest capitalisation. For Financial statements The fair value of investment securities is sourced from consensus pricing or other observable market variable interest rate items, estimated future cash flows are discounted using current market interest prices.. rates for new debt with similar remaining maturity. For fixed rate items, the estimated future cash flows are discounted based on market offer rates currently available for equivalent deposits. Loans and advances to customers Debt securities in issue The fair value of loans and advances to customers is estimated by discounting expected cash flows at rates that reflect current rates for similar lending. The estimated fair values of longer dated liabilities are calculated based on quoted market prices where available or using similar instruments as a proxy for those liabilities that are not of sufficient size or Consistent modelling techniques are used across the different loan books. The estimates take into liquidity to have an active market quote. For those notes for which quoted market prices are not account expected future cash flows and future lifetime expected losses, based on historic trends and available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the discount rates appropriate to the loans, to reflect a hypothetical exit price value on an asset by asset remaining term to maturity. Other information basis. Variable rate loans are modelled on estimated future cash flows, discounted at current market interest rates. Variable rate retail mortgages are discounted at the currently available market standard Subordinated liabilities and subscribed capital variable interest rate (SVR) which, for example, in the case of the Group’s residential base mortgage rate (BMR) mortgage book, generates a fair value lower than the amortised cost value as those mortgages The fair value of subordinated liabilities and subscribed capital is determined by reference to quoted are priced below the SVR. market prices of similar instruments. For fixed rate loans, discount rates have been based on the expected funding and capital cost applicable to the book. When calculating fair values on fixed rate loans, no adjustment has been made to reflect interest rate risk management through internal natural hedges or external hedging via derivatives. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 297 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 24. Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Strategic report The Group has financial assets and liabilities for which there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and liability simultaneously. In accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation,’ where the right to set off is not unconditional in all circumstances this does not result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities. In accordance with IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ the following table shows the impact on financial assets and financial liabilities relating to transactions where: • there is an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement in place, an unconditional right to offset is in place and there is an intention to settle net (‘amounts offset’), • there is an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement in place but the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied (‘master netting arrangements’), and • financial collateral is paid and received (‘financial collateral’). Governance Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 2020 2019 Gross Amounts Net amounts Master Financial Net Gross Amounts Net amounts Master Financial Net amounts offset reported on netting collateral amounts amounts offset reported on netting collateral amounts recognised (note i) the balance arrangements (note ii) recognised (note i) the balance arrangements (note ii) sheet sheet £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Derivative financial assets 6,376 (1,605) 4,771 (1,648) (2,997) 126 3,973 (411) 3,562 (1,363) (2,130) 69 Risk report Reverse repurchase 1,805 (1,805) 1,320 (826) 494 (492) 2 agreements Total financial assets 8,181 (3,410) 4,771 (1,648) (2,997) 126 5,293 (1,237) 4,056 (1,363) (2,622) 71 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 5,049 (3,125) 1,924 (1,648) (161) 115 2,649 (1,056) 1,593 (1,363) (198) 32 Repurchase agreements 2,443 (1,805) 638 (637) 1 1,680 (826) 854 (853) 1 Financial statements Total financial liabilities 7,492 (4,930) 2,562 (1,648) (798) 116 4,329 (1,882) 2,447 (1,363) (1,051) 33 Notes: i. Amounts offset for derivative financial assets of £1,605 million (2019: £411 million) include cash collateral netted of £416 million (2019: £85 million). Amounts offset for derivative financial liabilities of £3,125 million (2019: £1,056 million) include cash collateral netted of £1,936 million (2019: £730 million). ii. The balances presented for financial collateral on reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are less than the financial collateral balances reported in note 13, as the amounts disclosed above are limited to the net amounts reported on the balance sheet after amounts offset as shown in the table. Master netting arrangements consist of agreements such as an ISDA Master Agreement, global master repurchase agreements and global master securities lending agreements, whereby outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and settled net, either unconditionally or following a default or other predetermined event. Other information Financial collateral on derivative financial instruments consists of cash settled, typically daily or weekly, to mitigate the credit risk on the fair value of derivative contracts. Financial collateral on repurchase agreements typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default. The net amounts after offsetting under IFRS 7 presented above show the exposure to counterparty credit risk for derivative contracts after netting benefits and collateral, and are not intended to represent the Group’s actual exposure to credit risk. This is due to a variety of credit mitigation strategies which are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 298 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 25. Intangible assets Strategic report Group 2020 Computer software Total computer Goodwill Total Externally acquired Internally developed software £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 5 April 2019 (note i) 362 2,089 2,451 12 2,463 Additions 80 307 387 387 Disposals (37) (134) (171) (171) At 4 April 2020 405 2,262 2,667 12 2,679 Accumulated amortisation and Governance impairment At 5 April 2019 (note i) 217 922 1,139 1,139 Amortisation charge 60 270 330 330 Impairment in the year 1 141 142 142 Disposals (37) (134) (171) (171) At 4 April 2020 241 1,199 1,440 1,440 Net book value At 4 April 2020 164 1,063 1,227 12 1,239 Risk report Group 2019 Computer software (note i) Total computer Goodwill Total Externally acquired Internally developed software £m £m £m £m £m Cost At 5 April 2018 325 1,955 2,280 12 2,292 Additions 60 319 379 379 Disposals (23) (185) (208) (208) At 4 April 2019 362 2,089 2,451 12 2,463 Financial statements Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 5 April 2018 188 762 950 950 Amortisation charge 52 235 287 287 Impairment in the year 110 110 110 Disposals (23) (185) (208) (208) At 4 April 2019 217 922 1,139 1,139 Net book value At 4 April 2019 145 1,167 1,312 12 1,324 Other information Note: i. Prior year comparatives have been restated to correct the allocation of intangible assets by category. £413 million of cost and £5 million of accumulated amortisation have been reclassified from externally acquired to internally developed assets as at 4 April 2019 (5 April 2018: £434 million and £1 million). For the year ended 4 April 2019, £21 million of additions have been reclassified from internally developed to externally acquired and £4 million of amortisation and impairment have been reclassified from externally acquired to internally developed. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 299 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 25. Intangible assets (continued) Strategic report Computer software capitalised during the year primarily relates to the Group’s investment in digital services and data capabilities, together with ensuring the resilience and simplification of the technology estate. The total cost at 4 April 2020 includes £216 million (2019: £369 million) of assets in the course of construction which, to the extent that they are not yet ready for use by the business, have no amortisation charged against them. For all other computer software capitalised the estimated useful life of individual assets is predominantly 5 years. An impairment loss of £142 million (2019: £110 million) was recognised in the year, comprising £65 million related to the write off of assets associated with data analytics capabilities and the development of customer applications and technology interfaces, £26 million for assets relating to the business banking proposition which was halted during the year and £51 million in relation to other assets impacted by the Group’s technology strategy. The Society’s intangible assets are shown above as for the Group, except that they exclude the £12 million (2019: £12 million) of goodwill which relates to the acquisition of The Mortgage Works (UK) plc, and which is only recognised at Group level. Capital expenditure contracted for but not accrued at 4 April 2020 was £22 million (2019: £51 million). 26. Property, plant and equipment Governance Group 2020 Branches and nonSpecialised Investment Plant and machinery Equipment, fixtures, Right-of-use Total specialised buildings administration properties fittings and vehicles branches and nonbuildings specialised buildings £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost or valuation Risk report At 5 April 2019 (note i) 222 176 9 278 1,010 181 1,876 Additions 2 16 225 93 336 Revaluation (17) (17) Disposals (12) (7) (3) (104) (126) At 4 April 2020 195 176 2 291 1,131 274 2,069 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 5 April 2019 86 176 544 806 Financial statements Depreciation charge 3 24 127 25 179 Impairment 9 6 15 Disposals (3) (100) (103) At 4 April 2020 89 197 580 31 897 Net book value At 4 April 2020 195 87 2 94 551 243 1,172 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 300 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 26. Property, plant and equipment Strategic report Group 2019 Branches and nonSpecialised Investment properties Plant and machinery Equipment, fixtures, Right-of-use Total specialised buildings administration fittings and vehicles branches and nonbuildings specialised buildings £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost or valuation At 5 April 2018 220 182 9 252 948 1,611 Additions 9 26 136 171 Transfers (note ii) 6 (6) Revaluation (7) (7) Governance Disposals (6) (74) (80) At 4 April 2019 222 176 9 278 1,010 1,695 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 5 April 2018 83 153 488 724 Depreciation charge 3 23 115 141 Impairment 11 11 Disposals (70) (70) At 4 April 2019 86 176 544 806 Net book value Risk report At 4 April 2019 222 90 9 102 466 889 Notes: i. Includes the impact of adoption of IFRS 16 as detailed in note 1. ii. In the prior year ended 4 April 2019, a section of land adjacent to a specialised administration building was transferred to branches and non-specialised buildings following the decision to separate and market for sale. Group property, plant and equipment at 4 April 2020 includes £2 million (2019: £2 million) of specialised administration buildings held by subsidiary undertakings. Financial statements Property, plant and equipment includes £116 million (2019: £114 million) of assets in the course of construction. Capital expenditure contracted for but not accrued at 4 April 2020 was £33 million (2019: £58 million). As at 4 April 2020, branches and non-specialised building includes £10 million (2019: £15 million) of properties which are classified as held for sale. Branches and non-specialised buildings are valued annually at the balance sheet date by independent surveyors. The current use of all branches and non-specialised buildings equates to highest and best use, and there have been no changes to the valuation technique during the year. Other information IFRS 13 requires that all assets held at fair value are classified according to a hierarchy that reflects the significance of observable market inputs in calculating those fair values. Branches and nonspecialised buildings valuations are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Branches and non-specialised buildings revalued annually would have a carrying value under the historic cost model of £75 million (2019: £77 million). Annual Report and Accounts 2020 301 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 27. Provisions for liabilities and charges Strategic report Group Bank levy FSCS Customer Other Total redress provisions £m £m £m £m £m At 4 April 2019 21 159 19 199 Adoption of IFRS 16 (note i) (2) (2) At 5 April 2019 21 159 17 197 Provisions utilised (46) (101) (10) (157) Charge for the year 55 75 26 156 Release for the year (19) (1) (20) Governance Net income statement charge (note ii) 55 56 25 136 At 4 April 2020 30 114 32 176 At 5 April 2018 24 15 221 14 274 Provisions utilised (46) (6) (77) (17) (146) Charge for the year 43 1 79 26 149 Release for the year (10) (64) (4) (78) Net income statement charge (note ii) 43 (9) 15 22 71 At 4 April 2019 21 159 19 199 Notes: Risk report i. On adoption of IFRS 16, onerous lease provisions of £2 million were transferred to right-of-use assets within property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet. ii. Of the net income statement charge of £136 million (2019: £71 million), a net charge of £56 million (2019: £6 million) relating to FSCS and customer redress is included in provisions for liabilities and charges, and a net charge of £80 million (2019: £65 million) relating to bank levy and other provisions is included in administrative expenses. In addition to amounts in the table above, provisions for liabilities and charges in the income statement includes a £4 million credit recognised in respect of additional FSCS recoveries relating to failures provided for in previous years. Financial statements The Group provisions for liabilities and charges include less than £1 million (2019: £1 million) of customer redress and expected credit loss (ECL) provisions relating to irrevocable loan commitments within its subsidiaries; all other amounts relate to the Society. Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) The FSCS has confirmed that there will be no further interest costs following the sale of Bradford & Bingley plc asset portfolios and subsequent repayment of the loan to HM Treasury. In common with other financial institutions subject to the FSCS, the Group continues to have a potential exposure to future levies resulting from the failure of other financial institutions and Other information consequential claims which arise against the FSCS as a result of such failure. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 302 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 27. Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued) Strategic report Customer redress During the course of its business, the Group receives complaints from customers in relation to past sales or ongoing administration. The Group is also subject to enquiries from and discussions with its regulators and governmental and other public bodies, including the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), on a range of matters. Customer redress matters may also exist in relation to other aspects of past sales and administration of customer accounts, non-compliance with consumer credit legislation or other regulatory matters. Customer redress provisions are recognised where the Group considers it is probable that payments will be made as a result of such complaints and other matters, and where such payments can be reliably estimated. At 4 April 2020, the Group holds provisions of £114 million (2019: £159 million) in respect of the potential costs of remediation and redress in relation to past sales of PPI, issues relating to administration of customer accounts, non-compliance with consumer credit legislation and other regulatory matters. Governance The Group is currently investigating certain matters in connection with its quality control procedures. This investigation will conclude in the first half of 2020/21 and may result in an increase to provisions for customer redress. Other provisions Other provisions include amounts for severance costs, a number of property related provisions and ECLs on irrevocable personal loan and mortgage lending commitments. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Risk report There is significant estimation uncertainty in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any cash outflows associated with customer redress provisions. Provision for PPI At 4 April 2020, the Group held provisions of £51 million (2019: £80 million) for PPI, including the expected impact of Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited. This represents management’s best estimate of future compensation and administrative costs associated with cases that the Group expects to uphold and the cost of processing invalid claims. The provision estimate takes into account the average redress payments, referral rates to the FOS, uphold rates internally and with the FOS and complaint handling costs. The charge of £39 million for the year to 4 April 2020 brings Financial statements the cumulative cost of PPI to £476 million. The FCA’s deadline for claims of 29 August 2019 has now passed, with enquiries received between 29 June 2019 and the deadline also being treated as claims received by the deadline where a PPI policy was held. This also included enquiries from the Official Receiver. The key areas of remaining uncertainty are therefore the average uphold rate and redress amounts for the claims received. The table below shows the sensitivity of PPI provisions to these assumptions: Cumulative to Future Sensitivity 4 April 2020 expected Other information Average uphold rate (note i) 44% 41% 5% = £2m Average redress per claim (note ii) £1,067 £1,060 £100 = £2m Notes: i. The cumulative average uphold rate of claims includes responses to past proactive mailings. As a result, future expected average uphold rates are forecast to decline as no further proactive mailing activity is anticipated. ii. Future expected average redress reflects the expected mix of future claims that will be upheld. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 303 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 27. Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Other provisions for customer redress Provisions for other matters are in respect of issues relating to administration of customer accounts, non-compliance with consumer credit legislation and other regulatory matters, where an outflow is probable. Amounts provided are based on management’s best estimate of the number of customers impacted and anticipated remediation. As any new matters emerge, an estimate is made of the outcome, although in some cases uncertainties remain as to the eventual costs given the inherent difficulties in determining the number of impacted customers and the amount of any redress applicable. In the case of provisions relating to the administration of customer accounts, if the number of customers paid redress changed by 10%, the current provision would change by £4 million. Provisions will be adjusted in future periods as further information becomes available. Governance 28. Leasing The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under lease arrangements. The Group adopted IFRS 16 on 5 April 2019. Further details are included in note 1; comparatives have not been presented. Leasing amounts recognised in the income statement Group 2020 Risk report Income statement classification £m Interest expense Interest expense and similar charges (5) Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets Administrative expenses (31) Lease expense in respect of short term and low value leases Administrative expenses (6) Amounts receivable under leases where the Group is a lessor Other operating income 4 Leasing amounts recognised at the balance sheet date Group Financial statements 2020 Balance sheet classification £m Right-of-use assets Property, plant and equipment 243 Lease liabilities Other liabilities (265) In addition to the above, the Society holds a lease liability and right-of-use asset of £2 million relating to the lease of an investment property owned by one of its subsidiaries which is eliminated on consolidation. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 304 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 28. Leasing (continued) Strategic report Total leasing cash outflows in the year were £34 million. £4 million of lease commitments were entered into but not yet commenced at the balance sheet date. Future undiscounted minimum payments under lease liabilities were as follows: Leasing commitments Group and Society 2020 £m Amounts falling due: Within one year 20 Governance Between one and two years 26 Between two and three years 29 Between three and four years 29 Between four and five years 28 After five years 185 Total 317 IAS 17 leasing commitments Group and Risk report Society 2019 (note i) £m Amounts falling due: Within one year 21 Between one and five years 86 Financial statements After five years 82 Total 189 Note: i. Amounts have been restated from £230 million previously reported primarily to exclude certain taxes paid by and reimbursed to the lessor. At the balance sheet date £11 million (2019: £21 million) of future minimum lease payments were receivable under leases where the Group is a lessor, of which £3 million (2019: £4 million) were receivable under non-cancellable subleases. Other information 29. Contingent liabilities The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of any current complaints, threatened or actual legal proceedings, regulatory or other matters to have a material adverse impact on its financial position. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 305 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations Strategic report The Group operates two defined contribution pension schemes in the UK – the Nationwide Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP) and the Nationwide Temporary Workers Pension Scheme. New employees are automatically enrolled into one of these schemes, with both schemes being administered by Aviva. Outside of the UK, there are defined contribution pension schemes for a small number of employees in the Isle of Man. The Group also has funding obligations to several defined benefit pension schemes, which are administered by boards of trustees. Pension trustees are required by law to act in the interests of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy of fund assets, as well as the day to day administration. The Group’s largest pension scheme is the Nationwide Pension Fund (the Fund). This is a contributory defined benefit pension scheme, with both final salary and career average revalued earnings (CARE) sections. The Fund was closed to new entrants in 2007 and since that date employees have been able to join the GPP. In line with UK pensions legislation, a formal actuarial valuation (‘Triennial Valuation’) of the assets and liabilities of the Fund is carried out at least every three years by independent actuaries. Governance On 17 February 2020, the Group announced that it would close the Fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021, with affected employees being moved to the GPP for future pension savings. From 1 April 2021, members will move from active to deferred status, with future indexation of deferred pensions before retirement measured by reference to the Consumer Price Index (CPI). As CPI is lower than the previous assumptions which were based on the retail price index (RPI) and pay growth, a gain of £164 million has been recognised as a past service credit within administrative expenses in the year ended 4 April 2020. All affected employees who are active members of the Fund on 31 March 2021, or those who were active members at the point they were made redundant on or after 18 September 2019, will receive a one-off payment which may be taken in cash or as a contribution to their pensions. The cost of accruing for these payments of £60 million has been recognised within ‘administrative expenses – other staff related costs’ in the year ended 4 April 2020. Further information on the Group’s obligations to defined benefit pension schemes are set out below. Risk report Defined benefit pension schemes Retirement benefit obligations on the balance sheet Group 2020 2019 £m £m Present value of funded obligations 6,228 6,375 Financial statements Present value of unfunded obligations 8 8 6,236 6,383 Fair value of fund assets (6,530) (6,278) (Surplus)/deficit at 4 April (294) 105 Most members of the Fund can draw their pension when they reach the Fund’s retirement age of 65. The level of pension benefits accrued before 1 April 2011 vary in methodology; however, most are based on 1/54th of final salary for each year of service. Pension benefits accrued after 1 April 2011 are usually based on 1/60th of average earnings, revalued to the age of retirement, for each year of service (also called CARE). As noted above, there will be no future accrual of benefits from 1 April 2021, and future indexation of previously accrued benefits will be valued on the basis of CPI. Other information On the death of a Fund member, benefits may be payable in the form of a spouse/dependant’s pension, lump sum (paid within five years of a Fund member beginning to take their pension), or refund of Fund member contributions. Fund members are able to place redundancy severance into their pension. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 306 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) Strategic report Approximately 31% of the Fund’s pension obligations have been accrued in relation to current employees (active Fund members), 36% for former employees (deferred Fund members) and 33% for current pensioners and dependants. The average duration of the Fund’s pension obligation is approximately 22 years, reflecting the split of the obligation between current employees (26 years), deferred Fund members (24 years) and current pensioners (15 years). The Group’s retirement benefit obligations include £2 million (2019: £2 million) recognised in a subsidiary company, Nationwide (Isle of Man) Limited. This obligation relates to a defined benefit scheme providing benefits based on both final salary and CARE, which was closed to new entrants in 2009. The Group’s retirement benefit obligations also include £8 million (2019: £8 million) in respect of unfunded legacy defined benefit arrangements. The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Governance Retirement benefit obligations recognised in the income statement Group 2020 2019 £m £m Defined contribution cost 89 83 Defined benefit schemes Current service cost 90 89 Past service (credit)/cost (169) 5 Risk report Administrative expenses 5 4 Included in employee costs (note 8) 15 181 Interest on net defined benefit (asset)/liability (notes 3 and 4) (3) 6 Total 12 187 Changes in the present value of the net defined benefit (asset)/liability (including unfunded obligations) are as follows: Movements in net defined benefit (asset)/liability Financial statements Group 2020 2019 £m £m Deficit at 5 April 105 345 Current service cost 90 89 Past service (credit)/cost (169) 5 Benefits paid directly by the Group (3) Interest on net defined benefit (asset)/liability (3) 6 Return on assets greater than discount rate (141) (370) Other information Contributions by employer (127) (131) Administrative expenses 5 4 Actuarial (gains)/losses on defined benefit obligations (54) 160 (Surplus)/deficit at 4 April (294) 105 Current service cost represents the increase in liabilities resulting from employees accruing service over the year. This includes salary sacrifice employee contributions. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 307 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) Strategic report Included within the past service credit for the year ended 4 April 2020 is a gain of £164 million relating to the decision to close the Fund to future accrual on 31 March 2021. Past service (credit)/cost also includes a £2 million (2019: £3 million) increase in liabilities of the Fund arising from Fund members choosing to pay additional contributions (AVCs or pension credits), gains of £7 million (2019: £7 million) in respect of Fund members made redundant during the year and, in the year ended 4 April 2019, an additional £9 million representing the Fund’s estimated Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (GMPs) equalisation obligation, following the High Court verdict on 26 October 2018 on GMP equalisation for men and women. The interest on the net defined benefit (asset)/liability represents the interest accruing on the liabilities over the year, offset by the interest income on assets. A net interest credit of £3 million was recognised in the year ended 4 April 2020 (2019: £6 million cost), primarily as a result of reflecting the impact of favourable experience adjustments arising from the 2019 Triennial Valuation on the interest calculation for the period. The £141 million gain relating to the return on assets greater than the discount rate (2019: £370 million) is driven by positive increases in the value of government bonds, offset by a deterioration in Governance the value of certain assets due to market volatility, in light of Covid-19. The £127 million of employer contributions includes deficit contributions of £61 million (2019: £61 million), with the remainder relating to employer contributions in respect of ongoing benefit accrual. The 31 March 2019 Triennial Valuation for the NPF is underway. The Society and Trustee are negotiating a new Schedule of Contributions and Deficit Recovery Plan, and this is expected to be agreed in 2020. Based upon the previous Schedule of Contributions and Deficit Recovery Plan agreed as part of the 31 March 2016 Triennial Valuation, expected contributions in the year ending 4 April 2021 would be approximately £122 million. The £54 million actuarial gain on defined benefit obligations (2019: £160 million actuarial loss) shown above is due to: Risk report • An experience gain of £117 million (2019: £12 million loss) reflecting the difference between estimates of long-term inflation and membership assumptions compared to actual long-term inflation and membership experience. • A £34 million loss (2019: £206 million) from changes in financial assumptions, driven by a 0.45% decrease in the discount rate (which increases the value of liabilities), offset by a 0.65% decrease in assumed retail price index inflation (which decreases the value of the liabilities). • A £29 million loss (2019: £58 million gain) due to updating to the latest industry standard actuarial model for projecting future longevity improvements as well as other demographic assumptions to reflect recent Fund experience. Financial statements Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations (including unfunded obligations) are as follows: Movements in defined benefit obligations Group 2020 2019 £m £m At 5 April 6,383 6,120 Current service cost 90 89 Past service (credit)/cost (169) 5 Interest expense on retirement obligation 148 148 Other information Experience (gain)/loss on plan assumptions (117) 12 Changes in demographic assumptions 29 (58) Changes in financial assumptions 34 206 Benefits paid (note i) (162) (139) At 4 April 6,236 6,383 Note: i. The year ended 4 April 2019 includes £3 million benefit paid directly by the Group. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 308 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) Strategic report Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the pension schemes are as follows: Movements in plan assets Group 2020 2019 £m £m At 5 April 6,278 5,775 Interest income on assets 151 142 Return on assets greater than discount rate 141 370 Administrative expenses (5) (4) Governance Contributions by employer 127 131 Benefits paid (162) (136) At 4 April 6,530 6,278 The Group offers a salary sacrifice arrangement whereby employee contributions are deducted from pay before their salary is paid each month. Therefore, no employee contributions are reported in the table above; instead all employee contributions are reflected in contributions by employer. The major categories of assets held for the pension schemes, stated at fair value, are as follows: Risk report Categories of plan assets Group 2020 2019 (note i) £m £m Listed equities (quoted) 626 757 Government bonds (quoted) 4,952 3,846 Financial statements Corporate bonds and other credit investments (quoted) 504 608 Infrastructure (unquoted) 198 312 Property (unquoted) 645 562 Private equity investments (unquoted) 404 380 Private debt investments (unquoted) 202 157 Cash 139 294 Liability relating to repurchase agreement (1,263) (759) Other assets and liabilities 123 121 Total 6,530 6,278 Other information Note: i. Comparatives have been restated to reclassify certain investments to conform with the current year presentation, including disaggregating private debt funds into a separate category to better reflect the different nature and risks of the underlying assets. The defined benefit pension schemes do not invest in the Group’s own financial instruments or property. Certain investments in private equity, infrastructure and property are not quoted in active markets or valued based on observable inputs. Valuation adjustments incorporating significant unobservable inputs have been made to arrive at a market participant view of fair value, including consideration in the current year of the adverse impacts of Covid-19 on market conditions which existed as at the balance sheet date. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 309 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) Strategic report The Fund’s liabilities are partly hedged by matching assets, primarily government bonds and corporate bonds. In addition, the Fund invests in alternative matching assets such as property ground rents and property leases (included in property above) that are expected to generate inflation linked income over the long term. The Fund also holds return-seeking assets which are primarily listed equities. These are expected to generate a return over and above the Fund’s liabilities in the long term but may create risk and volatility in the short to medium term. During the year the Trustee has continued to reduce interest rate and inflation risk in the Fund, purchasing a number of government bonds amounting to a notional £573 million and transacting interest rate and inflation swaps amounting to a notional £805 million. These investments have been supported by the utilisation of a repurchase agreement (a loan, collateralised against the Fund’s government bonds), which totals £1,263 million at 4 April 2020 (2019: £759 million), and the sale of other assets, such as corporate bonds. This will reduce volatility from changes to long-term interest rates and inflation expectations. The investments are monitored by both the Trustee and the Group to ensure they remain appropriate given the Fund’s long-term objectives. Governance The principal actuarial assumptions used are as follows: Principal actuarial assumptions 2020 2019 % % Discount rate 1.95 2.40 Risk report Future salary increases 2.65 3.25 Future pension increases (maximum 5%) 2.55 3.00 Retail price index (RPI) inflation 2.60 3.25 Consumer price index (CPI) inflation 1.65 2.25 The assumptions for mortality rates are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future improvements in life expectancies and are adjusted to represent the Fund’s membership. The assumptions made are illustrated in the table below showing how long the Group would expect the average Fund member to live for after the age of 60, based on reaching that age at 4 April 2020 or Financial statements in 20 years’ time at 4 April 2040. Life expectancy assumptions (years) 2020 2019 Age 60 at 4 April 2020 Males 27.6 27.9 Females 29.3 29.1 Age 60 at 4 April 2040: Other information Males 29.0 29.0 Females 30.6 30.6 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 310 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 30. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) Strategic report Critical accounting estimates and judgements Retirement benefit obligations The key assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation are the discount rate, inflation assumptions (including salary increases) and mortality assumptions. If different assumptions were used, this could have a material effect on the reported (surplus)/deficit. The sensitivity of the results to these assumptions is shown below: Change in key assumptions at 4 April 2020 Increase/(decrease) in surplus from Governance assumption change £m 0.1% increase in discount rate 136 0.1% increase in inflation assumption (120) 1 year increase in life expectancy at age 60 in respect of all members (199) The above sensitivities apply to individual assumptions in isolation. The 0.1% sensitivity to the inflation assumption includes a corresponding 0.1% increase in future salary increases and future pension increases assumptions. Risk report In the current year additional estimation uncertainty exists in relation to the valuation of certain pension assets as at the balance sheet date, including investments in private equity, infrastructure and property. Adjustments have been made to reduce the value of these assets to reflect the adverse impacts of Covid-19 on market conditions which existed as at the balance sheet date. The sensitivity of these valuation adjustments is such that a further decrease of 10% to the adjusted asset values would result in a loss of approximately £110 million recognised in other comprehensive income. An increase of 10% to the adjusted asset values, limited to the original unadjusted carrying value, would result in a gain of approximately £95 million recognised in other comprehensive income. Financial statements 31. Core capital deferred shares Group and Society Number of CCDS Share Total shares premium £m £m £m At 4 April 2020 10,500,000 11 1,314 1,325 At 4 April 2019 10,500,000 11 1,314 1,325 Other information Core capital deferred shares (CCDS) are a form of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital which have been developed to enable the Group to raise capital from the capital markets. Previously issued Tier 1 capital instruments, PIBS, no longer meet the regulatory capital requirements of CRD IV and are being gradually phased out of the calculation of capital resources under transitional rules. CCDS are perpetual instruments. They rank equally to each other and are junior to claims against the Society of all depositors, creditors and investing members. Each holder of CCDS has one vote, regardless of the number of CCDS held. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 311 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 31. Core capital deferred shares (continued) Strategic report In the event of a winding up or dissolution of the Society and if a surplus was available, the amount that the investor would receive for each CCDS held is limited to the average principal amount in issue, which is currently £129.24 per share. There is a cap on the distributions that can be paid to holders of CCDS in any financial year. The cap is currently set at £16.61 per share and is adjusted annually in line with CPI. A final distribution of £54 million (£5.125 per share) for the financial year ended 4 April 2019 was paid on 20 June 2019 and an interim distribution of £54 million (£5.125 per share) in respect of the period to 30 September 2019 was paid on 20 December 2019. These distributions have been recognised in the statement of movements in members’ interests and equity. Since the balance sheet date, the directors have declared a distribution of £5.125 per share in respect of the period to 4 April 2020, amounting in aggregate to £54 million. This has not been reflected in these financial statements as it will be recognised in the year ending 4 April 2021, by reference to the date at which it was declared. 32. Other equity instruments Governance Group and Society 2020 2019 £m £m At 5 April 992 992 Risk report Redemptions (992) Issuances 593 At 4 April 593 992 Other equity instruments are Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital instruments. The Society redeemed £1 billion (£992 million net of issuance costs) of AT1 capital instruments in full on 20 June 2019. An interest payment of £34 million, covering the period to 19 June 2019, was paid on 20 June 2019. This payment has been recognised in the statement of movements in members’ interest and equity. The coupon paid represented the maximum non-cumulative fixed coupon of 6.875%. Financial statements The Society issued £600 million (£593 million net of issuance costs) of new AT1 capital instruments on 17 September 2019. The AT1 instruments rank equally to each other and are junior to claims against the Society of all depositors, creditors and investing members, other than the holders of CCDS. The AT1 instruments pay a fully discretionary, non-cumulative fixed interest at an initial rate of 5.875% per annum. The rate will reset on 20 June 2025 and every five years thereafter to the benchmark gilt reset reference rate plus 5.39% per annum. Coupons are paid semi-annually in June and December. An interest payment of £8 million, covering the period from 17 September to 19 December 2019, was paid on 20 December 2019. This payment has been recognised in the statement of movements in members’ interest and equity. The coupon paid represented the maximum non-cumulative fixed coupon of 5.875%. A coupon payment of £18 million, covering the period to 19 June 2020, is expected to be paid on 22 June 2020 and will be recognised in the statement of movements in members’ interests and equity in the financial year ending 4 April 2021. Other information AT1 instruments have no maturity date but are repayable at the option of the Society from 20 December 2024 to 20 June 2025, and on every reset date thereafter. If the fully loaded CET1 ratio for the Society, on either a consolidated or unconsolidated basis, falls below 7% the AT1 instruments convert to CCDS instruments at the rate of one CCDS share for every £100 of AT1 holding. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 312 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 33. Investments in Group undertakings Strategic report The Society’s investments in Group undertakings are as follows: 2020 2019 Shares Loans Total Shares Loans Total £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 315 31,905 32,220 315 30,981 31,296 Additions 24 3,426 3,450 1,431 1,431 Disposals, redemptions and repayments (463) (463) (507) (507) At 4 April 339 34,868 35,207 Governance 315 31,905 32,220 Subsidiary undertakings The interests of the Society in its subsidiary undertakings as at 4 April 2020 are set out below: Subsidiary name Notes Subsidiary name Principal subsidiaries Dormant subsidiaries Derbyshire Home Loans Limited i at.home nationwide Limited Risk report E-Mex Home Funding Limited i Confederation Mortgage Services Limited Nationwide Syndications Limited i Ethos Independent Financial Services Limited The Mortgage Works (UK) plc i Exeter Trust Limited UCB Home Loans Corporation Limited i LBS Mortgages Limited Nationwide Anglia Property Services Limited Other subsidiaries Nationwide Financial Service Limited Dunfermline BS Nominees Limited ii Nationwide Home Loans Limited First Nationwide ii Nationwide Housing Trust Limited Financial statements Jubilee Mortgages Limited ii Nationwide International Limited Monument (Sutton) Limited ii Nationwide Investments (No.1) Limited Nationwide (Isle of Man) Limited Nationwide Lease Finance Limited NBS Ventures Management Limited ii NMC1 Limited NBS Ventures Limited ii Nationwide Overseas (UK) Limited Piper Javelin Holding Company Limited ii Nationwide Property Services (NBS) Limited Piper Javelin No 1 Limited Nationwide Trust Limited The Derbyshire (Premises) Limited ii NBS CoSec Limited NBS Fleet Services Limited Staffordshire Leasing Limited Other information Notes: i. Audited accounts are prepared for all of the Group’s principal subsidiaries. All principal subsidiaries are regulated entities with the exception of Nationwide Syndications Limited. ii. For these companies, the Group has adopted the audit exemption for the year ended 4 April 2020 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006. The Society guarantees all outstanding liabilities of the exempted subsidiary undertakings. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 313 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 33. Investments in Group undertakings (continued) Strategic report The Society directly or indirectly holds 100% of the ordinary share capital for each subsidiary undertaking. All of the subsidiary undertakings are limited liability companies, with the exception of First Nationwide which is an unlimited company. The registered office for all subsidiary undertakings, other than those listed in the table below, is Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, SN38 1NW. Subsidiary name Registered office Dunfermline BS Nominees Limited Caledonia House, Carnegie Avenue, Dunfermline, KY11 8PJ Nationwide (Isle of Man) Limited 5-11 St. Georges Street, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM99 1RN Governance There are no significant restrictions on any of the Society’s subsidiaries in paying dividends or repaying loans, subject to their financial and operating performance and availability of distributable reserves. The Group has no material shares in associates. Further details regarding the Group’s interests in equity shares are included in note 13. Subsidiaries by virtue of control Details of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities are set out in note 34. 34. Structured entities Risk report A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the relationship indicates control. Consolidated structured entities Financial statements Structured entities are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1. The following structured entities are consolidated in the Group’s results: Structured entity name Nature of business Registered office Nationwide Covered Bonds LLP Mortgage acquisition and guarantor of covered bonds Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, SN38 1NW Silverstone Master Issuer plc Funding vehicle Wilmington Trust SP Services (London) Limited, Third Silverstone Funding (No.1) Limited Funding vehicle Floor, 1 King’s Arms Yard, London, EC2R 7AF Further details on the activities of the above structured entities are included in note 14. Other information Unconsolidated structured entities The Group has interests in structured entities which it does not sponsor or control. These largely consist of holdings of mortgage backed securities, covered bonds and CLOs issued by entities that are sponsored by other unrelated financial institutions. The entities are financed primarily by investments from investors, such as the purchase of issued notes. Annual Report and Accounts 2020 314 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 34. Structured entities (continued) Strategic report The Group’s direct interests in unconsolidated structured entities comprise primarily investments in asset backed securities which are reported within investment securities on the balance sheet. The total carrying value of these interests at 4 April 2020 is £4,089 million (2019: £3,847 million). Further details on the credit risk that the Group is exposed to in respect of these asset backed securities can be found in the ‘Credit risk Treasury assets’ section of the Risk report. Management has concluded that the Group has no control or significant influence over these entities and that the carrying value of the interests held in these entities represents the maximum exposure to loss. During the year the Group has not provided any non-contractual financial or other support to these entities and has no current intention of providing any such support. There were no transfers to or from these unconsolidated structured entities during the year. Governance 35. Related party transactions Subsidiary, parent and ultimate controlling party The Group is controlled by Nationwide Building Society, the ultimate parent, which is registered in England and Wales. Details of subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 33. Key management personnel compensation Members of the Nationwide Leadership Team (including executive directors), together with the non-executive directors of the Society, are considered to be the key management personnel as Risk report defined by IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Total compensation for key management personnel for the year was as follows: Key management personnel compensation 2020 2019 £’000 £’000 Short term employee benefits 8,511 8,775 Other long-term benefits 782 1,914 Financial statements Termination benefits 1,107 Share based payments 1,736 1,881 Total 12,136 12,570 Other long-term benefits include amounts relating to long-term bonus schemes, some of which will be paid in future periods. Further information on these can be found in note 8. Share based payments include amounts that are dependent on the performance of the CCDS. Further information is included in the Report of the directors on remuneration. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 315 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 35. Related party transactions (continued) Strategic report Transactions with related parties A number of transactions are entered into with related parties in the normal course of business. These include derivatives, loans, deposits and the payment and recharge of administrative expenses. The outstanding balances for these related party transactions at the year end, and the associated income and expenses for the year are as follows: Transactions with related parties Society subsidiaries Key management personnel 2020 2019 2020 2019 £m £m £m £m Loans payable to the Society Governance Loans outstanding at 5 April 31,905 30,981 1.5 2.9 Loans issued during the year 3,426 1,431 0.5 0.6 Loan repayments during the year (463) (507) (1.1) (2.0) Loans outstanding at 4 April 34,868 31,905 0.9 1.5 Deposits payable by the Society Deposits outstanding at 5 April 1,545 1,417 4.3 4.7 Deposits placed during the year 240 280 12.4 8.0 Deposit repayments during the year (152) (11.6) (8.4) Risk report Deposits outstanding at 4 April 1,785 1,545 5.1 4.3 Net interest income Interest receivable 798 783 Interest expense 54 48 Other income and expenses Fees and expenses paid to the Society (note i) 38 28 Financial statements Other balance sheet items Accrued income and prepaid expenses due to the Society 1,454 1,114 Other liabilities payable by the Society 3,362 2,282 Right-of-use asset leased from subsidiary 2 Liability for right-of-use asset leased from subsidiary (2) Note: i. Comparatives has been restated as detailed in note 1. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 316 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 35. Related party transactions (continued) Strategic report Transactions with key management personnel Transactions with key management personnel are on the same terms and conditions applicable to other employees within the Group. A register is maintained by the Society containing details of loans, transactions and arrangements made between the Society or its subsidiary undertakings and directors of the Society or persons connected with directors of the Society. The register will be available for inspection by members at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2020 and during normal office hours at the Society’s principal office (Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, SN38 1NW) during the period of 15 days prior to the meeting. Transactions with Group companies Governance Transactions with Group companies arise in the normal course of business. Interest on outstanding loans and deposits accrues at a transfer pricing rate agreed between the Society and its subsidiary undertakings. The Society does not charge the net defined benefit cost to the subsidiary undertakings that participate in the Nationwide Pension Fund. The pension cost to these subsidiary undertakings equals the contributions payable to the Fund. 36. Notes to the cash flow statements Non-cash items included in profit before tax Risk report Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) £m £m £m £m Net increase in impairment provisions 121 36 87 61 Net decrease in provisions for liabilities and charges (21) (75) (20) (74) Amortisation and gains/losses on investment securities (notes ii, iii) 18 (26) 18 (26) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 666 549 666 549 Financial statements Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (4) (2) (4) (2) Loss on the revaluation of property, plant and equipment 5 4 6 4 Net charge in respect of retirement benefit obligations (note iii) (77) 104 (77) 104 Interest on subordinated liabilities (note iv) 213 176 213 176 Interest on subscribed capital (note iv) 5 5 5 5 Losses/(gains) from derivatives and hedge accounting 7 (36) (19) 7 Total 933 735 875 804 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 317 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 36. Notes to the cash flow statements (continued) Strategic report Changes in operating assets and liabilities Group Society 2020 2019 2020 2019 (note i) (note i) £m £m £m £m Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions (notes iii, vi) (282) (269) (282) (269) Net derivative financial instruments (notes iii, iv, vii) (197) (400) 471 (408) Loans and advances to customers (note iii) (2,190) (7,826) 1,012 (6,581) Other operating assets (notes ii, iii) (26) (30) (3,752) (959) Shares 5,722 5,966 5,722 5,966 Governance Deposits from banks and similar institutions, customers and others (note iii) 1,030 137 924 389 Debt securities in issue (notes iii, v) (1,731) 2,003 (2,785) 2,679 Contributions to defined benefit pension scheme (note iii) (127) (134) (127) (133) Other operating liabilities (note iii) 65 219 1,398 (713) Total 2,264 (334) 2,581 (29) Cash and cash equivalents Cash 13,748 12,493 13,748 12,493 Loans and advances to banks and similar institutions repayable in 3 months or less (note vi) 726 1,381 707 1,366 Total 14,474 13,874 14,455 13,859 Risk report Notes: i. Comparatives have been restated as detailed in note 1. ii. Adjustments have been made to cash flows on acquisition and disposal of investment securities to appropriately reflect the proceeds paid or received, inclusive of the effects of premiums, discounts and gains/(losses) on disposal. This has resulted in a decrease of £69 million in total non-cash items included in profit before tax and an increase of £200 million in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019 for both Group and Society. iii. A number of reclassifications have been made within cash flows from operations between categories of non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. This has resulted in a net increase of £147 million in total non-cash items included in profit before tax and a net decrease of £147 million in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019 for both Group and Society. iv. Cash flows associated with derivative contracts hedging investing and financing activities are now presented in the same manner as the cash flows of the hedged items. This has resulted in a decrease of £71 million in total noncash items included in profit before tax and an increase of £51 million in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019 for both Group and Society. Financial statements v. Gross cash inflows and outflows arising from the issuance, disposal and interest on debt securities in issue have been reclassified from financing activities to present a net cash movement within operating activities, reflecting the use of these securities as part of the Group’s day to day operations. This has resulted in a decrease of £673 million for the Group (Society: £612 million) in total non-cash items included in profit before tax to remove the adjustment for interest on the debt securities, and an increase of £2,067 million (Society: £2,728 million) in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019 from inclusion of debt securities within operating activities. vi. Certain collateral balances have been reclassified from cash equivalents to loans and advances to banks and similar institutions, resulting in an increase of £18 million in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019 for both Group and Society. vii. Separate presentation of the effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents has resulted in a decrease in the Group of £9 million (Society: £5 million) in total changes in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended 4 April 2019, where the effects were previously reported. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 318 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 36. Notes to the cash flow statements (continued) Strategic report The Group is required to maintain balances with the Bank of England and certain other central banks which, at 4 April 2020, amounted to £1,355 million (2019: £1,276 million). These balances are included within loans and advances to banks and similar institutions on the balance sheet and are not included in the cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement as they are not liquid in nature. Movements in liabilities arising from financing activities are set out below. Movements in liabilities arising from financing activities 2020 2019 Subordinated Subscribed Total Subordinated Subscribed Total liabilities capital liabilities capital Governance Group £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 6,706 250 6,956 5,497 263 5,760 Issuances 1,603 1,603 1,029 1,029 Redemptions (13) (13) Foreign exchange 390 390 172 172 Fair value and other movements 618 3 621 8 8 At 4 April 9,317 253 9,570 6,706 250 6,956 Movements in liabilities arising from financing activities Risk report 2020 2019 Subordinated Subscribed Total Subordinated Subscribed Total liabilities capital liabilities capital Society £m £m £m £m £m £m At 5 April 6,706 250 6,956 5,497 263 5,760 Issuances 1,603 1,603 1,029 1,029 Redemptions (13) (13) Financial statements Foreign exchange 390 390 172 172 Fair value and other movements 618 3 621 8 8 At 4 April 9,317 253 9,570 6,706 250 6,956 Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 319 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Notes to the financial financial statements statements (continued) (continued) 37. Capital management Strategic report The Group is subject to the regulatory capital requirements applied by its regulator, the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). Regulatory capital comprises the Group’s general reserve, fair value through other comprehensive income reserve, revaluation reserve, core capital deferred shares, other equity instruments, permanent interest-bearing shares (PIBS) and subordinated debt, subject to various adjustments and transitional arrangements required by the capital rules. During the year the Group complied with the capital requirements applied by the PRA. Further unaudited details about the Group’s capital position can be found in the ‘Solvency risk’ section of the Risk report. 38. Registered office Nationwide is a building society, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is: Governance Nationwide Building Society Nationwide House Pipers Way Swindon SN38 1NW Risk report Financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 320 Other Strategic report information Governance 321 Annual business statement Risk report • Statutory percentages • Other percentages • Information relating to directors Financial statements • Directors’ service contracts • Directors’ share options 324 Underlying profit 324 Forward looking statements 324 Glossary Other information 325 Index Vaniya and Neena, members since 1998 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 321 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Annual business statement for the year ended 4 April 2020 that of making loans which are secured on residential property and are funded substantially Strategic report by its members. 1. Statutory percentages Statutory percentages 2. Other percentages 2020 Statutory limit % % Other percentages Lending limit 7.42 25.00 2020 2019 Funding limit 29.23 50.00 % % As a percentage of shares and borrowings: The above percentages have been calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Gross capital 10.2 9.4 Governance Building Societies Act 1986 as amended by the Building Societies Act 1997 and the Free capital 9.4 8.6 Modification of the Lending Limit and Funding Limit Calculations Order 2004. Liquid assets 16.8 15.2 The lending limit measures the proportion of business assets not in the form of loans fully Profit for the financial year as a percentage of mean total assets 0.15 0.27 secured on residential property and is calculated as (X-Y)/X where: (note i) Management expenses as a percentage of mean total assets 0.95 0.96 X = business assets, being the total assets of the Group plus impairment provisions on loans Note: and advances to customers less liquid assets, property, plant and equipment, intangible i. Comparative has been restated following amendments to profit after tax for 2019 as detailed in note 1 to the financial fixed assets and investment properties as shown in the Group balance sheet. statements. Y = the principal of, and interest accrued on, loans owed to the Group which are fully The above percentages have been prepared from the Society’s consolidated accounts and in Risk report secured on residential property. particular: The funding limit measures the proportion of shares and borrowings not in the form of shares • ‘Shares and borrowings’ represent the total of shares, deposits from banks and similar held by individuals and is calculated as (X-Y)/X where: institutions, other deposits and debt securities in issue Financial statements X = shares and borrowings, being the aggregate of: • ‘Gross capital’ represents the aggregate of general reserve, revaluation reserve, fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (2018: available for sale reserve), cash flow i) the principal value of, and interest accrued on, shares in the Society, hedge reserve, CCDS, Additional Tier 1 capital, subscribed capital and subordinated ii) the principal of, and interest accrued on, sums deposited with the Society or any liabilities subsidiary undertaking of the Society excluding offshore deposits in an EEA subsidiary, and • ‘Free capital’ represents the aggregate of gross capital and provisions for collective iii) the principal value of, and interest accrued under, bills of exchange, instruments or impairment losses on loans and advances to customers less property, plant and agreements creating or acknowledging indebtedness and accepted, made, issued or equipment and intangible assets entered into by the Society or any such undertaking, less any amounts qualifying as own Other information funds. • ‘Liquid assets’ represent the total of cash, loans and advances to banks and similar institutions and investment securities Y = the principal value of, and interest accrued on, shares in the Society held by individuals otherwise than as bare trustees (or, in Scotland, simple trustees) for bodies corporate or for persons who include bodies corporate. • ‘Mean total assets’ represent the amount produced by halving the aggregate of total assets at the beginning and end of the financial year The statutory limits are as laid down under the Building Societies Act 1986 as amended by the Building Societies Act 1997 and ensure that the principal purpose of a building society is • ‘Management expenses’ represent administrative expenses including depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Annual Report and Accounts 2020 322 Annual business statement (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3. Information relating to directors at 4 April 2020 Strategic report Information relating to directors at 4 April 2020 Name and date of birth Occupation Date of appointment Other directorships D L Roberts Non-executive director 1 September 2014 Campion Willcocks Limited CBE, BSc (Hons), MBA, PhD (Honorary), CFifs Beazley plc (Chair) Chairman Beazley Furlonge Limited (Chair) 12 September 1962 NHS Improvement (Associate Non-executive Director) NHS England (Vice Chair) R A Clifton Non-executive director 1 July 2012 Rita Clifton Limited CBE, MA (Cantab), FRSA Ascential plc Governance 30 January 1958 The Green Alliance Trust R M Fyfield Non-executive director 2 June 2015 Roku, Inc MA, BA (Hons) BBC Commercial Holdings Limited 3 May 1969 Asos plc A Hitchcock Non-executive director 2 December 2018 dipMBA, CEng, FIET 16 January 1965 J D Garner Executive director 5 April 2016 UK Finance MA (Cantab) British Triathlon Foundation Trust (Chairman) Risk report 23 June 1969 K A H Parry Non-executive director 23 May 2016 Daily Mail and General Trust plc OBE, MA (Cantab), FCA K A H Parry Limited 29 January 1962 Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Chairman) Baroness U K Prashar Non-executive director 18 January 2017 Cumberland Lodge (Chair) CBE, PC Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry UK Council (Chair) 29 June 1948 Financial statements C S Rhodes Executive director 20 April 2009 at.home Nationwide Limited BSc (Hons), ACA Derbyshire Home Loans Limited 17 March 1963 E-Mex Home Funding Limited Jubilee Mortgages Limited The Mortgage Works (UK) plc UCB Home Loans Corporation Limited NBS Ventures Management Limited First Nationwide LBS Mortgages Limited Other information Nationwide Housing Trust Limited Nationwide Investment No.1 Limited Nationwide Mortgage Corporation Limited Nationwide Syndications Limited Staffordshire Leasing Limited Silverstone Securitisation Holdings Limited Arkose Funding Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2020 323 Annual business statement (continued) Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3. Information relating to directors at 4 April 2020 (continued) Strategic report Information relating to directors at 4 April 2020 Name and date of birth Occupation Date of appointment Other directorships P G Rivett Non-executive director 1 September 2019 BSc (Hons), FCA 27 June 1955 T J W Tookey Non-executive director 2 June 2015 Westmoreland Court Management (Beckenham) Limited BSc (Hons), FCA 17 July 1962 G Waersted Non-executive director 1 June 2017 Telenor ASA (Chair) Governance MBA Petoro AS (Chair) 16 March 1955 Lukris Invest AS Fidelity International Saferoad ASA Documents may be served on any of the directors c/o Addleshaw Goddard, One St Peter’s Square, Manchester M2 3DE. Directors’ service contracts Risk report Executive directors’ terms and conditions of employment are detailed in their individual contracts or service agreements which include a notice period of 12 months from the Society to the individual and a notice period of six months from the individual to the Society. The notice period offered to any new recruit would be in line with this approach. Directors’ share options A proportion of executive directors’ variable pay is linked to the value of the Society’s core capital deferred shares (CCDS), details of which have been provided in the Report of the directors on remuneration. For 2019/20, the Directors’ Performance Award (DPA) was the only variable pay plan in which directors participated. 20% of awards under the DPA is payable in June 2020 with 20% Financial statements retained until June 2021. The remaining 60% is deferred, payable between years three and seven following the date of award. 50% of the upfront portion and 60% of the deferred portion is linked to the performance of the Society’s core capital deferred shares (CCDS). These CCDS linked elements are payable in cash subject to a 12 month retention period. No Directors held securities in Nationwide Building Society during the year. Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 324 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Underlying profit Strategic report Profit before tax shown on a statutory and underlying basis is set out on page 42. Statutory profit before tax of £466 million has been adjusted to derive an underlying profit before tax of £469 million. The purpose of this measure is to reflect management’s view of the Group’s underlying performance and to assist with like for like comparisons of performance across periods. Underlying profit is not designed to measure sustainable levels of profitability as that potentially requires exclusion of non-recurring items even though they are closely related to (or even a direct consequence of) the Group’s core business activities. The financial performance framework previously developed by the society is no longer appropriate in the current economic conditions. Instead the Group is focused on maintaining a strong capital and liquidity position through the economic cycle. Forward looking statements Certain statements in this document are forward looking with respect to plans, goals and expectations relating to the future financial position, business performance and results of Nationwide. Governance Although Nationwide believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, Nationwide can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to be an accurate reflection of actual results. By their nature, all forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond the control of Nationwide including, amongst other things, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuation in interest rates and exchange rates, inflation/deflation, the impact of competition, changes in customer preferences, risks concerning borrower credit quality, delays in implementing proposals, the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or other combinations within relevant industries, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of tax or other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which Nationwide operates. The economic outlook also remains unusually uncertain due to Brexit and the impacts of Covid-19. As a result, Nationwide’s actual future financial Risk report condition, business performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Due to such risks and uncertainties Nationwide cautions readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Nationwide undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This document does not constitute or form part of an offer of securities for sale in the United States. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from registration. Any public offering to be made in the United States will be made by means of a prospectus that may be obtained from Nationwide and will contain detailed information about Nationwide and management as well as financial statements. Financial statements Glossary The glossary for Annual Report and Accounts 2020 is available at: https://www.nationwide.co.uk/about/corporate-information/results-and-accounts Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2020 325 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 Index Strategic report Accounting policies, Statement of (note 1) 239 Impairment losses and provisions on loans and advances to customers (note 10) 264 Administrative expenses (note 8) 262 Income statements 233 Annual business statement 321 Intangible assets (note 25) 298 Audit Committee report 86 Interest expense and similar charges (note 4) 255 Auditor’s report, Independent 220 Interest receivable and similar income (note 3) 255 Balance sheets 235 Investments in Group undertakings (note 33) 312 Board of directors 51 Investment securities (note 13) 276 Board Risk Committee report 95 Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates (note 2) 254 Risk report 134 Leasing (note 28) 303 Governance Business model 4 Liquidity and funding risk 183 Business risk 209 Loans and advances to customers (note 14) 276 Capital management (note 37) 319 Market risk 200 Cash flow statements 238 Model risk 210 Chairman’s letter 5 Nomination and Governance Committee report 103 Chief Executive’s review 7 Non-financial information 36 Classification and measurement (note 12) 275 Notes to the financial statements 239 Commercial and other lending, credit risk 171 Notes to the cash flow statements (note 36) 316 Committed to doing the right thing 27 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (note 24) 297 Risk report Consumer banking, credit risk 162 Operational and conduct risk 212 Contingent liabilities (note 29) 304 Other deposits (note 17) 288 Core capital deferred shares (CCDS) (note 31) 310 Other operating income (note 6) 256 Corporate governance, Report of the directors on 57 Other equity instruments (note 32) 311 Credit risk 141 Pension risk 207 Customer redress (note 27) 301 Principal risks 138 Debt securities in issue (note 18) 289 Property, plant and equipment (note 26) 299 Financial statements Deposits from banks and similar institutions (note 16) 288 Provisions for liabilities and charges (note 27) 301 Derivative financial instruments (note 15) 284 Registered office (note 38) 319 Derivatives and hedge accounting, Gains/losses from (note 7) 257 Related party transactions (note 35) 314 Directors, Information relating to 322 Remuneration, Report of the directors on 108 Directors’ report 130 Residential mortgages, credit risk 146 Directors’ service contracts 323 Retirement benefit obligations (note 30) 305 Directors’ share options 323 Risk management 135 Employees (note 9) 264 Risk overview 39 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value (note 21) 292 Section 172(1) statement 25 Other information Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value – Level 3 portfolio (note 22)293 Solvency risk 194 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (note 23) 295 Stakeholder engagement 25 Fees and commission income and expense (note 5) 256 Statements of comprehensive income 234 Financial review 41 Statements of movements in members’ interests and equity 236 Forward looking statements 324 Statutory percentages 321 Group Directors 51 Strategic report 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2020 326 Index Annual (continued) Report and Accounts 2020 Structured entities (note 34) 313 Subordinated liabilities (note 19) 290 Strategic report Subscribed capital (note 20) 291 Taxation (note 11) 272 Top and emerging risks 40 Treasury assets and treasury credit risk 178 What your Society has achieved this year 3 Governance Risk report Financial statements Other information If you have hearing or speech difficulties and are a textphone user, you can call us direct in text on 0800 37 80 01. We also accept calls via BT Text Relay. Just dial 18001 followed by the full telephone number you wish to ring. Nationwide Building Society Head Office: Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN38 1NW. nationwide.co.uk G101 (A) 2020
