COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 (COP) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT* *The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies everywhere to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues embodied in the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation and disclosure of responsible corporate practices. Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, with more than 9,500 companies and 3,000 non-business signatories based in over 160 countries, and nearly 70 Local Networks. 1.​ ​STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CEO 7/12/2020 To all our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that GLOVOAPP23 S.L. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Oscar Pierre Co-founder & CEO 2 2.​ ​DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights 1. Glovo disposes of a ​Human Rights Policy Statement which includes the following elements: statement regarding the elimination of discrimination in employment, elimination of forced or obligatory work, abolition of children work, promotion and compliance with dispositions from the International Labour Organization related to freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, due diligence processes, and prevention of human rights violation processes, as well as measures to mitigate, manage and repair potential abuses, equal employment opportunities by supporting diversity and inclusion and no toleration towards discrimination or harassment. 2. As stated in Glovo’s Human Rights Policy Statement, Glovo selects the best available person for every vacancy, regardless of sex, sexual orientation, race, color, religion, marital status, ethnic origin, age, disability or geographical location during the recruitment process. Also, the company is committed to ensuring that ​recruitment procedures are fair, objective, impartial, and transparent. 3. Glovo disposes of a ​whistle-blower policy that consists in investigating every genuine disclosure of improper conduct promptly and thoroughly and take the appropriate action; protecting the identity of the disclosing employee when appropriate and protecting him/her from reprisals or victimisation for whistleblowing done in good faith; prohibiting any employee or other person from taking retaliatory or intimidating action against any employee who, in good faith, provides information to an investigation; and taking the appropriate action against any employee found to have engaged in improper conduct. 4. At Glovo, we promote ​equity and diversity through programs such as our Women in Tech & Leadership Action Plan, in order to improve the gender gap in the company. Within these programs we have built and launched the first mentoring program called “LeaderSHE” to empower women at Glovo. We also 3 created a Gender Inclusion Employee Resource Group and a Nursery in our Barcelona's offices, both to support and help our female employees. Moreover, in 2020, 39,47% of our hires in management roles were women resulting in 15 women hired over a total of 38 opening positions. 5. We have created “​Glovo Access​”, a logistics service for NGOs and social entities to facilitate the delivery of ​essential products (meals, sanitary products, etc.) to vulnerable people​. Through “Glovo Access” we aim to reach 10% of total orders worldwide for social purposes by 3 years time. More information available at our ​dedicated website​. Labour Globally, Glovo disposes of 1,779 employees, complying with the regulatory requirements of each country where we operate. Based on the country regulations and requirements of local labor law, employees are adhered to collective agreements according to their location, responsibilities and hiring conditions. Glovo is a technology company, whose main activity is the development and management of a technology platform through a mobile application and a website, which allows local stores to sell their products and / or services to consumers in cities where we operate. The delivery of products and services is operated by independent workers accessing the platform through a mobile application. As a consequence of this business model, the labor regulations that apply to couriers collaborating with the platform follow the autonomous or independent work regime. We are aware that Glovo is in the middle of a public debate around platform work and it is our intention to be proactive and transparent in order to work alongside governments and regulators to adapt labor regulations to the business model of platforms, and create a framework which respects the benefits of our activity while creating more rights and coverages for workers. Following, here are some examples of initiatives and collaborations that we are undertaking with the public sector: Working beyond existing regulations 4 1. In Italy, the sector of digital delivery platforms and Glovo as part of it, have closed a collective agreement with one of the main unions (UGL) to offer more benefits and protections to the couriers. Last November, the government of the country approved Law 128/2019, which established the regulatory basis to allow reaching a sectoral agreement that would preserve the flexibility of self-employment and at the same time, allow the platforms to offer protections to the independent workers. 2. In Spain, Glovo participated in conversations and reflection on the platform economy. The International Development Bank Lab and Digital Future Society are leading a study on the impact of digital platforms in the current pandemic, addressing their growth, the development of new services or changes in their relationships with platform workers. Glovo has participated with both organizations and various platforms in this project, providing data on our activity and growth, as well as exposing our policies for the protection and reinforcement of distributors. Also, the European Commission, promoted a working session with a diversity of European platforms to advance a European initiative on work in digital platforms. Glovo participated in this meeting explaining its position in favor of legislative harmonization, new forms of collective bargaining and the reduction of existing legal uncertainty in certain countries. 3. In Spain, last September the Supreme Court declared the relationship between Glovo and a worker who collaborated with the platform in 2016 as a labor relationship. At Glovo, we respect the Supreme Court's ruling and await the definition of an adequate regulatory framework by the Spanish Government and Europe. Glovo wants to be an active part of the solution and not of the problem, maintaining an open position and consensus with the associations, social agents and the Ministry. *** Glovo uses a flexible work model that allows couriers to collaborate with the platform in different time slots. In this way, for diverse people and in different 5 life-moments, it can work as a springboard for new labour opportunities. Moreover, it is our interest to ensure the health and safety of our collaborators in compliance with current regulations. Springboard and health & safety initiatives: ● Road safety​: every month, in all our countries of operation, Road Safety tips are included in the newsletter that couriers receive. Also, various road safety workshops have been organized in Italy and Spain. We had planned to hold them in other countries as well, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic we have had to put the project on hold. ● Accident insurance​: Each one of the independent workers that collaborate with Glovo has access to a labour accident insurance that is automatically activated in the time frame of the collaboration. ● Covid health insurance: Glovo has set up an economic fund to help its collaborators that were affected by the Covid-19 virus. By applying to the fund they received two weeks payment based on their orders history. Up to date, 313 couriers have benefited from this fund. ● Training:​ We are offering several training and workshops to our collaborators. Language learning App​: We offer our collaborators with a subscription to the language learning app Busuu for now, it has been offered in 7 countries to a total of 800 couriers Glovo subsidies the full cost of the license for them. Migracode​: In Barcelona we have sponsored two coding bootcamps by the NGO Migracode for couriers to become junior web developers. 18 students graduated from the courses and we will be supporting more courses in the future. Environment Glovo committed to reach carbon neutrality by 2021 year-end. Our pathway towards carbon neutrality consists in 3 main priorities: 6 ➔ Transportation​: offset 100% of the CO2 emissions from vehicles (cars and motorbikes). ➔ Packaging​: reach 10% of our partners using recycled or recyclable packaging. ➔ Food waste: have 25% of our partners managing their food waste thanks to Glovo’s support. 1. As of November 2020 we have offset ​greenhouse gases emissions related to couriers’ vehicles emitted during Q1, Q2 and Q3 2020, i.e. 23,151 tonnes CO2 equivalent. To do so, we bought carbon credits through tech company Pachama which specializes in the monitoring of reforestation projects through satellite imagery. The objective is to start compensating Glovo´s impact while working in identifying operational solutions to reduce CO2 emissions from the fleet of vehicles. 2. Creation of GlovoStore, an e-commerce website where GLOVO sells sustainable packaging to its partners. These packaging are made from recycled (rPET) or recyclable materials (cellulosis, PLA). 3. Development of our first sustainability-related engineering project: ​cutlery opt-in​. The customers of the platform are receiving single-use cutlery only if explicitly requested at the check-out of their order. The project resulted in 511 tonnes CO2 reduced through cutlery opt-in as of November 2020, which is equivalent to 2% of Glovo’s total CO2 emissions from packaging. 4. GLOVO partnered with different organizations to reduce ​food waste from its own Cook Rooms and Darkstores and from partners collaborating with us. To do so we have partnered with different NGOs such as FESBAL, Nutrición sin Fronteras and Social Fooding to donate and deliver to them food leftovers. Through our social platform “Glovo Access” we are delivering food and essential products to vulnerable communities. Anti-Corruption 7 1. Creation of the ​Ethics Committee composed with a reduced group of independent experts collaborating with the company in order to identify and face our present and future socio economic changes and challenges. The Committee is fully independent and works as an audit advisor that follows our company developments and innovations. 2. Glovo disposes of a ​Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment policy ​that states that staff members, managers, stakeholders and suppliers are strictly prohibited to directly or indirectly accept, offer or provide favors, money, presents and hospitality. 3. Glovo is fully committed to comply with the ​standards on anti-money laundering (“AML”), counter-terrorist financing (“CFT”) and/or any illegal or illicit activity​. In addition, Glovo is committed to review the strategies and objectives on an ongoing basis in order to maintain an effective program. The policy sets on a high level the standards that Glovo’s management and employees must adhere to. 8 3. ​MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Human Rights ➔ 24 mentees in our diversity and inclusion program “LeaderSHE”. ➔ More than 168.000 social deliveries to help vulnerable communities. ➔ 49k euros donated by our users to help Glovo Access projects. Labour ➔ 100% of Glovo employees are covered by collective agreements. ➔ 100 % of couriers in Italy benefited by the UGL collective agreement. ➔ 100% of active couriers have accident insurance. ➔ 800 couriers have access to the language learning app Busuu. ➔ 18 graduates from our sponsored coding bootcamps. ➔ 313 couriers have benefited from the health fund for those affected by Covid. Environmental ➔ 23.151 tonnes CO2 compensated & verified through our partnership with Pachama. ➔ 511 tonnes CO2 reduced through cutlery opt-in. ➔ 18,5 tonnes CO2 reduced through food waste management. ➔ 13 tonnes CO2 reduced through sustainable packaging. 9
