a family of companies 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT APRIL 8, 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption CONTENTS 01. WHO WE ARE p3 02. HUMAN RIGHTS p6 A WORD FROM JEFF p4 UNGC PRINCIPLES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1. Businesses should support and respect GOALS p5 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 03. LABOR p8 04. HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT p10 UNGC PRINCIPLES UNGC PRINCIPLES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of 7. Businesses should support a association and the effective recognition of precautionary approach to environmental the right to collective bargaining; challenges; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater compulsory labor; environmental responsibility; and 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 05. ANTI-CORRUPTION p12 UNGC PRINCIPLES 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption WHO WE ARE Sarnova and its family of companies: Bound Tree Medical, Cardio Partners, Emergency Medical Products and Tri-anim Health Services, have been collectively serving the emergency medical services (EMS) and acute care markets for nearly 50 years. By offering more than 100,000 innovative healthcare products to thousands of national emergency care providers, hospitals, advanced patient-care facilities, schools, universities, businesses and federal government agencies, we?re proud to say that the products we sell, help our customers save lives and help keep our communities safe. Sarnova is a company of Patricia Industries, a part of Investor AB, which makes significant investments in best-in-class companies with strong market positions, brands and corporate cultures. 3 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption A WORD FROM JEFF Hello, Sarnova's mission is to be the best partner for those who save and improve patients' lives. To fulfill this mission, Sarnova became a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2019. We support the UNGC?s goal to build cooperation between businesses and to J EFF PRESTEL implement a set of core values focusing on human rights, labor, anti-corruption, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER and health, safety and the environment. As a part of Sarnova?s commitment to the UNGC, we have prepared this annual Communication on Progress. During the past year, Sarnova has introduced and continued several businesses practices, which were designed to hold the company accountable to the UNGC?s Ten Principles of Responsible Business Conduct. By offering more than 100,000 innovative medical products to providers throughout the healthcare industry, we?re proud to say that the products Sarnova sells, help our customers save lives and keep our communities safe. As we continue to grow as a company and perfect the vision we have for Sarnova, we will not neglect our responsibility and commitment to promote business practices that support the principles of the UNGC. Sincerely, Jeff Prestel CEO 4 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Sarnova supports the United Nation?s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and works to advance these goals in the emergency medical and acute care industry. Each SDG represents the United Nations' global vision to eliminate some of the most pressing problems the world faces today. Our commitment to the Global Compact Principles goes hand-in-hand with the SDGs identified below. Please take a moment to learn more about our contributions to the SDGs as you read further through this Communication on Progress. Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 5 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption HUMAN RIGHTS Sarnova values and respects the uniqueness of all individuals and does not do business with any vendor who practices discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation. We do not tolerate physical violence, threats of violence, or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the workplace or work-related situations. Because our people are our greatest resource, we will continue to operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. For these important reasons, we support the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights. New Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct Our new Code of Conduct is the bedrock of our In 2019, Sarnova adopted a formal Supplier Code of compliance program and serves as an ethics guide for our Conduct. The Supplier Code of Conduct reflects the employees to support human rights. The Code of Conduct values of the employee Code of Conduct and similarly is compliant with the Ten Principles of the UNGC, calls on vendors to protect internationally proclaimed represents the industry values and best business practices human rights. Sarnova refrains from cooperating with of our senior leadership, and is approved by our Board of business partners who violate fundamental human rights, Directors. such as using forced and compulsory labor or child labor. Our customers and vendors depend on us to distribute our Measurement: products with integrity and in a manner that respects the 100% of private label suppliers were delivered a copy of dignity of human life. By lawfully and ethically offering the Supplier Code of Conduct. healthcare products to thousands of national emergency 100% of the Purchasing Department received training care providers, hospitals, advanced patient-care facilities, on Sustainability and Supplier Code of Conduct . schools, universities, businesses and federal government The General Counsel now requires all new and renewed agencies, we?re proud to say that the products we sell, help supplier contracts to contain language assenting to the our customers save lives and help keep our communities Supplier Code of Conduct. healthy. We believe complying with all applicable legal and ethical standards that protect human rights is imperative to our success. Measurement: 100% of employees received our new Code of Conduct in 2019, which carefully outlines our strategy to support human rights. All new hires are expected to read and certify their commitment to uphold all aspects of the Code. The new Code of Conduct was published on all websites in 2019. 6 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption HUMAN RIGHTS International Sales Restrictions Educating Emergency Medical Professionals Sarnova is committed to compliance with the laws and Bound Tree University is dedicated to the continuing regulations of the United States government that impose education of EMTs and Paramedics. Through this program, limitations on U.S. export trade and other foreign trade and Bound Tree offers free online courses accredited by the dealings, as well as the relevant laws where each company EMS1 Academy, a CAPCE accredited organization. The does business worldwide. Over the past year, the student web portal is loaded with articles, videos, Regulatory department implemented and revised webinars, e-Books and other educational resources procedures governing international sales across all created with the help of industry-leading organizations and businesses. These procedures include processes to professionals who are passionate about EMS. review the company and personal identification Professionals who sign up to attend online courses may information of all international customers against all refresh their skills by receiving instruction in airway applicable United States sanctions and embargoes. The management, capnography monitoring, cardiac care, CPAP procedure outlines a systematic review of the customer's therapy, diabetic care, mass casualty incidents, opioid information, order history and selected products to ensure exposure risks, patient handling, pediatric care, sepsis the products we ship overseas never wind up in the detection, Stop the Bleed© kits, new medical technology possession of a restricted party. and trauma management. Measurement: Investment in education expands business opportunities and solidifies our customer base, but it also results in a 100% of all international orders are reviewed against more skilled workforce with greater productivity. As it applicable government sanctions screening lists and relates to healthcare, we believe a more educated approved by the Regulatory department. workforce leads to a higher standard of care for patients 100% of all international shipments are audited monthly and the possibility of better wages and greater opportunity to ensure an order is never shipped internationally for medical professionals. without Regulatory approval. Measurement: 17,383 new user registrations in 2019. 28,721 total active users. 7 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LABOR Sarnova is a socially responsible employer that strives to provide the most humane and ethical working conditions for its employees. We tirelessly preserve a nondiscriminatory, engaging and positive work environment where employees can conduct their work with safety and security. We believe employees need a compensation package that is fair, a work environment that is productive and a clear path towards advancement. In addition, we support the right of our employees to freely associate and collectively bargain. For these reasons, Sarnova commits to providing compensation in line with local standards, a safe and comfortable working environment and well-established performance and evaluation tools. We commit to upholding the labor standards set by all domestic laws and regulations. In particular, we support a workplace that cultivates diversity and fosters inclusion. We expect all employees to treat everyone fairly and decently. Working for Sarnova should be a choice made freely and without unjust consequence. Eliminating Forced or Compulsory Labor Embracing Employee Safety By signing Sarnova's Code of Conduct, Sarnova and all its Sarnova is focused on safety first, promoting the Sarnova employees commit that they will comply with all applicable Safety Program to strengthen occupational health and employment and labor laws, especially those aimed at safety culture and performance in all warehouse facilities. eradicating all forms of forced and compulsory labor. In The program is designed to prevent occupational injuries addition, employees agree to abide by a prohibition against and illnesses, and promote a culture of reporting. Safety all forms of employment discrimination. Every employee measures include tailored training sessions to address from executive leadership to warehouse personnel must specific injury incidents or risks, monthly refresher courses recommit to these pledges in writing annually. on a variety of safety topics, monthly safety checklists completed by each warehouse, public signage counting Measurement: the days since the last injury, and gift incentives to All of Sarnova's approximately 625 employees are over warehouse teams for consecutive quarters without the age of 18. injuries. 100% of all employees are paid at a rate equal to or Measurement: above local minimum wage standards. 100% of employees received our new Code of Conduct Maintain a Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) less than in 2019, which addressed abusive labor issues. 4.5, which is the average for companies our size All new hires are expected to read and certify their operating within a distribution-warehousing network. commitment to uphold all aspects of the Code. Warehouse Operations reported 4 OSHA recordable The new Code of Conduct was published on all incidents in 2019 that resulted in a TCIR score of 2.11. business sites in 2019. 4 injuries resulted in 1,592 of lost work hours or 0.12% of 1.35 Million total warehouse operations hours in 2019. 8 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LABOR Embracing Diversity Sarnova is committed to selecting, recruiting, developing and supporting people solely on the basis of their professional capability and qualifications, irrespective of gender, ethnicity, nationality, class, color, age, sexual identity, disability, religion, marital status or political opinion. In determining the measurable objectives for achieving diversity, Sarnova considered a number of areas that it believed were important to both demonstrate and achieve a diverse workforce. These included gender, race and age. We annually review and report on the relative proportion of women and men in the workforce at all levels of the company. In addition, we specifically track the age, race and gender of the executive management team and board of directors with the goal of pursuing greater diversity over time. Finally, our new Code of Conduct includes detailed sections on anti-discrimination, which are stressed among employees at the time of hire and during annual training. Measurement: 44% of our workforce is female. 56% is male. (In 2017, the workforce was 41% female.) 100% of all employees receive training on discrimination and diversity as part of the annual Code of Conduct training or a separate learning module. 9 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT Sarnova supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a sustainable environmental progress through the development and maintenance of a warehouse system that is optimized to reduce the impact of transportation of finished goods from the point of distribution. Monitoring Energy Usage Headquarters Electricity Reduction Sarnova began tracking gas and electricity consumption in Sarnova's headquarters in Dublin, Ohio houses over 230 2018 as the first step in its long-term environmental employees, well-ahead of any other satellite location, and initiative to Monitor and Minimize energy consumption. manages the core business functions for the company. The company's overall goal is to identify areas in which it Using an automated utility bill management platform can maintain or reduce consumption year after year as the called JadeTrack, Sarnova loaded thirty-six months of company grows. historical data into the platform, which identified ways to Sarnova's warehouse and administrative facilities operate save energy and reduce supplier charges. across the country in seven different States. Each facility Measurement: varies in size and is expected to manage different temperature and humidity conditions based on the In 2019, Sarnova's Dublin headquarters was able to products stored in the location. Therefore, energy reduce energy consumption by 63,920 kWh, which was consumed by each facility is subject to different product a 7% decrease compared to the previous year. storage requirements, regional weather and physical footprints. Sarnova measures its environmental impact by recording the energy consumption of each local facility. This practice allows leadership to individually evaluate the performance of each location to determine where future sustainable improvements will have the greatest impact. Measurement: Sarnova tracks gas and electricity usage at all facilities in which it is responsible for payment to the service provider. 10 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT AED Battery Recycling Program Reduce and Recycle The Cardio Partners division of Sarnova purchases and Sarnova aims to minimize the environmental impact of its refurbishes 4,000 to 6,000 used Automatic External operations by encouraging employees to use less paper Defibrillators (AED) each year. This service allows Cardio and recycle discarded documents whenever possible. Partners to make AEDs available to customers who might Measurement: otherwise not be able to afford a new model. Recycle paper materials placed in recycling bins in As part of the refurbishing process, the original batteries different locations at each facility. are removed from each used AED and recycled. Depending upon the condition, used batteries are sent to a battery processor to be refurbished and sold on the used market or to a recycler who recovers certain valuable materials and disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. Measurement: 2,396 batteries were sent to a battery processor and refurbished for sale on the used market in 2019. 3,500 pounds of batteries that could not be refurbished were sent to a recycler for disposal in 2019. 11 Who We Are Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION The Board of Directors and Executive Compliance Committee of Sarnova are convinced that compliant and ethical behavior is a precondition for a successful and sustainable future. Sarnova's Code of Conduct prohibits any form of bribery or corruption, irrespective of whether the recipient is a public official or an employee of a private customer. In all instances, bribery and corruption are recognized as barriers to sustainable development and free trade. Sarnova supports the work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption and Bribery Training Whistleblower Hotline All employees are required to complete a biannual Sarnova encourages employee to report any possible anti-corruption and anti-trust training courses that violation of our Code of Conduct, policies, or the law. If an specifically addressed areas of risk related to bribery and employee believe he/ she has witnessed a reportable act, fair competition. These online courses are designed to the employee is encouraged to notify human resources, train employees to recognize certain situational risks and the legal department or anyone in management. However, implement methods to mitigate or avoid conflicts or the anonymous reports may also be made through our appearance of conflicts. compliance hotline. Measurement: We strive to make employees feel comfortable reporting ethics or compliance violations without fear of retaliation. 100% of employees completed the 2019 Otherwise our mission, vision and values are at risk, which Anti-Corruption and Bribery Training Course. places the financial health of our company in peril. We 100% of employees completed the 2019 Anti-Trust and maintain a confidential compliance hotline that allows Competition Training Course. employees to report concerns anonymously or to seek 100% of employees received our new Code of Conduct guidance on ethical, safety or compliance issues day or in 2019, which outlined our Anti-Corruption and Bribery night. policy. All new hires read and certify their commitment to Measurement: uphold all aspects of the Code. Human Resources manages the Compliance Hotline, The new Code of Conduct was published on all which is audited by the Regulatory Department and business sites in 2019. administered by a third-party provider to ensure all reports are directed to the appropriate recipients. 12 Serve First, Together.
