Communication on Progress (COP) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Period covered: January 2019 to December 2019 1|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress Contents About us ............................................................................................. 3 Statement of Continued Support ...................................................... 5 Description of Actions and Measurement of Outcome ................. 7 Human Rights ..................................................................................... 8 Labour ................................................................................................ 9 Environment ..................................................................................... 10 Anti-Corruption ................................................................................ 12 Contact Us ....................................................................................... 13 2|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress About us About us: Background Established in 1997, Corporate Citizenship is a global consultancy, advising companies on their sustainability and corporate responsibility (CR) strategies. With a team of 50+ colleagues based in London, Melbourne, New York, San Francisco, Santiago and Singapore, we use expert insights and a simplified approach to help our clients deliver long term value for their business and society. Corporate Citizenship began its operations in Southeast Asia in December 2013 under the entity Corporate Citizenship Southeast Asia Pte. Ltd. For more information about Corporate Citizenship, visit our website. Scope of the COP: This COP covers our Southeast Asia operations only and where relevant, references global activities. As a specialist consultancy, our biggest impact is through our work advising clients on sustainable and responsible business practices. Due to the confidential nature of our work, this COP covers our own internal business practices only. 4|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress Statement of Continued Support 8th April 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Corporate Citizenship Southeast Asia PTE LTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, Thomas Milburn Director, Corporate Citizenship Southeast Asia 6|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress Description of Actions and Measurement of Outcomes 7|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress business including illegal acts, corruption, Human Rights harassment, discrimination together with breaches of our policies and procedures. Principle 1: Businesses should support and Our grievance procedure also serves to respect the protection of internationally outline the steps employees can take if proclaimed human rights; and they are unhappy about the treatment Principle 2: Make sure that they are not that they have received or about any complicit in human rights abuses. aspect of their working environment or working relationship in order to help managers address those concerns fairly Our Approach and effectively. Corporate Citizenship is committed to Outcomes treating people with dignity and respect in At a group level, we have assessed our the workplace and in the communities supplier base with a view to identifying high where we do business. We promote and risk suppliers or areas for focus. This respect human rights as outlined in the assessment included mapping by agency, Universal Declaration of Human Right. The category, spend and geography. Suppliers Chime Group Responsible Business Code used by the Group were identified as (‘Business Code’) sets out the high level typically falling within the following behaviours which each Chime Group categories: professional services, media agency, including Corporate Citizenship, buying, logistics delivery, venue hospitality, our staff and our trading partners are security services, transport and travel, expected to uphold. The Business Code cleaners and maintenance. Goods that we states that: purchase include items such as raw “We will continue to strive to make a materials, merchandise, utilities and positive contribution to society and the general office equipment. Overall, the risk environment by: maintaining high assessment demonstrated that the majority standards of marketing ethics; respecting of the Group’s primary tier suppliers are in human rights; respecting the environment; low-risk countries. More details on the supporting community organisations; process and outcomes can be found in our supporting employee development; and Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. managing significant sustainability risks in References: our supply chain.” Chime Group’s Responsible Business Code: The Business Code, Staff Code of Conduct https://www.chimegroup.com/wpand other policies aim to support the content/uploads/2019/02/180518.Responsi United Nations’ Guiding Principles on ble-Business-Code.pdf Business and Human Rights. Corporate Citizenship is required to adhere to these Chime Group’s Slavery and Human Codes. During the induction process, all Trafficking Statement 2018: employees are introduced to the Business https://www.chimegroup.com/wpCode, the Staff Code and all other relevant content/uploads/2019/04/190327.Modernpolicies. These can be accessed by all Slavery-Statement-2018_.pdf employees at all time on the company’s Chime Group Slavery and Human intranet. Trafficking Statement 2018: We maintain a whistleblowing policy and https://www.chimegroup.com/wpprocedure that facilitates the confidential content/uploads/2019/04/190327.Modernreporting of any perceived issues within our Slavery-Statement-2018_.pdf 8|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress • Disciplinary Procedure Labour • Grievance Procedure Our whistleblowing policy and procedure Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the facilitates the confidential reporting of any freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective perceived issues within our business bargaining; including illegal acts, corruption, harassment, discrimination together with Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of breaches of our policies and procedures. forced and compulsory labour; Our grievance procedure serves to outline Principle 5: the effective abolition of the steps employees can take if they are child labour; and unhappy about the treatment that they Principle 6: the elimination of have received or about any aspect of their discrimination in respect of employment working environment or working and occupation relationship. Outcomes Our Approach To advance our goal of embedding diversity into everything that we do and get As a business where people are our most everyone thinking about how we can work important assets, we understand the better together and embrace each other’s importance of promoting opportunities for uniqueness, all employees at Corporate women and men, to obtain decent and Citizenship were invited to attend a training productive work in conditions of freedom, on unconscious bias in 2019 called Ignite equity, security and dignity. Our Business Inclusion. The training looked into what Code sets ourselves high standards in our unconscious bias is and helped participants business practices to work along our value to identify and eventually overcome these chain partners and suppliers to meet high biases. Following the training, an e-workout labour standards, as set out below: called Knowing me, Knowing you was • No discrimination on the basis of introduced. This focused on how to nationality, ethnicity, gender sexual embrace differences and build an orientation, religion, age and emotionally safe work environment around disabilities us. • No harassment or offensive behaviours of any kind Gender Pay Gap • High standards of personal health and safety In 2019, four agencies, including Corporate Citizenship, conducted an international • Freedom of expression study of our gender pay gap using 2018 First and foremost, we also comply with all data. The study revealed that labour laws and regulations, national or internationally, the four agencies international, that could be construed as collectively have an overall split of 58% connected with our business. In addition, to female and 42% male employees and our mean gender pay gap is 11.7%. As a result, ensure these standards are upheld, we are looking to close this gap and have Corporate Citizenship has communicated identified some areas for us to work on. and made the following policies available These include: to all employees via the company’s intranet: • Monitoring the gender balance to ensure the recruitment and • Our staff Code of Conduct promotion opportunities are open • Equal Opportunities Policy equally to all. We will be trialling • Anti-Favouritism Policy taking gender and names off the • Health and Safety Policy CVs we assess for shortlisting, and 9|P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress strive to have a 50/50 gender split of long-list applications for review. • Continuing to provide mentoring and coaching to senior board level • Continuing to offer flexible working practices, enhanced by the upgrade we have undertaken to our IT this year • Reviewing our maternity and shared parental leave policies and support all returning to work • Undertaking a broader diversity and inclusion survey to understand how we can support all our colleagues and improve what we do References: Chime Group’s Responsible Business Code: https://www.chimegroup.com/wpcontent/uploads/2019/02/180518.Responsi ble-Business-Code.pdf 10 | P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress into the correct bins and recyclables are Environment recycled. Carbon Footprint Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to In 2019, we held a Global Team Meeting at environmental challenges; our London offices. Colleagues from our Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Melbourne, New York, Santiago and promote greater environmental Singapore office all flew to London. responsibility; and Conscious that travels for such an event Principle 9: Encourage the development contribute to GHG emissions, we believe in and diffusion of environmentally friendly living by the same values we challenge our technologies clients with, and as such committed to offsetting the carbon footprint incurred from these travels. We calculated that the Our Approach total GHG emissions for a return journey was 67.9 tCO2e. Environmental challenges continue to gain prominence on the global sustainability To offset these emissions, we supported the agenda and pose serious threats to Kenya Biogas Programme, which provides businesses and communities. As a business biodigesters to individual households. consultancy, our direct environmental Domestic biodigesters provide a way for footprint is limited and the biggest impact households with livestock to reduce their we can have is through the advice we dependence on polluting firewood and provide our clients. Yet, we are committed expensive fossil fuels. Cooking on biogas is to playing our part in undertaking initiatives fast and smokeless, improving family health, that mitigate our own environmental especially among women and children. footprint. The programme is part of the Africa Biogas Partnership Programme (ABPP), which is a Managing our Waste partnership between the Dutch government, Hivos and SNV Netherlands We have set up our office recycling Development Organization, in support of programme and conducted an office national programmes in Kenya, Tanzania, recycling campaign to encourage Uganda, Ethiopia and Burkina Faso. everyone to take their part in recycling. The campaign consisted of conducting regular briefings and sharing relevant information via e-mail to educate all employees on the References: importance or recycling properly. Chime Group’s Responsible Business Code: Managing our Carbon Footprint https://www.chimegroup.com/wpcontent/uploads/2019/02/180518.Responsi As a global consultancy, our colleagues ble-Business-Code.pdf are sometimes required to travel overseas. We are conscious of our carbon footprint Kenya Biogas Programme: and where possible, we try to minimise or https://www.goldstandard.org/projects/ke offset our carbon emissions. nya-biogas-programme Outcomes Waste Whilst we do not measure the amount of waste that is recycled, we have observed that employees are correctly sorting waste 11 | P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress services or materials for less than the Anti-Corruption market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action Principle 10: Businesses should work committees, without the prior against corruption in all its forms, written approval of the Chime including extortion and bribery. Board All employees are trained on our approach Our Approach to anti-corruption and bribery during their induction training. In addition, regular Doing business in today’s world, we need to refresher training is provided to all work within the context of the law and employees. Our whistleblowing policy and what is expected of us as a reputable and procedure facilitates the confidential global consultancy. Our Business Code sets reporting of any perceived issues within our out the practices our employees, value business including illegal acts, corruption, chain partners and suppliers are expected harassment, discrimination together with follow in all business dealings, so as to avoid breaches of our policies and procedures. any form of bribery and corruption. These Our grievance procedure serves to outline include: the steps employees can take if they are unhappy about the treatment that they Not giving, offering or accepting have received or about any aspect of their bribes, whether in cash or otherwise, working environment or working to or from any third party relationship. Not offering any items of personal inducement to secure business. This Outcomes is not intended to prohibit appropriate entertainment or the All employees recently completed a making of occasional gifts of minor training module titled Doing Business value unless our client has a policy Without Bribery, followed by a test which which restricts this everyone was expected to pass within Not accepting, for our personal three attempts. Results were recorded and additional training was provided if needed. benefit, goods or services of more than nominal value from partners, References: suppliers, potential suppliers or other third parties Chime Group’s Responsible Business Code: Adhering to our formalised https://www.chimegroup.com/wpstandards and policies that control content/uploads/2019/02/180518.Responsi the potential for conflicts of interest ble-Business-Code.pdf No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of 12 | P a g e UNG C Co mmuni ca tio n o n Pro gress Contact Us Corporate Citizenship Southeast Asia E: Singapore@corporate-citizenship.com W: www.corporate-citizenship.com Twitter: @CCitizenship LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/corporate-citizenship London Melbourne New York th Holborn Gate, 5 Floor Unit 3, Level 7 th 440 9 Ave 326-330 High Holborn, 60 Albert Road 17th Floor London South Melbourne, New York, WC1V 7PP VIC 3205 NY 10001 United Kingdom Australia United States T: +44 (0)20 7861 1616 T: +61 (0) 3 8639 0548 T: 1-212-226-3702 San Francisco Santiago Singapore 6th Floor Av. Los Militares 5953, 39b Craig Road 214 Grant Avenue, Oficina 402, Las Condes Singapore Suite 301, Santiago, Chile 089677 San Francisco, CA, 94108 T: 1-415-6569383 T: +56 (2) 3224 3559 T: +65 6822 2203
