ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONTENTS ABOUT GRÄNGES 1–18 2019 in brief 1 CEO comments 2 Executing on strategy 2020 4 Investment case 5 Long-term targets 6 Business model and value chain 8 Trends and drivers 9 Markets 10 Gränges’ products in society 12 Operations 14 Innovation for profitable growth 17 SUSTAINABILITY 19–31 Sustainable business value 19 Framework and 2025 targets 20 Climate strategy 22 Sustainable product offerings 23 THIS IS GRÄNGES Responsible and sustainable sourcing 24 Sustainable operations 26 Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium Diverse and high-performing teams 29 products for heat exchanger applications and other niche Ethical business practices 31 markets. The company develops and produces advanced RISK MANAGEMENT 32–35 aluminium materials that enhance the efficiency in the customer manufacturing process, as well as the performance THE GRÄNGES SHARE 36–37 of the end-customers’ products. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 38–40 Gränges’ geographical markets are Europe, Asia and the Americas and the customers are primarily in the automotive CORPORATE GOVERNANCE industry, the HVAC1) industry, and industries such as transREPORT 41–51 Board of Directors 48 formers and food packaging. Group Management 50 Gränges has 1,800 employees and the share is listed on FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52–96 Nasdaq Stockholm. Contents 52 Consolidated financial statements 53 Notes to the consolidated VISION financial statements 58 Alternative performance measures 80 To transform the world through innovative aluminium Definitions and glossary 81 engineering. Five-year summary 82 Parent company financial statements 84 CORE VALUES Notes to the parent company financial statements 88 Gränges’ corporate culture and values are important in Proposed appropriation attracting and retaining employees. The core values guide of retained earnings 93 employees in their daily actions and lay the foundation for Auditor’s report 94 conducting business responsibly and ethically. SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 97–111 GRI content index 109 History 112 Annual General Meeting 2020 113 Committed Action oriented Innovative Accessible Gränges’ formal annual report according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act comprises pages 38–93. The statutory sustainability report 1) HVAC = Abbreviation for Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning systems. according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act is found on pages 19–31, 39 and 97–111. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 2019 IN BRIEF • I n November, the agreement to acquire the Polish flat rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Konin was announced as well as the intention to undertake a rights issue, with preferential rights for existing shareholders, to finance the acquisition and future growth investments in Sales volume line with the strategy.1) • I n the US, the expansion of the Huntingdon facility was completed and the facility in ktonnes Newport was re-opened. In Sweden the investment programme to increase efficiency and 400 capacity in the facility in Finspång proceeded. • T he acquisition of Aluminium Konin and the expansion projects in the US and Sweden will, 300 when finalized, add new capabilities and a total annual production capacity of 220 ktonnes. 200 • Efficiency  measures, including a general savings programme, capacity adjustments and organizational changes, were implemented to adjust the cost base and improve efficiency. 100 • T he ambition for sustainability was raised with continued implementation of the groupwide sustainability framework and global long-term sustainability targets. Gränges 0 15 16 17 18 19 became a member of Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) and the production facility in Shanghai, China, was certified against ASI’s Performance Standard. Asia Europe Americas • Sales  volume decreased by 7.4 per cent to 347.3 ktonnes (375.0). Net sales decreased to SEK 11,978 million (12,910). • A djusted operating profit amounted to SEK 866 million (1,005) and adjusted operating profit per tonne amounted to 2.5 kSEK (2.7). Adjusted operating profit4) 5) • P rofit for the period decreased to SEK 600 million (688) and includes items affecting comparability of SEK –30 million (–64). SEK million kSEK • Cash  flow before financing activities was SEK –148 million (531) and includes capital 1,000 4 expenditure of SEK 1,590 million (843) of which SEK 1,103 million refers to expansion investments. Adjusted cash flow before financing activities was SEK 1,048 million (977), 750 3 corresponding to a cash conversion of 121 per cent. • Total Recordable Rate2) was reduced to 4.4 (6.1). Total carbon emissions intensity 3) was 500 2 reduced by 6 per cent to 11.3 tonnes CO2e/tonne (12.0), driven by lower emissions from purchased materials. Carbon emissions intensity from own operations and purchased 250 1 energy increased to 0.82 tonnes CO2e/tonne (0.76), driven by higher energy intensity. 0 0 • The  Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.40 (3.20) per share, corresponding 15 16 17 18 19 to 43 per cent (35) of profit for the year. Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit per tonne Performance summary Financial summary 2019 2018 Change Sales volume, ktonnes 347.3 375.0 –7.4 Net sales, SEK million 11,978 12,910 –7.2 Adjusted operating profit4) 5), SEK million 866 1,005 –13.8 Adjusted cash flow before financing5) Adjusted operating margin, % 7.2 7.8 –0.6 ppt Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.5 2.7 –0.2 SEK million % Operating profit, SEK million 836 940 –11.1 1,200 200 Operating margin, % 7.0 7.3 –0.3 ppt Profit for the year, SEK million 600 688 –12.8 900 150 Earnings per share, basic and diluted, SEK 7.95 9.11 –1.16 Cash flow before financing ­activities, SEK million –148 531 n/a 600 100 Equity/assets, % 41.2 44.2 –3.0 ppt Net debt, SEK million 3,465 2,494 971 300 50 Return on capital employed, % 11.7 16.5 –4.8 ppt 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 Sustainability summary Adjusted cash flow before financing Total Recordable Rate2) 4.4 6.1 –1.7 Carbon emissions intensity 6), tonnes CO2e/tonne 0.82 0.76 0.06 Cash conversion Sourced recycled aluminium, % 19.8 16.7 3.0 ppt 1) The transaction is subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. Read more on page 16. 2) Number of recordable accidents per million hours worked. Read more on page 106. 3) Includes direct emissions from own operations and indirect emissions from purchased energy and from purchased materials and services. Read more on pages 104–105. 4) Adjusted for items affecting comparability. Read more in Note 12 on page 68. 5) R  ead more about alternative performance measures on page 80. 6) Includes direct emissions from own operations and indirect emissions from purchased energy. Read more on pages 104–105. 1 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR CONTINUED PROFITABLE GROWTH During 2019 we continued to execute on our growth strategy and pursue our work on the strategic priorities of innovation, sustainability, continuous improvements and structural expansion. The actions we have taken during the year position Gränges very well and create a strong platform for continued profitable growth. 2019 has been a productive and successThe actions we have taken in 2019 position – Gränges’ Production System (GPS). It is ful year in many ways with strong focus on Gränges very well and create a strong implemented at all production plants and expansion, combined with cost reductions ­platform for continued profitable growth. has resulted in more efficient production and efficiency improvements in all regions flows and waste-free processes. Efficient under challenging market conditions. Challenging market conditions metal management reduces costs through 2019 was also a year with weak market continually improving sorting of recycled Strategic acquisition conditions, lower end-market demand in aluminium as well as optimizing the differI’m very happy that we in November could combination with continued destocking in ent types of recycled aluminium used in announce the agreement to acquire the Europe and Americas. These conditions the re-melting process. Also, Gränges’ Polish flat rolled aluminium producer resulted in a sales volume decline, and for focus on operational efficiency reduces ­Aluminium Konin. The acquisition is an the full year, sales volume decreased by ­­­ emissions to air and water and provides a excellent strategic fit for Gränges and 7.4 per cent to 347.3 ktonnes, and the safe and secure workplace for employees. complements our business and geoadjusted operating profit decreased to SEK At the production plant in Shanghai, graphic presence. Aluminium Konin 866 million. Cash generation was, however, Gränges has implemented machine intellistrengthens Gränges’ product offering for very strong in the year with an adjusted gence and advanced analytical tools, new niche markets and enables broader cash flow before financing of SEK 1,048 thereby optimizing productivity and qualofferings for future transportation solumillion, corresponding to a cash conversion ity. This leads to more accurate process tions, such as electric vehicles. The of 121 per cent. The expansion investments control, improved energy utilization as acquisition will sharpen our competitive of in total SEK 1,103 million were financed well as reduced waste and environmental strength and create a stronger position with cash generated in the operations, and impact. In the Huntingdon plant, we in growing markets and further drive the we ended the year with a net debt equivaimplemented new automated systems to development of sustainable customer lent to 2.6 times adjusted EBITDA. improve efficiency and reliability in operaofferings. In conjunction with the trans­ I would like to take this opportunity to tions. Close collaboration between the action Gränges also communicated the highlight the efforts of Gränges’ co-workproduction plants and internal benchintention to undertake a rights issue, with ers during the year. In Asia, we successmarking drives growth and improvement preferential rights for existing shareholdfully maintained the market share despite work at all sites. Initiatives to learn from ers, to finance the acquisition and future increased competition in a weaker market. each other include for example internal growth investments in line with the comIn the Americas and Europe, there has safety assessments every six months at pany’s strategy.1) been challenging market conditions while the production facilities. large expansion projects have been conStructural expansion ducted. I want to acknowledge our comSustainability creates value During the year, we completed the expanmitted employees’ everyday efforts in­ Sustainability aspects are significant sion of the Huntingdon facility in the US, ­creating value for our customers, sharedrivers in the development of Gränges’ and we have re-opened our production holders, and all our stakeholders. customer offerings as well as operations. facility in Newport to supply the US light By developing sustainable products, sergauge foil market. In Europe we are running Increased efficiency through vices, and business models, we can meet an investment programme to increase continuous improvements new demands and proactively contribute efficiency and capacity in our facility in Increasing productivity, process stability, to shaping a more sustainable future. Finspång. The acquisition of Aluminium and energy efficiency, while reducing Sustainability is an integral part of Konin and the expansion projects will, waste in the operations, are important Gränges’ business and plays a central when fully finalized, add new capabilities and strategic focus areas. Gränges role in the Group’s growth and value creaand a total annual capacity of 220 ktonnes1). applies its concept for lean manufacturing tion. In 2019 we raised our ambitions for 1) The transaction is subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. Read more on page 16. 2 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES “ Since the listing of the share in 2014, Gränges has more than doubled its sales volume and profit, and generated growth above industry average.” Johan Menckel, CEO Innovation for profitable growth global presence. Since the listing of the Sustainability is also an important eleshare in 2014, Gränges has more than ment of Gränges’ innovation process. doubled its sales volume and profit, and ­Sustainability-driven innovation may generated growth above industry average. involve continuous efficiency enhanceWe will continue to strengthening core ments, reduced resource consumption market positions and growth in adjacent along the value chain as well as more and niche markets by proactively develop­sustainable customer offerings. Gränges’ ing new business and sustainable cusinnovation process is embedded in the tomer offerings. Group’s strategy and business model. At the time of writing, the ongoing sustainability, and continued to impleThe innovation efforts are based on ­outbreak of the corona virus, covid-19, ment our group-wide sustainability external trends, customer and consumer affects our world. Demand on Gränges’ framework across our operations and insight, new technology, and business end-customer markets as well as align the regional strategies with the models with sustainability integrated into demand for Gränges’ products will be global long-term sustainability targets. the process. Our innovation work is supaffected, and the outbreak will also have At the beginning of the year, Gränges ported by Gränges’ Research & Innovation an additional negative impact on light became a member of the Aluminium (R&I) centres around the world and well-­ vehicle production in 2020. Stewardship Initiative (ASI), and a few developed innovation culture. Cooperation months later, our Shanghai plant with customers, suppliers and other Gränges stands strong received the ASI Performance Standard external parties constitutes a growing part The actions executed in 2019 position certification. During the year, we continof the innovation and is also a resource-efGränges very well and enhance the platued to support the principles of the UN ficient way of working. A strong presence form for continued profitable growth. With Global Compact and contributed to fulin emerging markets, such as the electric a stronger position in growing markets filling the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable vehicles market, provides greater insight and a broader offering for future transporDevelopment Goals (SDGs). into trends and consumer needs. In 2019, tation solutions Gränges will be able to In summary, we see good progress on Gränges increased the number of new further drive the development of sustainmany of our sustainability priorities in ­patents granted by 30 per cent and estabable customer offerings and shape the 2019, including a record-low safety accilished an R&I centre in Huntingdon in the future. With a strong commitment to condent rate, increased share of sourced US, focusing on continuous cast materials tinually improve and develop, Gränges is recycled aluminium, reduced total carbon and solutions for HVAC, packaging, and well-positioned for sustainable and profitemissions driven by lower emissions from other niche market segments. An R&I centre able growth throughout economic cycles. purchased materials and services, as with local expertise is important to meet well as a very high participation rate in customers’ demands in the region. our group-wide Code of Conduct and anti-corruption trainings. We have also Executing on growth strategy taken actions to speed up the developWhen evaluating the execution of our ment of a broader and more sustainable strategy, I’m pleased to conclude that customer offering. Gränges is well positioned with a strong Johan Menckel, CEO 3 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES EXECUTING ON STRATEGY 2020 During 2019 Gränges continued to execute on the strategy in line with the strategic priorities innovation, sustainability, continuous improvements and structural expansion. With a strong commitment to constantly improve and develop, Gränges is well positioned for sustainable and profitable growth. >> DRIVE GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION Gränges wants to lead the development of Achievements 2019 heat exchanger materials and other advanced • Increased the number of new patents granted with 47 (36) patents. aluminium materials and s ­ olutions to be the • Established a Research & Innovation centre in Huntingdon, USA. customers’ preferred choice. • Developed new solutions for customers in the battery industry. • Implemented Artificial Intelligence in product development projects. • Further developed the TRILLIUM® technology for new applications. >>C  REATE VALUE FROM SUSTAINABILITY Gränges has a strong commitment to develop Achievements 2019 sustainable products, minimize the environ• Reduced  number of recordable accidents per million hours worked mental impact of its operations, uphold ethical (Total Recordable Rate) by 28 per cent. business practices, and provide a safe and • Reduced  total carbon emissions intensity1) by 6 per cent, driven by lower good working environment. emissions from purchased materials and services. • Increased share of sourced recycled aluminium by 3 percentage points. • Reached  a very high participation in the group-wide anti-corruption training (100 per cent) and in the Code of Conduct training (99 per cent). >> INCREASE EFFICIENCY THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS Gränges aims to increase productivity, Achievements 2019 process stability and energy efficiency, • Implemented efficiency measures including a general savings programme. while reducing waste in its operations. • Improved production efficiency in the facility in Shanghai by implementation of digitalization and automation. • Improved quality and reduced average number of quality claims by 14 per cent. • Improved the internal recycling rate by 2 percentage points. >> GROW PRESENCE THROUGH STRUCTURAL EXPANSION Gränges plans to invest in production Achievements 2019 capacity and ­capabilities, and to expand • Signed an agreement to acquire Aluminium Konin, adding new capabilities and into adjacent markets. a total annual production capacity of 100 ktonnes (read more on page 16). • Completed the expansion of the Huntingdon facility, increasing total annual production capacity by 40 ktonnes. • Re-opened the Newport facility, adding a total annual production capacity of 20 ktonnes. • Started the site logistics and efficiency project for the F ­ inspång facility, adding a total annual production capacity of 20 ktonnes from 2022. 1) I ncludes direct emissions from own operations and indirect emissions from purchased energy and from purchased materials and services. 4 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES INVESTMENT CASE • Growth  above industry average, • S  trong earnings and cash flow generation, driven by innovative and technologically advanced based on commercial and operational strength, products and solutions. together with firm balance sheet management. • L eader in attractive niche markets, • C  ommitted to sustainability, with a global offering and strong, long-term as an integrated part of the business model. ­customer relations. • L  ong-term value creation, • C lear industrial focus, with a dividend policy which ensures that with a competitive advantage based on research 30–50 per cent of net profit will be returned and innovation, best-in-class technologies, and to shareholders. operational excellence. “ With Gränges’ successful track record of acquisitions and ability to minimize environmental impact of its operations, we are confident that Gränges will continue to create long-term profitable growth. Since the listing of the share in 2014, Gränges has more than doubled its sales volume and profit and generated growth above industry average, driven by technically advanced products, innovation, successful acquisitions and a strong sustainability commitment.” Jannis Kitsakis, Senior Portfolio Manager at The Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4), representing the largest shareholder in Gränges. Sales volume and adjusted operating profit Total return since IPO vs index Volume ktonnes MSEK SEK ‘000 400 1,200 160 16,000 300 900 120 12,000 200 600 80 8,000 100 300 40 4,000 0 0 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 19 Oct Jan Jan Jan Jan Dec 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Asia Europe Americas Turnover OMX Stockholm_GI Adjusted Operating profit Gränges share price performance including reinvested dividends 5 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES LONG-TERM TARGETS FINANCIAL Gränges should grow at least in line with the market, generate a return on capital employed of 15–20 per cent, have a net debt of 1–2 times adjusted EBITDA, and pay a dividend of 30–50 per cent of the profit for the year. GROWTH ktonnes Comment: In 2019, sales volume decreased 400 by 7.4 per cent, which was somewhat more Increase sales volume at least in line 56.0% 0.5% –7.4% than the decline in end markets, primarily with the company’s end markets. due to inventory reduction in the supply 300 chain. 45.9% 200 2.5% 100 15 16 17 18 19 Sales volume Growth RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED SEK million % Comment: In 2019, return on capital 8,000 18 employed decreased by 4.8 percentage Generate a return on capital employed points to 11.7 per cent, mainly due to higher of 15–20 per cent over time. capital employed driven by expansion invest6,000 12 ments in the US and Sweden. 4,000 6 2,000 0 15 16 17 18 19 Capital employed Return on capital employed CAPITAL STRUCTURE SEK million Comment: In 2019, net debt further 4,000 4 increased by SEK 971 million to SEK 3,465 Have a net debt which should normally million. The increase is driven by expansion be 1–2 times adjusted EBITDA over 3,000 3 investments in the US and Sweden. On the last 12 months period. 31 December, 2019, net debt amounted to 2,000 2 2.6 times adjusted EBITDA (2.5 excluding IFRS 16 lease liabilities).1) 1,000 1 0 0 15 16 17 18 19 Net debt Net debt/adjusted EBITDA DIVIDEND POLICY SEK per share % Comment: The Board of Directors proposes 9 45 a dividend of SEK 3.40 per share for the Pay a dividend of 30–50 per cent of 2019 fiscal year. This is an increase of the profit for the year. Decisions on 6 per cent compared to the previous year dividends will reflect the company’s 6 40 and corresponds to 43 per cent of the profit financial position, cash flow and outlook. for the year 2019. 3 35 0 30 15 16 17 18 19 Earnings per share, diluted Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio 1) See note 3 for further information on IFRS 16 Leases. 6 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABILITY Gränges has a group-wide sustainability framework which covers 12 material topics grouped into five sustainability pillars. Each pillar has an accompanying long-term commitment and targets for 2025. The targets below represent a subset of the 2025 sustainability targets which can be found on pages 20–21. WORKPLACE SAFETY Number of recordable accidents Comment: In 2019, Total Recordable Rate per million hours worked was reduced by 28 per cent and reached Reduce Total Recordable Rate to < 3.0 9 4.4 recordable accidents per million hours recordable accidents per million hours worked (6.1), driven by a strong behavioural worked. 6 safety programme. 3 0 17 18 19 Total Recordable Rate EMISSIONS AND Tonnes CO2e/tonne Comment: In 2019, total carbon emissions CLIMATE IMPACT 15 intensity decreased by 6 per cent to 11.3 tonnes CO2e per tonne (12.0), primarily Reduce carbon emissions intensity from driven by emission reductions from purchased own operations and purchased energy by 10 materials and services as a result of a higher 25 per cent.1) Reduce carbon emissions share of sourced recycled aluminium. Carbon intensity from purchased materials and emissions intensity from own operations and services.1) 5 purchased energy increased by 8 per cent versus 2017 to 0.82 tonnes CO2e per tonne (0.76), 0 driven by higher energy intensity which was 17 18 19 mainly a result of lower production volumes. Own operations and purchased energy (scope 1+2) Purchased materials and services (scope 3) ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Comment: In 2019, 99 per cent (99) of all 99% employees conducted the annual group-wide Make sure that 100 per cent of all employCode of Conduct online training. ees are annually trained in Gränges’ Code of Conduct. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Comment: In 2019, 154 significant suppliers 99% – corresponding to 99 per cent (98) of the total Ensure that 100 per cent of all significant purchase value from significant suppliers – suppliers2) are committed to Gränges’ signed or were approved to have equivalent Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent sustainability standards in place which are in standard. line with Gränges’ sustainability requirements. DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY % Comment: In 2019, the share of women among senior management was unchanged at 20 per Increase the share of women 100 cent (20). among senior management3) to at least 30 per cent. 75 50 25 0 17 18 19 1) Versus baseline 2017. 2) S  uppliers with a purchase value above SEK Men Women 5 million, CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. 3) E  mployees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. 7 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES BUSINESS MODEL AND VALUE CHAIN Gränges supports its customers with research and innovation, product development and technical support throughout the product’s life-cycle. Material properties and design, which are Gränges’ core competences, contribute to the efficiency and sustainability performance of customers’ products and processes. Strong customer relationships the interaction between the materials and built up significant experience and experGränges’ long-term customer relationships customers’ machinery and processes. tise in material characteristics and manuare characterized by customer-driven facturing processes. The company collabdevelopment and close collaboration, with Specialized and lean manufacturing orates globally to share best practice, a strong focus to meet the customers’ critiGränges' production facilities are optivaluable knowledge and experience. cal needs for reliable, sustainable and mized according to the lean principles. high-quality products. Business relationIts production is demand-driven, and the Proven revenue model ships are typically long-term and 85 per company has a strong focus on continuGränges generates its revenue by selling cent of Gränges’ customers have been with ous improvements to increase productivadvanced materials manufactured for the company for more than ten years. ity, process stability and efficiency, while specific customers and applications in reducing operational waste. Gränges’ own long-term contracts. Pricing is based on Technology leadership concept for lean manufacturing, the the added value that Gränges provides in Gränges has world-leading expertise in Gränges Production System (GPS), is terms of material properties and product metallurgy and understanding of the proimplemented in all production plants. complexity. The cost of aluminium, which duction process, particularly in the develis the primary input material, is passed on opment of alloys, hot rolling of clad mateStrong experience and expertise to customers. rials, thermo-mechanical processing, and Gränges’ many years of specialization slitting. Product developers and engineers in developing and manufacturing of work closely with customers to optimize advanced rolled aluminium products have VALUE CHAIN Gränges’ input materials SEMI-FABRICATION Gränges’ products • Primary aluminium • F lat rolled aluminium • Recycled aluminium coils for automotive • Alloying metals heat exchangers, HVAC, packaging, etc. Internal recycled aluminium PRIMARY ALUMINIUM Recycled aluminium PRODUCTION from customers RECYCLED PRODUCT ALUMINIUM MANUFAC­PRODUCTION End-of-life TURING recycling PRODUCT USE Supply chain Gränges’ operations Customers and end-users 8 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES TRENDS AND DRIVERS There are several global trends and drivers that impact Gränges and its business. Together with customers and other stakeholders, Gränges aims to capture the business opportunities generated by these trends. >> RESOURCE EFFICIENCY >> DISRUPTIVE AUTOMOTIVE AND SUSTAINABILITY TECHNOLOGIES A growing global population, urbanization and an expanding Electrification, autonomous driving, connectivity, and the global middle class is putting pressure on the climate and sharing economy are reshaping businesses. The electrifithe world’s natural resources. This will lead to an increased cation is driven by consumer and regulator acknowledgedemand for business models involving responsible supply ment of the environmental benefits of electric vehicles. chains, recycling, and a circular economy. Sustainable Thermal management of batteries and other components is materials which can improve resource efficiency are a key critical for the reliability and safety of electric vehicles, enabler of sustainable development. which is a condition for acceptance by consumers. The sharing economy leads to higher fleet utilization, resulting Opportunities and risks in new requirements for vehicle materials and design. • Increased demand for aluminium products driven by a global focus on sustainable development. Opportunities and risks • Increased focus on reducing the climate impact from the • Increased development of products and applications for supply chain. electric vehicles. • Sustainability becoming key criteria for investments, • New designs and material requirements in future vehicles. operations, purchasing, and Research & Innovation. • New players in the automotive industry. Gränges’ actions Gränges’ actions • Expand sustainable product offerings. • Strengthen capabilities to leverage the technology shift. • Increase circularity and recycling of aluminium. • Use and strengthen Gränges’ R&I competence and create • Increase energy efficiency in own operations. new business opportunities. • Extend and broaden customer collaborations and develop • Increase collaboration in the value chain to achieve new types of partnerships. higher traceability and supplier engagement. • Increase and broaden the development of flux-less (TRILLIUM®) and flux-free brazing materials. • Develop solutions for improved battery performance. >> DIGITALIZATION AND AUTOMATION >> ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT Digital transformation affects all parts of the value chain. Macro factors such as business cycles, as well as changes The transformation enables more efficient processes, in trade legislation and emission regulations influence faster development cycles, optimized inventories and better global companies such as Gränges. Geopolitical tensions use of resources. It also changes the way companies go to and trade frictions have a negative impact on the global market and interact with customers. economy, putting strain on supply chains and disrupting the competitive landscape. Opportunities and risks • Enabling more efficient operations, product development Opportunities and risks and integrated supply chains. • Optimization of supply chain through global positioning in • Enabling new ways of interacting with customers and different regions. other stakeholders. • Trade barriers requiring stronger partnerships with • New value adding services as well as differentiation. customers. • Change in vehicle sales volume. Gränges’ actions • Increased aluminium material content per vehicle. • Upgrade and integrate IT-infrastructure and plant ­equipment to enable smart manufacturing and improved Gränges’ actions productivity. • Further develop capabilities of heat exchanger materials in • Apply advanced data analytics to optimize critical North America. ­activities. • Broaden product offering and solutions, enter new niche • Ensure sharing of best practices and know-how across markets and optimize allocation of current capacities in the organization. different regions. • Add value through product differentiation and partnerships. 9 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES MARKETS Gränges has a leading position in rolled aluminium materials with product development, manufacturing, sales and technical support on three continents. Market characteristics als. These skills are also critical to operate based on long-term relationships. A core Gränges is a leading global supplier of flexible and efficient production processes, challenge is to meet the requirements of advanced aluminium products and soluand to be able to guarantee a high degree of new applications and demands of tions for heat exchanger applications and delivery reliability in terms of volume, time end-customers, as well as trends that other niche markets. The market for and quality. All this requires well-tuned impact the business. Gränges strives to be advanced rolled aluminium materials is manufacturing capabilities and processes at the forefront of developing adaptable characterized by advanced technology, refined over a long time, as well as effective and customized aluminium materials. complex production processes, as well as customer service and a global logistics customer-driven development with longcapacity. Competitors term customer relationships. The competition varies in size and strateCustomer-driven development gic focus and differs between regions and Advanced technology and production Manufacturers are facing constant end-user markets. Competitors are pri­processes increased and new demands from cusmarily major global aluminium companies The market for advanced aluminium materitomers for materials with lower weight, such as Arconic, Novelis and UACJ. In als is relatively difficult to enter. This is not greater strength, higher corrosion resis­ Asia, there are several local players that primarily due to the capital-intensive nature tance and lower environmental impact. are direct competitors to Gränges in the of the industry, but rather because of the The development of new products, materiAsian market. In Europe, there is growing high level of competence and experience als and processes is conducted in close competition from manufacturers in Eastrequired to develop new, advanced matericooperation with customers, built and ern and Southern Europe. END-CUSTOMER MARKETS The automotive industry – Gränges’ materials inside every other car Sales volume per endThe automotive industry includes all types of vehicles, from light to heavy duty, as customer market, 2019 well as hybrid and electric vehicles. Light vehicle production is an important driver of Gränges’ sales of heat exchanger materials. The growing number of hybrid and electric vehicles and advanced features such as autonomous driving is further increasing the demand for Gränges’ materials. Every other car produced in the world today contains heat exchangers with Gränges’ material. Automotive, 49% HVAC, 25% The HVAC1) industry – strict requirements favour Gränges’ solutions Other, 26% The HVAC industry includes systems for heating, ventilation and air-conditioning in private homes, and in commercial and industrial buildings. Market growth is driven by energy efficiency requirements as well as construction of new houses and buildings. Demand for reduced energy consumption and restrictions of refrigerants is driving improved HVAC design resulting in increased demand for Gränges’ materiAutomotive, 49% als. Gränges supplies material to both brazed and mechanically-assembled alu­ HVAC, 25% minium heat exchangers. Americas is Gränges’ most important HVAC market. Other, 26% Other industries – many different areas of usage Examples of other segments that Gränges serves are winding material for transformers, aluminium foil for food packaging, and heat exchanger solutions for industrial applications, agricultural machinery and wind power turbines. In North America, aluminium plays an important role in the design of electrical distribution and large power transformers thanks to its significant cost and weight advantages compared with copper. Aluminium foil provides a complete barrier to light, oxygen, moisture, and bacteria, making it ideal for food packaging. Gränges is a 1) A bbreviation for heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. Sometimes used major supplier of aluminium foil for food packaging and winding material for to define the stationary heat exchanger transformers in North America. market. 10 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Stockholm Finspång 60%* Velbert 17%* Saint-Avold 23%* Huntingdon Salisbury Tokyo Franklin Seoul Newport Shanghai Pune Sales markets Production sites Sales offices and technical support R&I centres * Share of total sales volume, 2019 A GLOBAL PLAYER Gränges’ geographical markets are Asia, Europe and Americas, and the company is a market leader in most of the markets in which it operates. ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS Gränges has a leading position in rolled Gränges has a leading position in rolled Gränges has a leading position in rolled products for brazed aluminium ex­changproducts for brazed aluminium heat aluminium products for HVAC and is the ers in Asia. China is the main market and exchangers in Europe. The Czech second largest supplier of rolled aluminium other key markets include India, Thailand Republic, Sweden, Germany and Poland for brazed heat exchangers to the autoand South Korea. In 2019, the automotive are the largest markets. In 2019, the motive industry. The company also has business accounted for 90 per cent (90) automotive business accounted for about strong positions in niche markets such as of Gränges’ sales in Asia, where global 90 per cent (90) of Gränges’ sales in transformers and food packaging. The customers accounted for 50 per cent (47) Europe. Europe is a consolidated market main markets are the US, Mexico and of the sales volume. with global customers accounting for Brazil. In 2019, the automotive business 78 per cent (80) of the sales volume. accounted for 22 per cent (22) of Gränges’ sales in Americas, and 78 per cent (78) was HVAC & Other business. Global customers accounted for 16 per cent (15) of total sales in Americas. 11 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES GRÄNGES’ PRODUCTS IN SOCIETY Gränges’ products are used inside some of the world’s most demanding applications. HVAC WIND TURBINES AUTOMOTIVE Heat exchangers Heat exchangers Heat exchangers • Evaporators • Oil coolers • Radiators • Condensers • Low temperature radiators • Radiators • Heaters • Microchannel heat • Condensers exchangers • Evaporators • Oil coolers • Chillers • Charge-Air-Coolers • Battery cooling plates • Electronics cooling plates Other • Structural applications • Heat shields 12 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES TRANSFORMERS • Conductor strip • Cable wrap SPECIALITY PACKAGING • Converter foil • Pharmaceutical foil • Confectionery foil • Lidding foil 13 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES OPERATIONS Gränges is a leading supplier of rolled aluminium materials and offers production, sales, technical support and customer-driven product development. Gränges holds strong positions in Europe, Sustainability is a natural part of the core Asia and the US. The company has five business and strategy and Gränges PRODUCTION production facilities on three continents strives to integrate sustainability aspects PLANTS with a combined annual production capacity of 460 ktonnes. Expansion takes place across its operations. through organic growth and acquisitions. Materials and technology leadership Gränges has five production Gränges develops and produces advanced facilities on three continents with a combined annual capacity A strong platform for growth materials that enhance the efficiency in of 460 ktonnes. With product development and production the customer’ manufacturing processes, capacity in three continents, Gränges has as well as the performance of the FINSPÅNG a solid platform to meet complex customer end-customers’ products. Gränges is 100 ktonnes. demands and new trends in an efficient focused on rolled products for heat Automotive. and sustainable way. exchangers and selected niche applicaGränges focuses on developing new tions and offers a comprehensive range of SHANGHAI products, materials and processes in close clad and unclad rolled aluminium prod120 ktonnes. cooperation with its customers. Gränges’ ucts used for applications with a high Automotive and HVAC. product developers and technicians offer degree of functionality and performance. advanced technical support and a wide Depending on the specific needs of a given HUNTINGDON range of services to customers to optimize application, Gränges offers multi-layer 200 ktonnes. the interaction between Gränges’ products products. This variety provides virtually HVAC, automotive, food packagand the customers’ machinery, processes unlimited possibilities for customized ing, transformers, other. and applications. Gränges’ validation solutions based on carefully selected capabilities enhance customers’ competialloy combinations, delivery conditions, SALISBURY tiveness by saving time and cost for new cladding thickness and geometries. Lead40 ktonnes. product development and market introing-edge technology and true industrial HVAC, auto heat shield, other. duction. craftsmanship ensure materials with consistent quality. NEWPORT 20 ktonnes1). Strong company culture Aluminium is often referred to as the HVAC, food packaging, Gränges has a strong corporate culture, “green metal” thanks to its properties that converter foil. based on the company’s core values and support sustainable development. It is committed employees, with ambition to light, strong, corrosion resistant, durable, Gränges also holds 51 per cent constantly develop and improve. The core versatile and impermeable – and it is also of the shares in the production values – committed, action oriented, highly recyclable. These unique charactercompany Getek, with facilities in accessible and innovative – guide employistics enable Gränges to offer resource Velbert, Germany, and St Avold, ees in their daily actions and lay the founefficient and climate smart solutions for France, which produces alu­ dation for how to act and conduct busiall customers. minium billets using advanced ness responsibly and ethically. spray-forming technology. 1) Capacity when fully completed. During 2019, an all-time low level of accidents was recorded in the A “SAFETY FIRST” Shanghai production plant. WORK ENVIRONMENT Safety is a top priority for Gränges and is integrated into the company’s concept for lean manufacturing, which is part of continuous improvements throughout the organization. Internal safety assessments are conducted every six months at the production facilities, aiming to share experiences and best practice and to harmonize work processes. 14 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES INCREASE EFFICIENCY THROUGH aluminium used in the re-melting process. improved energy utilization and reduced CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS In addition, Gränges’ strong focus on operwaste in the slitting line, which has a posiIncreasing productivity, process stability ational efficiency reduces emissions to air tive environmental impact. and energy efficiency, while reducing waste and water and provides a safe and secure With the expansion of the Huntingdon in the operations, are important and strateworkplace for employees. plant, new automated systems have been gic focus areas. At the production plant in Shanghai, implemented to improve efficiency and Gränges has continued to increase the reliability in operations. Gränges’ Production System (GPS) level of digitalization by successfully optiGränges applies its own concept for lean mizing productivity and quality by using Knowledge sharing and best practice manufacturing – Gränges’ Production Sysmachine intelligence and advanced analytClose collaboration between the productem (GPS). It is implemented at all producical tools. Smart sensors have for example tion plants and internal benchmarking tion plants and has resulted in simpler progradually been applied in critical producdrives growth and improvement work at all duction flows and more waste-free tion equipment, which have helped to sites. Initiatives to learn from each other processes. Efficient metal management improve the machine availability as well as include for example internal safety reduces costs through continually improvprocess stability significantly. The impleassessments every six months at the proing sorting of recycled aluminium as well as mentation of digital tools and a more accuduction facilities. optimizing the different types of recycled rate process control will also lead to REMOVING A BOTTLENECK IN FINSPÅNG CROSS-REGIONAL AND A true example of continuous improvement is the initiative at the Finspång CROSS-FUNCTIONAL plant, that started two years ago and continues to deliver results, where COLLABORATION Gränges has managed to remove a bottleneck in the production. The coil An example where close collabochanging time at one of the cold rolling mills has been decreased by 25 per ration was productive and succent, and the average machine speed increased by 35 per cent. The improvecessful is the initiative to optiment was achieved without any investment. The only tools used were clear mize annealing furnaces, based goals, a consistent GPS focus, as well as commitment and cooperation between on tighter specification needs the teams working around the machine. from Gränges’ customers. A team with members from Shanghai, Finspång and the headquarters worked together with the goal to investigate what needed to be done to achieve a more evenly distributed temperature in coils, and to decrease the material temperature variations. Innovative ideas and experiments led to the result where the cross-functional team including Research & Innovation, Process Development, Maintenance and Production Technique managed to pinpoint the airflow needed to even out the temperature in the annealing furnaces. The solution was developed by using scientific methods combined with hands-on process competence. Thanks to better heat transfer in the coils, there is also a potential to reduce the annealing programs time, with retained materials quality. The production plant in Finspång managed to remove the previous bottleneck at mill 2751 during 2019. 15 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES GROW PRESENCE THROUGH Ongoing expansion projects The expansion of STRUCTURAL EXPANSION The expansion project in Finspång, Sweden, the Huntingdon facility was comGrow presence through structural expanto increase the production capacity by pleted during sion is one of Gränges’ strategic focus 20 ktonnes, proceeds according to plan. 2019 and further positions it as one areas. Gränges invests in production The investment of SEK 400 million will also of the most modcapacity and capabilities to meet increasimprove operational efficiency and logisern and efficient tics and reduce transport and emissions. rolling mills in ing demand, address new end-customer North America. markets and expand into adjacent marThe project was started in 2018 and will be kets. Total annual production capacity completed in 2021. has increased from 90 ktonnes in 1999 to The expansion of the Huntingdon and 460 ktonnes in 2019, of which 40 ktonnes Newport facilities were started in 2017 capacity was added during 2019. and 2018 to further strengthen Gränges’ position in North America and serve as an Expansion in Europe and Americas important platform for growth. During Significant structural expansions were 2019 the Huntingdon facility expansion of initiated in the production facilities in 110 MUSD was completed and increased Sweden in 2018 and in the US in 2017. The annual production capacity from 160 kton­ projects have proceeded according to plan ­nes to about 200 ktonnes to meet the and the majority were completed in 2019. growing demand for HVAC, foil products, These expansions will add an annual proautomotive and selected niche markets. duction capacity of 80 ktonnes when The investment of 26 MUSD to upgrade totally completed. In November 2019, the Newport facility’s existing rolling mills Gränges announced the agreement to and equipment proceeded according to acquire the Polish aluminium producer plan during 2019 and will, when comAluminium Konin, which will add another pleted, add 20 ktonnes of new capacity to 100 ktonnes in production capacity and meet growing demand in the light gauge strengthen Gränges’ presence in Europe. foil market in the US. THE ACQUISITION OF ALUMINIUM KONIN To finance the acquisition, Danske Bank, Nordea Bank and Svenska Handelsbanken are providing a SEK 2.3 billion bridge loan facility with a time to maturity of 18 months. In conjunction with the transaction, Gränges intends to undertake a rights issue with preferential rights for existing shareholders to a total amount of approximately SEK 2 billion. The transaction is not conditional upon the rights issue, which is proposed to In November 2019, Gränges signed an developed and cost competitive intemaintain Gränges’ financial strength agreement to acquire the Polish flat grated rolling mill located in Konin, and to partly be used for future rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Poland, with an annual capacity of growth investments in line with Konin. The acquisition strengthens 100 ktonnes. Gränges will complete an Gränges’ strategy. Gränges’ product offering and presexpansion programme initiated by the Gränges’ Board of Directors intends ence in Europe and contributes with seller, of SEK 1.1 billion over three to propose that a general meeting strong positions in new attractive niche years, to further strengthen Aluminium authorizes the Board to issue new markets. Aluminium Konin adds new Konin’s capabilities and increase the shares through the rights issue. capabilities and capacity to expand annual capacity to 140 ktonnes. AluApproximately SEK 1.5 billion of the Gränges’ offering for future transporminium Konin’s net sales by September rights issue proceeds will be used to tation solutions, such as electric vehiLTM 2019 amounted to SEK 3.0 billion finance part of the transaction, and cles, and contributes to a stronger and the company has around 750 approximately SEK 0.5 billion will be position in growing markets. The acquiemployees. The acquired business used for future growth investments in sition is a good strategic fit for Gränges will be a wholly owned subsidiary of line with Gränges’ strategy. and enhances the company’s platform Gränges AB. for sustainable profitable growth. The transaction is subject to regulaAluminium Konin has a diversified tory approval by the relevant competiproduct portfolio and a solid financial tion authorities. track-record. It operates a highly 16 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES INNOVATION FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH Gränges’ innovation process is embedded in the Group’s strategy and business model. The innovation efforts are based on external trends, customer and consumer insight, new technology and business models with sustainability integrated into the process. Gränges’ innovation efforts are supported Gränges’ research and innovation by the company’s R&I centres around the With a strong expertise in material propGRÄNGES’ world and by a well-developed innovation erties and characteristics, Gränges conR&I CENTRES culture. Cooperation with external parties, customers and suppliers constitutes a ducts strategic research and innovation as well as customer-driven product develgrowing part of innovation and is also a opment. Gränges’ strong product offering FINSPÅNG resource-efficient way of working. Gränges’ is the result of advanced knowledge of Global, and regional for Europe. innovation involves the development of new metallurgy and production processes as Focus on materials and solutions products and services, further developwell as long-term commitment to research for brazed heat ex­changers and new technologies. ment and improvement of existing offerand innovation. The work is conducted ings and solutions, as well as expansion of cross-functionally within Gränges, with SHANGHAI offerings and the value chain. external customers and, in selected key Regional for Asia. Sustainability is also an important eleareas, with leading universities and Focus on solutions for electric ment of Gränges’ innovation process. Susresearch institutes. The strategic vehicles and related new tainability-driven innovation may involve research is managed globally, while the applications. continuous efficiency enhancements, customer-driven development is carried reduced resource consumption along the out locally in close cooperation with the HUNTINGDON value chain, as well as developing more production plants and customers. This Regional for Americas. sustainable product offerings. A strong organization enables quicker decisionFocus on continuous cast presence in emerging markets, such as the making and a faster product development materials and solutions for electric vehicles market, provides greater process, as Gränges can test and verify HVAC, packaging and other niche insight into trends and consumer needs. new products directly in production. markets. This knowledge and insight are used to Cooperation in development projects, Gränges’ R&I organization develop new products, services, solutions day-to-day contact and regular meetings engages around 60 highly and business models adapted to the condibetween R&I centres facilitate knowledge educated employees worldwide, tions in these markets. sharing within Gränges. including metallurgists, chemists, metallographers, physicists, mechanical engineers and technicians. “ Gränges is a proactive partner, continuously improving our technology, efficiency A NEW R&I CENTRE ESTABLISHED IN THE US In 2019, Gränges established an R&I centre in Huntingdon in the US. A laboratory with local expertise is important to meet customers’ demands in the region. After 27 years at Gränges in Finspång, material expert Torkel and flexibility to meet the Stenqvist moved to Huntingdon in 2019 to join the team to build up the Group’s demands and challenges of new R&I centre there. He works closely with the R&I centres in Finspång today and tomorrow.” and Shanghai, is involved in all parts of the build-up of the new R&I centre, provides technical sales support and manages development projects. Kent Schölin, SVP Research & Innovation, Gränges 17 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Innovative solutions and To stay ahead in the ongoing transformaParticipation in industry seminars new ­technologies tion in the automotive industry, Gränges Gränges regularly participates in various Gränges develops innovative materials has a pipeline of new materials to meet industry seminars around the world as a and solutions, enabling customers to customers’ demands of today and tomorgood opportunity to meet customers, increase their productivity and energy row, such as new needs in battery cooling, OEMs and peers, and to share ideas and efficiency, improve safety and leverage chillers and charge air coolers. Gränges to discuss future opportunities within the opportunities linked to digitalization and cooperates with OEMs and other players industry. One example is Gränges’ particiautomation. Over the years, Gränges has in the value chain, notably in the design of pation at the second New Energy Vehicle developed a large number of products battery cooling systems. Gränges is also thermal management summit in Shanghai, with improved end-characteristics, increasing its efforts in developing new China in September 2019. The event increased stability and enhanced sustainsolutions and materials for applications gathered some 160 automotive thermal ability. Gränges’ focus on technology, beyond heat exchangers, such as materimanagement professionals to focus on manufacturing processes, and material als in vehicle bodies, battery casing and heat exchangers, batteries, the environproperties contribute to creating smaller, aluminium foil in batteries. Gränges has a ment, and technologies for vehicle therlighter and more designable solutions that strong position in evolving markets and mal management. increase economic efficiency and reduce the capability to customize product offerenvironmental impact. ings for new niche markets. A part of Patent portfolio An important trend impacting Gränges’ Gränges’ R&I organization is focusing solely Patenting activities are pursued in a cencustomers’ demand is the transformation on new material technologies. tral organization that maintains a global in the automotive industry. The electric Gränges’ patented technology TRILLIUM® focus. They ensure appropriate protection vehicles market is growing and evolving enables customers to remove steps in the for Gränges’ innovations to create and rapidly, which means new business opporproduction process and develop more maintain a valuable patent portfolio. In tunities for Gränges. New solutions for complex and compact designs. This tech2019, Gränges increased the number of heat exchangers are needed for the coolnology simplifies the brazing process by new patents granted with 47 (36). As at ing of batteries, power electronics and making the degreasing, fluxing, cleaning, 31 December 2019, the company’s other electrical components. Efficient and drying stages redundant. It also research and innovation efforts had thermal management is important for the improves customers’ sustainability perresulted in 58 patent families and performance and longevity of batteries. formance due to the built-in fluxing agents 195 granted patents, with an additional Further weight reduction, new designs as that enables customers to operate a pro79 patent applications pending. well as stronger and more corrosion cess without added flux. resistant materials will be required. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR NEW AREAS OF USE Through the ongoing development of brazing wire, Gränges is expanding the field of applications of the patented technology TRILLIUM®. Compared to traditional flux core products, Gränges’ offering improves joint formation and brazeability, thanks to a more consistent flux content and more efficient use of the same; less flux is needed, thus reducing flux residues and allowing Gränges to meet OEMs’ requirements. TRILLIUM® brazing wire also allows for new ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE USED TO INCREASE shapes and greater design flexiUSE OF RECYCLED ALUMINIUM bility. The product will be aimed primarily for stationary heat In 2019, Gränges initiated an artificial intelligence (AI) project to increase exchangers, but also towards the use of recycled aluminium. Today two thirds of Gränges’ most complicated heat exchanger manufacturers clad materials are recycled. By combining AI models with the expertise of the in the automotive industry. In people in the cast house, it will be possible to recycle even more. Marcus both cases, it will be a compleWallberg, AI Engineer, Finspång, says: ment to today’s offering. “Reducing waste is crucial both for the environment and for the company’s profitability, and it’s an area where AI can help us make a difference.” 18 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS VALUE By managing its business in a sustainable and responsible way, Gränges works to strengthen its long-term competitiveness and value creation, both financially and operationally. Sustainable business value is achieved through execution of the company’s sustainability framework and long-term targets. Sustainability – a competitive advantage The company’s sustainability frameSustainability is a natural part of Gränges’ work is structured into five pillars, each core business and strategy. It helps to governed by one member of Group Manincrease the company’s long-term comagement who proposes global sustainabilpetitiveness and aims to create lasting ity priorities and coordinates with value for Gränges as well as for its cusGränges’ regional teams to implement tomers, employees, investors, and other local sustainability activities. More details stakeholders. Sustainable business value on the process to identify material topics is created both by reducing undesired can be found on pages 98–99. impacts of the company’s operations and In 2019, Gränges continued to impleby further increasing the positive contriment its sustainability framework. The butions that emerge from integrating susfocus was to align regional strategies and tainability aspects into the business. activities with the group-wide long-term With the global push for sustainable sustainability targets, and to increase development and the transformation into a employee awareness and engagement. more circular and resource-efficient econACHIEVING ASI omy, Gränges’ customers are increasingly Promoting sustainable development recognizing the importance of using susGränges participates in various industry CERTIFICATION tainable materials. Gränges’ technical initiatives to ensure that aluminium is At the start of 2019, Gränges expertise and competence in aluminium mined, produced and used sustainably, joined the Aluminium Stewardmaterial properties and performance and to drive change where it has the highest ship Initiative (ASI), a global, helps customers and the whole value value chain impact. Read more on page 99. multi-stakeholder, non-profit chain to improve resource efficiency and Gränges has participated in the UN standards setting and certification organization which works to climate performance, in line with the Global Compact since October 2016 and maximize the contribution of global transition towards sustainable undertakes to fulfil the principles relating aluminium to a sustainable socidevelopment and a circular economy. to human rights, labour, environment, and ety. Through its membership, Gränges’ lightweighting and recyclable anti-corruption. The principles also form Gränges promotes greater susaluminium products, for example, help to the foundation of the company’s Code of tainability and transparency in increase fuel efficiency in vehicles and Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct. the aluminium value chain. energy e­ fficiency in buildings. Gränges is also committed to helping Only six months after becoming fulfil the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable an ASI member, Gränges’ Ambitious framework and Development Goals (SDGs). The company Shanghai facility successfully long-term targets has identified those SDGs that are most achieved certification against ASI’s Performance Standard, Stakeholder engagement is fundamental relevant for the company’s business and which was a milestone for the to Gränges’ business, and the company’s where Gränges has its largest contribucompany. The certification group-wide sustainability framework and tions. Read more on page 100. demonstrates that Gränges’ 2025 targets are based on input from con­aluminium products are produced tinual dialogue with stakeholders. responsibly and sustainably. Gränges aims to continue certifying its production facilities to ASI’s certification standards. “ How we plan and run our business today has a profound impact on the future. We must continuously challenge ourselves to develop sustainable offerings that create tangible business and sustainability benefits for our customers.” Johan Menckel, CEO 19 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND 2025 TARGETS SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT OFFERINGS SUSTAINABLE SOURCING OPERATIONS OUR SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENTS We will enhance the sustainability perforWe will ensure that our suppliers maintain high We will strengthen operational efficiency and mance of our products through development of sustainability standards by enforcing strict continuous improvements in our operations to innovative and eco-responsible offerings and criteria in our supplier sourcing agreements improve material and energy efficiency, and provide customers with verified sustainability and partnerships. We also commit to improve reduce emissions to air and water, while at the performance data. By doing so, we aim the environmental footprint in our supply chain same time provide a safe and secure workplace to improve their environmental footprint and by working with our suppliers and promoting for our employees. Thereby, we minimize the contribute positively to a more circular indussustainable practices. negative impacts of our operations. try approach to aluminium. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS, 2025 TARGETS AND 2019 PERFORMANCE Eco-responsible innovation Responsible sourcing Workplace safety Target not yet available.1) 100 per cent of all significant suppliers2) to  otal Recordable Rate to be < 3.0 recordable T be committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of accidents per million hours worked. Conduct or equivalent standard. S  everity Rate to be < 50 lost workdays per million hours worked. Product life-cycle Sourced recycled Water sustainability performance aluminium management 8  0 per cent of Gränges’ products  0 per cent of total sourced metal inputs to 2  Gränges sites to have implemented All to have verified sustainability be recycled aluminium. a local water management plan. information available. Energy T  he share of sourced renewable energy  nergy intensity to be reduced by E (electricity, heat, fuels) to increase.3) 17 per cent.3) Emissions and climate impact  arbon emissions intensity from purchased C C  arbon emissions intensity from own operamaterials and services to be reduced.3) tions and purchased energy to be reduced by 25 per cent.3) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) Read more on page 23. Read more on pages 24–25. Read more on pages 26–28. Note: Minor edits to clarify target articulations have been done in 2019. 1) Gränges works to define and externally disclose targets for eco-responsible innovation. 2) Suppliers with a purchase value above SEK 5 million, CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. 3) Versus baseline 2017. Positive or unchanged development 2019 versus 2018 Negative development 2019 versus 2018 Development 2019 versus 2018 not applicable as result for 2019 is not available 20 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Gränges has a group-wide sustainability framework which covers those 12 material topics that have the highest sustainability impact and which stakeholders assess to DIVERSE AND HIGHETHICAL BUSINESS be most important for the company to PERFORMING TEAMS PRACTICES address. The topics are grouped into five sustainability pillars, each governed by OUR SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENTS one member of Group Management. Each pillar has an accompanying long-term We will ensure that our people are motivated We will run our business in an ethical and commitment and targets for 2025. and engaged. By being an open and inclusive responsible way and be an ethically sound More details on the process to identify employer, with zero tolerance of discrimination, partner in all our relations and in the societies we will provide a diverse workplace where in which we conduct business. We never material topics can be found on pages employees can realize their full potentials and accept corruption and we will always act 98–99 and more information about percontribute to developing a high-performing rapidly, stringently and vigorously if discoverformance and target fulfilment for 2019 organization. ing corruption or unethical behaviour. can be found in the sustainability notes on pages 101–108. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS, 2025 TARGETS AND 2019 PERFORMANCE In its work to establish the sustainability framework, Gränges also identified those Career and leadership development Ethics and anti-corruption Sustainable Development Goals that were deemed to be most relevant for Gränges’ 100 per cent of all employees to receive  00 per cent of all employees to be annually 1 business and where the company has its annual performance and development trained in Gränges’ Code of Conduct. discussion. largest impacts. More information, includ1  00 per cent of all white-collar employees ing links from Gränges’ activities and tarto be annually trained in anti-corruption.1) gets to specific SDGs and SDG sub-targets, can be found on page 100. Diversity and equality At least 30 per cent of senior management2) to be women. Employee wellbeing Employee engagement index to reach at least 85. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) Read more on pages 29–30. Read more on page 31. 1) T  arget has been reformulated in 2019 to cover all white-collar employees. 2) E  mployees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. Positive or unchanged development 2019 versus 2018 Negative development 2019 versus 2018 Development 2019 versus 2018 not applicable as result for 2019 is not available 21 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CLIMATE STRATEGY Gränges is committed to combatting climate change and reducing the climate impact from its business and along the value chain. Managing the climate topic therefore runs through the company’s sustainability framework and value chain. Taking a value chain perspective for 93 per cent (94) of the total emissions, Total carbon footprint, 2019 Gränges works actively to take product were reduced by 14 percent, mainly driven ktonnes CO2e stewardship and reduce environmental by a higher share of sourced recycled alu5,000 impact along the value chain, taking a minium. The corresponding carbon inten4,000 life-cycle perspective. sity decreased by 7 percent versus 2018 As illustrated below, Gränges has idenand 12 percent versus the baseline 2017. 3,000 tified five main priorities to reduce the Carbon emissions from own operations 2,000 company’s climate impact from a life-cyand purchased energy, which accounted 1,000 cle perspective: 1) Increase sourcing of for 7 per cent (6) of Gränges’ total carbon 0 recycled aluminium; 2) Expand sourcing of footprint, were reduced by 1 per cent to 2017 2018 2019 primary aluminium produced with renew282.6 ktonnes CO2e (284.6). The correOwn operations and able energy; 3) Increase energy efficiency sponding carbon intensity increased by 8 purchased energy (scope 1+2) in own operations; 4) Increase sourcing percent versus 2018 and 1 per cent versus Purchased materials and services (scope 3) and use of renewable energy in own operbaseline 2017. This was driven by higher ations; 5) Incorporate sustainability into energy intensity which was mainly a result product development and customer colof lower production volumes. Gränges aims laboration. Priorities 1), 2) and 4) are manto take actions towards the 2025 reduction aged as part of Responsible and sustain­ target. Carbon emissions intensity able sourcing (refer to pages 24–25), priority 3) as part of Sustainable operaExpanding the scope Tonnes CO2e/tonne tions (refer to pages 26–27) and priority 5) Gränges follows the Greenhouse Gas Proto1.00 is managed as part of Sustainable product col (GHG Protocol) guidelines to calculate its 0.75 offering (refer to page 23). climate impact, from bauxite extraction to 2025 target delivery of Gränges’ products to customers. 0.50 Reducing the carbon footprint So far, the product use and end-of-life 0.25 In 2019, Gränges reduced its total greenphases have been excluded due to a lack of 0 house gas emissions by 14 percent to 3,910 relevant data. Gränges will assess adding 2017 2018 2019 ktonnes CO2e (4,520). this part to its scope for calculations, to Own operations and Carbon emissions from purchased support customers to reduce climate purchased energy (scope 1+2) materials and services, which accounted impacts along the value chain. KEY PRIORITIES TO REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACT Scope 1+2 SUPPLY GRÄNGES’ CUSTOMERS CHAIN OPERATIONS AND END-USERS SEMI-FABRICATION 1) Sourced recycled 3) Energy intensity: 5) Eco-responsible aluminium: Increase Increase energy effiinnovation: Incorporate sourcing of recycled ciency in own operations sustainability into prodaluminium and develop through various internal uct development and innovative alloys which improvement activities. customer collaboration PRIMARY allow for a higher share to reduce climate impact ALUMINIUM GHG Protocol: Scope 1 PRODUCTION of recycled aluminium. in the product manufacPRODUCT RECYCLED MANUFACturing and use phases. GHG Protocol: Scope 3 ALUMINIUM TURING 4) Renewable energy ­PRODUCTION GHG Protocol: Scope 3 in own operations: 2) Renewable energy Increase the sourcing in supply chain: Expand and use of renewable sourcing of ­primary energy in own operaPRODUCT USE ­aluminium ­produced tions. using renewable energy. GHG Protocol: Scope 2 GHG Protocol: Scope 3 Scope 3 93% of total emissions 7% of total emissions 22 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT OFFERINGS Gränges’ products contribute to increased business and sustainability benefits for customers and end-users. Aluminium’s lightweighting properties and its recyclability support the transition towards a circular economy through improved resource efficiency and climate performance. Aluminium as the “green metal” In 2019, 62 per cent (44) of Gränges’ prodThanks to aluminium’s lightweighting uct development projects were assessed to TARGETS 2025 properties and its recyclability, customers lead to improved climate performance for >> 80 per cent of Gränges’ and end-users can improve resource efficustomers. Gränges for example works to products to have verified ciency and climate performance by enadevelop products that are based on more sustainability information bling less, longer and smarter usage of recycled aluminium and which improve available. materials. Less usage because of aluminienergy efficiency in the usage phase. um’s light weight and its recyclability; PERFORMANCE 2019 longer usage due to its high corrosion LIFE-CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY >> Life-cycle assessment (LCA) resistance and durability; and smarter PERFORMANCE pre-study conducted, which usage due to its versatility and impermeaDeclaring sustainability impacts will serve as the foundation bility. Aluminium is often called the “green In 2019, Gränges continued to prepare for for how to achieve verified metal” because of these properties which assessing and declaring its products’ sussustainability information on support a resource efficient society. tainability impact to help customers make Gränges’ products starting A study1) from 2016 concluded that lightfact-based sustainability evaluations of from 2020. weighting of transport vehicles leads to Gränges’ products and to improve prodsubstantial fuel and carbon emissions ucts’ sustainability performance. >> 62 per cent (44) of product development projects were ­savings. The potential lifetime saving for a The company conducted a life-cycle assessed to lead to improved passenger car was estimated at 500 kg to assessment (LCA) pre-study in the operaclimate performance for 2,000 kg of carbon dioxide per 100 kg tions in Europe covering selected products Gränges’ customers. weight reduction. to decide on scope and calculation methodology to be used in the sustainability ECO-RESPONSIBLE product declarations. In line with the preINNOVATION study, Gränges plans to build its declaraImproving sustainability performance tions on LCA methodology in accordance Developing products that can increase with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Results IMPROVED SUSTAINAcustomers’ sustainability performance from the pre-study confirmed that alloys BILITY PERFORMANCE and reduce their environmental footprint based on a high share of recycled aluminis a top priority at Gränges. ium had a significantly lower carbon footTHROUGH TRILLIUM® Incorporating sustainability into prodprint and that the raw materials con­ Gränges’ TRILLIUM® material is uct development expands the scope of tributed to most of the carbon footprint, a good example of an innovative sustainability considerations beyond proeven for alloys based on a high share of product which improves customduction processes to the entire life-cycle recycled aluminium. ers’ sustainability performance. of the products. The biggest opportunities From 2020, Gränges plans to start comAs a result of the built-in fluxing for improving products’ sustainability permunicating products’ sustainability peragents in TRILLIUM®, the product enables customers to operate formance is in the early stages of the formance as a first step towards the 2025 a process without added flux, product development process, when the target that 80 per cent of its products which leads to better workplace product characteristics are decided. should have verified sustainability inforhealth and safety and a more mation available. efficient production process. Exposure to fluxing can cause 1) IFEU 2016: Energy savings by lightweighting – 2016 Update. harm to both eyes and other organs, and the associated dust “ can harm people and contaminate machines. A process without We see a clear trend that customers are increasingly interadded flux also leads to customested in sustainability data on material and component level. ers having less industrial waste Gränges is committed to produce such information and to use and an improved metal yield. it to enhance our products’ sustain­ability performance.” Kent Schölin, SVP Research & Innovation 23 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SOURCING An efficient and sustainable supply chain is essential for Gränges’ long-term success. Gränges promotes responsible and sustainable practices in its supply chain and works to incorporate sustainability criteria into its sourcing agreements and partnerships. The aim is to improve supply chain sustainability performance and reduce the associated risks. A global supply chain ance for corruption and bribery; competing In 2019, Gränges had around 2,500 (2,200) fairly; having an open, non-discriminatory TARGETS 2025 suppliers globally, of which 158 (143) were and safe workplace; respecting human >> 100 per cent of all significant defined as significant1). rights; providing fair working conditions; and suppliers1) to be committed to Around 77 per cent (85) of the purchase running its operations with respect for the Gränges’ Supplier Code of value from significant suppliers was environment. By signing, suppliers also Conduct or equivalent standard. related to direct materials, i.e. sourcing of declare to promote implementation of these >> 20 per cent of total sourced primary ingots, rolling slabs, alloying eleprinciples in their own supply chain. metal inputs to be recycled ments, and recycled aluminium. Slabs If a first-tier supplier does not commit aluminium. were purchased directly from smelters to the Supplier Code of Conduct or has an while ingots were sourced mainly from equivalent standard in place, Gränges first >> The share of sourced renew­ able energy (electricity, heat, commodity traders. Indirect materials and discusses with the supplier and then crefuels) to increase.2) services accounted for some 23 per cent ates an action plan to make sure that the (15) of the purchase value, and important supplier commits to the sustainability >> Carbon ­emissions intensity categories included transport, utilities principles. from p ­ urchased materials and and services. services to be reduced.2) Sourcing activities are mainly managed Supplier assessments by the local procurement organization and Gränges’ regional quality and purchasing PERFORMANCE 2019 the supplier base is generally geographiteams regularly assess supplier perforcally close to the respective markets. mance to make sure suppliers meet >> 154 suppliers (137) signed the the company’s requirements. Supplier Supplier Code of Conduct or were assessed to have equivaRESPONSIBLE SOURCING assessments focus on evaluating supplilent standards in place which Shared sustainability principles ers’ quality and delivery performance but are in line with Gränges’ susTo ensure that Gränges’ suppliers share also include sustainability criteria such as tainability requirements. This the company’s sustainability principles environment, human rights, labour laws, corresponded to 99 per cent and commitments, significant suppliers1) as well as health and safety. (98) of the purchase value from are to commit to and sign Gränges’ SupGränges’ operations in Asia and Europe all significant suppliers1). plier Code of Conduct, including the 10 assess suppliers’ sustainability practices >> Increased the share of recyprinciples of the UN Global Compact. before entering into a supplier agreement, cled aluminium to 19.8 per cent The Supplier Code of Conduct expresses and thereafter on a regular basis using (16.7) of total sourced metal the sustainability requirements Gränges tools such as supplier scorecards. Supinputs, up by 3.0 percentage has on its suppliers, including complying plier audits are conducted periodically points versus 2018. with applicable laws and regulations; avoiddepending on suppliers’ strategic imporing conflicts of interest; having zero-tolertance and supplier performance. During >> The share of renewable energy, from sourced electricity and heating, reached 8 per cent 1) Suppliers with a purchase value above SEK 5 million CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. (9). Read more on page 27. 2) Versus baseline 2017. >> Carbon emissions intensity “ from purchased materials and sevices reached 10.5 tonnes We are dedicated to reducing Gränges’ climate impact CO2e/tonne (11,2), down by 7 from a life-cycle perspective. For 2019 I’m very proud per cent versus 2018 and 12 percent versus baseline 2017, that our operations in Americas has again managed to primarily driven by a higher replace significant volumes of primary aluminium with share of sourced recycled recycled aluminium, leading to a considerable lower climate aluminium. impact from our supply chain.” Torbjörn Sternsjö, SVP Technology & Business Development 24 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 2019, 7 (10) supplier audits were conoptimize sourcing and use of recycled aluwhere different alloys are rolled together, ducted, none with significant deviations. minium as this has a positive effect on which makes it difficult to separate upon Gränges’ operations in Americas assesses both costs and the environment. Metal recovery. Brazed heat exchangers are critical suppliers’ sustainability practices costs are the largest cost category for challenging to recycle at end-of-life as the before entering into a supplier agreement, Gränges. Recycled aluminium has a high various constituents are difficult to sepaand thereafter perform assessments twice economic value and non-reusable recyrate and sort. per year. Supplier audits are to be conducted cled aluminium is often sold externally for if a supplier is assessed to underperform a discounted price. Customer collaboration and does not have sufficient quality manRecycled aluminium saves up to 95 per For Gränges’ operations in Americas, agement system procedures in place. During cent of the energy needed to produce priwhere more standardized alloy applicathe year no such audits were carried out. mary aluminium and thereby leads to a tions are produced that allow for wider significantly lower climate impact. composition limits, it is possible to reach a Updated responsible sourcing Gränges sources pre-consumer used higher share of sourced recycled aluminium. programme materials from customers and recycling The operations in Americas recycles all In 2019, Gränges updated its group-wide companies, and reuses recycled aluminvolumes of recycled aluminium from its responsible sourcing programme through ium from its own operations. The company own operations, and has in 2019 also which the company aims to identify, follow also buys post-consumer used materials expanded sourcing of recycled aluminium up, and improve suppliers’ sustainability from recycling companies, further profrom its customers. The recycled aluminium performance and mitigate associated moting a circular business model. The is returned from customers to Gränges in risks. The programme will be implemented environmental value of recycling increases conjunction with the product delivery, from 2020. downstream in the value chain and endmanaged by a third party or by Gränges. As part of this programme, Gränges plans of-life recycling is a clear positive contribto regularly screen its supplier base and utor to the circular aluminium usage. EMISSIONS AND identify potential risk suppliers through CLIMATE IMPACT evaluating environmental, social and Designing for increased recycling Supply chain climate footprint ­corruption risks in different sectors and For Gränges’ operations in Asia and In line with the company’s climate stratcountries. Suppliers identified as having Europe, where a high number of alloys for egy, as described on page 22, Gränges potential sustainability risks will be asked brazed heat exchanger applications are works to reduce the climate impact from to perform a sustainability assessment. produced, it can be challenging to find its supply chain. Carbon emissions from Gränges will use the results from this recycled aluminium which fits well in the purchased materials mainly come from assessment to decide how to manage supre-melting process and the specific the production of primary aluminium, pliers through for example on-site visits. alloys that are produced. Gränges therewhich is an energy intensive process. Gränges sees this programme as an fore requires strict sorting of recycled Gränges strives to more actively choose opportunity to strengthen the collaboration aluminium, both from its own operations supplier and input material based on use with suppliers to achieve continuous as well as from customers and recycling of renewable energy, climate performance improvements and build lasting relationcompanies. and carbon emissions reduction activities ships. Gränges’ Research & Innovation (R&I) and targets. Gränges also plans to more organization works to design alloys which actively have a dialogue with commodity RECYCLED ALUMINIUM can use a high share of recycled alumintraders about supplier sustainability manPromoting circularity ium and which can be recycled after agement processes and promoting supply Gränges’ procurement teams continuously usage. Material for brazed heat exchangchain traceability. coordinate with the production units to ers consists of so called clad materials Commitment to Total sourced metal inputs, 2019 Sourced recycled aluminium Supplier Code of Conduct % recycled aluminium of total % purchase value from significant suppliers sourced metal inputs 100 2025 25 target 2025 20 75 target 15 50 10 25 5 0 Primary aluminium 0 2018 2019 (ingots + slabs), 78% 2017 2018 2019 Recycled aluminium, 20% Supplier Code of Conduct Alloying elements, 2% commitment 25 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Efficient management of energy and materials is critical to Gränges as it improves the company’s profitability, competitiveness, and environmental performance. Providing a safe work environment is also a top priority as the company strives towards operating an injury-free workplace. ENERGY TARGETS 2025 Increasing energy efficiency Gränges works actively to reduce the Energy use by type, 2019 >> Total Recordable Rate to be energy consumption in its melting and < 3.0 recordable accidents per million hours worked. casting processes to reduce both environmental impacts and costs. Energy costs >> Severity Rate to be < 50 lost are the most significant expense after workdays per million hours metal and personnel costs. worked. Gränges primarily consumes energy in its furnaces, where aluminium is re-melted >> Energy intensity to be reduced by 17 per cent.1) either via direct combustion or via induction. Important energy sources are natural >> Carbon emissions intensity gas, electricity, and liquefied petroleum gas. Natural gas, 62% from own operations and purTo improve energy efficiency, Gränges Electricity, 33% chased energy to be reduced continually carries out energy audits, Liquified petroleum gas, 4% by 25 per cent.1) Diesel, 1% implements related improvement actions, and considers the best available technolDistrict heating, 0.3% >> All Gränges sites to have Petrol, 0.01% implemented a local water ogy for new investments. Energy efficiency management plan. measures are primarily linked to increased 1) Versus baseline 2017. metal yield, improved thermal processes and recovery of waste heat. Gränges also PERFORMANCE 2019 re-melts recycled aluminium from its own Energy intensity production to avoid quality degradation and >> Improved safety performance; MWh/tonne Total Recordable Rate reached energy losses involved in transporting recy4 4.4 (6.1) and Severity Rate cled aluminium to third parties. 142 (165). Examples of activities implemented during 3 the year include recuperation of heat from air 2025 >> Energy intensity increased to target compressors in the maintenance building in 2 3.5 MWh/tonne (3.3), mainly Gränges’ operations in Europe, an autonomdriven by lower production volumes. ation project on annealing furnaces in the 1 operations in Asia resulting in reduced unit >> Carbon emissions intensity energy consumption, and installation of 0 2017 2018 2019 from own operations and purstate-of-the-art annealing furnaces with chased energy amounted to specifically configured air nozzles to improve 0.82 tonnes CO2e/tonne (0.76), the heat transfer in the furnaces in the operup by 8 per cent versus 2018 ations in Americas. The operations in Asia and 1 per cent versus baseline 2017, driven by lower producwas also certified in accordance with the Sourced renewable energy, 2019 tion volumes. energy management standard ISO 50001. >> Agreed on the key elements of local water management plans, which will be developed starting in 2020. “ We have in 2019 achieved an all-time low safety accident rate of 4.4 recordable accidents per million hours worked. Renewable energy, 8% I’m very satisfied with our strong behavioural safety Non-renewable energy, 79% ­programme and employees’ relentless focus on keeping Nuclear energy, 13% the workplace clean and tidy through the 5S system.” Paul Neutjens, SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development 26 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Promoting renewable energy WATER MANAGEMENT Water that may contain contaminants is Gränges’ operations in Europe primarily uses Local water conditions treated by an external partner before being induction melters and sources electricity The main part of Gränges’ water use is for returned to water bodies. from low carbon sources (hydro and nuclear) cooling purposes, where much of the prothrough the deregulated energy market in duction equipment requires cooling water Managing water risks Sweden. The operations in Americas and for efficient operations and to prevent overGränges’ operations are located in areas Asia use ­natural gas in their production, and heating and production disruptions. The with various water risks, and water-related in these regions electricity is sourced from plants in Americas and Asia have closedaspects are therefore managed based on regulated energy markets which currently loop cooling systems with a high degree of local circumstances. are primarily based on nuclear and non-rewater recirculation, which reduce water In terms of water stress, the production newable energy. consumption and the risk of water contamifacilities in Finspång and Newport are Gränges works to evaluate alternative nation. In addition, water is used to make up located in areas with low-to-medium risk, energy sources and to increase the sourcemulsions in different process steps and for whereas the Huntingdon and Salisbury ing and usage of renewable energy, in line domestic purposes. facilities are in medium-to-high risk areas. with the company’s long-term target. In the production site in Huntingdon The plant in Shanghai is situated in a highground water from the company’s own risk area.1) No water sources are considEMISSIONS AND wells is used, whereas municipal water is ered to be significantly affected by the CLIMATE IMPACT used in the Salisbury and Newport prowater withdrawal or discharge from Climate impact from own operations duction sites. Cooling takes place in Gränges’ operations. In line with the company’s climate strategy, closed-loop systems using non-contact As water-related aspects and risks are as described on page 22, Gränges works cooling towers. As the systems are closedmanaged based on local circumstances, actively to reduce the climate impact from loop, and therefore contain no contamiGränges has set a target to develop and its own operations. Gränges’ emissions to nants, the used water can be discharged implement local water management plans air, in terms of carbon dioxide, nitrogen to nearby water bodies or to local waste in all its locations. The ambition is that oxides and particulate matter, come from water treatment plants without further such a plan should include local targets burning fossil fuels and particularly natural treatment. Contaminated water is sent for and actions to address water-related gas and liquefied petroleum gas. Emissions external treatment. impacts, such as water efficiency improveof oil to air and water are linked to the cold In Gränges’ operations in Asia, municiments, quality of effluent discharge, conrolling operations where oil is used to cool pal tap water is used. Water from the coolservation activities, and local stakeholder down the mill and lubricate the interface ing system is re-used in other parts of the engagement. between the rolls and the material. production process, for example in the In 2019, Gränges agreed on the key elecold rolling mill. Water of insufficient qualments of the local water management plans. ity is discharged to the local waste water Also, an assessment of current status on treatment plant, in accordance with the managing water risks was performed to proREDUCING NATURAL local drainage permit which limits water vide input to the development at each site. In GAS CONSUMPTION IN 2020, the company aims to implement such volumes and types. THE ASIA OPERATIONS In Gränges’ operations in Europe, surplans in three production facilities. Gränges’ operations in Asia has face water is withdrawn from two nearby With regards to water risks in the supply managed to reduce costs, lakes. The water is primarily used to cool chain, the water topic is included in Gränges’ increase productivity and components and is then released into new supplier sustainability risk assessment achieve a more sustainable prolocal waterways. Daily measurements are model described on page 25. How suppliers duction thanks to an improved manage water risks will be evaluated as part made to ensure that the released water control of the natural gas flow in does not contain hazardous substances. of sustainability assessments which supplithe casting process. By changers will be invited to perform. ing to a new type of valve on the burner, it has been possible to monitor the process and opti1) Based on the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by the World Resources Institute. mize the natural gas flow. A consistent flow with precise control means less waste and lower energy usage. Also, by adding an Water withdrawal Water intensity alarm which turns on whenever by source, 2019 the flame is extinguished in the m3/tonne melting furnace, the uptime and 10 burning performance on the 8 machine has been improved. Since 2016, natural gas con6 sumption has been reduced by 4 0.4 million m3 per year, slab production has increased by 4,500 2 tonnes, an annual cost saving of CNY 1.2 million has been Surface water, 76% 0 2017 2018 2019 achieved. This corresponds to Ground water, 17% a saving of 970 tonnes CO2e. Third-party water, 8% 27 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES WORKPLACE SAFETY fined spaces, and machine guarding – vided for production personnel, manage“Safety first” lockout and tagout, i.e. ensuring machinery ment and new employees. Production Gränges strives towards a “safety first” is fully switched off and de-energized employees receive specific safety training work environment. This means that it is top before maintenance work begins. covering particular aspects such as hand priority to operate a safe and injury-free and finger injury prevention. All new workplace which protects the health and A preventive and risk-based approach employees attend safety training before fosters the wellbeing of employees and all Gränges’ safety strategy is focused on starting. persons directly or indirectly related to the preventing workplace injuries through company’s operations. No individual should better understanding how work is perSharing best practice be at risk of injury in a Gränges workplace. formed in relation to hazards and the Gränges actively communicates safeSafety targets are set for each plant as associated risks. ty-related information as it is important to part of the business planning cycle, and Job safety analysis is carried out for both spread awareness of incidents to prevent results are reported monthly. During 2019, repetitive and non-repetitive tasks by using them from happening again. there were 17 recordable workplace acciexperts and involving the people who do the The company also conducts internal dents (23), of which 3 (7) were defined as job. This involves identifying hazards assosafety assessments every six months at serious. 10 (14) of the accidents resulted in ciated with work tasks, assessing the risk of the sites, aiming to share experiences and lost workday cases which led to 548 lost injuries and developing action plans to manbest practice, and to harmonize work proworkdays (620). Hand and finger injuries age and mitigate these risks. Actions are cesses. These assessments focus on the were the most frequent injury type, reprecoordinated and prioritized by management “critical five” hazard categories, fire safety senting 6 of the 17 recordable cases. For and safety representatives. and environmental matters. During 2019, details, read more on page 106. All incidents and accidents are registered the company conducted one assessment Safety is integrated into Gränges’ proand classified by employees in local incident at the Shanghai plant and one at Salisgramme for lean operations, “Gränges Proreporting systems, and reviewed weekly and bury. All corrective actions from the duction System – GPS”, which is part of the monthly. For all recordable accidents as assessments are incorporated into the strategy for continuous improvements. well as for injury-free and first-aid events location’s improvement plans and Read more on page 15. A 5S system has with severe potential consequence, Gränges reported to the regional safety committee. been implemented in all production faciliperforms a root-cause analysis as a basis To promote better safety, Gränges also ties to ensure a clean, orderly and safe for corrective and preventive actions. collaborates and shares knowledge with work environment. The system is used to Gränges also strives to minimize other companies through industry associadrive safe behaviours, improve workplace employee exposure to chemicals, and pertions. Gränges is for example active in the efficiency and eliminate waste. forms chemical risk assessments to ensure European Aluminium task force for safety. To underline the importance of “safety employees use alternatives that are safe first”, senior leaders have committed to and environmentally sound. participating in at least five 5S floor audits per year, to observe the workplace and Safety training raise the safety expectations. Gränges constantly works to improve health IMPROVED SAFETY and safety awareness and skills. This FOR LOADING AND Specific safety hazards includes regular health checks as well as training in machine safety, personal protecUNLOADING Gränges’ operations entail specific safety hazards which are continually monitored to tive equipment, fire safety, first aid, and In 2019, Gränges’ operations in eliminate or reduce the risks of these hazemergency response. All employees are covAmericas implemented a new ards causing injuries. Gränges defines the ered by accident and sickness insurance. formal process to improve following hazard categories as the “critical Comprehensive safety training is carsafety for truck loading and ried out for all employees at least once a unloading. Key elements of the five”, which have top priority: fall protecnew process include to make tion, molten metal, mobile equipment, conyear, and safety courses are regularly prosure the rear of the trailer is snug against the dock to safely accommodate the dock plate; that the driver must leave the truck and remain visible during Total Recordable Rate Severity Rate the loading and unloading process; that a warning system or Number of recordable accidents Number of lost workdays per per million hours worked million hours worked indicator light in conjunction 8 180 with dock locks should be placed in a visible location; and that the trailer is checked for sufficient 6 120 overhead clearance and has 4 sufficient capacity for the com2025 bined weight of lift truck and target 60 cargo. Through the new pro2 2025 target cess, the Americas operation 0 0 has significantly reduced the 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 safety risks associated with the truck loading process. 28 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES DIVERSE AND HIGHPERFORMING TEAMS Competent and committed employees form the foundation on which Gränges can be innovative and competitive, and is therefore a crucial part of the company’s business strategy and growth plan. During 2019, Gränges had an average total of 1,805 employees (1,699). Strong company culture 80 per cent (77) of Gränges’ employees Gränges works actively to strengthen its had such a plan. In Gränges’ operations in TARGETS 2025 corporate culture as this is important for Asia, individual development plans are >> 100 per cent of all employees employee engagement and performance. only required for white-collar employees. to receive annual perforThe company’s Code of Conduct lays the mance and development foundation on how employees should act Leadership development ­discussion. and conduct business responsibly, both To develop the leadership that is needed, internally and in relation to business partGränges works actively with training oppor>> At least 30 per cent of senior ners. The company’s core values – committunities, talent management and succesmanagement1) to be women. ted, action oriented, accessible, and innosion planning, as well as strengthening the >> Employee engagement index vative – guide employees on daily actions. corporate culture and core values. Leaderto reach at least 85. To further encourage employees to act in ship training is conducted in line with line with the core values, in 2019 Gränges regional needs and covers both current and decided to integrate these as a new evaluapotential leaders and talents. Ongoing PERFORMANCE 2019 tion criterion in its performance and develtraining activities take place in all regions, opment discussion template. in line with local needs. >> 100 per cent (99) of employIn 2019, Gränges’ operations in Americas ees received a performance and development discussion. CAREER AND LEADERSHIP initiated a new leadership development DEVELOPMENT programme, in which identified future >> 14 per cent (14) women in Attracting and retaining employees leaders participated over six working days. total workforce, and 20 per Gränges strives to offer good working conExternal lectures were combined with cent (20) among senior ditions and interesting career development home assignments and internal workmanagement. opportunities to attract, develop and retain shops. In the operations in Asia, managers 1) Employees eligible to participate in talented people. The company runs a strucparticipated in mandatory leadership trainGränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) tured recruitment process to ensure the ing as part of implementing Gränges’ pro­programme. company hires competent and skilled gramme for lean operations. The purpose employees. In the recruitment process, all was to go through leadership requirements else being equal, individuals from underto drive operational excellence and contin“ represented groups are given recruitment uous improvement. Gränges’ operations in priority to promote a diverse workforce. Europe also conducted mandatory manBy being an open and incluTo ensure employees are engaged and ager training on the physical and psychosive employer, Gränges is motivated, Gränges conducts annual persocial work environment. dedicated to providing a formance and development discussions workplace where all employas well as compensation reviews. The DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY ees have the opportunity to company’s target is that all employees Promoting diversity and inclusion develop and contribute to should receive an annual performance Diversity is a competitive advantage and reach our overall business and development discussion. an inclusive work environment which leverages employees’ different perspectives, targets.” Enhancing employee performance experiences and ideas, will lead to a more Magnus Carlström, To develop competencies that enhance innovative, competitive and productive SVP Human Resources both individual and organizational perfororganization. A multifaceted workforce mance, Gränges works to follow up on also reflects the international market in employees’ individual performance and which Gränges operates. In line with support their aspirations. Gränges’ Diversity Policy, no employee As part of the annual performance and should experience discrimination based on development discussion, each employee gender, age, world view, background, sexand their direct manager decide on an ual orientation, ethnicity, physical ability, individual development plan. In 2019, or similar. 29 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Gränges strives to have at least one teams. Mismanagement can lead to signifwoman in the final interview round of each icant cost implications both for the recruitment process. In cases where there employee and the company. To promote are few or no women applicants, the employee health and wellbeing, the comrecruitment process is expanded to make pany has benefits and initiatives such as a broader search. flexible work options, occupational health care, wellness grants, and support to Regional diversity plans employees who have recurrent illness. Gränges manages diversity and equality In 2019, Gränges’ operations in Americas matters on a regional level. In 2019, the offered a financial wellness programme to company established regional action plans all employees to improve their understandto increase the share of women in the total ing of personal finances and ensure finanworkforce and among senior management. cial stability at home and work. In Gränges’ operations in Europe, the company in 2019 continued to conduct Access to healthcare services employer branding activities with local uniTo ensure healthy employees, Gränges versities to better understand female stuoffers both occupational and non-occupadents’ future job requirements. Also, female tional health services. Employees and consafety representatives established a new tracted workers have access to first-aid team at the Finspång plant to improve the care at the production facilities. Off-site, IGE DAY IN FINSPÅNG work environment for women. The team met employees are offered preventive and regregularly to discuss for example ergonomics ular health checks, as well as access to In March 2019, Gränges’ operrelated to machines, clothes and equipment medical care at licensed medical providers ations in Europe participated in as well as attitudes and salary levels. The in case of occupational injury or illness. Introduce a Girl to Engineering European operations also performed a genWith regards to non-occupational health Day1), an event which aims to raise young girls’ interest in der-related disparity pay analysis, which and medical services, Gränges helps its technology and engineering. identified a few non-objective gaps which employees to have access to services such Four girls from Linköping, aged were instantly corrected. as tobacco and nicotine cessation, dietary 13–19, visited the Finspång In Gränges’ operations in Americas, the advice, stress reduction and mental health. production facility where they company conducted quarterly manageGränges maintains the confidentiality of all had a factory tour and saw the ment conference calls to review the diverpersonal health-related information, and different production steps. sity status with regards to applicants, keeps medical information and journals in They also learned about heat interviews, and new hires. Also, annual compliance with local legislation. exchangers and conducted an training in diversity and inclusion was conexperiment on conductivity in ducted to increase participants’ diversiEmployee satisfaction materials. At the R&I organization, the girls tried various ty-related cultural awareness, knowledge, Gränges regularly follows up on employmicroscopes and increased and communication. Gränges’ operations ees’ general motivation and wellbeing via their knowledge of metals. in Asia in 2019 initiated an internal female the annual performance and development network to encourage sharing experiences discussion. The company also conducts 1) T he initiative is driven by the organization Womengineer and and mutual support. employee surveys every two years to track aims to make sure that in 2030 status. In 2019, Gränges conducted an there will be as many female as male engineers in Sweden. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING employee survey in the operations in Engaged and healthy employees Americas, which was unable to participate Gränges believes that having engaged and in the 2018 survey. Total employee satisfachealthy employees is a prerequisite for tion baseline for Gränges Group, when comproductivity and building high-performing bining results from 2018 and 2019, was 77. Employees by region, 20191) Women in senior management Women in total workforce % % 30 2025 30 target 20 20 10 10 Asia, 29% 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Europe, 29% Americas, 42% 1) Based on full-time positions. 30 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Gränges is committed to ethically sound business practices and operating in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. All employees are expected to support the company’s values and act responsibly towards each other and business partners. ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION and board members, temporary staff, interConducting business responsibly mediaries, agents, or others acting on TARGETS 2025 Gränges’ group-wide Code of Conduct outbehalf of Gränges. The company also devel>> 100 per cent of all employees lines ethical principles and gives guidance oped new online anti-corruption training, in to be annually trained in to employees on how to act and conduct line with its 2025 target on annual training. Gränges’ Code of Conduct. business responsibly. The Code of ConAnti-corruption is also one criterion in duct is based on international standards2) Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which >> 100 per cent of all whiteon human rights, labour conditions, the Gränges’ requires all significant supplicollar employees to be annually trained in anti-corruption.1) environment, and anti-corruption. This ers3) to sign. More information can be includes the UN Global Compact and its found on pages 24–25. 10 principles. PERFORMANCE 2019 In 2019, Gränges conducted online Detecting irregularities training in line with the 2025 target on To detect irregularities that may seriously >> 99 per cent (99) of all employharm Gränges’ business or employees, annual Code of Conduct training. ees conducted an online Gränges has a Whistleblower function training in Gränges’Code of Counteracting corruption which is managed by an external company Conduct. Gränges has zero tolerance for corruption and can be accessed online (intranet or >> 100 per cent of all white-­ as it prevents economic development, disexternal website) or by telephone. This collar employees conducted torts competition, increases costs, and enables employees and external business the new online anti-corrupdamages confidence and reputation. It is partners to provide information anonytion training, based on the costly for Gränges as a company as well as mously and without fear of retaliation. updated Anti-Corruption for individuals, and could lead to imprisonGränges takes great consideration of the ­Policy. ment and fines. The company does not tolprotection of personal privacy and hanerate corruption and will always act rapidly, dles submitted information in line with stringently and vigorously on discovering applicable legislation and regulation. “ corruption or unethical behaviour. In 2019, By quickly uncovering and remediating no corruption incidents were detected and irregularities, Gränges is in a better posiRunning our operations in no business contracts were breached or tion to deal with the underlying causes line with the highest ethical not renewed due to corruption. before they become unmanageable. In standards is a business In 2019, Gränges updated its Anti-Corrup2019, there were a few cases reported necessity, and I’m very tion Policy to make it more user-friendly and through the Whistleblower function, all ­satisfied that we have to improve internal awareness of corruption. related to internal working conditions and reached close to 100% The updated policy applies to all employees none linked to corruption or bribery. training participation in our new online training in Gränges’ Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy.” Niclas Nelson, General Counsel 1) T  arget has been reformulated in 2019 to cover all white-collar employees. 2) U 3) S  N Global Compact, UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Sustainable Development Goals, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational corporations.  uppliers with a purchase value above SEK 5 million CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. 99% 100% COMPLETED THE CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING, 2019 COMPLETED THE ANTICORRUPTION TRAINING, 2019 31 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES RISK MANAGEMENT As a group with operations in different parts of the world, Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties. Gränges’ risk management process entails to identify, assess and reduce risks related to the Group’s business and operations. Identification and analysis Risk mitigating activities Monitoring Gränges works actively with risk management to monitor and minimize risks in a structured and proactive manner. On a group level, Gränges’ risk committee, consisting of Group Management members, identifies and assesses risks within the Group and holds sessions twice a year. Risks are also managed locally as a part of daily operations where key risks are raised to the regional management team and mitigation measures are implemented. Risk reporting systems are in place at the production sites. Gränges maintains adequate insurance coverage in relevant areas. MARKET RISKS Market risks are managed and controlled by the corporate functions and by the regions in accordance with established guidelines and procedures. RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES MACRO Macroeconomic conditions, technological transformations and • Global presence: Gränges’ global presence on three continents ECONOMIC industry dynamics are factors that impact demand for Gränges’ balances the shift in demand throughout the economic cycle. AND MARKET products. • C ontinuous monitoring: Gränges continuously monitors the DEVELOPMENT Light vehicle production is an important driver of Gränges’ sales development in different markets, and proactively assess external as customers in the automotive industry account for around half of risks and opportunities that may influence the company’s stratGränges total sales volume. During an economic downturn, there is egy and operations. normally a decline in vehicles production, which can reduce demand • Diversified portfolio: A more diversified product portfolio for aluminium products used in vehicles. reduces Gränges’ cyclicality and reduces the company’s dependThe electrification of the automotive industry is accelerating ence on the automotive industry. and is driving demand for new solutions and components for cool• Research and innovation: Extensive R&I enables Gränges to ing and heating. Although Gränges is well positioned to benefit ­c ontinue to develop advanced materials and solutions to meet from this development there is a risk that other technologies will new demands. emerge over time and that Gränges’ current and future technology • Customer collaboration: Gränges works closely with customers become outdated. in product development for future applications to ensure a conDissatisfied customers can adversely affect the company’s profittinued high quality and adherence to customer requirements. ability and market share and may also pose a reputational risk. • Global customer satisfaction surveys: Gränges conducts global customer satisfaction surveys to track customers’ perceptions of the company and its products. SUPPLY CHAIN Supply chain risks mainly relate to social, environmental and ethi• Supplier Code of Conduct: Gränges has a Supplier Code of Conduct cal risks in Gränges’ supply chain. Mismanagement of these risks which all significant suppliers are requested to sign. The intention is may lead to undesirable effects on the supply of input materials to increase awareness and improve transparency of responsible and for Gränges. It can also lead to reputational losses. sustainable business practices in Gränges’ supply chain. By signing, Social supply chain risks and human rights violations are mainly suppliers declare to observe all applicable laws and regulations, related to indigenous rights in the extraction, mining and smelting including the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and to promote activities. Extractive activities also carry a risk of forced and child the implementation of these principles in their own supply chains. labour, although there are few reports of this in aluminium mining. • Supplier assessments: Gränges periodically assesses supply Health and safety risks are present throughout the value chain. chain sustainability performance and risks and makes sure that Environmental supply chain risks mainly occur in mining activities suppliers adhere to the Supplier Code of Conduct. The purchasing where there are risks related to water consumption, leakage, noise teams use different tools for such assessments, including supfrom heavy vehicles, air emissions, and significant alterations to the plier score cards and site visits at suppliers. landscape due to open-pit mines. It can also contribute to biodiver• Updated responsible sourcing programme: Gränges has during sity loss, increased carbon emissions, and soil erosion. Further, refin2019 updated its group-wide responsible sourcing programme ing and smelting activities are very energyand water-intensive prowhich will be implemented starting from 2020. The company plans cesses and much of the energy comes from hydroelectricity which is to regularly screen its supplier base and identify potential risk supa renewable source but has other environmental impacts. pliers through evaluating suppliers’ environmental, social, and corCorruption risks are mainly linked to mining approvals, regardruption risks in different sectors and countries. Suppliers assessed less of the country’s level of economic development or political as having potential sustainability risks will be invited to perform a system. A few countries in Gränges’ supply chain are deemed to sustainability assessment. Gränges will use the results from the have a higher risk for corruption, according to Transparency Interassessment to decide how to manage suppliers and improve supnational’s Corruption Perceptions Index for 2019. plier performance through for example on-site workplace audits. 32 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONT. MARKET RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES ENERGY PRICES Energy price risks relate largely to changes in energy prices that • Hedging and delivery agreements: Gränges uses hedging and can adversely affect Gränges’ operating profit. Gränges is mainly delivery agreements to secure future energy prices and supply. exposed to price changes in electricity and natural gas, but the Financial hedges and physical fixed-price contracts may be used price of other energy commodities may also affect Gränges’ operup to two years before delivery. ating profit directly and indirectly. Long term changes to market prices will eventually affect Gränges’ operating profit if changes are not automatically transferred to the customers. POLITICAL Political risks relate mainly to changes in trade legislation or sanc• C ontinuous monitoring: Gränges closely monitors political risks, tions against individual countries or organizations where Gränges particularly regarding legislation for cross-border trade. or its supply chain has operations or market activities. Gränges’ • Flexible production set-up: Gränges has production sites on production sites are located in Sweden, China, and the US, and its three continents which implies a flexibility to transfer production customers are located in around 40 countries. Markets and operaand re-route supply flows should political changes have a negations are affected by the political and economic environments tive impact on the current setup. within and between these countries. Political risks affect Gränges’ ability to meet the demands of its customers. OPERATIONAL RISKS Operational risks are managed and controlled by the corporate functions and by the regions in accordance with established guidelines and procedures. RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES PRODUCTION Production disruption risks are connected to sufficient input •S  upplier agreements: Gränges has agreements with suppliers in DISRUPTION materials which Gränges is dependent on, mainly primary alumineach market to ensure deliveries based on estimated volumes. ium but also recycled aluminium, alloying elements and indirect • Own production: Gränges has own cast houses in the production materials. Insufficient supply would imply that Gränges cannot facilities which makes the company less sensitive to supply produce certain products. issues regarding for example aluminium slabs. Production risks are also connected to critical machine break• Maintenance plans and machinery: Gränges has maintenance downs or calamities such as a fire, which could damage equipplans to manage critical machinery. The company also ensures ment. access to spare parts and service staff to continually maintain critical machinery. Furthermore, Gränges has invested in stateof-the-art fire protection systems and customary insurance ­policies. QUALITY AND Quality and efficiency risks are mainly connected to defective • Operational excellence programmes: Gränges ensures highEFFICIENCY products and insufficient process stability, and are often due to quality products and efficient production processes through its unplanned stoppages at production plants. programmes for lean operations. Read more on pages 15 and 28. ENVIRONMENT Environmental risks are mainly related to emissions to water, •D  aily monitoring and management: Gränges monitors and AND CLIMATE soil and air or releases of environmentally hazardous substances manages emissions to air as part of the daily operations. Compliresulting from incidents and accidents in Gränges’ production ance is a prerequisite for Gränges’ continued licence to operate. facilities, such as fire, oil spill, or leak of hazardous substances. Local authorities continually monitor compliance to ensure that Emissions to air, in terms of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate matter, particulate matter, come from burning fossil fuels and particularly volatile organic compounds (VOC) and, in some regions, oil emisnatural gas and liquefied petroleum gas. Emissions of oil are sions, are within limits. linked to cold rolling operations in which oil is used to cool down • Incident reporting: Gränges’ employees can report environmenthe mill and lubricate the interface between the rolls and the tal risk observations in site-specific incident management sysmaterial. Such events may have financial, nonfinancial, as well as tems. Risks are managed in accordance with standardized rouregulatory repercussions. tines and integrated as a part of daily operations. Key risks are In line with the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by the raised to the regional management team and mitigation activiWorld Resources Institute, Gränges’ operations are located in ties are implemented accordingly. Measures to mitigate environareas with various water risks. The production sites in Finspång mental risks are also integrated in investment and maintenance and Newport are situated in areas with low-to-medium risk, routines. Gränges takes a precautionary approach to environwhereas the Huntingdon and Salisbury facilities are in mediummental risks. to-high risk areas. The plant in Shanghai is situated in a high-risk • Environmental management certifications: Gränges aims to area. have all its sites certified in accordance with ISO 14001 (environMismanagement of water risks can lead to water shortage and/ mental management) and ISO 50001 (energy management) ceror bad water quality; however, no water source is considered to be tification standards. The sites in Europe and Asia are certified significantly affected by the water withdrawal or discharge from against both standards. The sites in Americas are preparing for Gränges’ operations. both certifications. • L ocal water management plans: Gränges has set a 2025 target to develop and implement local water management plans in all its sites and has in 2019 agreed on the key elements of such a plan. In short, the plans will include local targets and actions to address water-related impacts. 33 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONT. OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES HEALTH AND Health and safety risks mainly relate to incidents or accidents in •D  aily monitoring and management: Gränges has strict safety SAFETY the cast house or rolling mills, which can cause damage on fingers, ­routines in place and continuously invests in safety measures to hands, feet and legs. Another risk is exposure to chemicals, which prevent and mitigate workplace accidents and injuries. can be hazardous to employees’ health. There is also a risk of fire • I ncident reporting: Gränges focuses on preventing workplace which can lead to explosion or breakdown in a production facility. ­injuries and ensuring safe behaviour. Job safety analysis is carried Employees and other individuals may be injured if the impleout and all incidents and accidents are registered and classified in mentation of safety procedures is unsuccessful or inefficient. incident reporting systems. A 5S system has been implemented in Unsafe workplaces can also lead to increased employee turnover all sites to ensure a lean, orderly and safe work environment. as well as higher operating costs and production interruptions, •G  lobal EHS Policy: Gränges has a group-wide EHS Policy which all which in turn could result in increased costs for Gränges. Safety employees and contracted workers are required to follow. The policy and health incidents can also lead to reputational damages for the includes clear principles related to occupational safety and health. company. •S  afety certifications: Gränges aims to have all its sites certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 safety management standards. The site in Asia is certified against OHSAS 18001 and the sites in Americas and Europe are preparing for ISO 45001 certifications. • S afety training: Gränges arranges safety training for all employees at least once a year. Targeted safety training is also carried out for specific safety aspects. • Best practice sharing: Gränges shares safety experiences and best practice through internal cross assessments, safety meetings and intranet communication. The company also shares information with external companies through industry associations. EMPLOYEES Employee risks are mainly related to lack of access to and difficulty •A  ttractive workplace: Gränges strives to offer good working condito attract and retain qualified and skilled employees, which is crititions and interesting career development opportunities to attract, cal for Gränges to achieve the company’s strategic and operational develop and retain qualified employees. The company runs a strucobjectives. There are also risks relating to not having a diverse tured recruitment process to ensure the company hires competent workforce as this is a prerequisite for a productive and innovative and skilled employees. organization. Gränges operates in a traditional industry in non-­ • Leadership development: Gränges conducts regular performance central locations, which can lead to recruitment related challenges. and development discussions to ensure motivated and engaged Losing key employees or not attracting skilled employees or a employees. The company also works actively with training opportulack of diverse workforce can negatively affect Gränges’ possibilinities, talent management and succession planning as well as ties of conducting and developing its operations, and its ability to strengthening the corporate culture and core values. develop new products. It can also lead to significant cost implica• Regional diversity plans: Gränges supports an inclusive work envitions. ronment which leverages employees’ different perspectives, experiences and ideas. In the recruitment process, all else being equal, individuals from underrepresented groups are given recruitment priority. Gränges regularly trains its employees on the importance of inclusion and having a diversified workplace. • Health and wellbeing initiatives: Gränges offers its employees occupational and non-occupational health services. Examples include access to occupational health care, regular health checks and access to medical care at licensed medical providers. ETHICAL Operating in a global business environment can sometimes be •U  N Global Compact membership: Gränges supports international challenging as complex market conditions can lead to situations standards on human rights, labour conditions, the environment and where employees are uncertain how to act. Risk of corruption and anti-corruption, including but not limited to the UN Global Compact bribery exists in many markets where Gränges conducts business. and its set of ten principles. Gränges has been a member of UN Corruption can prevent economic development, distort compeGlobal Compact since 2016. tition, lead to increased costs and destroy confidence, reputation •R  esponsible business practices: Gränges is committed to operatand brand. For Gränges as a company, corrupt activities can lead ing in accordance with responsible, ethical and sound business to costly penalties and government-ordered compliance costs as a principles, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regularesult of corruption allegations. The company may also be prohibtions. The company will always act rapidly, stringently and vigorited from doing business in certain countries or industries, with ously upon discovering corruption or other unethical behaviour. ­certain governments or from participating in public tenders. • Code of Conduct: Gränges has a group-wide Code of Conduct which Corruption can also lead to increased costs for the individual employees and board members, as well as temporary staff, must who is involved in acts of corruption, for example civil and criminal ­follow. The company has a target that all of its employees annually liability. Corrupt activities are punished severely by the court, and should conduct training in the Code of Conduct. individuals who are found guilty of violating the law may become • Anti-Corruption Policy: Gränges also has a group-wide Anti-Corrupliable to fines and imprisonment. tion Policy which all Gränges’ employees and board members must adhere to. These individuals must also take reasonable steps to ensure that Gränges’ independent business partners, including suppliers, customers, and joint-venture partners, do not engage in corruption or other illegal or unethical activities related to their business with Gränges. The company has a target that all of its white-collar employees annually should conduct training in anti-corruption. • Whistleblower function: Gränges has a Whistleblower function which is managed by an external company and can be accessed online or via telephone. Through the function, employees and external business partners can report irregularities or concerns of misconduct anonymously. COMPLIANCE AND Gränges operates in many different markets, with local laws and •C  ontinuous monitoring and management: Gränges continually LEGISLATION rules. Failure to keep abreast of legislative and regulatory requiremonitors legislative and regulatory developments through external ments may cause financial liabilities or even loss of permits. If partners, and through membership in various industrial organizaemployees or individuals who work on Gränges’ behalf violate laws tions. The company observes all applicable local and international and rules, it could have negative consequences for Gränges. laws and regulations. The company may be affected by events that damage confidence • C ommunication and training: Gränges regularly informs its employin the company, its operations, or employees, for example if enviees of relevant changes that the company must follow. The company ronmental, quality, or ethical requirements are not met in the also trains relevant employees to ensure good knowledge and manner prescribed by Gränges. understanding of legal risks and requirements. 34 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONT. OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES IT SECURITY These risks relate to disturbances in critical IT systems, business • IT security management: Gränges has implemented processes to processes or other digital infrastructure. Such disruptions can handle IT security and to mitigate risks related to incidents. These have a direct impact on production and other important business processes are continuously improved according to the latest best processes and could lead to inability to deliver products or serpractice. The IT environment is proactively monitored and abnormal vices in time to customers or other stakeholders. This can in turn patterns are acted upon. lead to financial and reputational losses. Errors in the handling of • Regular audits: Gränges conducts yearly audits to identify IT security financial systems can affect the company’s financial reporting. risks, covering internal and external perspectives. These risks are The risk of unauthorized intrusion into Gränges’ systems may raised to Group management and mitigation activities are impleresult in financial losses and other damage. These risks grow in an mented accordingly. increasingly technically complex and interlinked world. Failure to • Information Security Policy: Gränges has an established Group adequately restrict access to information may result in unauthorInformation Security Policy which all employees, including contracized knowledge or use of confidential information. tors and board members, must adhere to. • Communication and training: Gränges regularly informs and trains its employees to create information and cyber security awareness and understanding. FINANCIAL RISKS Financial risks are managed in accordance with Gränges’ Financial Management Policy. Gränges uses derivatives and other financial instruments to reduce financial risks. RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MITIGATING ACTIVITIES CURRENCY Currency risks are related to the fact that Gränges’ Group sales • Financial Management Policy: Gränges has a Financial Manageprimarily are generated outside of Sweden. Sales contracts are ment Policy which regulates the company’s management of formainly denoted in USD, EUR and CNY, depending on where the eign exchange risk. ­customers are located. Changes in foreign exchange rates have an • Financial instruments: Gränges uses financial instruments, impact on Gränges’ income statement, balance sheets, and cash mostly forwards, to reduce the company’s exposure to changes in flow. foreign exchange rates regarding its commercial cash flows. Over time, changes in foreign exchange rates may also affect Changes in exchange rates for firm commitments are managed in the company’s long-term competitiveness and earning capacity. accordance with a model whereby the exposure with a duration of up to 18 months is hedged. Exposures relating to customer orders without firm commitments are partly hedged up to 24 months. COMMODITY Commodity price risks are connected to Gränges procuring large vol• Metal Management Policy: Gränges has a Metal Management PRICE umes of aluminium for the company’s production facilities in Sweden, Policy which regulates the company’s management of commodity China and the US. The price of aluminium is based on the trade price price risk. The goal is to balance the short and long position so that on the LME in London or SHFE in Shanghai. Gränges’ revenue model the company is not affected by changes in the price of aluminium. means that the cost of aluminium is passed on to the customer, • Financial instruments: Gränges uses financial instruments to through agreements with customers and suppliers. There usually is manage the commodity price risk which can arise if there is a lag a lag between the aluminium procurement date and the pricing of the between the aluminium procurement date and the sale of the finished product, which means that Gränges could be exposed to ­finished product. Gränges takes no positions for speculative fluctuations in the price of aluminium. If the metal price risk is not ­purposes. handled, fluctuations in the metal price could lead to losses. INTEREST Gränges’ interest rate risk is mainly related to the Group’s inter• Floating interest rates: Gränges’ borrowings are mainly in SEK and RATE est-bearing liabilities. The actual interest rate risk depends on the USD at floating interest rates. total size of the interest-bearing debt. Changes in interest rates • Duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio: Gränges can adjust may affect the Group’s results and cash flow and/or the fair value the duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio by longer interest of financial assets and liabilities. periods or by interest rate swaps. The target for the duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio is regulated in the Financial Management Policy. In 2019, no interest rate swaps were used to prolong the duration. LIQUIDITY Liquidity risk is related to the ability for Gränges to meet its pay• Liquidity forecasts: Gränges forecast future payments and obliment obligations. Cash flow from operations, which is affected by gations for the next twelve months against incoming cash flows changes in working capital among other factors, is managed at and available credit facilities, including a strategic reserve. group level. The liquidity risk is affected by for example Gränges’ Excess liquidity is managed by the Group’s treasury function. future commitments, available cash and available credit lines. • Financial Management Policy: Gränges has a Financial Management Policy which regulates a minimum level for available liquidity, including committed credit facilities from banks. CREDIT Credit risks are related to a counterparty not meeting its financial • C ontinuous follow-up: Gränges’ trade receivable exposure is obligations towards Gränges. A credit risk can be related to for managed and followed up continually in local credit committees. example trade receivables or financial counterparties. The need for provisions is tested every quarter, or when necessary, according to predefined criteria. • Credit ratings and agreements: Gränges manages credit risk on financial counterparties by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating, by limiting the actual exposure per counterparty, and by agreements such as ISDA agreements. 35 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES THE GRÄNGES SHARE The Gränges share was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment in October 2014. The share is included in the Automobile & Parts category and traded under the ticker GRNG. Since the listing of the Gränges share in and Swedbank Robur investment funds with October 2014 until the end of February 6.6 per cent. Overall, the holdings of the 10 103% 2020, the share has risen by 77 per cent. largest shareholders amounted to 51.9 per During the same period, shareholders have cent of the total number of shares. There are received a total return of 103 per cent, no pre-emption clauses, refusal clauses or including the reinvestment of the annual other restrictions to the transfer of shares in dividends. At the end of 2019, the share the company by law, the company’s articles price was SEK 98.95, representing a marof association or any other document to ket capitalization of almost SEK 7.5 billion. which the company is a party. is the total return that the shareThe share’s highest price in 2019 was holders received since the IPO in 2014 until the end of February 2020. recorded on 18 April at SEK 108.10, and the Dividend lowest price was SEK 76.25 on 3 January. Gränges’ Board of Directors proposes a The share price increased by 18.65 per cent dividend of SEK 3.40 (3.20) per share for during the year. The average daily turnover the 2019 fiscal year, in total SEK 257 milwas 167,244 shares (249,431) and the total lion (242). The proposed dividend correturnover of shares during the year was sponds to 43 per cent (35) of the profit for approximately 42 million (62). the year 2019. Gränges’ Dividend Policy is to pay a dividend of between 30 and 50 per Share capital and ownership cent of the profit for the year. When deterThe share capital in Gränges amounts to mining the dividends, the Board of DirecSEK 101 million, distributed among tors considers the company’s financial 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value position, cash flow and outlook. of SEK 1.339775. Gränges has only one class of shares. On 31 December 2019, the numGränges gets top score in investor ber of shareholders totalled 8,371 (8,368). relations ranking The largest shareholder, The Fourth SwedAt IR Nordic Market 2019, Gränges was ish National Pension Fund (AP4), held 9.5 ranked fifth best listed company in per cent of the total number of shares, fol­Sweden and CFO Oskar ­Hellström was lowed by AFA Insurance with 9.1 per cent, ranked second best CFO. Total shareholder return, 2014–2019 Volume SEK ‘000 160 16,000 120 12,000 80 8,000 40 4,000 0 0 Oct Jan Jan Jan Jan Dec 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Turnover Gränges share price performance OMX Stockholm_GI including reinvested dividends 36 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Share capital development Change in number Total number Change in share Total share Date Event of shares of shares capital, SEK capital, SEK 1 Jan 2014 – 37,319,693 – 932,992,325 14 Aug 2014 Decrease in share capital – 37,319,693 –832,992,325 100,000,000 15 Sep 2014 Share split 37,319,693 74,639,386 – 100,000,000 18 Nov 2016 Rights issue 516,000 75,155,386 691,324 100,691,324 4 Apr 2017 Rights issue 20,000 75,175,386 26,796 100,718,120 31 May 2017 Rights issue 337,000 75,512,386 451,504 101,169,624 6 Dec 2017 Rights issue 5,000 75,517,386 6,699 101,176,323 Share information Share data 2019 2018 Market Nasdaq Stockholm Earnings, SEK 1) 7.95 9.11 Segment Mid Cap Stockholm Equity, SEK1) 57.13 51.29 Ticker symbol GRNG Cash flow from operating activities, SEK1) 19.08 17.89 ISIN code SE0006288015 Share price at end of period, SEK 98.95 80.50 Listed since 10 October 2014 Dividend, SEK 3.402) 3.20 Currency SEK Dividend rate, % 43 35 Number of shares 75,517,386 Dividend yield, % 3.44 3.89 1) Calculated on weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) The Board of Director’s proposal to the AGM 2020. Ownership Geographical distribution Share of ­capital and Number of known Largest shareholders Shares votes, % Country shareholders Share of capital, % Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund 7,155,679 9.5 Sweden 8,084 51.6 AFA Insurance 6,892,585 9.1 United States 57 26.5 Swedbank Robur Funds 4,950,360 6.6 Australia 4 4.3 Franklin Templeton 3,845,833 5.1 Germany 10 3.7 Handelsbanken Funds 3,728,041 4.9 Switzerland 11 1.2 Dimensional Fund Advisors 3,234,948 4.3 Total other 205 3.2 Paradice Investment Management 3,164,438 4.2 Anonymous n/a 9.4 Allianz Global Investors 2,645,597 3.5 Source: Monitor by Modular Finance as of 2019-12-31. Unionen 1,850,000 2.4 Fidelity Investments (FMR) 1,741,031 2.3 Total 10 largest shareholders 39,208,512 51.9 Other shareholders 36,308,874 48.1 Total 75,517,386 100.0 Source: Monitor by Modular Finance AB as of 2019-12-31. Compiled and processed data from various sources, including Euroclear, Morningstar and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinspektionen). The verification date may vary for foreign shareholders. Share distribution Number of known Number of shares shareholders Share of capital, % 1–500 6,057 1.4 501–1,000 1,068 1.2 1,001–5,000 937 2.9 5,001–10,000 128 1.3 10,001–50,000 99 2.8 50,001–100,000 22 2.4 100,001– 60 78.7 For additional investor relations-related questions, please contact: Anonymous n/a 9.4 Johan Dufvenmark, VP Group Treasury & Investor Relations: johan.dufvenmark@granges.com, +46 705 97 43 75, or Source: Monitor by Modular Finance as of 2019-12-31. Lily Sun, IR-coordinator: lily.sun@granges.com, +46 708 24 43 94. 37 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Gränges AB With regards to sales to the HVAC industry, Americas is the Groups (publ), corporate registration number 556001-6122, hereby submit the most important market and US shipments of HVAC units is a key driver of annual accounts and consolidated accounts for the financial year Gränges’ sales. The growth in this market is partly driven by energy effi1 January–31 December 2019. ciency requirements as well as construction of new houses and buildings. According to the North American trade association AHRI2), US shipments of HVAC units increased by 2 per cent in 2019 compared to 2018. OPERATIONS Outlook The global automotive market is expected to decline in 2020 compared Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for with 2019 and IHS estimates a decline in light vehicle production by 2 heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The company per cent for the full year. Gränges considers that the outbreak of the develops and produces advanced aluminium materials that enhance coronavirus covid-19 in the beginning of the year will have a further the efficiency in the customer manufacturing process, as well as the negative impact on the light vehicle production in 2020. performance of the end-customers’ products. The company has longDuring 2020, Gränges will continue to work actively with innovation, term customer relationships with global sup­pliers and 2019, the comefficiency improvements, and develop its sustainable customer offerpany’s ten largest ­customers accounted for 53 per cent of the net sales. ing even more, which includes an increased focus on product developGränges’ geographical markets are Asia, Europe and the Americas and ment for electric vehicles. Demand for advanced heat exchanger the end customers are primarily in the automotive industry, the HVAC materials for electric vehicles is expected to increase significantly in industry, and industries such as transformers and food packaging. the coming years, as more car manufacturers choose liquid cooling Gränges has five production facilities with a combined annual prosolutions for batteries. With a strong commitment to constantly duction capacity of 460 ktonnes. The facilities are located in Shanghai improve and develop, Gränges is well positioned to deliver sustainable in China, Finspång in Sweden, as well as in Huntingdon (Tennessee), and profitable growth throughout economic cycles. Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport (Arkansas) in the US. Gränges works actively to establish new capacity and capabilities to Sales meet increasing demand, address new end-customer markets and During 2019, Gränges’ sales volume decreased by 7.4 per cent to 347.3 improve operational efficiency. During the year 60 ktonnes of new ktonnes (375.0) compared to previous year. Net sales reached SEK capacity was added by expanding the production plant in Huntingdon 11,978 million (12,910) and the net effect of changes in foreign and restarting production at the Newport plant. In Europe, Gränges are exchange rates was positive and amounted to SEK 812 million. currently running an investment programme to increase efficiency and capacity in the Finspång facility. The investment will add 20 ktonnes in Asia capacity until 2021. During 2019, sales volume in Asia decreased to 79.0 ktonnes (86.2), Gränges holds 51 per cent of the shares in the production company which represents a decrease of 8.4 per cent compared to previous year. Getek GmbH, which produces aluminium billets using advanced spray-forming technology. Gränges also owns 50 per cent of a ShanghaiEurope based company, engaged in metal stamping. In 2019, sales volume in Europe reached 58.3 ktonnes (65.4), which On 27 November 2019, Gränges signed an agreement to acquire a represents a decrease of 11.0 per cent compared to previous year. production facility, Aluminium Konin, in Poland. The transaction is ­subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. Americas The Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish publicly During 2019, sales volume in Americas decreased to 210.1 ktonnes listed company with its head office on Linnégatan 18, Stockholm. (223.3) compared to previous year. The Gränges share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment. Operating profit During 2019, operating profit was SEK 836 million (940), while operating Market development margin reached 7.0 per cent (7.3). The decreased operating profit was About half of the Group’s sales volume refers to sales to the automotive mainly due to lower sales volume and less efficient metal management. industry, while HVAC and other niche markets account for about one Efficiency measures, including a general savings programme and quarter each. capacity adjustments, helped to reduce the cost base especially by the Light vehicle production is an important macro driver of Gränges’ end of the year. The net effect of changes in foreign exchange rates was sales of heat exchanger materials to the automotive industry. An positive and amounted to SEK 110 million during the year. Items affectincreasing share of hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and advanced ing comparability is included with SEK –30 million (–64), see Note 12 for features such as autonomous driving is also positive for the demand further information. of heat exchanger materials. The global production of light vehicles decreased by 5.6 per cent in Profit for the period and earnings per share 2019 compared with 2018, according to the international research and Profit before taxes amounted to SEK 686 million (849) in 2019. Finance analysis firm, IHS1). The production of light vehicles in Asia decreased income and costs was SEK –152 million (–113) and includes interest by 6.2 per cent in 2019 and in China the decrease isolated was 8.1 per expenses of SEK 160 million and interest income of SEK 7 million. cent. In both Europe and Americas the production of light vehicles ­Interest expenses and financing cost in the period includes interest decreased by 4.0 per cent. expenses on lease liabilities of SEK 12 million (–) due to the implemen1) Source: IHS, 18 February, 2020. 2) Source: AHRI, 10 January 2020. 38 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES tation of IFRS 16 Leases. Income tax for the year was SEK –86 million Research and development (–161). Excluding a positive effect of SEK 54 million (55) relating to a With a strong expertise in material properties and characteristics, release of a provision for income tax in China and the cost for withholdGränges conducts strategic research and innovation as well as customing tax on dividend of SEK 17 million (26), the effective tax rate was 18 er-driven product development. Gränges’ strong product offering is the per cent (22). The reduced effective tax rate in 2019 is mainly due to a result of advanced knowledge of metallurgy and production processes lower corporate income tax rate in China due to preliminary high-tech as well as long-term commitment to research and development. enterprise classification, see Note 15 for further information. The profit The total expenses for research and development amounted to SEK for the period amounted to SEK 600 million (688) and diluted earnings 108 million (93) during 2019. per share was SEK 7.95 (9.11). Sustainability Cash flow Sustainability is an integral part of Gränges’ business and plays a During 2019, cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK central role in the Group’s growth and value creation. In 2019 Gränges 1,441 million (1,351). Cash flow from investing activities amounted to raised its ambitions for sustainability, and continued to implement the SEK –1,590 million (–819) and fully relates to capital expenditure. Of global sustainability framework across the operations and align the this, SEK 393 million refer to maintenance investments, SEK 1,103 regional strategies with the global long-term sustainability targets. At ­million relates to expansion investments, and SEK 93 million relates the beginning of the year, Gränges became a member of the Aluminium to acquisition of utilities infrastructure in Finspång, Sweden. Stewardship Initiative (ASI), and a few months later, the Shanghai plant Cash flow before financing activities adjusted for expansion investreceived the ASI Performance Standard certification. During the year, ments and acquisitions increased to SEK 1,048 million (977). Cash Gränges continued to support the principles of the UN Global Compact flow from financing activities was SEK 440 million (–825) and includes and contributed to fulfilling the Sustainable Development Goals and the a dividend payment of SEK –242 million, new loans of SEK 5,546 milAgenda 2030. lion and repayment of loans of SEK –4,727 million. Gränges’ 2019 sustainability report has been prepared in accordCash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 747 million at ance with the Annual Reports Act on sustainability reporting as well 31 December 2019 (SEK 457 million at 31 December 2018). as GRI Standards: Core option. It also constitutes Gränges’ Communication on Progress in line with the UN Global Compact guidelines. The Financial position statutory Sustainability Report according to the Swedish Annual Gränges’ total assets amounted to SEK 10,480 million at 31 DecemAccounts Act is found on pages 19–31, 39 and 97–111. ber 2019 (SEK 8,773 million at 31 December 2018). The equity to assets ratio was 41.2 per cent at 31 December 2019 (44.2 per cent at Parent company 31 December 2018). Consolidated net debt including pension and Gränges AB is the parent company of the Gränges Group. The operalease liabilities was SEK 3,465 million at 31 December 2019 (SEK tions include Group Management and Group functions such as trea­ 2,494 million at 31 December 2018). The increase in net debt is sury, legal and communications. For 2019, net sales in the parent commainly due to investments related to the expansion of the production pany was SEK 187 million (203) and the result for the period was SEK facilities in the US and Sweden. At 31 December 2019, the Group’s 335 million (560). The net profit includes dividend from the Chinese net debt corresponded to 2.6 times adjusted EBITDA (1.8 times at ­subsidiary of SEK 335 million (517). Income tax includes withholding 31 December 2018). tax of SEK –17 million (–26) relating to the dividend. In conjunction with the transaction to acquire Aluminium Konin, in Poland, Gränges intends to undertake a rights issue with preferential The Gränges share and ownership rights for existing shareholders to a total amount of approximately The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into SEK 2 billion. 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Gränges only has one class of shares. Seasonal variations There are no pre-emption clauses, refusal clauses or other Gränges’ end-customer markets consist primarily of the global automorestrictions on the transfer of shares in the company by law, the tive industry and the HVAC industry in North America. Gränges’ sales of company’s articles of association or any agreement or other docurolled aluminium products to the automotive industry is mainly correment in which the company is a party. lated with the production of light vehicles. Demand on the HVAC market At 31 December 2019 Gränges had no shareholder that owned is driven by factors such as construction investments, new regulations more than 10 per cent of Gränges’ capital and votes. for energy efficiency and climate impact, and it is usually higher during summer months as there is a higher demand for cooling systems then. Operating risks and uncertainty factors Major annual maintenance work in Gränges’ production facilities mainly As a global business with operations in different parts of the world, occurs in the fourth quarter. Overall, seasonal variations mean that the Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties such as raw fourth quarter usually is the weakest and the second quarter is the material prices, market risk, operational and legal risk, as well as strongest. financial risk related to foreign exchange, interest rates, liquidity and funding opportunities. In its risk management, Gränges seeks to idenEmployees tify, evaluate, and reduce risk related to the Group’s business and The average number of employees was 1,805 (1,699) during 2019. The operations. In the section risk management on pages 32–35 Gränges’ increase in number of employees is mainly related to the expansion of risks and risk management is further described. For a more comprethe US production facilities. hensive description of the financial risks, see Note 28. 39 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Current guidelines for remuneration to Group Management senior executives, limited to the ITP plan (supplementary pension for Gränges will offer the remuneration levels and employment terms salaried employees in industry and commerce). Gränges thus has both necessary to recruit, develop and retain senior executives. These indidefined contribution and defined benefit commitments based on individuals must have the expertise, motivation and capacity to be able to vidual circumstances and rules. The ITP plan exists, mainly, in two veruphold, develop and implement comprehensive, valuecreating stratesions: The ITP 1 is applicable on those who are born on 1 January 1979 gic objectives for the Gränges Group. Senior executives refer to the or later, and the ITP 2 is applicable on those who are born on 31 DecemGroup’s Chief Executive Officer, the Group’s Vice Executive Officer, ber 1978 or earlier. To equalise differences that may occur between other members of the Management Team, and other key individuals in participants of ITP 1 and ITP 2, that is between different senior executhe Group. tives, some adjustments are made in relation to the solution dictated by Remuneration to the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Executive ITP 2, regarding how much of the remuneration (salary and bonus) that Officer, and other members of the Group Management is to be deteris pensionable. For the Chief Executive Officer pension provision mined by the Board of Directors, but follow the guidelines adopted by amounts to 35 per cent calculated on fixed monthly remuneration. the General Meeting. The basic principle is that remuneration is to be Retirement age for the Chief Executive Officer is 65 years. In relation to competitive and consist of a fixed salary and a variable component foreign senior executives, corresponding structure applies based on the such as various incentive programmes. Applicable laws and other circumstances in the relevant country. Pension terms must be in line ­relevant regulations, both Swedish and foreign, in the relevant sector with market terms. The retirement age for other senior executives is should always be complied with. 60–65 years, depending on country of employment. Fixed salary Period of notice of termination The fixed salary is to consist of normal basic pay. The salary is The contract between the company and the Chief Executive Officer based on responsibility, performance, skills and the complexity and stipulates a mutual twelve-month period of notice. Additionally, in the scope of the duties. case of termination by the company, severance pay is payable without deduction for an additional twelve months. The contracts between the Variable pay company and the Vice Executive Officer, and other members of the Variable pay is to consist of an annual short-term incentive proGroup Management stipulates a mutual six-month period of notice. gramme (STI 2019) and a long-term incentive programme (LTI 2019). Additionally, in the case of termination by the company, severance pay Both STI 2019 and LTI 2019 will provide cash pay outs. Furthermore, is payable for an additional twelve months, without deduction for the long-term remuneration in the form of shares and/or share-based first six months. instruments in Gränges AB would be payable through participation in long-term incentive programmes resolved by the general meeting. Information on previously agreed remuneration not yet due for payment There will be no guaranteed variable remuneration. In addition to the long-term incentive programme LTI 2019, two similar long-term incentive programmes, LTI 2017 and LTI 2018, from previous Annual short-term incentive programme (STI 2019) years runs parallel. As with LTI 2019, the programmes run for three The outcome of the STI is determined by a number of parameters years and are designed so that an amount equivalent to the outcome ­consisting of financial key ratios for the Group, such as EBIT and cash from STI for each year and for each participant is set aside in a conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. Remuneration so-called LTI bank. Provided participants continue to be employed by under STI 2019 may not exceed 60 per cent of the total basic pay Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI 2017 is paid per year during paid to each senior executive, except for the person holding position 2019, 2020 and 2021, and for LTI 2018 during the years 2020, 2021 and as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 per cent of the total 2022. The payments are adjusted for total return of the Gränges share. basic pay. The total payment of LTI together with STI in one year is limited to 1.5 times an annual salary, except for the President Americas whose payLong-term incentive programme (LTI 2019) out is limited to 2 times an annual salary. The long-term incentive programme, LTI 2019, runs for three years and is primarily structured as following: An amount equivalent to the payout Other from STI 2019 for each participant is reserved in a special so-called LTI If a Board member, who has been elected by the General Meeting, perbank. Provided that the participants remain in the employ of the Gränges forms other duties on behalf of the company in addition to work on the Group, the amount allocated to LTI 2019 will be paid by one third per year Board of Directors, a consulting fee and other compensation are pay­ during the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, adjusted to the total return of the able for such work. The Board of Directors may deviate from these Gränges’ share. The total payout from STI and paying LTI programmes in guidelines if in an individual case there are special reasons for doing one year is limited to 150 per cent of an annual basic salary, except for so. Special reasons mean limited possibilities of deviation from the the person holding position as President Americas, for whom such total guidelines. payout is limited to 200 per cent of an annual basic salary. The Board of Directors is expected to make a decision during end of March 2020 regarding the guidelines for remuneration of senior execOther benefits utives, that the Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting. Benefits that are not directly related to fixed and variable pay, such as car allowance, should facilitate the execution of duties and be in line Events after the end of the year with standard practices in the market for this target group. Gränges’ Nomination Committee has proposed Fredrik Arp to be elected as new Chairman of the Board of Gränges AB at the Annual Pension General Meeting on 7 May, 2020. Gränges current Chairman of the Pension benefits are to comply with relevant national legislation, appliBoard Anders G. Carlberg, will at the same time resign as member of cable collective agreements et cetera, and are, in relation to Swedish the Board. 40 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2019 “ 2  019 has been a productive and successful year with strong focus on executing our strategy.” Anders G. Carlberg, Chairman of the Board of Directors DEAR SHAREHOLDER, A year with challenging market conditions 2019 has been a productive and successful year with strong focus on Despite challenging market conditions, 2019 has been a productive executing our strategy. Since the listing of the share in 2014, Gränges and successful year with strong focus on expansion, combined with has more than doubled its sales volume and profit and generated cost reductions and efficiency improvements in all regions. The weak growth above industry average. market conditions, lower end-market demand in combination with continued destocking in Europe and the Americas resulted in a sales Executing a growth strategy volume decline. For the full year 2019 sales volume decreased by 7 per During the year, we conducted important activities that provide a solid cent to 347 ktonnes and the adjusted operating profit decreased to foundation for growth. In November, we announced the agreement to SEK 866 million. Cash generation was, however, very strong during the acquire Aluminium Konin in Poland. The acquisition strengthens our year with a cash conversion of 121 per cent. product offering as well as our presence in Europe and contributes to a strong position in new attractive niche markets. In connection with A strong platform for profitable growth the transaction, we also communicated to carry out a rights issue to The activities and measures carried out during 2019 position Gränges finance the acquisition and for future growth investments. During the very well and create a strong platform for profitable growth. In view of fourth quarter of 2019, the Huntingdon expansion project in the US Gränges’ strong cash flow and considering its outlook, the Board of was completed and we also reopened the facility in Newport, to supply Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 2020 that the divithe US light gauge foil market. In Europe, an investment programme is dend should be increased by 6 per cent to SEK 3.40 per share, in total underway to increase the efficiency and capacity of our facility in SEK 257 million. This implies that 43 per cent of the profit for the year ­Finspång. The acquisition, together with the expansion projects, when 2019 will be returned to our shareholders. fully completed, will add new capabilities and an annual capacity of In February 2020 Gränges’ Nomination Committee announced my 220 ktonnes, resulting in a total annual production capacity of about decision to resign as Chairman and member of the Board at the Annual 640 ktonnes for Gränges. General Meeting on May 7, 2020, and that Fredrik Arp has been proposed as new Chairman of Gränges. I would like to express my gratiInnovation and increased efficiency tude to Gränges’ shareholders and stakeholders for the confidence Gränges wants to lead the development of heat exchanger materials during my time as chairman. It has been productive and successful and other advanced aluminium materials and solutions to be the years with strong profitable growth. Today, Gränges is a global induscustomers’ preferred choice. The innovation process is embedded in try leader with a solid platform for growth and with a competent and the Group’s strategy and business model, and our actions reflect our well composed management. ambitions. In 2019 we increased the number of new patents granted I would like to take the opportunity to express the Board of Direcby 30 per cent and established a Research & Innovation centre in tors’ appreciation to CEO Johan Menckel and Group Management for Huntingdon, USA. Increasing productivity, process stability, and their strong dedication and excellent performance in 2019. I would energy efficiency, while reducing waste in the operations, were also also like to highlight the efforts of all Gränges employees. In Asia we focus areas for Gränges. successfully maintained the market share despite increased competition in a weaker market. In the Americas and Europe, there has been A trustworthy and responsible company challenging market conditions while large expansion projects have Good corporate governance enables Gränges to operate sustainably, been conducted. I am convinced that Gränges is very well positioned responsibly, and efficiently in the interests of our shareholders. This for continued sustainable and profitable growth. contributes to increased trust and improved risk management. During the year, we continued implementation of the group-wide susStockholm, March 2020 tainability framework and global long-term sustainability targets. We also took important measures to increase the pace in the develAnders G. Carlberg opment of sustainable product offerings. Chairman of the Board of Directors 41 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Good and sound corporate governance ensures that the company is Gränges complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code run as sustainably, responsibly, and efficiently as possible in the and this Corporate Governance Report has been prepared as part of interests of the shareholders. Good corporate governance creates Gränges’ application of the Code. The Code has in some parts new regorder and system for the Board of Directors and management, and ulations that apply to the company from 1 January 2020. Gränges contributes to increased trust and confidence among existing and does not report any deviations from the Code regarding the financial potential owners, customers, legislators, the public and other stakeyear 2019. The company’s auditors have made a statutory examination holders. In this way, industry’s freedom to develop is ensured, as is the of this corporate governance report. The Code is available on www. supply of risk capital and competence. bolagsstyrning.se. Gränges’ corporate governance is based on Swedish regulations Gränges has during 2019 followed Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory and Swedish legislation, primarily the Swedish Companies Act and the framework for issuers and good practice in the stock market. No violaSwedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory structions of applicable stock exchange rules or good practices in the stock ture for issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), market have been reported regarding Gränges by the Nasdaq Stockholm the Articles of Association, and other relevant internal and external Disciplinary Board or the Stock Market Board in 2019. CEO has no regulations and policies. external commitments that can be considered as contrary to the company’s interests. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN GRÄNGES The governance, management, and control of Gränges are distributed between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors (the Board) and the CEO under Swedish Company Law, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the Articles of Association. Shareholders Vote at the Annual General Meeting Appoints the Nomination committee1) Information Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditor Committee Proposes Board and auditor Appoints auditor The auditor reviews Information the annual accounts and accounting, and Objectives, strategies, policies, the Board and CEO’s governing instruments, core values, management. Reports Board of Directors to the Board and remuneration structure. The Board sets up the committees and shareholders. appoints its members. Remuneration Committee Audit Committee CEO Internal audit Group Management External steering documents Internal steering documents • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Formal work plan for the Board of Directors and committees, • Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory structures for issuers instructions for CEO • EU Market Abuse Regulation, no 596/2014 (MAR) • Code of Conduct • Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“The Code”) • Insider Policy • Other applicable laws • Financial Management Policy • Accounting Manual • Information Policy • Other policies, guidelines, and manuals 1) Appointed in accordance with an instruction for the Nomination Committee decided by the Annual General Meeting (AGM). 42 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Organization • To resolve that the Board, according to the Nomination Committee’s Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for proposal, should consist of seven elected members without depuheat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The Group has ties for the period up to the close of the 2020 AGM, about 1,800 employees and net sales of SEK 12 billion. Gränges has • To resolve, according to the Nomination Committee’s proposition, five production facilities on three continents with a combined annual that fees paid to the Board members for the period until the end of production capacity of 460 ktonnes. The facilities are located in the AGM 2020 will be in accordance with the following. The Chairman Finspång, Sweden, in Shanghai, China, as well as in Huntingdon of the Board will receive SEK 625,000 and each of the other board (Tennessee), Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport (Arkansas) in members elected by the AGM will receive SEK 310,000. In addition, the US. Gränges holds 51 per cent of the shares in the production remuneration to the Board committees will be SEK 100,000 to the company Getek GmbH with plants in St Avold in France and in Velbert Chairman of the Audit Committee and SEK 50,000 to each of the in Germany. Getek produces aluminium billets using advanced other members, and SEK 50,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneraspray-forming technology. Gränges also owns 50 per cent of a tion Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other members. Fees Shanghai­-based company engaged in metal stamping. On 27 Novemto all the employee representatives on the Board will remain ber 2019, Gränges signed an agreement to acquire the Polish flat unchanged at SEK 40,000 each for the corresponding period. rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Konin. The transaction is sub• To resolve that remuneration to the auditor shall be paid in accordject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. ance with the approved account, The Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish publicly • To approve the guidelines proposed by the Board of Directors on listed company with reg.no. 556001-6122. Its registered office is in remuneration to senior executives, Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18. Gränges’ shares are • To resolve, according to the Board’s proposal, on a long-term (three listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list. years) incentive programme, LTI 2019, offered to Group Management as a supplement to the annual short-term incentive proThe share and shareholders gramme (STI 2019). STI 2019 measures EBIT (50 per cent), cash conGränges’ shares have been traded on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Mid Cap version (30 per cent) and individual performance (20 per cent). segment since 10 October, 2014. The share capital in Gränges amounts to Remuneration under STI 2019 may not exceed 60 per cent of annual SEK 101 million, distributed among 75,517,386 shares that give the right basic pay, except for the person holding the position President to an equal number of votes and an equal share in the company’s assets Americas, who may obtain 100 per cent of annual basic pay. A payand profits. On 31 December, 2019, the number of shareholders totalled out equivalent to the amount for STI 2019 is allocated, indexed to 8,371. The Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) was the largest the Gränges Group’s total return and paid out proportionately on an shareholder, followed by AFA Insurance and Swedbank Robur investment annual basis over a period of three years, provided that the individfunds. 72.4 per cent of the shareholders held 500 shares or fewer and the ual remains a Gränges Group employee. The total payout from STI 10 largest shareholders held 51.9 per cent of the total number of shares. and paying LTI programmes in one year is limited to 1.5 times an Foreign-based share ownership amounted to 48.4 per cent. No shareannual salary, except for the person holding position as President holder has a shareholding of more than 10 per cent of the total number of Americas, for whom such total payout is limited to two times an shares. There are no restrictions on how many votes each shareholder annual salary. may represent and cast at a general meeting of shareholders. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 8 May, 2019, authorized Minutes from the AGM including complete decisions are available at the Board of Directors, on one or more occasions before the 2020 www.granges.com. AGM, to have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or convertible instruments. These are equivalent to (a maximum of) 10 per Nomination committee cent of the total number of shares outstanding in the company at the The Nomination Committee represents Gränges’ shareholders. It protime of the resolution adopted by the AGM, 7,551,738 shares. poses to the AGM nominations for Chairman of the Board, board memInformation about shareholdings of Board members and Group bers, auditor and auditor’s fee, chairman of the AGM, as well as fees for Management can be found on pages 48–51. More information about board and committee work. In addition, the Nomination Committee shall the Gränges share and shareholders, including a table of shareholdsubmit proposals for Nomination Committee instructions if required. ings as of 31 December, 2019, can be found on pages 36–37. Gränges’ Nomination Committee for the 2020 AGM consists of representatives of the company’s three largest shareholders as of 31 Annual General Meeting August, 2019, and the Chairman of the Board. The member representThe AGM, which is the company’s highest decision-making body, ing the largest shareholder shall be Chairman of the Nomination Comallows all shareholders to exercise the influence that their respective mittee, unless the Nomination Committee agrees otherwise. shareholdings represent. As of 31 August 2019, Gränges’ three largest shareholders were The Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4), AFA Insurance, and Annual General Meeting 2019 Swedbank Robur investment funds which have been invited to nomiThe AGM was held on 8 May 2019. At the meeting, 47.7 per cent of the nate candidates for the Nomination Committee. On 9 September 2019, shares in the company were represented. it was announced on the company’s website and in a press release At the AGM, Anders G. Carlberg, Carina Andersson, Mats Backman, that the Nomination Committee ahead of the 2020 AGM had the folPeter Carlsson, Katarina Lindström, Hans Porat and Ragnhild Wiborg lowing composition: Jannis Kitsakis (AP4), Anders Algotsson (AFA were re-elected as board members. Anders G. Carlberg was Insurance), Lennart Francke (Swedbank Robur investment funds), and re-elected as Chairman of the Board. Anders G. Carlberg (Gränges’ Chairman of the Board). The Chairman of Ernst & Young AB was again appointed as the company’s auditors the Nomination Committee is Jannis Kitsakis. and authorized public accountant Erik Sandström was appointed by Ernst & Young AB as auditor in charge. Nomination Committee for the 2020 AGM Other resolutions taken during the AGM included: Percentage of votes • To adopt the income statement and balance sheet as well as the Appointed by/Name on 31 December 2019 consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet for AP4/Jannis Kitsakis* 9.5 the 2018 financial year, AFA Insurance/Anders Algotsson* 9.1 • To pay a dividend of SEK 3.20 per share; SEK 241,655,635 in total, Swedbank Robur investment funds/Lennart Francke* 6.6 • To authorize the Board, on one or more occasions before the 2020 Chairman of the Board of Gränges AB/Anders G. Carlberg 0.0 AGM, to have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or convertible instruments. These are equivalent to (a maximum of) 10 per * Independent in relation to the company and company management. cent of the total number of shares outstanding in the company at the time of the resolution adopted by the AGM, 7,551,738 shares in total, 43 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES The Board’s work in 2019 January/February • Year-end report December • Annual report • Budget for next year • Report from auditors and • Presentation of annual Nomination committee evaluation of the Board work JAN • Risk analysis DEC V F March October NO EB •N otice of the Annual General • Interim report Q3 Meeting (AGM), including OCT MAR ­matters of the AGM September SEP APR April • Strategy • Interim report Q1 G M AU AY JUL JUN May July • Annual General Meeting • Half-year report • Market and competitive situation Shareholders have been able to submit proposals and comments to The Board of Directors the Nomination Committee until 31 January 2020. The Nomination The Board’s main responsibility is to manage Gränges’ business in the Committee’s proposals are published at the latest through the notice best interests of the company and shareholders. The Board continuconvening the AGM. In connection with the notice, the Nomination ally assesses Gränges’ financial position and ensures that the compaCommittee has published a motivated statement on the company’s ny’s financial position can be satisfactorily verified. The Board decides website that supports its proposals to the Board and a report on how on issues related to the Group’s strategic direction and organization, the Nomination Committee’s work has been conducted. and decides on key acquisitions, investments, and disposals. The Board also evaluates Group Management. Before every AGM, and Work of the Nomination Committee before the 2020 AGM based on proposals made by the Remuneration committee, the Board Since the Nomination Committee was formed in autumn 2019, it has prepares proposals for guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and had four meetings. No fee has been paid for the work in the committee. other senior executives. At the second meeting of the Nomination Committee on 15 October Adopting a systematic and structured process, the Board annually 2019, the Chairman of the Board presented an evaluation of the Board’s evaluates the work of the Board to develop its procedures and effiwork that was conducted in September 2019. The result of the evaluaciency. In 2019 this was conducted under the leadership of the Chairtion was predominantly very positive. At the Board meeting on 12 Februman of the Board who asked all Board members and Board deputy ary 2020, the Board of Directors was also informed of the result. members to grade given aspects of its work, and gave them the opporGränges, through the Nomination Committee, applies Rule 4.1 of the tunity to submit proposals for improvements. The results of the evaluCode as Diversity Policy in the preparation of proposals for election of ation, which are also reported in the section about the Nomination board members. Prior to the 2020 AGM, the Nomination Committee made committee, were consistently very positive. an assessment of whether the current Board of Directors, with regard to The constituent Board meeting following the 2019 AGM established size, breadth and diversity in terms of competence, age, gender, backthe formal work plan for the Board including work plans for the Remuground and experience, is appropriately composed and meets the neration Committee and Audit Committee, as well as instructions for requirements imposed on the Board as a result of the company’s current the CEO and Insider Policy. The work plan governs the work and and future situation. As in previous year, an assessment was made of responsibilities of the Board, the frequency of Board meetings, as well each individual board member’s ability to devote sufficient time and as the division of duties between the board members, between the commitment to the Board’s work. Both assessments have been positive. board committees, and between the Board and the CEO. Before each The annual evaluation of the Board has been part of the basis for these Board meeting, the members receive an agenda and basis for deciassessments. The Nomination Committee is also continuously working sions. Each board meeting includes a review of current business conon identifying and evaluating potential new board members. ditions, as well as the Group’s earnings, financial position and outlook. Board composition, attendance and remuneration 2019 Independent Attendance Attendance in relation to Attendance Audit RemuneraBoard of Audit Remunerathe company Board Committee tion CommitDirectors Committee tion CommitTotal fees, Name Elected year /owners meetings meetings tee meetings fees, SEK fees, SEK tee fees, SEK SEK Anders G. Carlberg 2014 Yes 10/10 n/a 4/4 600,000 – 50,000 650,000 Carina Andersson 2014 Yes 10/10 n/a 4/4 306,667 – 25,000 331,667 Mats Backman 2018 Yes 10/10 5/5 n/a 306,667 80,000 – 386,667 Peter Carlsson 2016 Yes 9/10 n/a 4/4 306,667 – 25,000 331,667 Katarina Lindström 2016 Yes 10/10 5/5 n/a 306,667 46,667 – 353,333 Hans Porat 2016 Yes 10/10 n/a 4/4 306,667 – 25,000 331,667 Ragnhild Wiborg 2014 Yes 10/10 5/5 n/a 306,667 60,000 – 366,667 Öystein Larsen 2014 No 10/10 n/a 4/4 40,000 – – 40,000 Konny Svensson 2014 No 10/10 5/5 n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Elin Lindfors 2016 No 10/10 n/a n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Christer Lewin 2018 No 9/10 n/a n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Total fees 2,600,000 186,667 125,000 2,911,667 44 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Other issues that are considered include competitive and general committee has investigated an option/share programme for Group market conditions. The Board regularly reviews the overall risk situaManagement. tion from a variety of aspects, and the Group’s work on health and Information about members of the Remuneration Committee can safety, including accident statistics. The Board also has a system for be found in the table on page 44. A statement of remuneration to continual follow-up of decisions and open questions. senior executives can be found in Note 8. Composition of the Board of Directors Audit Committee According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall The Audit Committee should comprise at least three Board members consist of at least four and at most eight AGM-elected members with elected at a general meeting of shareholders, and the majority of them a maximum of four deputies. The Board constitutes a quorum when should be independent of the company and Group Management. The more than half of all board members (including members appointed by committee members should have specialist competence, experience employees) are present. The Board should consist of a well-balanced of and interest in financial and accounting issues. The Board shall mix of the competencies required to manage Gränges’ work responsielect the chairman of the Audit Committee who may not be the Chairbly and successfully. The assessment is that Gränges’ Board of Direcman of the Board. The Audit Committee meets before each reporting tors has a suitable composition, regarding the company’s operations, date, and in addition if necessary. development stage, and general circumstances. Gränges’ Board of The Audit Committee support the Board in fulfilling its responsibiliDirectors has a good gender distribution, since three of its seven ties in internal control and accounting, and to ensure the quality of members elected by an AGM are women. Gränges’ financial reporting. The purpose is to increase the quality of In accordance with the law on board representation of private-secthe audit and to improve contacts between the Board of Directors and tor employees, staff is entitled to appoint two board members and two the company’s auditor as well as to increase the quality and improve deputy board members. The employee organizations have exercised the supervision and control of the Company’s financial risk exposure this right also in 2019. Information about board members can be found and risk management. on pages 48–49 and at www.granges.com The Audit Committee analyzes and highlights key accounting issues affecting the Group, and monitors the financial reporting process to Chairman of the Board ensure quality. The committee also takes note of the company’s The Chairman of Gränges’ Board organizes and leads the Board’s impairment test and its assumptions, assists the Nomination Comwork, represents the company in ownership matters, evaluates the mittee to prepare proposals for auditors and their fees, and assesses Board’s work, has day-to-day contact with CEO and other members of the independence of the external auditor. Group Management, and ensures that the Board fulfils its duties and The company’s risk management process is based on production proobligations effectively. To enable this work, the Chairman ensures that cesses and flows. The Audit Committee considers the identified risk there are appropriate instructions on the division of work between, on areas. Based on the outcome of that, the committee determines the focus the one hand, the Board and on the other hand the CEO and the other and scope of the internal auditing and establishes an internal audit plan. bodies set up by the Board. Gränges’ internal audit is reported to the Board and must ensure that the company has sufficient internal control systems for financial The Board’s work in 2019 reporting. The General Counsel is responsible for internal audit. It is In 2019, ten minuted board meetings were held, of which five were performed on a rolling schedule and is conducted by the company’s telephone meetings and five were physical meetings. The board meetgroup finance function with support from the subsidiaries’ finance ing in February was held at Gränges’ subsidiaries in Franklin and functions, except for the business that is the subject of the audit. The Huntingdon, Tennessee. The board meeting in September was held at purpose of applying so called cross-functional audit between the Gränges’ plant in Finspång. The rest of the meetings were held at the units is to exchange experiences and achieve best practice within the headquarter in Stockholm. The Board formed a quorum at all meetGroup. During 2019, internal audit of Gränges’ operations in Japan, ings. At the February meeting, the Board held a session in the absence Germany and France was conducted. of Group Management. The CEO participated in all meetings and the In conjunction with the quarterly reviews of the company’s financial deputy CEO, also the CFO, participated in all meetings except for one. performance and position, the Audit Committee takes part of manThe Secretary of the Board is Gränges’ General Counsel. agement’s assessment of the areas where estimates are important to Matters discussed by the Board during 2019 include the acquisition the Group. One area that has been reviewed in connection with each of Aluminium Konin in Poland and its financing, development of a new quarterly report during the year is whether the Chinese business is groupwide strategy for the coming years, an update of the Anti-Corexpected to finally achieve qualification as a high-tech company and ruption Policy, decision concerning training in the Code of Conduct thus enjoy a tax rate of 15 per cent instead of the ordinary tax rate of and Anti-Corruption, and evaluations of potential acquisitions. 25 per cent. For further information, see Note 15 Taxes. The Audit Committee annually sets a number of focus areas within Remuneration Committee Financial and Internal Control, Business Control, Treasury, IT and According to the Board’s formal work plan, the Remuneration CommitStrategic Projects. A great deal of attention during the year has been tee shall comprise the Chairman of the Board, and one or more board on IT and cyber security, a work that also will continue during 2020. members, who should be independent in relation to the company and The Audit Committee has had five meetings in 2019. Auditor Erik Group Management. During the year, the committee consisted of four Sandström attended all meetings and reported on controls and audit members and held four meetings. planning throughout the year. More information about members of the The Remuneration Committee submits proposals to the Board on Audit Committee can be found in the table on page 44. CEO’s salary and other terms of employment, and sets out limits for other Group Management members’ salaries and terms of employAuditor ment by adopting guidelines for remuneration principles. The RemuThe auditor, elected at the AGM, is responsible for reviewing the neration Committee evaluates the application of these guidelines. The annual accounts and accounting, and examining the Board’s and committee also has the task of monitoring and evaluating proCEO’s administration of the company. grammes for variable remuneration to Group Management that are According to the Articles of Association, Gränges should have at ongoing or have been completed during the year. least one and at most two auditors. Registered auditing firms may be During 2019 and beginning of 2020 the Board, through the Remuappointed as auditors. Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor at the neration Committee, conducted a review of the guidelines for remuAGM, and has informed the company that authorized auditor Erik neration to senior executives due to changed law rules and changes in Sandström will be auditor in charge until the 2020 AGM. the Code. The Board’s proposition regarding new guidelines will be The external audit of the parent company and group accounts, and of presented in the decision-making basis for the 2020 AGM. In addition the administration of the Board and CEO, is conducted according to Interto the annual evaluation of the incentive programmes (STI and LTI), the national Standards on Auditing (ISA), and with generally accepted auditing 45 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES standards in Sweden. The auditor in charge participates in all Audit ComEach sustainability pillar is governed by one member of Group Manmittee meetings. Information on auditor fees can be found in Note 10. agement. This individual proposes global sustainability priorities and coordinates with Gränges’ regional operations through cross-regional CEO and Group Management teams to implement local sustainability activities within a specific Group Management is responsible for developing and implementing sustainability pillar. the Group’s overall strategies regarding for example product and cusThe regional operations in turn ensure that a local sustainability tomer strategies, and acquisitions and disposals. The matters are strategy, long-term targets and policies are in place and aligned with prepared by Group Management to be decided upon by the Board. the global strategy and the needs of the local business. They also The CEO is appointed by the Board and is responsible for the dayreport on local sustainability performance and progress. to-day management of the company in accordance with the Board’s Gränges has published a sustainability report each year since 2015, instructions and guidelines. and intends to continue to publish a report annually. The sustainability Group Management comprises eight people: the CEO, CFO, Presiinformation in this report has been prepared in accordance with GRI dent Asia, President Europe, President Americas, SVP Technology & Standards: Core option and constitutes Gränges’ Communication on ProBusiness Development, General Counsel, and SVP Communications. gress in line with UN Global Compact guidelines. The report and its conThe SVP Human Resources, SVP Process Engineering & Operational tents have not been externally assured. GRI’s guidance on the reporting Development and SVP Research & Innovation are part of the extended principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability conGroup Management. text, and completeness, has been used to define the content of the report. Group Management holds monthly meetings to review the results The statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish and financial position of the Group and subsidiaries. Other questions Annual Accounts Act has been issued by Gränges’ Board of Directors, dealt with at these meetings include strategy issues and follow-up of read more on page 39. The report relates to the financial year 2019 budgets and forecasts. Subsidiaries are also monitored more closely and covers all fully owned operations of the Group at the start of 2019, due to the CEO being chairman of the three subsidiaries. Other memas listed on page 90. Gränges’ last sustainability report was published bers of Group Management and employee representatives also serve on 14 March 2019. on these boards. The subsidiaries’ boards monitor day-to-day operations and approve each subsidiary’s strategy and budget. Internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting More information about Group Management can be found on pages Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board of Directors 50–51. Information about remuneration to senior executives can be is responsible for ensuring that the company has good internal control found on page 45 (Remuneration Committee) and in Note 8. and routines that ensure compliance with established principles for financial reporting and internal control. The Board must also ensure Sustainability management and organization that financial reporting complies with the Companies Act, applicable Gränges’ sustainability efforts are led by the Group Management and accounting standards, and other requirements for listed companies. the VP Sustainability, who coordinates, facilitates and drives the global sustainability strategy, long-term targets and sustainability Framework related policies. The VP Sustainability also communicates on sustainGränges’ work with internal control complies with the established interability performance and progress to different stakeholders and coornational framework, Internal Control Integrated Framework, published dinates a continuous stakeholder dialogue. by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway ComGränges’ CEO regularly presents global sustainability performance mission (COSO). According to the COSO model, review and assessment to the Board of Directors, who reviews and monitors performance are carried out in the areas of control environment, risk assessment, against the company’s targets. The Board of Directors is the body control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. which approves the company’s global sustainability strategy, longGränges’ internal control process is designed to ensure with reaterm targets and policies, and adopts the annual sustainability report. sonable certainty the quality and accuracy of financial reporting, and Group Management ensures that Gränges’ global sustainability ensure that reporting is prepared in accordance with applicable laws strategy, long-term targets and policies are aligned with the compaand regulations, accounting standards, and other requirements for ny’s vision and strategy. The team also reviews and monitors sustainlisted companies in Sweden. This requires a healthy control environability performance against sustainability targets, as well as makes ment, reliable risk assessment, established control activities; and decisions related to global sustainability priorities. that information, communication, and monitoring works satisfactorily. Group Management CEO Johan Menckel Interim SVP SVP Technology President Europe President Deputy Communications President Asia & Business General Counsel Jörgen Americas CEO & CFO Camilla Weiner Colin Xu Development Niclas Nelson Abrahamsson Patrick Lawlor Oskar Hellström (since 1 November Torbjörn Sternsjö 2019) SVP Process SVP Research Engineering SVP Human & Innovation & Operational Resources Kent Schölin Development Magnus Carlström Paul Neutjens Extended Group Management 46 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 1 Control environment The Group has a common consolidation system, where the legal entities The control environment is defined by the Group’s organizational report, which provides good internal control of financial reporting. Most structure, Group Management’s working methods and values, and controls and processes are automated and authorization to access IT sysother roles and responsibilities within the organization. The Audit tems is limited. Control activities are performed at all levels of the Group. Committee assists the Board with essential accounting issues, and One example is the established controller function that analyses and monitors the internal control of the financial reporting. To maintain an monitors deviations and reports its findings to other parts of the Group. effective control environment and good internal controls, the Board Monitoring by Group Management occurs, for example, through has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the CEO, who in turn regular meetings with subsidiary managing directors to discuss operhas allocated responsibilities to other Group Management members. ations, financial position, and results, as well as key financial and Quality in the financial reporting is ensured through different measures operative key figures. The Board continually analyses reports on operand routines. The company has policies and manuals for financial reportations in which Group Management describes the previous period, ing, including the Financial Management Policy, the Metal Management and comments on the Group’s financial position and results. SignifiPolicy and the Accounting Manual. In addition to the above, there are cant fluctuations and deviations are therefore monitored, which limits important group-wide steering documents such as the Code of Conduct, the risks of errors in the financial reporting. the Insider Policy and the Information Policy. There is continuous work to The closing of the books and work on the annual accounts are prodevelop policies and manuals. cesses where there is further risk that errors arise in financial reportGränges has a whistleblower function to detect irregularities that ing. Naturally, this work is less repetitive and often includes several may seriously harm the business or employees. The function is maninstances where estimates are made. Important control activities aged by an external company and can be accessed online (intranet or include ensuring that there is a well-functioning reporting structure in external website) or by telephone. Employees and external business which subsidiaries report using standardized models, and that imporpartners can provide information and be guaranteed full anonymity tant income and balance sheet items are specified and commented on. without fear of retaliation. 4 Information and communication 2 Risk assessment Effective and accurate internal and external information is important to Regular risk assessments are carried out to handle the internal and exterensure full and accurate financial reporting on time. Gränges’ financial nal risks that Gränges’ organization is exposed to. Risks that may affect reporting follows Group guidelines and policies, and is updated and financial reporting are identified, measured, and managed. This is an intecommunicated regularly by Group Management to all relevant staff. gral part of day-to-day reporting to the Group Management and the The accounting function has operational responsibility for day-toBoard, and forms the basis for assessing risks of errors in financial reportday financial reporting, and works to ensure that the Group’s guideing. lines, policies, and instructions are applied uniformly across the Gränges’ operations are characterized by processes with estabGroup. The accounting function also identifies and communicates lished routines and systems. Risk assessment therefore largely deficiencies in financial reporting. occurs within the framework of these processes. At group level, only Policies, guidelines, and manuals are regularly updated and are general risk assessments are conducted. Managers identify, monitor, available on the company’s intranet. and evaluate these risks, which creates the basis for making wellAll communication from Gränges must be timely, reliable, accurate, rounded and correct business decisions at all levels. Financial risks and up to date. External communication should be in accordance with such as currency, commodity, refinancing, and counterparty risks, as the Group’s Information Policy, Nasdaq’s regulatory framework for well as interest rate and credit risks, are mainly handled by the parent issuers, and other applicable regulations. The financial information company’s accounting and finance functions according to the Finanshould provide the capital and equity markets with a comprehensive cial Management Policy, the Metal Management Policy and the and clear picture of the company, its financial position, development, Accounting Manual. and strategy. All financial reports and press releases are published A description of the Group’s risks and risk management can be simultaneously to Nasdaq Stockholm and Finansinspektionen, and found on pages 32–35. published on the company’s external website. 3 Control activities 5 Monitoring The main purpose of control activities is to prevent and discover mateThe Board’s monitoring of the internal control of financial reporting takes rial errors in financial reporting at an early stage, thereby being able to place primarily through the Audit Committee, including the monitoring of manage and resolve them. Control activities are conducted at a general the internal audit, and through contact with the external auditors. Exterlevel as well as at more detailed levels throughout the Group, and are nal auditors annually monitor selected areas of internal control within the both manual and automated in nature. Routines and activities have framework of the Group audit, and report the outcome of their audit to been designed to manage and resolve material risks related to financial the Audit Committee. Material observations are also reported directly to reporting, and that are identified in risk assessments. Depending on the the Board. Regarding the 2019 audit, the auditors have monitored the character and type of control activity, corrective action, implementainternal control in selected key processes, and have reported their findtion, documentation, and quality assurance, occur at a group or subsidings to the Audit Committee. iary level. As is the case for other processes, each manager is responsible for the completeness and accuracy of the control activities. Framework Information and 1 Control Environment 2 Risk Assessments 3 Control Activities 4 Communication 5 Monitoring 47 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. 2. 3. 4. 1. Anders G. Carlberg 2. Carina Andersson 3. Mats Backman 4. Peter Carlsson 5. Katarina Lindström 6. Hans Porat 7. Ragnhild Wiborg 5. 6. 7. 1. ANDERS G. CARLBERG 3. MATS BACKMAN 5. KATARINA LINDSTRÖM 7. RAGNHILD WIBORG Born: 1943 Born: 1968 Born: 1965 Born: 1961 Education: M.Sc. Business Education: B.Sc. Business Education: M. Sc. Engineering, Education: M.Sc. Business ­Administration. ­Administration. Material ­Science. Administration. Position: Chairman of the Board. Position: Board member. Elected Position: Board member. Elected to Position: Board member. Elected Elected to the Board in 2014. to the Board in 2018. Chairman of the Board in 2016. Member of the to the Board in 2014. Member of the ­Chairman of the Remuneration the Audit Committee. Audit Committee. Audit Committee. Committee. Other assignments: CFO and Other assignments: President Other assignments: Chair of EAM Other assignments: Chairman ­E xecutive Vice President of Global Operations at Munters. Solar. Board member and Chair of of Herenco and board member of Financial Affairs at Veoneer. Member of the Swedish Royal Audit committee in Sbanken, Recipharm. Previous positions: CFO at Autoliv. Engineering Academy. Board Intrum, REC Silicon and Insr Previous positions: Board member Various management positions at member of Skövde Högskola. Insurance. of Investment AB Latour, AxFast, Sandvik, including as CFO. ­Various Previous positions: Senior Vice Previous positions: Fund manager Beijer Alma and Sapa. CEO of J.S. management positions at President International Manufacturand Chief Investment Officer at Saba, CEO of Nobel Industrier, Outokumpu, Nordea, and Boliden. ing and Senior Vice President, OperaOdin Fonder and at Wiborg KapitalCEO of Axel J ­ ohnson International, Own and related parties’ förvaltning. Worked at several tions and Supply Chain Management Deputy CEO of SSAB and other ­shareholding: 5,000 shares. investment banks, including at Volvo Group Trucks Operation. management positions. Pareto, ABG Sundal Collier, Various management positions at Own and related parties’ 4. PETER CARLSSON First Chicago and SEB. Volvo since 1988. ­shareholding: 35,294 shares. Born: 1970 Own and related parties’ Own and related parties’ Education: B.Sc. Economics. ­shareholding: 1,176 shares. ­shareholding: 2,000 shares. 2. CARINA ANDERSSON Position: Board member. Elected Born: 1964 to the Board in 2016. Member of the Remuneration Committee. 6. HANS PORAT Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Born: 1955 Material Science. Other assignments: CEO of Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Position: Board member. Elected Northvolt. Board member in ­Material Science. to the Board in 2014. Member of the Metso and Orbital. Position: Board member. Elected Remuneration Committee. Previous positions: Vice President to the Board in 2016. Member of Other assignments: Board ­member Supply Chain and Chief Procurethe Remuneration Committee. of Systemair, Beijer Alma, BE Group ment Officer at Tesla Motors. Other assignments: Board member and Detection Technology. Senior Vice President and Chief of Ecolean. Previous positions: General Procurement Officer at NXP Previous positions: CEO and PresiManager Powder Technology, Semiconductors. Head of Sourcing dent of Nolato, various executive Sandvik Materials Technology. at Sony Ericsson. positions at ABB, Deputy CEO at TrelleCEO of R ­ amnäs Bruk and Scana Own and related parties’ borg, President of Gadelius Japan. Ramnäs. Board member of Mälar­shareholding: 0 shares. Own and related parties’ dalens Högskola and Sintercast. ­shareholding: 0 shares. Own and related parties’ ­shareholding: 2,402 shares. 48 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES ÖYSTEIN LARSEN KONNY SVENSSON ELIN LINDFORS CHRISTER LEWIN Employee representative Employee representative Deputy employee representative Deputy employee representative Born: 1957 Born: 1954 Born: 1988. Born: 1962 IT architect, employed at Gränges Maintenance electrician, employed Technical manager re-melting, Maintenance electrician, employed since 1979. at Gränges since 1997. employed at Gränges since 2013. at Gränges since 1982. Employee representative of the Employee representative of the Employee representative of the Employee representative of the Board since 2014. Representing Board since 2014. Chairman of blue Board since 2016. Representing Board since 2018. Representing ­Unionen. collar union IF Metall. Representhe Swedish Association of IF Metall. Own and related parties’ ting IF Metall. Employee represenGraduate Engineers and the Own and related parties’ shareholding: 470 shares. tative of Gränges Sweden AB. Union for Professionals. shareholding: 0 shares. Own and related parties’ Own and related parties’ shareholding: 235 shares. shareholding: 420 shares. AUDITOR ERIK SANDSTRÖM Auditor in charge Ernst & Young AB Born: 1975 Authorized public accountant and member of FAR. Other assignments: Autoliv, Ratos, Mycronic, Tradedoubler and Praktikertjänst. 49 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES GROUP MANAGEMENT 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 1. Johan Menckel 2. Oskar Hellström 3. Jörgen Abrahamsson 4. Magnus Carlström 5. Patrick Lawlor 6. Niclas Nelson 7. Paul Neutjens 8. Kent Schölin 9. Torbjörn Sternsjö 10. Camilla Weiner 11. Colin Xu 10. 11. 50 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 1. JOHAN MENCKEL 4. MAGNUS CARLSTRÖM 7. PAUL NEUTJENS 10. CAMILLA WEINER CEO SVP Human Resources SVP Process Engineering & Interim SVP Communications Born: 1971 Born: 1966 Operational Development Born: 1968 Education: M.Sc. Engineering. Education: LL.M., Executive MBA, Born: 1959 Education: M.Sc. Economics. Position: CEO since 2013. Member studies in behavioural sciences. Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Position: Interim SVP Communiof Group Management since 2013. Position: SVP Human Resources Metallurgy and Applied Material cations since 1 November 2019. Previous positions: CEO at Sapa since 2017. Member of extended Science. Member of Group Management Heat Transfer, 2012–2013. Group Management since 2017. Position: SVP Process Engineering since 1 November 2019. Business Area President at Sapa Previous positions: Director HR & Operational Development since Previous positions: Director (SVP) Profiles Asia, 2011–2012. MD at & Communications at Gränges AB 2017. Member of extended Group Corporate Communications at Sapa Heat Transfer Shanghai, and Gränges Europe, 2012–2016. Management since 2017. SCA 2010-2012. Director (SVP) 2007–2010. Management VP HR at Strabag Scandinavia, Previous positions: CTO at Gränges Corporate Communications & positions at Sapa Heat Transfer, 2009–2012. Head of Strategic and member of Group Management, Sustainability at Axfood 20072004–2006. Consultant at Leadership & Training at Peab 2013–2017. Strategic Project 2010. Director (SVP) Corporate Accenture, 1996–2004. Group, 2006–2009. Head of HR Director at Sapa Heat Transfer, Communications at Ahlsell 2003Other assignments: Board at Peab Sverige, 2000–2006. 2011–2013. Director of Lean 2007. Head of Communications & member of Saab and Nederman Own and related parties’ Production at Sapa Profiles Europe, Investor Relations at Securitas Holding. Member of the Steering ­shareholding: 0 shares. 2007–2010. Several management 1995-2003. Auditor at Price Committee of the World Materials positions at Alcoa, 1994–2007. Waterhouse 1990-1994. Forum. 5. PATRICK LAWLOR Several management positions at Other assignments: CEO at Weiner Own and related parties’ President Americas Hoogovens Aluminium, 1986–1994. Kommunikation since 2013. ­shareholding: 38,000 shares. Born: 1964 Own and related parties’ Own and related parties’ Education: B.Sc. Economics. ­shareholding: 4,000 shares. ­shareholding: 0 shares. 2. OSKAR HELLSTRÖM Position: President Americas since CFO & Deputy CEO 2016. Member of Group Manage8. KENT SCHÖLIN 11. COLIN XU Born: 1979 ment since 2016. SVP Research & Innovation President Asia Education: M.Sc. Engineering and Previous positions: President Born: 1964 Born: 1976 B.Sc. Economics. Americas at Sapa Extrusions, Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Education: M.Sc. Economics and Position: CFO since 2013 and 2010–2015. CFO at Sapa Extrusion Material Science. Business Administration, MBA. Deputy CEO since 2017. Member North America, 2009–2010. CFO at Position: SVP Research & InnovaPosition: President Asia since of Group Management since 2013. Indalex, Inc., 2007–2009. Several tion since 2017. Member of exten2013. Member of Group Previous positions: CFO at Sapa management positions at Norsk ded Group Management since 2017. Management since 2013. Heat Transfer, 2011–2013. Director Hydro, 1997–2007. Previous positions: President Previous positions: MD at Sapa Group Development & Control at Other assignments: Member of Europe at Gränges and member of Heat Transfer Shanghai, 2011– Sapa Group, 2009– 2011. Strategy the Board of Directors at Can Art Group Management, 2013–2017. 2013. At Sapa Heat Transfer Manager at Sapa Group, 2008– Extrusions LLP. Vice President MD at Sapa Heat Transfer Finspång, Shanghai, 2001– 2010, with 2009. Consultant at Booz Allen at Global Aluminium Foil Roller 2012–2013. MD at Gunnebo several leading management Hamilton, 2005–2008. Initiative (GLAFRI). Gateway, 2005–2012. Several positions since 2003. Own and related parties’ Own and related parties’ management positions at Sapa Own and related parties’ ­shareholding: 15,000 shares. ­shareholding: 0 shares. Heat Transfer, 1994–2004. ­shareholding: 0 shares. Research engineer at Gränges 3. JÖRGEN ABRAHAMSSON 6. NICLAS NELSON Technology 1989–1994. President Europe General Counsel Own and related parties’ Born: 1967 Born: 1964 ­shareholding: 4,705 shares. Education: Upper secondary Education: LL.M. school. Position: General Counsel 9. TORBJÖRN STERNSJÖ Position: President Europe since since 2014. Member of Group SVP Technology & Business 2017. Member of Group ManageManagement since 2014. Development ment since 2017. Previous positions: Associate Born: 1962 Previous positions: Production General Counsel at Autoliv, 2002– Education: M.Sc. Engineering. Director at Gränges Sweden AB. 2014. Legal Counsel at ABB, 1998– Position: SVP Technology & Head of Sapa Profiler Finspång. 2002. Attorney at Hökerberg & Business Development since 2017. CEO at Rosengrens Produktions Söderqvist Advokatbyrå, 1993– Member of Group Management AB, Sapa Profilbearbetning AB, 1998. Associate at Vinge, 1992– since 2017. Sapa Profilbockning AB and Sapa 1993. Law Clerk at City Court of Previous positions: Director Komponenter AB. Production Malmö, 1990–1992. Business Development at Gränges, Manager at Sapa Heat Transfer. Own and related parties’ 2015–2017. President at the joint Other assignments: Board ­shareholding: 5,000 shares. venture Sapa Chalco Aluminium member of ProfilGruppen. Products Chongqing, 2011–2015. Own and related parties’ President at Sapa Profiles in Asia, ­shareholding: 0 shares. 2007–2010. Managing Director at Gränges Shanghai, 1999–2007. Various senior positions at Gränges and Sapa since 1994. Own and related parties’ ­shareholding: 15,605 shares. 51 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT GROUP NOTES GROUP NOTES PARENT COMPANY Consolidated income statement 53 Note 1 General information 58 Note 1 Accounting principles 88 Consolidated statement of 54 Note 2 Basis of preparation of 58 Note 2 Financial risk management 88 comprehensive income consolidated financial Note 3 Breakdown of net sales by 88 Consolidated balance sheet 55 ­statements area of operation Consolidated statement of changes 56 Note 3 New accounting standards 59 Note 4 Items affecting 88 in equity Note 4 Accounting standards 59 comparability Consolidated cash flow statement 57 Note 5 Significant accounting 62 Note 5 Operating lease payments 88 Notes to the consolidated financial 58 assessments and assumpNote 6 Remuneration to auditors 89 statements tions Note 7 Payroll expenses 89 Alternative performance measures 80 Note 6 Geographic breakdown of net 63 sales, non-current assets and Note 8 Financial income and costs 89 Definitions and glossary 81 average number of employees Note 9 Taxes 89 Five-year summary 82 Note 7 Revenue from contracts with 63 Note 10 Intangible assets 90 customers Note 11 Property, plant and 90 PARENT COMPANY Note 8 Payroll expenses 64 ­equipment Parent company income statement 84 Note 9 Pensions 66 Note 12 Shares in Group 90 Parent company statement of 84 Note 10 Remuneration to auditors 68 companies comprehensive income Note 11 Other operating expenses 68 Note 13 Share capital 91 Parent company balance sheet 85 Note 12 Items affecting 68 Note 14 Provision for pensions and 91 Parent company statement of 86 comparability similar obligations changes in equity Note 13 Joint arrangements 68 Note 15 Other provisions 91 Parent company cash flow statement 87 Note 14 Financial income and costs 68 Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 91 Notes to the parent company financial 88 Note 15 Taxes 69 Note 17 Accrued expenses and 92 statements Note 16 Earnings per share 70 deferred income Note 17 Intangible assets 70 Note 18 Pledged assets and 92 ­contingent liabilities Proposed appropriation of retained 93 Note 18 Property, plant and 71 equipment Note 19 Related party ­transactions 92 earnings Note 19 Right-of-use-assets 71 Note 20 Proposed appropriation of 92 Auditor’s report 94 retained earnings Note 20 Inventories 71 Note 21 Overview of financial 72 ­instruments Note 22 Current receivables 73 Note 23 Cash and cash equivalents 73 Note 24 Share capital 73 Note 25 Other current liabilities 74 Note 26 Capital management 74 Note 27 Financing and interest74 bearing liabilities Note 28 Financial risk 75 Note 29 Derivatives and hedging 78 Note 30 Lease income 79 Note 31 Provisions 79 Note 32 Pledged assets, guarantees 79 and contingent liabilities Note 33 Related party transactions 79 Note 34 Events after the balance 79 sheet date 52 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONSOLIDATED INCOME ­STATEMENT SEK million Note 2019 2018 Sales revenues 33 11,959 12,884 Other operating revenues 19 26 Net sales 6, 7 11,978 12,910 Cost of materials1) –7,620 –8,601 Payroll expenses 8, 9 –1,410 –1,270 Other operating expenses 11 –1,621 –1,747 Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 17, 18, 19 –461 –353 Items affecting comparability1) 12 –30 – Operating profit 836 940 Profit from joint ventures 13 1 22 Financial income 14 9 15 Financial costs 14 –160 –128 Profit before taxes 686 849 Income tax 15 –86 –161 Profit for the year 600 688 Profit for the year attributable to – owners of the parent 600 688 – non-controlling interests – – Earnings per share Earnings per share, basic, SEK 16 7.95 9.11 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 16 7.95 9.11 1) Items affecting comparability are presented in note 12. 53 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK million Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 600 688 Items not to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year Remeasurement of pensions before tax 9 –39 –26 Tax on above 15 8 6 –31 –20 Items to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year Change in hedging reserve before tax 28 28 –42 Tax on above 15 –6 10 22 –32 Translation differences 91 142 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company 682 778 54 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 874 761 Property, plant and equipment 18 4,846 3,651 Right-of-use assets 19 255 – Deferred tax assets 15 28 54 Interests in joint ventures 13 12 10 Interest-bearing receivables 21, 26, 33 2 2 Other non-current receivables 21, 28 8 11 Total non-current assets 6,025 4,489 Current assets Inventories 20 1,957 1,968 Receivables 21, 22, 28, 33 1,748 1,859 Interest-bearing receivables 21, 26 3 0 Cash and cash equivalents 23 747 457 Total current assets 4,455 4,285 TOTAL ASSETS 10,480 8,773 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 24 101 101 Share premium 24 49 49 Reserves 577 494 Retained earnings 3,587 3,229 Total equity 4,314 3,873 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 15 124 76 Pension liabilities 9 363 321 Interest-bearing liabilities 21, 26, 27 2,901 2,117 Provisions 31 20 – Other non-current liabilities 21, 28 5 9 Total non-current liabilities 3,414 2,522 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 21, 26, 27 953 515 Current tax liabilities 15 12 82 Provisions 31 31 – Other current liabilities 21, 25, 28 1,756 1,781 Total current liabilities 2,752 2,378 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,480 8,773 55 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Reserves Retained Defined earnings Share Share Hedging benefit Translation including profit Total SEK million Note capital premium reserve pension plans reserve for the year equity Opening balance at 1 January 2019 101 49 –21 –28 543 3,229 3,873 Profit for the year – – – – – 600 600 Items in comprehensive income – – 22 –31 91 – 82 Group comprehensive income – – 22 –31 91 600 682 Dividend1) – – – – – –242 –242 Closing balance at 31 December 2019 101 49 2 –59 634 3,587 4,314 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 101 49 12 –8 401 2,768 3,322 Profit for the year – – – – – 688 688 Items in comprehensive income – – –32 –20 142 – 90 Group comprehensive income – – –32 –20 142 688 778 Dividend1) – – – – – –227 –227 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 101 49 –21 –28 543 3,229 3,873 1) Dividend per share amounted to SEK 3.20 (3.00) during 2019. 56 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2019 2018 Operating profit 836 940 Depreciation and impairment charges 461 353 Other non-cash items – 64 Change in net working capital etc. 236 98 Income taxes paid –92 –105 Cash flow from operating activities 1,441 1,351 Acquisition – 24 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 17, 18 –1,590 –843 Divestments of property, plant and equipment 0 4 Other capital transactions – –3 Cash flow from investing activities –1,590 –819 Dividend –242 –227 Interest paid 14 –144 –104 Interest received 14 7 6 New loans 5,546 3,078 Repayment of loans –4,727 –3,579 Cash flow from financing activities 440 –825 Cash flow for the year 292 –294 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 457 742 Cash flow for the year 292 –294 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –2 9 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 23 747 457 Reconciliation between opening and closing balance of liabilities whose cash flows are recognized in financing activities SEK million 2019 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities at 1 January 2,632 2,791 Cash flow 818 –501 Non-cash items Exchange rate differences 63 336 Change in accrual borrowing costs –2 5 Change in lease liabilities 307 – Change in fair value for interest-bearing derivatives 35 0 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December 3,853 2,632 57 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION l­ iabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business and equity interests issued by the group. The consideration also includes fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent considThe Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish public listed eration arrangement. company. Company registration number is 556001-6122, and its regisIdentifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilitered office is in Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18, ties assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, SE-114 47 Stockholm. This document was approved for publication measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group by the Board of Directors of Gränges AB on 9 March 2020. recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity either at fair value or at the non-­controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. 2 BCONSOLIDATED ASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisition-related expenditures are expensed as incurred. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealized Basis of preparation losses are also eliminated. When necessary, amounts reported by The Gränges Group includes, in addition to the parent company subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the group’s Gränges AB, directly and indirectly held subsidiaries of Gränges AB. accounting policies. Significant accounting principles applied in preparing these ­consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless Joint arrangements ­otherwise stated, these principles have been applied consistently for Shares in companies in which the Group exercises a controlling influall the years presented. The consolidated financial statements have ence are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures dependbeen prepared and presented in compliance with the Inter­national ing on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Joint Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, the arrangements are included in the consolidated accounts as of the date Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting when significant influence is transferred to the Group and are consoliRules for Groups. dated up to the date when the significant influence ceases. The financial statements have been prepared by applying the cost For joint operations, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are method, with the exception of financial assets and liabilities (includrecognized in the consolidated accounts in relation to ownership. ing derivatives), which are measured at fair value. Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are initially carthe use of important accounting estimates. Management is also ried at cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. The required to make certain judgements in applying the Group’s carrying amount is then increased or decreased to take account of the accounting principles. Areas which involve a high degree of judgeGroup’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income ment, are complex or where assumptions and estimates have a matefrom its joint ventures after the date of acquisition. The Group’s share rial impact on the consolidated accounts are described in Note 5. of the profit or loss is presented in the line “Profit from joint ventures” An asset or liability is classified as current when it is a part of an in the income statement and the line “Interests in joint ventures” in entity’s normal operations, is primarily held for trading, matures the balance sheet. For further information regarding joint arrangewithin 12 months and consists of cash and cash equivalents at the ments, see Note 13. balance sheet date. Other items are classified as non-current. A ­dividend is classified as a liability only upon formal approval by Foreign currency translation a ­general meeting of shareholders. Functional currency and presentation currency Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are stated in SEK million. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s Negative amounts refer to expenses or outgoing payments (cash flow). entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the operates (’the functional currency’). The Items affecting comparability consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish krona Items affecting comparability are presented in Note 12 and refer to (SEK), which is the Group’s presentation currency. non-recurring income and expenses. The primary purpose of separating significant non-recurring items Transactions and balance sheet items is to facilitate understanding of the underlying business development. Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rates applying on the transaction date or the Consolidation date when the items were re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and Subsidiaries losses arising from such transactions and upon translation of moneAll companies over which the Group exercises a controlling influence are tary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at closing day rates are classified as subsidiaries. The Group controls a company when it is recognized in the income statement. The exception is when the exposed to or has the right to a variable return from its involvement with transactions constitute hedges and meet the criteria for hedge the company and has the ability to affect those returns through its power accounting of cash flows or net investments, in which case any gains over the company. Subsidiaries are included in the consoli­dated and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. accounts as of the date when the control is transferred to the Group and Financial receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are stated at are consolidated up to the date when the controlling influence ceases. the closing rate and any gain or loss is recognized in financial items in Business combinations are accounted for in accordance with the the income statement. Other monetary items in foreign ­currency are acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition carried at the closing rate and any gain or loss is ­recognized in operatof a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, ing items in the income statement. 58 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 3 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Reconciliation between future minimum lease payments at 31 December 2018 according to the annual report for 2018 and lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 is presented below. New accounting standards adopted by the Group in 2019 IFRS 16 Leases SEK million 2019 From the financial year beginning 1 January 2019, Gränges applies IFRS 16 Leases. IFRS 16 replaces leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases and related Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 2018 337 interpretations. The new standard is adopted based on the modified Discount effect –64 ­retrospective transition method and mainly impacts the reporting of Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets –3 machinery and equipment, vehicles, office premises, warehouses and Extension and termination options 0 land areas that are not owned by Gränges. Accordingly, the information Lease liabilities recognized at 1 January 2019 270 presented 2018 has not been restated and is presented, as previously reported under IAS 17 and related interpretations. The expense related to variable lease payments not included in the As a consequence, the implementation of IFRS 16 positively impacts lease liabilities is not significant. the operating margin due to the elimination of operation leasing expenses which are partly compensated by depreciation of the leased (right-ofIFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments use) assets. In addition, the finance costs will increase due to the recogThe interpretation is effective from 1 January 2019 and is to be nition of interest expenses on the finance lease liabilities. applied to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, At initial application as of 1 January 2019, opening balances for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is right-of-use assets and lease liabilities were recognized by SEK 270 uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12. The interpretamillion each, measured at the present value of the remaining lease tion has not had an impact on the Group’s result or financial position. payments, discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate as at 1 January 2019. The weighted average rate applied is 4.4 per cent. No standards, amendments and interpretations which became effecThe effects from the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases in the tive for financial years beginning after 1 January 2019 have been income statement, balance sheet and cash flow are presented below. applied in preparing these financial statements. Consolidated income statement SEK million Other operating expenses 2019 59 4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges –52 Revenue from contracts with customers Operating profit 7 Revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods Financial costs –12 or services to Gränges customers in an amount that reflects the Profit before tax –5 ­c onsideration which expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Income tax 1 Gränges mainly sells rolled products for heat exchangers and Profit for the year –4 selected niche applications. Revenue is generated through sale of material that is produced for a certain customer and application. Revenue is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred Consolidated balance sheet to the customer. SEK million 2019 The transaction price for Gränges’ products is based on the added Property, plant and equipment 255 value Gränges offers in terms of material properties and production complexity (fabrication price), and the price of the raw material, aluNon-current assets 255 minium (metal price). The cost of the aluminium is mainly passed on to Retained earnings –4 the customer through metal price clauses where the aluminium price Equity –4 is usually determined in connection with the delivery. Commodity Interest-bearing liabilities 207 price risk is described in Note 28. Non-current liabilities 207 In determining the transaction price for Gränges’ products the Group Interest-bearing liabilities 52 considers the effect of variable consideration. The variable consideration (early payment discounts and retrospective volume discounts) is estiCurrent liabilities 52 mated at contract inception and included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of accumulated revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the Consolidated cash flow statement variable consideration is subsequently resolved. SEK million 2019 At the end of each reporting period, Gränges updates the estimated Operating profit 7 transaction price (including updating its assessment of whether an Depreciation and impairment charges 52 estimate of variable consideration is constrained). Other revenue is limited and primarily refer to rental revenue from Cash flow from operating activities 59 properties owned by Gränges AB. The rental revenue is recognized on Interest paid and received –12 a straight-line basis over the lease term. Repayments of loans –47 Gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are Cash flow from financing activities –59 accounted for as “Other operating revenues” or “Other operating Cash flow for the year – expenses” and are included in the income statement. 59 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 4 Statement of comprehensive income transition date are classified as short-term contracts and are thereThe statement of comprehensive income includes items which are fore not included in the reported liabilities or rights of use. In addition, recognized in equity but which are not included in the regular profit or rights of use for office equipment or other low-value assets have also loss for the period. The items in the statement are actuarial gains and been classified as low-value contracts and are not included in the losses on pensions, changes in the hedging reserve in hedging transreported liabilities or right-of-use assets. actions and currency translation effects. Right of use assets are depreciated from the commencement date of the contract and follow the depreciation period that is the shortest Assets of the economic life or the contract period. At the commencement of a Intangible assets new lease agreement, an assessment is made whether it is reasonaThe Group has expenses for research and development. Expenditure ble or not to exercise an option to extend the lease, or the use of the for research is carried as a cost immediately while expenditure for opportunity to purchase the underlying assets, or utilize early termidevelopment is recognized as an intangible asset if the underlying nation. This means that Gränges as a lessee itself determines which economic factors are identifiable and represent future economic contract length is considered reasonable instead of taking into ­benefits controlled by the Group. account the termination clause in the agreements. The Group is running a large number of development projects but the criteria for recognizing the projects as intangible assets are ­currently Inventories not met as the future economic benefits for the company cannot be Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. identified and because it is not possible to obtain any degree of cerPurchased goods are measured at cost in accordance with the FIFO tainty during the development phase of the intangible assets. principle while own-produced finished goods and products in progress Capitalised expenditure for internally generated or specially are measured at production cost. A deduction is made for obsolesadapted software is recognized as intangible assets. These are cence. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price less selling depreciated on a straight-line basis over 10 years. costs. For a description of inventories as hedged item in a fair value The customer relationships acquired as part of business combinahedge see “Fair value hedging”, under section “Financial Instruments”. tion are recognized at their fair value at the date of acquisition and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of Cash and cash equivalents 20 years. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents with Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the maturities of up to three months and only subject to insignificant excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifichanges in value. able net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indiProvisions and liabilities cate a potential impairment. The carrying amount of the cash-generating Pensions unit to which the goodwill is attributed to is compared with the recoveraThe Gränges Group’s pension system in Sweden and US primarily conble amount, which is the highest of the value in use and the fair value less sists of defined contribution plans, but also of some defined benefit cost of disposal. Any impairment is recognized immediately as an plans. expense and is not sub-sequently reversed. For defined contribution pension plans the company has a responsiOther acquired intellectual property rights are amortized over the time bility to make contractual payments for its employees’ future p ­ ensions. of the rights. Future pensions are determined by the size of contributions and the return on the plan assets. After the contributions have been paid the Property, plant and equipment company has no further payment obligations under the defined contriProperty, plant and equipment are tangible, long-lived assets which bution plan. No provisions are therefore made in the balance sheet. are intended for the production or delivery of goods or for administraThe company’s pension costs for its defined contribution plans tive purposes. They are stated at cost in the balance sheet less accu­consist of payments to employees’ pension plans during the reporting mulated depreciation and impairment. Maintenance of assets is period and are accounted for as payroll expenses. ­recognized in operating expenses when the maintenance is carried Defined benefit pension plans are based on a promise from the out while more significant periodic maintenance and expenses for company to the employees that they will receive a certain pension replacements and improvements are accounted for as an investment upon retirement, normally defined as a percentage of their final and added to the cost of the assets. ­salary. The company is responsible for the size of the future pension To distribute the cost down to the estimated residual value, items of benefit and the economic value of this obligation are recognized in property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line the income statement and balance sheet. basis, divided into different components, over their useful lives using The liability or asset recognized in the balance sheet in respect the following percentage rates: of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined • buildings and land improvements 10–40 years, benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value • machinery, inventory and installations 5–30 years, of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by • fixtures and vehicles 5–20 years, independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The • IT equipment 5 years. present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of Useful lives and residual values of assets are reviewed each year and high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in adjusted where required. which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to If the residual value exceeds the carrying amount no further depreciathe terms of the related obligation. For the Swedish plans, mortgage tion charges are recognized. This applies especially to buildings. If there bonds are used to determine the discount rate. are indications of impairment of an asset, the asset is written down to its The cost relating to service during the current period is accounted recoverable amount if this is lower than the carrying amount. The recovfor as payroll expenses. The net interest cost is calculated by applying erable amount is the higher of net realisable value and value in use. the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation Loan expenses in connection with the production of the Group’s and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in financial own property, plant and equipment are recognized as part of the cost costs in the income statement. of the asset. Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in the Right-of-use assets period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. Carrying amounts for right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are based on cash flows at present value during expected contract periProvisions ods. Discount rates are determined on the basis of assumptions Provisions are recognized for potential loss-making contracts and for regarding interest rates for loans during the corresponding period and restructuring when the decision to restructure is made. Provisions do with corresponding collateral. Right-of-use assets with contracts not cover any potential future operating losses. As regards restrucshorter than 12 months or which terminate within 12 months from the turing reserves, there must exist a detailed plan identifying which 60 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 4 operations will be restructured as well as a well-founded expectation Interest income and interest expense are recognized using the among those affected by the restructuring. It must also be possible to effective interest method and accounted for under “Financial income” reliably estimate the cost of the restructuring. The outcome of the and “Finance expense” respectively. Group’s long term incentive programme (LTI) is dependent on the Gränges’ share’s total return and is reported as provision. Derivatives Provisions are calculated based on the best estimate of expected Derivatives are classified either as measured at fair value through costs. If the effect is significant, expected future cash flows will be profit and loss or as hedging instrument for which hedge accounting is discounted. applied. Derivatives are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and accounted for as assets or liabilities. Gains and losses on Contingent liabilities and contingent assets changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss when the derivaA contingent liability or contingent asset is a potential obligation or tive is not part of a hedge relationship which meets the criteria for potential asset whose existence is uncertain and which will be conhedge accounting. Purchases and sales of derivatives are recognized firmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specific future event, at the transaction date. such as the out-come of legal proceedings or the final settlement of an insurance claim. If the probability that the liability has been Financial assets at amortized cost incurred exceeds 50 per cent a provision is recognized in the balance The business model for the financial assets in this category is to receive sheet. If the probability is lower a contingent liability is shown as an contractual cash flows, which have been assessed to only consist of payadditional disclosure in the financial statements, unless the probabilments of principal and interest. Assets in this category comprise of ity of an outgoing payment is remote. An asset is only recognized in accounts receivable and other receivable as well as cash and cash equivthe balance sheet if it is highly probable that the Group will receive the alents. They are included in current assets, with the exception of items asset. Disclosures regarding contingent assets are given where an maturing later than twelve months from the end of the reporting period, inflow of resources is probable. which are classified as non-current assets. Accounts receivable are always classified as current assets. The Tax assets in this category are carried at amortized cost in the balance sheet Income tax is the sum of current tax and changes in deferred tax. applying the effective interest rate method. Accounts receivable are Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that measured at the amount expected to be paid, that is after deducting it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or expected credit losses. directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other The Group applies an impairment model based on forward-looking ­comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Current expected credit losses (ECL). The ECL allowance applies to all items (from tax is r­ ecognized at the amount that is expected to be paid to the tax initial recognition). An analysis of expected credit losses is performed authorities based on the taxable income that is reported for the units using a provision matrix adjusted for the market location of the customer included in the consolidated financial statements. The income tax is to measure expected credit losses, where historical, current and fordetermined using tax rates that have been enacted on the ­balance ward-looking factors are taken into consideration. sheet date. The ECL allowance is based on the life-time ECL for all accounts Deferred tax in the balance sheet has been calculated at the receivables. ­nominal tax rate based on temporary differences for assets and Expected credit losses are calculated as the difference between the ­liabilities at the balance sheet date. carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future A provision for deferred tax on retained earnings in foreign subsidicash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest aries is recognized to the extent that it is likely that the dividend will rate. For accounts receivables expected credit losses are calculated be distributed in a near future. without discounting. The asset’s carrying amount is written down and the Deferred tax assets are reviewed continually and recognized in the impairment loss including future changes in expected credit losses are balance sheet only to the extent that it is likely that future t­ axable recognized in the consolidated income statement. profits can be used. The Group define credit-impaired assets as assets which are past-due Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset insofar as more than 90 days or assets with other observable information indicating this is possible under local tax laws and regulations. a measurable decrease in estimated future cash flows. Financial instruments Accounts payable The Group’s financial assets consists of cash and cash equivalents Accounts payables are obligations to pay for goods or services which loans and accounts receiv­able as well as derivatives. Purchases and have been acquired from suppliers or service provides in the course of sales of financial assets are ­recognized at the transaction date, which the company’s operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as is the date when the Group undertakes to buy or sell the asset. current liabilities and are measured at amortized cost. Accounts receivable are recognized when the invoice has been sent. Financial assets are removed from the balance sheet when the right to Borrowings (loans) receive cash flows from the instrument has expired or been transferred Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction and the Group has transferred essentially all risks and benefits associcosts. Subsequently loans are carried at amortized cost and any difated with ownership to another party. ference between the amount received (net of transaction costs) and The Group’s financial liabilities comprise of borrowings and the amount repayable is recognized in the income statement over the accounts payable as well as derivatives. Financial liabilities are recogterm of the loan by applying the effective interest method. nized in the balance sheet when the counterparty has performed and a contractual obligation to pay exists. Accounts payable are recogLease liabilities nized when the invoice has been received. Financial liabilities are Leasing liabilities are based on calculated present value of payments derecognized from the balance sheet when the contractual o ­ bligation during expected contract periods. Primarily the discount rate is based has been fulfilled or in some other way is extinguished. on implicit rate in the agreement. When implicit rate cannot be identiFinancial instruments are initially recognized at fair value plus fied, the marginal loan interest rate is used instead, which corretransaction costs, which applies to all financial assets and liabilities sponds to the interest rate the company would be offered if the acquithat are not measured at fair value through profit and loss. These are sition was financed with loans from a financial institution. initially recognized at fair value excluding transaction costs. Financial assets and liabilities are in general not netted even when Hedge accounting there is a legal right of netting the carrying amounts and an intention The Group uses the following criteria for classifying a derivative or to settle them by a net amount or to simultaneously realize the asset other financial instrument as a hedging instrument: (1) the hedging and settle the liability. The legal right must not depend on future instrument is expected to be very effective in offsetting changes in events and must be legally binding for the company and the counterthe fair value of or cash flows for an identifi­able item (hedged item), party both in case of normal business activities and in the event of (2) the hedge efficiency can be reliably measured, (3) satisfactory default, insolvency or bankruptcy. ­documentation is drawn up before the hedging instrument is acquired 61 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 4 showing, in particular, that the hedge relationship is effective, (4) in Segments case of the use of cash flow hedges, that the future trans­action is The reporting of operating segments is consistent with the internal deemed to be highly probable, and (5) the hedge relationship is reporting submitted to the highest executive decision maker, which reviewed on a regular basis. consist of the CEO. The business operation is characterized by strong Gains and losses on the hedging instrument are recognized in the integration between the different regions to maximize the Group’s profincome statement at the same time as gains and losses from the itability. Operations are monitored on a global market, and the Group hedged item. thus reports only one segment in line with IFRS 8. For information on the geographic distribution of non-current assets, Fair value hedging sales revenue and the average number of employees, see Note 6. Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated as hedging instruments are recognized immediately in the income statement. Changes Other principles in the fair value of the hedged item (inventory) relating to the hedged Cash flow risk are recognized in the income statement in the same way and are The cash flow statement, which has been prepared using the indirect recognized as an adjustment on the hedged item’s carrying amount. method, shows cash flows from operating activities, investing activiHedge accounting is discontinued if: (a) the hedge instrument has ties and financing activities, and explains changes in “Cash and cash expired, been terminated, exercised or sold or (b) the hedge no longer equivalents” for the reporting period. meets the aforementioned criteria for hedging. In the case of a discontinued hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedged item are Acquisitions ­recognized in the balance sheet until the hedged item (inventory) is The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisitions of subrecognized as cost of materials in the income statement. sidiaries and operations. All payments to acquire a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of Cash flow hedges acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrurecorded as goodwill. ment is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve until the hedged transaction is executed. At Government grants that time the accumulated gains or losses on the hedging instrument Government grants are recognized in the financial statements when it will be reclassified to the income statement. The ineffective portion is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received. The grants of the hedging instrument is recognized immediately in the income are accounted for either as income or a reduction of expenses, and are statement. When a hedging instrument has expired, been sold, exerin the latter case matched with the expenses which they are intended cised or terminated, the accumulated gains or losses will remain in the to compensate for. Government grants attributable to assets are hedging reserve and will be recognized in the income statement upon accounted for as a reduction of the cost of the asset. The grant execution of the hedged transaction. If the hedged transaction is no reduces the depreciation of the asset. longer expected to occur, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedging instrument will be recognized immediately in the income statement. 5 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ASSESSMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS In preparing Gränges’ consolidated accounts, it is necessary to make ments, management makes its best assessments in areas of signifia number of assessments and assumptions which can influence the cant importance. Accounting items where changes in assessments carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Future events and changes and assumptions would have a significant impact on the consolidated in operating parameters may make it necessary to make other financial statements during next financial year are: assessments and assumptions. When preparing the financial stateAccounting item Note Assessments and assumptions that are of significant importance for carrying amounts Right-of-use assets 3, 19 As of 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases is adopted. The value of identifiable right-of-use assets and and lease liabilities lease liabilities are based on the present value of future payments during the expected contract periods. The discount rate is set based on assumptions in interest rates for loans during the corresponding period and with corresponding collateral. Pension liability 9 The present value of the pension obligations depends on a n ­ umber of factors which are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net pension expense (income) include the discount rate. Taxes 15 The tax rate in China depends on whether Gränges qualifies as a high technology company. This qualification entails an income tax rate of 15 per cent instead of the ordinary rate of 25 per cent. However, to obtain the classification special requirements established need to be met and approved by local authorities. Gränges considers it to be more likely than not that the special requirements will be met for the financial year 2019 and therefore applies a tax rate of 15 per cent for the Chinese operation for 2019. Intangible assets 17 Impairment test for goodwill is carried out annually or throughout the year if an event occurs that may result in the need for impairment. Important assumptions on the basis of impairment testing are forecasts of future cash flows, which include assumptions for sales growth and operating margin. The discount rate is set based on assumptions about weighted average cost of capital. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, and therefore a changed assessment of the useful life entails a change in carrying amount. Tangible assets 18 Depreciation of tangible assets is recorded over the estimated useful life of components or tested for impairment in an indication of impairment is identified. Changes in assumptions regarding the recoverable amount and estimated useful life may lead to significant changes in value. Ongoing expansion investments regarding the production facilities are essential in their nature. Depreciation begins when the new facilities are put into use and the balance sheet’s valuation and accounting are dependent on compliance with timetables and investment calculations. Inventories 20 Valuation of production costs is done using calculation models based on current prices and cost levels, where direct and indirect production-related costs are attributed to manufactured products. For estimation of obsolescence, assumptions and assessments are based on the turnover rate and how sellable the inventory is. 62 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 6 GEOGRAPHIC  AVERAGEBREAKDOWN AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OF NET SALES, NON-CURRENT ASSETS Net sales are distributed regionally based on where the customers are located. Non-current assets and the average number of employees are based on where Gränges is located. 2019 SEK million Sweden Rest of Europe China Rest of Asia USA Rest of Americas Total Net sales 299 1,793 1,854 882 5,718 1,433 11,978 Non-current assets1) 1,045 42 954 1 3,933 – 5,975 Average no. of employees 518 8 513 8 758 – 1,805 2018 SEK million Sweden Rest of Europe China Rest of Asia USA Rest of Americas Total Net sales 367 2,057 1,991 1,013 6,128 1,354 12,910 Non-current assets1) 702 43 946 0 2,721 – 4,412 Average no. of employees 500 – 517 8 675 – 1,699 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, interests in joint ventures, interest-bearing receivables and other non-current receivables. The ten largest customers accounted for 53 per cent (48) of sales. No customers accounted for more than 10 per cent of total sales in 2019 or 2018. 7 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS Gränges mainly sells rolled products for heat exchangers and selected In determining the transaction price for Gränges’ products the Group niche applications in different regions. Gränges’ customers are in the considers the effect of variable consideration. The variable consideraautomotive industry, the HVAC industry and niche markets such as tion (early payment discounts and retrospective volume discounts) is transformers and food packaging. estimated at contract inception and included in the transaction price The transaction price for Gränges’ products is based on the only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal added value Gränges offers in terms of material properties and of accumulated revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associproduction complexity (fabrication price), and the price of the ated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The raw material, aluminium. The fabrication price is fixed while the variable consideration is recognized as accrued expenses in the balaluminium price is variable and based on metal price clauses ance sheet. ­c onnected to the market price. The fabrication price allocated to the remaining (unsatisfied or ­partially unsatisfied) performance obligations in contracts with Sales by region ­customers is shown in the table below. SEK million 2019 2018 Remaining performance obligations at 31 December Asia 2,736 3,004 SEK million 2019 2018 Europe 2,074 2,403 Americas 7,150 7,482 Within 1 year 4,421 4,358 Total revenue from contracts with customers 11,960 12,889 After 1 year but within 2 years 2,770 3,203 Other revenue 18 21 After 2 years 1,044 2,896 Net sales 11,978 12,910 Total1) 8,235 10,457 1) Corresponding to sales volume of 618.8 ktonnes (857.4). Sales by market Since the raw material price is variable, based on metal price clauses, Fabrication Raw material revenue and other revenue Total Gränges only disclosures the amount of fabrication price allocated to the remaining performance obligations in contracts with customers. SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Automotive 2,925 3,117 3,267 3,754 6,192 6,870 HVAC & Other 2,074 1,907 3,694 4,111 5,768 6,019 Total revenue from contracts with customers 4,999 5,024 6,961 7,865 11,960 12,889 Other revenue – – 18 21 18 21 Net sales 4,999 5,024 6,978 7,886 11,978 12,910 Other revenue is limited and primarily refer to rental revenue from properties owned by Gränges AB. Rental revenue has not been classified as revenue from contracts with customers and is recognized in other revenue in the tables above. 63 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 8 PAYROLL EXPENSES Average number of employees 2019 2018 Average no. of employees Of which, women Average no. of employees Of which, women Gränges AB Sweden 29 9 31 10 Subsidiaries Sweden 489 93 469 90 China 513 58 517 58 US 758 88 675 82 Other countries 16 2 8 1 Group total 1, 805 251 1,699 241 Board members and other senior executives 2019 2018 No. at balance sheet date Of which, women No. at balance sheet date Of which, women Board members 7 3 7 3 CEO, deputy CEO and other senior ­executives 8 1 8 1 Salaries, remuneration, social security contributions and pension costs 2019 2018 Salaries and Salaries and remuneration remuneration (of which, Social security (of which, Social security SEK million variable portion)1) contributions Pension cost variable portion)1) contributions Pension Gränges AB Board, CEO, deputy CEO and other senior ­executives –31 (–15) –11 –6 –31 (–15) –11 –5 Other employees –35 –12 –7 –33 –10 –6 Subsidiaries Other senior ­executives –24 (–13) –2 –1 –20 (–11) –2 –1 Other employees –957 –256 –69 –918 –175 –57 Group total –1 046 –281 –83 –1,002 –198 –70 1) During 2019 SEK 2 million (3) has been received in government grants for Americas. The grant has reduced the payroll expenses. Salaries and other remuneration to the Board members, CEO, senior executives including deputy CEO the salaries are decided by the deputy CEO and other senior executives CEO with the support of the Chairman of the Board. The variable remuBoard members neration is based on results achieved in relation to defined targets In 2019 the Board of Directors consisted of seven members, elected by and is made up of two components, a short-term incentive prothe Annual General Meeting. All members are independent from the gramme (STI) and a long-term incentive programme (LTI). Several company and the company’s main owners. Two employee representa­long-term incentive p­ rogrammes can run in parallel. tives and two deputy employee representatives are also represented The contract between the company and the CEO stipulates a on the Board. mutual twelve-month period of notice. Additionally, in the case of terThe Chairman and the other six members of the Board receive mination by the company, severance pay is payable without deduction Directors’ fees in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the for an additional twelve months. The contracts between the company annual general meeting. and the deputy CEO, and other members of the Group Management stipulates a mutual six-month period of notice. Additionally, in the CEO and other senior executives case of termination by the company, severance pay is payable for an The remuneration paid to the CEO, deputy CEO and other senior execuadditional twelve months, without deduction for the first six months. tives consists of a basic salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pension. Senior executives refer to the members of Group Management Pension directly reporting to the CEO. During 2019 seven of the members were The retirement age for the CEO is 65 years. The CEO has a direct penemployed by the Group while the SVP Communications is an external sion in form of a company-owned endowment insurance. The premiconsultant as interim solution. SVP Communications is not included in ums to the endowment insurance amounts to 35 per cent of the basic number of employees or in salaries but in number of senior executives at salary for the CEO. For other senior executives, including the deputy balance sheet date, and in the table for remuneration and other benefits. CEO, the retire­ment age is 60–65 years depending on the country of The basic salary for the CEO is deliberated in the Remuneration comemployment and both ­premium-based and defined-benefit-based mittee and adopted by the Board of Directors. For all other employed obligations exist. 64 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 8 Remuneration and other benefits in 2019 Short-term Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive proprogrammes (LTI 2018, Total variable Other SEK million Directors’ fee gramme (STI)¹) 2017 and 2016) remuneration benefits Pension cost Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.7 – – – – – –0.7 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Katarina Lindström –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Mats Backman –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Senior executives CEO Johan Menckel –5.7 –3.5 –3.2 –6.7 –0.2 –1.9 –14.5 Deputy CEO Oskar Hellström –3.6 –2.2 –1.7 –3.9 –0.3 –2.0 –9.8 Other senior executives (6 individuals) –15.1 –8.9 –8.4 –17.3 –0.8 –3.2 –36.4 Total –27.2 –14.5 –13.3 –27.8 –1.3 –7.1 –63.4 Remuneration and other benefits in 2018 Short-term Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive proprogrammes (LTI 2017, Total variable Other SEK million Directors’ fee gramme (STI)2) 2016 and 2015) remuneration benefits Pension cost Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.6 – – – – – –0.6 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Katarina Lindström –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Mats Backman –0.2 – – – – – –0.2 Senior executives CEO Johan Menckel –5.5 –3.3 –2.9 –6.2 –0.1 –1.9 –13.6 Deputy CEO Oskar Hellström –2.8 –1.7 –1.5 –3.2 –0.2 –1.4 –7.7 Other senior executives (6 individuals) –14.5 –10.3 –6.3 –16.6 –0.8 –2.5 –34.4 Total –25.3 –15.4 –10.6 –26.0 –1.2 –5.7 –58.2 1) The amounts are attributable to 2019 but will be disbursed in 2020. 2) The amounts are attributable to 2018 but were disbursed in 2019. Variable remuneration The programmes are designed so that an amount corresponding to Short-term incentive programme (STI) the outcome from STI for each year and participant is set aside in a The remuneration from STI is determined by a number of parameters ­so-­c alled LTI bank. The costs for the long-term incentive programs consisting of financial key ratios for the Group, such as adjusted operatare provided for during the performance years and are shown in the ing profit and cash conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. tables Remuneration and other benefits. Provided that the particiRemuneration under STI 2019 may not exceed 60 per cent of the pant is still employed by Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI total basic salary paid to the CEO, deputy CEO and to the other 2016 is paid per year during 2018, 2019 and 2020, for LTI 2017 during ­members of Group Management, except for the person holding the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 and for LTI 2018 during the years ­position as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 per cent of 2020, 2021 and 2022. The payments are adjusted for the total return the total basic salary. of the Gränges share. The total payment of LTI and STI in any one year is limited to 1.5 times an annual salary, except for the perLong-term incentive programmes (LTI 2018, LTI 2017 and LTI 2016) son holding position as President Americas, for whom such total Gränges’ long-term incentive programmes are offered to the company’s payout is limited 2.0 times the annual salary. senior executives and certain selected key persons. The incentive programmes aim to ­promote and encourage loyalty to the company by Other benefits aligning personal objectives and interests with the shareholders’ Other benefits mainly consist of company cars and medical benefits. interest of strong share price performance and a good dividend. 65 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 9 PENSIONS Gränges has pension plans in Sweden and the US. Approximately 72 per US plans are partially funded. To secure unfunded accrued pension cent (76) of the employees in Sweden are covered by defined contribution rights of their employees in Sweden, companies need to take out a pension plans, with the remainder covered by defined benefit plans. All Credit Insurance Policy with Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti. permanent full-time employees in the US are eligible for the defined conPRI Pensionsgaranti also administers and calculates the Group’s tribution plan. Approximately 18 per cent (23) of permanent full time unfunded pension obligations. The Group’s pensions in Sweden are employees in the US are eligible for the defined benefit pension plan. regulated by the Act (1967:531) respecting retirement pensions. The Gränges Benefits Committee in the US is responsible for the overDefined contribution plans sight and management of the plans’ investments. It has a written InvestEmployees of Gränges in the Swedish and American operations are ment Policy. The aim of the investment decisions made by the Committee mainly covered by pension plans classified as defined contribution plans. is to achieve optimal returns while taking into account a reasonable level Defined contribution plans are arrangements in which the company pays of risk. Investments are diversified, such that the failure of any single annual contributions to its employees’ pension plans and where future investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. pensions are determined by the amount of contributions paid and the An asset liability management assessment is conducted periodically. return on the pension assets. In Sweden employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement have defined contribution ­pension plans, as do Assumptions for defined benefit plans salaried employees born after 1979 under the ITP1 supplementary penThe assumptions are defined in consultation with professional actuarsion plan. ies. Assumptions on future salary adjustments and sales are specific to the Group. The discount rate is determined by reference to high-quality Defined benefit plans corporate bonds traded in a well functioning market, which reflect the The defined benefit pension plan in Sweden applies for salaried duration of the pension obligation. In Sweden the discount rate is based employees covered by the ITP2 supplementary pension plan, based on on secured mortgage bonds. a collective agreement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the trade unions for salaried employees in the private sector. Assumptions for defined benefit plans The pension plan is a net plan under which the pension obligation is not Sweden US linked to changes in Swedish social insurance schemes. Under the 2019 2018 2019 2018 applicable collective agreement, all salaried employees born in 1979 or after are covered by a defined contribution plan. This means that the Discount rate, % 1.5 2.4 3.2–3.3 2.9–4.5 scope of the defined benefit plan will be reduced over time. The group Future salary also operates defined benefit pension plans for hourly union employees adjustments , % 3.0 3.2 4.0 4.0 in the US under broadly similar regulatory frameworks. All of the plans Income base amount, % 2.7 3.0 n/a n/a are final salary pension plans, which provide benefit to members in the Inflation, % 1.7 2.0 n/a n/a form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in Employee turnover, % 5.0 5.0 4.0–20.0 2.0–15.0 the final years leading up to retirement. In the Swedish plans, pensions Weighted average in payment are generally updated in line with the retail price index, remaining duration, years 20.0 19.0 12.0 11.4 whereas in the US plans, pensions generally do not receive inflationary increases once in payment. With the exception of this inflationary risk in The assumptions for life expectancy in Sweden are based on DUS14 life Sweden, the plans face broadly similar risks, including the risk of expectancy tables. increased life expectancy and sensitivity to changes in interest rates. The mortality assumption in the US is based on the Pri-2012 (RP-2006) Both the Swedish and US defined benefit plans are accounted for mortality tables, Scale MP-2019 (MP-2018). as a provision in the balance sheet. Swedish plans are unfunded and Distribution of pension costs Sweden US Total SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Defined contribution plans –40 –30 –29 –25 –69 –55 Current service costs –8 –7 –3 –5 –11 –12 Administrative expenses – 0 –4 –4 –4 –4 Pension costs recognized as operating expenses –48 –37 –36 –33 –83 –70 Interest on net pension liabilities recognized as a financial expense –5 –4 –5 –4 –10 –9 Pensions costs recognized in the income statement –52 –41 –41 –37 –93 –79 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income –39 –15 –48 22 –87 8 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – 49 –33 49 –33 Total pension costs –92 –56 –40 –48 –132 –104 Distribution of pension liabilities at 31 December Sweden US Total SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Present value of unfunded pension obligations –250 –200 –118 –118 –368 –318 Present value of funded and partially funded pension obligations – – –356 –297 –356 –297 Funded plan assets – – 356 297 356 297 Other pension obligations 4 –4 – – 4 –4 Total pension liabilities –246 –203 –118 –118 –363 –321 66 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 9 Changes in the present value of pension obligations Sweden US Total SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pension obligations at 1 January –203 –177 –415 –405 –618 –582 Current service costs –8 –7 –3 –5 –11 –12 Interest on pension provision –5 –4 –18 –16 –22 –20 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income: – due to changes in financial assumptions –36 –12 –53 27 –88 16 – due to changes in demographic assumptions – – 2 1 2 1 – due to experienced-based adjustments –4 –3 3 –7 –1 –10 Benefits paid during the year 5 5 28 25 33 30 Other pension costs 4 –4 – – 4 –4 Translation differences – – –18 –37 –18 –37 Pension obligations at 31 December –246 –203 –474 –415 –719 –618 Changes in the present value of plan assets Sweden US Total SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Plan assets at 1 January – 0 297 306 297 306 Administrative expenses – 0 –4 –4 –4 –4 Interest on plan assets – – 13 12 13 12 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – 49 –33 49 –33 Employer contributions – – 17 13 17 13 Benefits paid during the year – 0 –28 –25 –28 –25 Translation differences – – 13 28 13 28 Plan assets at 31 December – – 356 297 356 297 Net pension liabilities –246 –203 –118 –118 –363 –321 Distribution of plan assets Sweden US Total SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Equity instruments – – 137 107 137 107 Interest-bearing securities – – 192 168 192 168 Real estate – – 20 15 20 15 Cash – – 7 7 7 7 Total plan assets – – 356 297 356 297 Sensitivity analysis of the effect on the pension liabilities (+increase/-decrease in pension liabilities) Defined benefit pension liabilities terms SEK million Sweden US Total SEK million Sweden US Total +0.5 –21 –24 –45 Benefits scheduled for disbursement Discount rate, % within 12 months 5 28 32 –0.5 24 27 51 Benefits scheduled for disbursement Increased/decreased +1 10 19 29 within 1–5 years 25 116 141 life expectancy, years –1 –10 –20 –30 Benefits scheduled for disbursement after 5 years or more 268 143 411 The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an individual actuarial assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged. This method Contributions to plans for post-employment remuneration are shows the obligation’s sensitivity to a single assumption. This is a simpliestimated at SEK 23 million for the financial year 2020. fied method, as actuarial assumptions are normally correlated. 67 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 10 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 13 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS SEK million 2019 2018 Gränges reports two joint arrangements, Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd and Getek GmbH. EY Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd provides stamping Audit engagement –6.5 –5.5 capacity for Gränges’ customers in China. Gränges owns 50 per cent. Audit services in addition The holding is classified as a joint venture and is accounted for using to audit engagement –0.7 –0.7 the equity method. Tax advisory services –0.2 –0.3 Gränges owns 51 per cent of Getek GmbH. The company produces Other services –0.1 –0.1 aluminium billets using advanced spray-forming technology and has Total remuneration to auditors –7.5 –6.6 two production sites, one in Germany and one in France. Getek is jointly owned with Erbslöh Aluminium GmbH, which owns 49 per cent of the company. The terms of the shareholder agreement Audit engagement refers to the examination of the annual report and require consent of the parties in relevant activities. This activity is clasaccounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ sified as a joint operation and the Group recognizes its direct right to ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s audit­or jointly owned assets, liabilities, ­revenues and expenses. Gränges holds as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations an option to acquire the remaining 49 per cent of Getek, but the option made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such is currently not considered to be of any significant value. other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement is mainly No significant capital injections are deemed to be required in the joint related to review of interim reports. arrangements during 2020. Tax advisory services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as well as value-added tax. Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method Other services refer to advice that is not attributable to any of the aforementioned categor­ies of services. Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu 11 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES SEK million ­ luminium A Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 10 Acquisitions/sales – SEK million 2019 2018 Share of profit/loss 1 Energy and utility expenses –396 –393 Dividend – Freight expenses –329 –335 Tax – Repair and maintenance expenses –249 –277 Translation differences 0 Consumable material –160 –189 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 12 Consultant fees –195 –167 Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 7 Rental/leasing – –50 Acquisitions/sales 3 Travel expenses –41 –44 Share of profit/loss 0 Vehicle operating expenses –31 –32 Dividend – Insurance –31 –28 Tax – Other –189 –232 Translation differences 0 Total other operating expenses –1,621 –1,747 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 10 The Group has made the assessment that the joint arrangements are 12 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY not essential and has therefore not provided additional financial information in summary. Financial SEK million statement line 2019 2018 Items affecting 14 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS Merger and acquisition costs comparability –16 – Items affecting SEK million 2019 2018 Restructuring costs comparability –14 – Interest income 7 10 Inventory effect due to changed Cost of distribution model materials – –64 Net foreign exchange gain 1 6 Total items affecting comparability –30 –64 Total financial income 9 15 Interest expense –119 –107 In November 2019, Gränges signed an agreement to acquire the Polish flat rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Konin. The transaction is Net interest expense, pensions –10 –9 subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. Interest expense on lease liabilities –12 – The costs for acquisition activities during 2019 for Konin amounts to Other financial expenses –19 –12 SEK 16 million. Total financial costs –160 –128 Restructuring costs of SEK 14 million relates to manning reductions, Total financial income and costs –152 –113 mainly within the Swedish operation. All negotiations with employees affected by the manning reduction were completed in 2019. Financial income during 2019 is mainly related to interest income from Items affecting comparability for 2018 relates to costs due to bank deposits in China. Other financial expenses primarily consisted of changed distribution model for import of heat exchanger materials to cost for financing and bank fees. Gränges’ customers in North America. 68 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 15 TAXES Tax expense Gränges’ Chinese subsidiary has for tax purpose received a pre-qualification as a High and New-Technology Enterprise for the three-year SEK million 2019 2018 period 2019 to 2021. The pre-qualification means that the company Profit before taxes 686 849 preliminary pays 15 per cent in corporate income tax instead of the ordinary tax of 25 per cent for the period. In order to finally obtain the Current tax –9 –139 lower tax rate, the company must meet special requirements estabDeferred tax –77 –22 lished by the authorities in China for each one of the three years. Total tax –86 –161 Gränges currently considers it to be more likely than not that the special requirements will be met for the financial year 2019 and therefore Tax as % of profit before taxes 12 19 applies a tax rate of 15 per cent for the Chinese operation. If the ordinary tax rate of 25 per cent would have been applied the total tax Reconciliation of the Group’s tax rate expense would have been SEK 10 million higher during the year. The following table shows a reconciliation of reported tax and tax calTax subsidies abroad mainly refers to superdeduction in China where culated on Swedish tax rate of 21.4 per cent. The main tax compoan enterprise enjoy 175 per cent deduction for eligible research and nents are shown below. development expenses for income tax purpose. Income tax paid abroad mainly consists of paid income tax of SEK SEK million 2019 2018 –17 million (–26) in China on dividends from the subsidiary in Shanghai Earnings before tax multiplied by nominal tax to Gränges AB. rate in Sweden –147 –187 Corporate income tax in Sweden was reduced in 2019 from 22.0 per Effect of foreign operations with tax rates other cent to 21.4 per cent. The tax will be further reduced and from 2021 it than 21.4 % (22.0) 5 –6 will amount to 20.6 per cent. Consideration for future tax reductions Non-deductible expenses –4 –5 was already considered during 2018 when calculating deferred tax and Non-taxable income 3 1 the impact on the year’s tax expense has been insignificant. During 2019 a tax liability of SEK 54 million was dissolved related to Tax subsidies abroad 11 23 final approval of High and New-Technology Enterprise for the financial Other income tax paid abroad –21 –36 year 2018 for the Chines operation. Adjustment of tax in respect of prior years 12 –8 Changes in tax legislation 0 1 Deferred tax Release on tax provision in China 54 55 Deferred tax consists of the Group’s tax items, which are settled in the Total tax –86 –161 future. The table below specifies deferred tax assets and tax ­liabilities relating to temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax on temporary differences 2019 2018 Deferred Deferred Net deferred Deferred Deferred Net deferred SEK million tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax Intangible assets – –63 –63 – –40 –40 Property, plant and equipment 4 –391 –387 6 –161 –155 Right-of-use assets 1 – 1 – – – Hedging reserve in equity 1 0 1 6 – 6 Net pension provision 39 –12 27 28 –12 16 Other non-current items 48 –4 45 22 0 22 Total non-current items 94 –470 –376 61 –213 –152 Current receivables 4 – 4 5 – 5 Inventories 31 – 30 39 – 39 Other current items 58 0 42 81 –6 76 Total current items 93 –1 76 125 –6 120 Tax losses 188 – 188 11 – 11 Set-off –346 346 0 –144 144 0 Net deferred tax assets (+) / liabilities (–) 28 –124 –96 54 –76 –22 Deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses have been taken into Change in deferred tax in the income statement account in full since the company is of the opinion that sufficient income will be generated in the future to be utilized against the tax SEK million 2019 2018 losses. The tax losses amount to SEK 895 million (50) per 31 DecemChange in deferred tax in balance sheet –74 –6 ber 2019 and can be carried forward indefinitely. The reason for the Change in deferred tax, hedging reserve in other increase in tax losses are mainly attributable to direct deductions for comprehensive income 6 –10 investments in the US. Deferred tax asset on other non-current items mainly refers to Change in deferred tax, actuarial gains and losses on pensions in other comprehensive income –8 –6 interest limitation deductions in US. Deferred tax asset on other current items mainly refers to accrued Translation effects in other comprehensive income –1 0 expenses in China. Change in deferred tax in the income statement –77 –22 69 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of outstanding shares. There are no potential shares and hence no dilution effect for 2019. For further information of Gränges’ shares, see Note 24. 2019 2018 Profit for the year (SEK million) 600 688 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, basic 75,517,386 75,517,386 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, diluted 75,517,386 75,517,386 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 7.95 9.11 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 7.95 9.11 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer SEK million Goodwill IT relationships Other Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 389 188 183 – 761 Acquisitions 0 73 – 35 107 Amortization – –3 –11 –4 –19 Translation differences 15 1 8 – 24 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 404 259 180 30 874 Cost at 31 December 2019 404 290 216 35 945 Accumulated amortization and impairment – –31 –36 –4 –71 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 404 259 180 30 874 Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 372 91 178 – 640 Acquisitions 0 99 – – 99 Amortization – –1 –10 – –11 Translation differences 17 – 16 – 33 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 389 188 183 – 761 Cost at 31 December 2018 389 216 207 – 813 Accumulated amortization and impairment – –28 –24 – –52 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 389 188 183 – 761 Impairment test of goodwill Customer relationships Impairment testing for goodwill is made annually or continuously durThe customer relationships arose in conjunction with an acquisition in ing the year if an event that may result in impairment need arises. The US during 2016. The acquired business has a number of large customforecast period is five years with an average growth rate of 5.1 (3.5) per ers that they have had long relationships with. The customer relationcent. Estimated growth rate beyond the forecast period amounts to 2.0 ships are recognized at their fair value at the date of acquisition and (1.5) per cent. Cash flows have been discounted at a present value are subsequently amortized on a straight-line basis over their estiusing a discount rate calculated at 8.0 (7.9) per cent after tax, corremated useful lives of 20 years. sponding to 8.7 (8.7) per cent before tax. Sensitivity analyses have been performed to evaluate whether reasonable changes in discount Other rate and the growth rate would indicate need for impairment. No reaOther intangible fixed assets consist of acquired intellectual property sonable changes in assumptions or events during the year or after its rights. expiration indicate need for impairment. The Group is running a large number of development projects but the criteria for recognising the projects as intangible assets are IT currently not met. Total costs for research and development projects IT mainly refers to implementation of new production and ERP systems amount to SEK 108 million (93) for 2019. within the Group. 70 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 18 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improvements Machinery and Fixed assets under Fixtures, SEK million and buildings ­equipment construction vehicles, etc. Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 682 2,250 661 59 3,651 Acquisitions 1 1 1,470 10 1,482 Sales – –3 – –1 –5 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 471 1,227 –1,711 13 0 Depreciation –48 –320 – –22 –391 Translation differences 8 60 40 0 108 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 1,114 3,215 459 58 4,846 Cost at 31 December 2018 1,620 6,133 459 271 8,482 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –506 –2,918 – –213 –3,637 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 1,114 3,215 459 58 4,846 Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 Acquisitions1) 0 2 734 8 744 Sales 0 –3 – –4 –7 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 34 240 –302 28 0 Depreciation –43 –280 – –19 –342 Translation differences 30 139 10 1 180 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 682 2,250 661 59 3,651 Cost at 31 December 2018 1,135 4,812 661 250 6,858 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –453 –2,563 – –191 –3,207 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 682 2,250 661 59 3,651 1) Includes government grants for Americas of SEK 45 million. The grant has reduced the acquisitions. 19 RIGHT-OF-USE-ASSETS Land and Machinery and Fixtures, SEK million buildings equipment vehicles, etc. Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 60 160 51 270 Acquisitions – 19 12 32 Extension and termination options 0 0 – 0 Depreciation –15 –18 –19 –52 Translation differences 1 5 0 5 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 46 165 44 255 Cost at 31 December 2019 61 183 63 307 Accumulated depreciation –14 –18 –19 –52 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 46 165 44 255 The expense related to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets for 2019 amounts to SEK 5 million. For further information about the transition effect on the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, cash outflow for leases and interest expense on lease liabilities see Note 3 New accounting standards. For maturity analysis for lease liabilities see Note 28 Financial risk. 20 INVENTORIES SEK million 2019 2018 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and fair value after deduction of selling costs. Raw materials 509 596 The amount of inventories recognized as an expense is included in cost Work in progress 682 615 of materials and amounted in 2019 to SEK 7,620 million (8,536) including Finished goods and merchandise 681 821 the change in the provision for obsolescence of SEK –4 million (8). Derivatives 5 –41 Other 111 12 Provision for obsolescence –31 –34 Total inventories 1,957 1,968 71 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 21 OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial Financial fair value included in ­assets ­liabilities Of which 2019 Measurement through profit hedge m ­ easured at m ­ easured at interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost amortized cost Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 27, 33 – – – 2 – 2 2 Non-current derivatives 29 2 – 3 – – 3 – Total – 3 2 – 5 2 Current assets Accounts receivable 22 – – – 1,370 – 1,370 – Other current receivables – – 223 – 223 – Current derivatives 22, 27, 29 2 26 11 – – 37 3 Cash and cash equivalents 23 – – – 747 – 747 747 Total 26 11 2,340 – 2,377 750 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 27 – – – – 2,863 2,863 2,863 Non-current derivatives 29 2 – 0 – 38 38 38 Total – 0 – 2,901 2,901 2,901 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 27 – – – – 951 951 951 Accounts payable 25 – – – – 1,253 1,253 – Other current liabilities 25 – – – – 14 14 – Current derivatives 25, 27, 29 2 31 12 – 1 45 1 Total 31 12 – 2,219 2,263 952 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –6 2 2,342 –5,120 –2,782 –3,101 Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial Financial fair value included in ­assets ­liabilities Of which 2018 Measurement through profit hedge ­measured at ­measured at interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost amortized cost Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 27, 33 – – – – 2 2 2 Non-current derivatives 29 2 – 2 – – 2 – Total – 2 – 2 4 2 Current assets Accounts receivable 22 – – – – 1,414 1,414 – Other current receivables – – – – 278 278 – Current derivatives 22, 27, 29 2 71 5 – – 76 – Cash and cash equivalents 23 – – – – 457 457 457 Total 71 5 – 2,149 2,225 457 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 27 – – – 2,112 – 2,112 2,112 Non-current derivatives 29 2 4 0 – – 5 4 Total 4 0 2,112 – 2,117 2,117 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 27 – – – 515 – 515 515 Accounts payable 25 – – – 1,250 – 1,250 – Other current liabilities 25 – – – 2 – 2 – Current derivatives 25, 27, 29 2 39 32 – – 71 – Total 39 32 1,767 – 1,838 515 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) 28 –26 –3,879 2,151 –1,726 –2,173 72 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 21 Measurement of financial instruments Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine the fair values of The fair value of interest-bearing assets and liabilities is provided for financial instruments: disclosure purposes and is estimated by discounting the future cash Level 1: Q uoted, unadjusted prices in active markets for identical flows of principal and interest discounted at the current market rate. instruments. In the fair value measurement of borrowings the credit spread has Level 2: I nputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are remained constant unless there is clear evidence that a change in directly or indirectly observable for the instrument. the Group’s creditworthiness has resulted in an observable change Level 3: N on-observable inputs that have significant impact on the fair in the credit spread. The fair value of borrowings amounted in 2019 value of the instrument. to SEK 3,864 million (2,641). Currency forwards Other receivables and liabilities Fair value of currency forward contracts is calculated by discounting For other receivables and liabilities, which are short-term, the the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward ­carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value. rate that can be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract period. No transfers from one level to another in the valuation hierarchy were made in 2019 and 2018. Aluminium futures Aluminium futures are measured at observable quoted prices on LME (London Metal Exchange) and SHFE (Shanghai Futures Exchange) for similar assets and liabilities. 22 CURRENT RECEIVABLES 23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS SEK million 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 Accounts receivable 1,370 1,414 Cash and bank balances 747 457 Derivatives 34 76 Total cash and cash equivalents 747 457 Other current receivables 249 316 Total financial receivables 1,653 1,807 Advances to suppliers/accrued income Tax receivables 79 17 45 7 24 SHARE CAPITAL Total current receivables 1,748 1,859 2019 2018 Numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,517,386 Change in provisions for expected credit losses SEK million 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 Provisions for expected credit losses at 1 January –23 –19 Share capital 101 101 Expected credit losses recognized in income statement 2 –5 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capiUsed during the year 0 1 tal shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK Translation differences 0 –1 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Provisions for expected credit losses at 31 December –21 –23 The share capital comprises a single class of share and amounts to SEK 101 million as of 31 December 2019. Share capital is divided into 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. For earnAccounts receivables maturity structure ings per share and dilutive effect, see Note 16. SEK million 2019 2018 Not yet due 1,056 1,116 Overdue 1–30 days 257 218 Overdue 31–60 days 26 55 Overdue 61–90 days 27 23 Overdue more than 90 days 24 26 Provisions for expected credit losses at 31 December –21 –23 Accounts receivable, carrying amount at 31 December 1,370 1,414 The maturity structure of overdue receivables has been relatively stable over time and reflects the fact that Gränges operates in certain regions and markets where payments from customers are generally somewhat slow. Overdue accounts receivable are allocated across the whole customer base. Credit losses have historically been relatively small and stable. Five customers accounted for 28 per cent of total outstanding accounts receiv­able at 31 December 2019 (five customers accounted for 33 per cent of the total outstanding accounts in 2018). A more detailed description of the customer base is given in Note 7. 73 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES INANCING AND INTEREST-BEARING 25 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 27 FLIABILITIES SEK million 2019 2018 Financing Gränges’ long-term interest-bearing debt consists of USD term loans of Accounts payable 1,253 1,250 USD 150 million, SEK 200 million and bonds issued in the Group’s MTN Derivatives 43 71 programme. The duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio was Non-interest-bearing liabilities 14 2 approximately one month at 31 December 2019. Gränges has revolving Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 1,310 1,323 credit facilities corresponding to SEK 2,467 million, available in several currencies with a remaining time to maturity of two years. At 31 DecemValue-added tax, employee withholding tax etc. 37 39 ber 2019 USD 50 million (0) was utilized. Gränges’ commercial paper Accrued expenses 133 145 programme was utilized to SEK 900 million (250) at year end 2019. AddiEmployee-related liabilities 215 241 tional short-term debt amounted to SEK 0 million (265). The loan faciliOther current liabilities 60 34 ties are subject to covenants, which are Net Debt/EBITDA and Interest coverage ratio. The covenants were fulfilled at 31 December 2019. Total other current liabilities 1,756 1,781 Carrying amount SEK million 2019 2018 26 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing loans 1,589 1,512 Gränges’ capital management is governed by principles adopted by Bonds in MTN programme 600 600 the Board of Directors. The capital structure is also adapted to legal Revolving Credit Facilities 467 – and tax considerations. The company’s financial objective for capital Interest-bearing derivatives 38 4 management is a net debt of one to two times adjusted EBITDA over Lease liabilities 207 – the past twelve months. A further description of Gränges’ management of financing is given in Notes 27 and 28. Gränges does not currently Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2,901 2,117 have an official credit rating. Current interest-bearing liabilities SEK million 2019 2018 Interest-bearing loans – 265 Commercial papers 900 250 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,853 2,632 Interest-bearing derivatives 1 – Total interest-bearing receivables 5 2 Lease liabilities 52 – Cash and cash equivalents 747 457 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 953 515 Net interest-bearing liabilities 3,101 2,172 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,853 2,632 Provision for pensions 363 321 Interest-bearing receivables Net debt 3,465 2,494 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2 2 Adjusted EBITDA 1,327 1,357 Current interest-bearing derivatives 3 0 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 2.6 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents 747 457 Total interest-bearing receivables 752 459 For definition and calculation of adjusted EBITDA, see alternative Net interest-bearing liabilities 3,101 2,172 ­performance measures on page 80. Gränges has entered into a bridge loan facility of SEK 2,300 million to finance the acquisition of Aluminium Konin. The loan, that was unutilized by December 31, 2019, is subject to extension options and has a maximum tenor of 18 months and is finally due on 27 May 2021. Under the current loan agreements Gränges has entered into customary undertakings not to pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks providing the credit facility. 74 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 28 FINANCIAL RISK Financial risk management minium is passed on to the customer through metal price clauses and is Gränges operates globally and is therefore exposed to various finangenerally set in connection with delivery. Both purchase and selling cial risks such as market risk related market risk related to currency price for the metal component are generally based on the same price rates, commodity prices and interest rates, but also to liquidity risk index and in the same currency, for example the London Metal and credit risk. Gränges uses derivatives and other financial instruExchange (LME) or Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). Therefore, no ments to mitigate these risks in accordance with the Group’s Financial material currency exposure arises on the metal price component. The Management Policy. conversion price is generally contracted for a longer period of time, and To secure the Group’s shortand long-term financial flexibility and to it may result in currency risk exposure. monitor and manage financial risks are some of the central responsiThe largest portion of Gränges’ cost base for processing is in USD, bilities of the treasury department. This is done in cooperation with CNY and SEK while the conversion price is set primarily in USD, CNY the operating companies within Gränges. and EUR. The Group’s sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations before Financial risk refers to risk related to financial instruments. Financurrency hedges, that is excluding the impact of currency derivatives, cial risks that cannot be mitigated by a natural hedge are hedged with is shown in the table below. financial derivates, in line with policies adopted by the Board. Gränges manages financial risks in a non-­speculative manner and all transac2019 Change, % Effect on operating profit, SEK million tions in financial derivates are executed in order to limit financial risks USD/CNY +/–10% +/–54 within the Group. USD/SEK +/–10% +/–35 Currency risk EUR/SEK +/–10% +/–56 Transaction exposure Gränges is exposed to currency risk as the currencies of sales and The transaction risk is hedged according to the Financial Management purchases may differ between countries and regions. This may cause Policy. The objective for Gränges’ currency hedging activities is to fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, such as debt instruminimize the effect of rapid changes in currency rates in the short and ments, accounts receivables and accounts payables, and the value of medium term by hedging a part of the Group’s foreign currency expoexpected and contracted payment flows. In 2019, sales volume to sure. Exposures relating to c ­ ustomer orders without firm commitcountries outside Sweden accounted for 98 per cent (98) of Gränges’ ments are hedged up to 24 months out in time based on a rolling foretotal sales volume while net sales in foreign currencies totalled cast in which a portion of the forecast currency exposure is hedged. In SEK 11,679 million (12,542). The largest currencies were USD, 2019, 50–70 per cent of the forecast currency exposure of the coming 12 CNY and EUR. months was hedged. The selling price for Gränges’ products is divided into a metal price The Group’s total outstanding currency hedges of future trans­actions component for the raw material and a conversion price component at the balance sheet date are shown in the tables below. covering Gränges’ processing costs and margin. The cost of the aluCurrency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, Sold volumes, Sold volumes, 31 Dec 2019 EUR million net Price USD million net Price USD million net Price Q1 2020 15 10.44 9 9.17 15 6.98 Q2 2020 14 10.56 9 9.27 13 6.89 Q3 2020 12 10.60 6 9.54 8 6.90 Q4 2020 8 10.63 3 9.26 6 7.07 FY 2021 15 10.70 – – 5 7.11 Total 64 10.58 27 9.29 46 6.96 31 Dec 2018 FY 2019 and FY 2020 82 10.19 31 8.50 63 6.77 Metal related currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, Sold volumes, Sold volumes, 31 Dec 2019 EUR million net Price USD million net Price USD million net Price Q1–2 2020 –7 10.58 34 9.54 3 6.98 31 Dec 2018 Q1–2 2019 –11 10.26 38 8.92 2 6.72 1) In currency pairs where the net hedged position exceeds SEK 20 million. 75 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 28 Gränges applies hedge accounting for most hedges of future trans­ Interest rate risk actions, either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges of firm commitGränges’ interest rate risk is primarily related to the Group’s interest­ ments. The various types of hedging are described in Note 29. bearing liabilities and assets. Gränges’ revolving credit facility allows for borrowing with interest terms of one, two, three or six months. The Translation exposure average duration in the loan portfolio at 31 December 2019 was one As SEK is the presentation currency for the Group, Gränges is exposed month (three months). Gränges’ loans have variable interest rates. The to currency risk upon translation of net investments in foreign operainterest bearing debt’s duration was not prolonged with financial tions. This refers mainly to CNY and USD, and the total trans­lation instruments during 2019. exposure was SEK 2,503 million (2,190) at 31 December 2019. Gränges does not hedge this exposure. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will be unable to fulfil its pay­ment Commodity price risk obligations. Gränges’ Financial Management Policy stipulates metrics to Aluminium is traded both on LME and on SHFE. The market price of ensure adequate liquidity in the Group. Cash flow from operating activiLME and SHFE consequently affects the metal purchase prices for ties is managed centrally in Gränges Group and Gränges monitors both Gränges. This exposure should, where possible, be avoided. Gränges short­and long-term liquidity in the Group. reduces such risk primarily by linking prices from metal suppliers to The table below shows the maturity structure for the Gränges the prices which are offered to customers. In addition, commodity Group’s contractual financial liabilities. The amounts refer to non-­ price risk related to customer orders and inventory are mitigated discounted future cash flows and may therefore differ from the recthrough forward and futures contracts which reflect the market prices ognized ­figures. All variable interest cash flows have been calculated on LME and SHFE. at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and all future cash Gränges normally holds a certain level of inventory for which the flows in foreign currency are translated to SEK using the closing rate sales price has not yet been fixed. The aluminium metal price risk at year-end. The table also includes derivatives which are recognized exposure in the inventory is hedged with financial instruments. As per as assets at the balance sheet date, as derivatives can include both 31 December 2019, Gränges had sold a net volume of 19,875 tonnes positive and negative cash flows, and the fair value var­ies over time. (15,725) based on LME and 10,495 (12,190) based on SHFE. Financial liabilities are managed using operating cash flow, liquid and interest-­bearing assets and, where necessary, available credit facilities. 2019 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Lease liabilities 259 320 53 49 97 121 Other interest-bearing liabilities 3,595 3,821 1,440 568 863 950 Accounts payable 1,253 1,253 1,253 – – – Other current liabilities 14 14 14 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives –27 – – – – – Inflow – –6 –6 – – – Outflow – –21 –21 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives 12 – – – – – Inflow – 22 19 3 – – Outflow – –10 –10 0 – – Total 5,106 5,393 2,742 620 960 1,071 2018 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Lease liabilities – – – – – – Other interest-bearing liabilities 2,632 2,864 610 59 1,892 303 Accounts payable 1,250 1,250 1,250 – – – Other current liabilities 2 2 2 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives 34 – – – – – Inflow – –61 –61 – – – Outflow – 27 27 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives –28 – – – – – Inflow – –21 –23 2 – – Outflow – –6 –6 0 – – Total 3,891 4,055 1,799 61 1,892 303 1) Including derivatives recognized as assets. 76 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES >> CONT. NOTE 28 Credit risk • For currency hedges of concluded contracts changes in the fair The management of credit risks related to accounts receivable and value of the hedging instrument will affect the income statement other current assets is handled as part of the commercial risk and while changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged contract monitored continuously by the operating units. Gränges’ customers are that is offset by the hedging instrument will not be shown, as this is spread over various countries and geographic markets. Credit losses not a financial instrument. have historically been low due to the relatively strong financial posi• If one of the parameters changes the analysis will not take into tion of Gränges’ customers as well as strict credit pro­c edures. account any correlations with other parameters. Gränges’ credit risks related to other financial instruments are • Financial instruments issued in the functional currency of individ­managed by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating and ual units do not create a currency risk and are therefore not by minimising the risk per counterparty. Gränges also enters into included in this analysis. For the same reason the currency expocustomary agreements with financial counterparties, as for example sure is not included upon translation of such financial instruments ISDA-agreements. into the presentation currency. Sensitivity analysis Generally, the effect on the income statement and other comprehenFinancial instruments in the Gränges Group are exposed to different sive income of financial instruments shown in the table below is types of market risk which can affect the income statement or equity. expected to offset the effects of the hedged items in cases where the Financial instruments, especially derivatives, are used as a means of financial instruments are included in a hedging relation­ship. hedging financial and operational exposures. Accounting effects of changes in market risk are classified to the The table below shows a partial analysis of the sensitivity of finanincome statement and other comprehensive income depending on cial instruments, where the isolated effect of each type of risk on the where the effect of changes in fair value should be recognized initially. income statement and other comprehensive income is calculated. Effects which are accounted for in the income statement also affect This is done on the basis of a chosen hypothetical change in market other comprehensive income in addition to the figures presented in prices or prices in the balance sheet at 31 December. In accordance the table. with IFRS, the analysis only covers financial instruments and is not intended to provide a full overview of the Group’s market risk, for example: Accounting before tax effects on Income statement Other comprehensive income SEK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest rate risk: +/–100 bp parallel shift in yield curves, all currencies –/+24 –/+22 – – Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, USD/SEK –/+4 –/+6 –/+15 –/+22 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, EUR/SEK –/+5 –/+7 –/+48 –/+63 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, CNY/USD 0 0 –/+19 –/+38 Price risk: +/–20 % change in LME prices –/+120 –/+110 +/–14 +/–14 77 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 29 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING The table below shows the fair value of all outstanding derivatives grouped by their treatment in the financial statements. Derivatives and hedging 2019 2018 SEK million Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Cash flow hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 14 –12 7 –26 Aluminium futures 0 –1 0 –7 Total 15 –12 7 –33 Fair value hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 12 –2 3 –4 Aluminium futures 6 –20 61 –19 Total 17 –22 64 –23 Other derivatives – changes in fair value recognized in income statement Currency forwards, currency swaps 9 –9 7 –15 Interest rate swaps – –39 – –4 Aluminium futures 0 0 0 –1 Total 9 –48 7 –20 Total derivatives 40 –83 78 –76 Cash flow hedges Fair value hedging Gränges’ purchases of aluminium forwards and futures with LME and Gränges is using aluminium forwards and futures to hedge the invenSHFE as price base and currency forwards are identified as hedging tory value. Currency exposure related to the inventory is hedged with instruments in the category cash flow hedges. All derivatives that are currency forwards. Metal and currency derivatives are jointly desigclassified as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges are accounted nated as a hedging instrument in the fair value hedge. Gain and loss for at fair value in the balance sheet. Changes in fair value are recogon hedged items, as well as the hedging instrument, are accounted for nized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging as cur­rency gain and loss in the income statement. The value of invenreserve in equity and are reclassified to the income statement when tory is adjusted with the change in fair value of the hedged item. Loss the hedged cash flows are recognized in the income statement. on the hedging instruments amounted to SEK –46 million in 2019 (60) No gain or loss has been recognized in the income statement as a and gain on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk result of ineffective hedging in 2019 and 2018. All expected cash flows amounted to SEK 46 million in 2019 (–60). that were hedged in 2019 still qualify for hedge accounting. Offsetting Change in hedging reserve Financial assets and liabilities subject to an enforceable master ­netting arrangement or similar agreement relate only to the Group’s SEK million 2019 2018 derivatives. Gränges has entered into ISDA-agreements with relevant Opening hedging reserve before tax –26 16 financial counterparties. Reclassified to income statement 27 –14 Change in value during the year 0 –27 Derivatives Net not Closing hedging reserve before tax 2 –26 amounts intended Collaterals SEK Gross in balance to be received/ Net Deferred tax, hedging reserve –1 6 ­million amounts Offset sheet settled net pledged amounts Closing hedging reserve after tax 2 –20 2019 Derivative A positive hedging reserve will result in positive figures in the income assets 40 – 40 25 – 15 statement in the future. Accumulated hedging gains and losses from Derivative cash flow hedges which were recognized in the hedging reserve as at liabilities –44 – –44 –25 – –19 31 December 2019 and are expected to be recognized in the income statement (before tax) are SEK –1 million for 2020 and SEK 3 million 2018 after 2020. Derivative assets 78 – 78 44 – 34 Derivative liabilities –71 – –71 –44 – –28 78 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 30 LEASE INCOME 33 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases Intra Group transactions are executed in accordance with ­specific as lessor attributable to non-cancellable agreements are distributed arrangements at arm’s length and shared costs in Gränges are alloon the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: cated among the companies in the Group using allocation formulas depending on the types of expenditure. SEK million 2019 2018 Transactions with Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd. are specified in the table below. Current year 18 21 Within 1 year 17 20 SEK million 2019 2018 Within 2–5 years 3 6 Transactions with joint ventures After 5 years – 0 Sales 9 7 Total future lease income 20 26 Other income and expenses – 0 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2 2 Lease income primarily refer to rental income from properties owned Accounts receivable 4 3 by Gränges AB. For information on remuneration and benefits to board members and 31 PROVISIONS senior executives, see Note 8. There are no other significant trans­actions with related parties. SEK million 2019 Non-current provisions 34 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Employee benefits 20 Total non-current provisions 20 Gränges’ Nomination Committee has proposed Fredrik Arp to be elected as new Chairman of the Board of Gränges AB at the Annual Current provisions General Meeting on 7 May, 2020. Gränges current Chairman of the Employee benefits 31 Board, Anders G. Carlberg, will at the same time resign from the Total current provisions 31 Board. A provision for employee benefits is recognized in accordance with agreements entered for long-term incentive programmes and other personnel obligations. 32 PAND LEDGED ASSETS, GUARANTEES CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities SEK million 2019 2018 Guarantee for supply of electricity 13 13 Guarantee commitment PRI Pensionsgaranti 2 2 Guarantee for worker’s compensation 3 5 Total contingent liabilities 19 20 For the loan agreements described in Note 27, Gränges has entered into a customary undertaking to not pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks that are providing the credit facilities. The commitment that was covered by the property mortgages has ceased and there are no longer any pledged assets within the Group. Disputes From time to time disputes with counterparties arise in the ongoing operations. The Group regularly makes assessments and provisions if necessary in the accounts. Currently, the Group is not involved in any major litigation that is expected to substantially affect the accounts negatively. Environmental issues The Group has conducted industrial production for a long time at facilities in Finspång, Västerås and Upplands Väsby. In light of the public review of potentially polluted areas in Sweden that is being conducted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and country administrative boards, Gränges may be involved in reviews and investigations relating to facilities where industrial production has historically taken place. For instance, industrial production has been conducted by various operators at Gränges’ facility in Finspång since the 16th century. There are currently no ongoing cases relating to responsibility in this respect. 79 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gränges makes use of the alternative performance measures return on capital employed, net debt, equity to assets ratio and cash conversion. Gränges believes that these performance measures are useful for readers of the financial reports as a complement to other performance measures when assessing the possibility of dividends, the implementation of strategic investments, and the Group’s ability to meet financial commitments. Further, Gränges uses the alternative performance measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit per tonne and adjusted EBITDA, which are measures that Gränges considers to be ­relevant for investors who want to understand the profit generation excluding items affecting comparability. For definitions of the measures, see page 81. SEK million 2019 2018 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 836 940 Items affecting comparability 30 64 Adjusted operating profit 866 1,005 Adjusted operating profit per tonne Adjusted operating profit 866 1,005 Sales volume, ktonnes 347.3 375.0 Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.5 2.7 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted operating profit 866 1,005 Depreciation and amortization 461 353 Adjusted EBITDA 1,327 1,357 Return on capital employed Total assets less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables, rolling 12 months average 9,375 7,999 Non-interest bearing liabilities, rolling 12 months average –2,311 –2,194 Pensions, rolling 12 months average 348 293 Capital employed 7,411 6,098 Adjusted operating profit 866 1,005 Return on capital employed, % 11.7 16.5 Net debt Cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables –752 –459 Interest-bearing liabilities 3,853 2,632 Pensions 363 321 Net debt 3,465 2,494 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA Net debt 3,465 2,494 Adjusted EBITDA 1,327 1,357 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 2.6 1.8 Equity to assets Equity 4,314 3,873 Total assets 10,480 8,773 Equity to assets, % 41.2 44.2 Adjusted cash flow before financing activities Cash flow before financing activities –148 531 Cash flow from expansion investments 1,103 470 Cash flow from other non-maintenance investments 93 – Cash flow from acquisitions – –24 Adjusted cash flow before financing activities 1,048 977 Cash conversion Adjusted cash flow before financing activities 1,048 977 Adjusted operating profit 866 1,005 Cash conversion, % 121 97 80 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES DEFINITIONS Adjusted EBITDA Cash conversion Net debt Adjusted operating profit before Adjusted cash flow before financing activities Cash and cash equivalents and interest-­ ­depreciation and impairment charges. divided by adjusted operating profit. bearing ­receivables minus interest-­bearing liabilities, including pensions. Adjusted cash flow before financing Cash flow before financing activities activities Cash flow from o ­ perating activities plus Operating profit Cash flow before financing activities cash flow from investing activities. Profit before net financial items and tax. excluding cash flow from non-maintenance investments and acquisitions. Earnings per share Return on capital employed Profit for the period divided by the total Adjusted operating profit divided by Adjusted operating profit ­number of shares. ­average capital employed ­during the past Operating profit excluding items affecting 12-month period. ­comparability. Equity to Assets Equity divided by total assets. Return on equity Adjusted operating profit per tonne Profit for the period divided by average Adjusted operating profit divided by sales Items affecting comparability equity ­during the past 12-month period. volume. Non-recurring income and expenses. Sales volume Average number of employees ktonnes Volumes sold in metric tonnes. The average number of employees Volume expressed in thousands of metric ­converted to full-time positions. tonnes. Capital employed Total assets less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables, minus non-interest bearing ­liabilities. GLOSSARY Alloy Electric vehicles Rolled aluminium Material composed of one metal with Vehicles that are powered entirely or partly Aluminium that has been hot and/or cold additions of other metals and/or elements. by electricity. They are often divided into rolled to desired gauge. Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) and Hybrid Aluminium ingot Electric Vehicles (HEV), and in some cases SHFE A small block of aluminium, typically used Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles (PHEV). Shanghai Futures Exchange. as input material for re-melting. Flux Slab Aluminium strip A substance used to disrupt surface Input material to the rolling process that Rolled aluminium in coil form. oxides to enable brazing. is produced by casting. Annealing Foil Spray-forming Heat treatment to partially or fully remove A flat rolled product with a thickness less Deposition of semi solid sprayed droplets work hardening in the material after cold than 0.2 mm. on to a substrate. rolling. Heat exchanger TRILLIUM® Brazing A device for transforming heat from one A reactive malleable metal matrix Joining of metals through melting and medium to another. ­composite material that can be used to solidification of a braze metal. produce aluminium brazed joints without HVAC the need for adding a fluxing agent. Casting Abbreviation for Heating, Ventilation and Method to convert molten metal to a Air Conditioning system including heat desired solid form. exchangers. Sometimes used to define the stationary heat exchanger market. Cladding A layer of metal bonded to a dissimilar LME metal or alloy. London Metal Exchange. 81 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY SEK million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Sales volume, ktonnes 347.3 375.0 373.0 239.1 163.9 Income statement Net sales 11,978 12,910 11,435 7,207 5,494 Adjusted EBITDA1) 1,327 1,357 1,303 952 749 Adjusted operating profit1) 866 1,005 933 687 541 Operating profit 836 940 917 559 538 Profit for the year 600 688 652 498 379 Adjusted EBITDA margin 11.1 10.5 11.4 13.2 13.6 Adjusted operating margin 7.2 7.8 8.2 9.5 9.8 Operating margin 7.0 7.3 8.0 7.8 9.8 Net margin 5.0 5.3 5.7 6.9 6.9 Balance sheet Non-current assets 6,025 4,489 3,827 4,071 1,800 Current assets 4,455 4,285 4,179 3,878 2,601 Equity 4,314 3,873 3,322 2,942 2,499 Non-current liabilities 3,414 2,522 2,555 3,209 989 Current liabilities 2,752 2,378 2,128 1,799 914 Cash flow Operating activities 1,441 1,351 968 686 725 Investing activities –1,590 –819 –396 –2,732 –125 Cash flow before financing activities –148 531 572 –2,046 600 Financing activities 440 –825 –650 2,245 –647 Cash flow for the year 292 –294 –79 198 –47 1) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated accounts). Capital structure, return indicators and employees Capital employed 7,779 6,367 5,615 5,664 2,775 Net debt 3,465 2,494 2,292 2,722 275 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.2 44.2 41.5 37.0 56.8 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA, multiple 2.6x 1.8x 1.8x 2.1x2) 0.4x Capital employed (rolling 12 month average) 7,411 6,098 5,581 3,930 2,982 Return on capital employed, % 11.7 16.5 16.7 17.5 18.1 Equity (rolling 12 month average) 4,175 3,633 3,093 2,636 2,385 Return on equity, % 14.4 18.9 21.1 18.9 15.9 Average number of employees 1,805 1,699 1,568 1,136 964 2) Calculated on a rolling 12-month basis, including estimated adjusted EBITDA on a stand alone basis for the acquired business in the US. 82 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Data per share, SEK Earnings per share, basic 7.95 9.11 8.65 6.66 5.07 Earnings per share, diluted 7.95 9.11 8.64 6.64 5.07 Equity1) 57.13 51.29 44.04 39.27 33.45 Cash flow from operating activities1) 19.08 17.89 12.82 9.15 9.70 Dividend 3.402) 3.20 3.00 2.40 2.00 Dividend yield, % 3.44 3.98 3.56 2.79 2.86 Share price at year-end 98.95 80.5 84.25 86.00 70.00 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, basic in thousands 75,517.4 75,517.4 75,370.6 74,703.9 74,639.4 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted in thousands 75,517.4 75,517.4 75,440.7 74,913.9 74,719.4 Sales volume by region, ktonnes Asia 79.0 86.2 86.3 80.8 75.5 Europe 58.3 65.4 65.6 63.7 62.7 Americas 210.1 223.3 221.1 94.6 25.8 Total 347.3 375.0 373.0 239.1 163.9 Net sales by region, SEK million Asia 2,736 3,004 2,911 2,623 2,637 Europe 2,091 2,424 2,230 1,933 1,978 Americas 7,150 7,482 6,294 2,651 880 Total 11,978 12,910 11,435 7,207 5,494 1) Calculated on weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) Cash dividend for 2020 as proposed. 83 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT SEK million Note 2019 2018 Net sales 3 187 203 Payroll expenses 7 –102 –96 Other operating expenses 4, 5, 6 –154 –161 Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 10, 11 –20 –26 Operating loss –88 –80 Dividends from subsidiaries 335 517 Financial income 8 96 135 Financial costs 8 –89 –117 Financial items 342 535 Profit after financial items 254 455 Group contributions 90 115 Change in tax allocation reserve 5 –17 Change in accelerated depreciation 2 60 Appropriations 97 158 Profit before taxes 351 612 Tax on profit for the year 9 –16 –53 Profit for the year 335 560 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK in million Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 335 560 Items to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year Change in hedge reserve before tax –1 – Tax on above 0 – Comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company 334 560 The parent company has no items not to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year. 84 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 40 7 Property, plant and equipment 11 192 206 Shares in Group companies 12 1,160 1,160 Receivables from Group companies 2,102 2,674 Other non-current receivables 3 8 Total non-current assets 3,497 4,054 Current receivables Accounts receivable 4 3 Receivables from Group companies 164 161 Other receivables 40 67 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 3 5 Total current receivables 211 237 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 190 120 Total cash and cash equivalents 190 120 Total current assets 402 356 TOTAL ASSETS 3,899 4,411 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Share capital 13 101 101 Statutory reserve 9 7 Total restricted equity 111 108 Non-restricted equity Fair value reserve –1 – Retained earnings 1,254 938 Profit for the year 335 560 Total non-restricted equity 1,589 1,498 Total equity 1,699 1,606 Untaxed reserves Tax allocation reserve 12 17 Accelerated depreciation 18 20 Total untaxed reserves 30 37 Provisions Provisions for pensions 14 24 27 Other provisions 15 8 – Total provisions 32 27 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 16 1,065 2,117 Other non-current liabilities 0 0 Total non-current liabilities 1,065 2,117 Current liabilities Other provisions 15 13 – Interest-bearing liabilities 16 901 450 Accounts payable 14 46 Other liabilities 108 70 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17 36 55 Total current liabilities 1,072 622 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,899 4,411 85 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Statutory Retained Profit for Total SEK million capital reserve Fair value reserve earnings the year equity Opening balance at 1 January 2019 101 7 – 938 560 1,606 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – – 560 –560 – Dividend – – – –242 – –242 Comprehensive income for the year – – –1 – 335 334 Change in fund for development expenditure – 2 – –2 – – Closing balance at 31 December 2019 101 9 –1 1,254 335 1,699 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 101 6 – 781 385 1,273 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – – 385 –385 – Dividend – – – –227 – –227 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 560 560 Change in fund for development expenditure – 1 – –1 – –1 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 101 7 – 938 560 1,606 86 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2019 2018 Operating loss –88 –80 Depreciation and impairment charges 20 26 Change in net working capital etc. 14 91 Taxes paid –11 24 Cash flow from operating activities –65 61 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10, 11 –39 –8 Divestments of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10, 11 – 152 Cash flow from investing activities –39 144 Dividend paid to shareholders –242 –227 Dividend received from subsidiary 318 491 Interest paid –52 –105 Interest received 81 142 New loans 3,060 3,000 Repayment of loans –3,786 –3,365 Financial intra-group transactions 797 –127 Cash flow from financing activities 175 –191 Cash flow for the year 71 14 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 120 106 Cash flow for the year 71 14 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 190 120 Reconciliation between opening and closing balance of liabilities whose cash flows are recognized in financing activities SEK million 2019 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities at 1 January 2,566 2,761 Cash flow –726 –365 Non-cash items Exchange rate differences 93 165 Change in accrual borrowing costs –2 5 Change in fair value for interest-bearing derivatives 35 0 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December 1,966 2,566 87 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 3 BOF  REAKDOWN OPERATION OF NET SALES BY AREA The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in SEK million 2019 2018 accordance to the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Intra-group service charges 160 163 Entities. Application of RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company is to apply all IFRS and interpretations approved by the EU as far as possiRental income 27 30 ble within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Other – 10 Pension Obligation Vesting Act and in regard to the connection Total breakdown of net sales by area between accounting and taxation. Changes in RFR 2 has not had of operation 187 203 material impact on the financial reports of the parent company. An account of the Gränges Group’s accounting policies are described in Note 4 Accounting standards in the consolidated financial statements. The main deviations between the accounting policies applied by the Gränges Group and the parent company are described below. 4 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Gränges Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits in the consoliSEK million 2019 2018 dated financial statements. The Parent Company applies the principles of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Consequently there are Merger and acquisition costs –16 – differences between the Gränges Group and the Parent Company in Total items affecting comparability –16 – the accounting of defined benefit pension plans. The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciaIn November 2019, Gränges AB signed an agreement to acquire the tion according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional Polish flat rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Konin. The transaction depreciation, included in untaxed reserves. is subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authoriGroup contributions received from subsidiaries are recognized as ties. The costs for acquisition activites during 2019 for Konin amounts appropriations. to SEK 16 million. Capitalized development expenditure is allocated to a fund for development expenditure. The fund is restricted equity and dissolve at the same rate as amortization or impairment of the capitalized development. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized in 5 OPERATING LEASE PAYMENTS other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value Distribution of lease payments reserve. Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases in From 2019 the parent company will apply RFR 2 IFRS 16 item 1 and the capacity of lessees attributable to non-cancellable agreements continue to recognize leases in the income statement on a straightare distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity line basis over the lease term. dates: SEK million 2019 2018 2 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Within one year –5 –4 Later than one year but within five years –15 –16 Gränges’ financial risks are monitored centrally in the Group, see After five years – –3 notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 28 Financial Total future minimum lease payments –19 –23 Risks. The parent company uses derivatives and other financial instruments to mitigate the risk exposure in the subsidiaries. There is no net Leasing costs amount to SEK –5 million (–6) during 2019. exposure in the parent company as external positions are offset with intercompany contracts. Hedge accounting is not applicable for these Distribution of lease income contracts in the parent company. Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases Parent company has hedged a total of PLN 469 million due to the as leaseholders attributable to non-cancellable agreements are disimminent acquisition of Aluminium Konin. Hedge accounting has been tributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: applied and the change in fair value recorded in other comprehensive SEK million 2019 2018 income was SEK –1 million. Foreign exchange and interest rate risk related to financing is Within one year 27 29 managed with foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives. The Later than one year but within five years 47 10 underlying exposure arises as the majority of parent company’s exterAfter five years – – nal financing is in SEK and the intercompany loans is in foreign curTotal future minimum lease payments 74 39 rency. The interest-bearing liabilities of the parent company is further described in Note 16 Interest bearing liabilities. 88 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 6 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 9 TAXES SEK million 2019 2018 Tax expense for the year Ernst & Young AB SEK million 2019 2018 Audit engagement –1.7 –0.9 Profit before taxes 351 612 Audit services in addition to audit engagement –0.3 –0.7 Current tax –17 –43 Tax advisory services –0.2 –0.2 Deferred tax 0 –10 Other services – –0.1 Total tax –16 –53 Total remuneration to auditors –2.1 –1.9 Tax as % of profit before taxes 4.6 8.6 Audit engagement refers to the review of the annual report and When cash and cash equivalents in China shall be made available for accounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ the parent company, this is done through dividend payments which ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s auditor today is being taxed with 5 per cent. Cash and cash equivalents per 31 as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations December 2019 for the Chinese subsidiary amounts to SEK 232 million made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such (135). other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement consisted in 2019 and in 2018 primarily of review of interim reports. Tax advisory Reconciliation of effective tax services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as well as value-added tax. Other services refer to advice that is not SEK million 2019 % 2018 % attributable to any of the aforementioned categories of services. Profit before taxes 351 – 612 – Tax at applicable tax rate –75 –21.4 –135 –22.0 7 PAYROLL EXPENSES Non-deductible expenses –1 –0.3 –1 –0.1 Non-taxable income 73 20.8 115 18.8 Salaries and remuneration totalled SEK –65.8 million (–63.7), and social charges were SEK –36.3 million (–32.6), whereof SEK –13.0 million Adjustment of tax in respect of prior (–11.4) refers to pension costs. Pension costs of SEK –1.9 million (–1.9) years 6 1.8 0 0.0 refer to the CEO. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for the CEO are SEK 6.0 million (4.6). Foreign taxes 19 –5.5 –32 –5.2 Read more about the average number of employees, salaries and Total tax –16 –4.6 –53 –8.6 remuneration, including incentives, in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The company’s effective tax rate of 4.6 per cent (8.6) in 2019 differs from the nominal tax rate in Sweden, which is primarily an effect of a ­dividend received from Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd. This 8 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS income is also included in the basis for non-taxable income. Foreign taxes mainly relates to paid tax in China on the received dividend. SEK million 2019 2018 Deferred tax Interest income from Group companies 94 130 SEK million 2019 2018 External interest income 1 1 Buildings and land improvements –1 –1 Net foreign exchange gain 1 5 Pension obligations 2 1 Total financial income 96 135 Total deferred tax asset (+) / liability (–) 0 0 External interest expense –70 –105 Interest expense, pensions –1 –1 Other financial expenses –17 –12 Total financial costs –88 –117 Total financial income and costs 7 18 89 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intellectual Total intanIntellectual Total intangiSEK million property IT gible assets SEK million property IT ble assets Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 – 7 7 Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 153 6 159 Acquisitions 35 3 38 Acquisitions – 2 2 Sales – – – Sales –143 – –143 Amortization –4 –1 –5 Amortization –10 –1 –11 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 30 9 40 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 – 7 7 Cost at 31 December 2019 35 11 46 Cost at 31 December 2018 – 8 8 Accumulated amortization and Accumulated amortization and impairment charges –4 –2 –6 impairment charges – –1 –1 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 30 9 40 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 – 7 7 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improveMachinery and Fixtures, Assets under Total property, plant SEK million ments and buildings equipment vehicles, etc. ­construction and ­equipment Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 187 5 10 3 206 Acquisitions 1 – – 0 1 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 3 – – –3 – Depreciations and impairment charges –11 –1 –3 – –15 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 180 5 7 0 192 Cost at 31 December 2019 434 120 24 0 579 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –254 –116 –16 – –386 Carrying amount at 31 December 2019 180 5 7 0 192 Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 192 7 6 11 217 Acquisitions – – – 6 6 Sales 0 – –1 – –1 Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 6 – 7 –13 – Depreciations and impairment charges –11 –1 –3 – –15 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 187 5 10 3 206 Cost at 31 December 2018 430 120 24 3 578 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –242 –115 –14 – –372 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 187 5 10 3 206 12 SHARES IN GROUP COMPANIES Share of capital Carrying amount, SEK million Reg. no Registered office No. of shares and votes, % SEK million Swedish Group companies Gränges Sweden AB 556002-6113 Finspång 300,000 100/100 164 Gränges Skultuna AB 556913-7358 Skultuna 50,000 100/100 0 Total 164 Foreign Group companies Gränges Americas Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 671 Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd – Shanghai, China – 100/100 256 Gränges International Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 67 Gränges Japan Ltd – Tokyo, Japan – 100/100 3 Total 996 Total shares in Group companies 1,160 90 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 13 SHARE CAPITAL 2019 2018 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK Numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,517,386 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. SEK million 2019 2018 The share capital comprises a single class of share and amounts to Share capital 101 101 SEK 101 million as of 31 December 2019. Share capital is divided into 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Earnings per share and dilutive effect is presented in the Group’s Note 16. 14 PROVISION  FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR O ­ BLIGATIONS SEK million 2019 2018 Actuarial bases for calculating the capital value pursuant to the Pension Obligations Vesting Act are defined by the Swedish Financial Liability at beginning of year related Regulatory Authority. Application of the Pension Obligations Vesting to ­ITP 2 23 22 Act is a condition for the right to make tax deductions. Pension costs 1 1 Interest expense, pensions 1 1 Pension payments –1 –1 Liability at the end of year related to ITP 2 24 23 Other pension obligations 0 4 Liability at the end of year related to pension obligations 24 27 15 OTHER PROVISIONS SEK million 2019 A provision for employee benefits is recognized in accordance with agreements entered for long-term incentive programmes and other Non-current provisions personnel obligations. Employee benefits 8 Total non-current provisions 8 Current provisions Employee benefits 13 Total current provisions 13 16 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITES Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of USD term loans revolving credit facility was unutilized at 31 December 2019. The loan amounting to USD 25 million and SEK term loans of SEK 200 million. facilities are subject to covenants, which are Net Debt/EBITDA and Interest bearing debt also includes corporate bonds of SEK 600 milInterest coverage ratio. Gränges has entered into a bridge loan facility lion, issued under the MTN programme established during the year. of SEK 2,300 million to finance the acquisition of Aluminium Konin. Gränges’ commercial paper was utilized to SEK 900 million at 31 The loan, that was unutilized by December 31, 2019, is subject to December 2019. Gränges also has a revolving credit facility of SEK extension options and has a maximum tenor of 18 months and is 2,000 million, with a remaining time to maturity of two years. The finally due on 27 May 2021. 91 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 17 AAND  CCRUED EXPENSES DEFERRED INCOME 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS SEK million 2019 2018 No board member or senior executive of Gränges AB or its subsid­i­aries has independently or through a company or related party had any Accrued salaries, holiday pay direct involvement in a business transaction concluded by Gränges AB and social-security contributions 31 48 that was or is of an unusual character or subject to ­unusual terms and Other accrued expenses and deferred income 6 8 conditions. Total accrued expenses and deferred income 36 55 SEK million 2019 2018 18 PCONTINGENT Sales and purchases during the year: LEDGED ASSETS AND Sales of assets to related parties – 148 LIABILITIES Sales to related parties 169 172 Contingent liabilities Purchases from related parties 72 57 Interest income on receivables from SEK million 2019 2018 related parties 94 126 Interest expenses on liabilities to Guarantee for supply of electricity 13 13 related parties 1 1 Guarantee commitment PRI Pensionsgaranti 0 0 Contingent liabilities for subsidiaries 98 93 Outstanding intermediary size at year end: Total contingent liabilities 111 106 Interest-bearing receivables from related parties 1,353 2,016 Pledged assets Non-interest-bearing receivables from Gränges has, in connection with signing the new credit facility related parties 748 713 described in Note 16, entered into a customary undertaking to not Non-interest-bearing liabilities to pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors related parties 8 29 a better right than the banks that are providing the credit facility. Disputes The company is not a party to any dispute. As long as the company 20 POF  ROPOSED APPROPRIATION RETAINED EARNINGS does not have any legal or formal obligation as a result of a past event, and it is uncertain whether an outflow of economic resources will be The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of: required to settle a future obligation, nothing is recognized in the income statement or balance sheet. SEK Profits carried forward 1,256,581,609 Change in fund for development expenditure –2,463,511 Change in fair value reserve –684,957 Profit for the year 335,147,002 Non-restricted equity 1,588,580,143 Be appropriated as follows: Dividend to shareholders of 3.40 SEK per share 256,759,112 Carried forward 1,331,821,031 Total 1,588,580,143 The proposed dividend of SEK 257 million, or SEK 3.40 per ­share, represents 43 per cent of the Group’s profit for 2019. In preparing its dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. 92 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of: The proposed dividend of SEK 257 million, or SEK 3.40 per ­share, represents 43 per cent of the Group’s profit for 2019. In preparing its SEK dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. Profits carried forward 1,256,581,609 The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the Change in fund for development expenses –2,463,511 annual report have been prepared in accordance with the InternaChange in fair value reserve –684,957 tional Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted for use in Profit for the year 335,147,002 the EU, and generally accepted accounting principles respectively, Non-restricted equity 1,588,580,143 and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Be appropriated as follows: Dividend to shareholders of 3.40 SEK per share 256,759,112 Carried forward 1,331,821,031 Total 1,588,580,143 Stockholm 9 March 2020 The Board of Directors of Gränges AB (publ) Anders G. Carlberg Johan Menckel Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Carina Andersson Peter Carlsson Katarina Lindström Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Hans Porat Ragnhild Wiborg Mats Backman Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Öystein Larsen Konny Svensson Employee representative Employee representative We submitted our audit report on 12 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant This information is such that Gränges must disclose pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on Thursday, 19 March 2020. 93 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB (publ), corporate identity number 556001-6122 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Basis for Opinions Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Gränges AB (publ) except for the corporate governance statement on Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in pages 41–51 for the year 2019. The annual accounts and consolithe Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the dated accounts of the company are included on pages 38–93 in this parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics document. for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordresponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited serrespects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 vices referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have December 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The company or its controlled companies within the EU. consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. financial position of the group as of 31 December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance Key Audit Matters with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesby the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual corporate governance statement on pages 41–51. The statutory accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming accounts and consolidated accounts. our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent comFor each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the pany and the group. matter is provided in that context. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consoliWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s dated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit comreport, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit mittee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of finished goods and work-in-process products Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter As described in Note 20 for the consolidated financial statements, inventoIn our audit for the financial year we have assessed the Company’s routines ries of finished goods and work-in-process products are recorded at 1 363 for accounting for finished goods and work-in-process products, and MSEK in the consolidated balance sheet per the 31st of December 2019, whether the Company’s accounting principles for inventory is compliant equivalent to 13 % of the Company’s total assets. Inventories are valued at with applicable standards. the lowest of acquisition cost and net realizable value. We have also performed procedures to verify calculation models and The acquisition cost of inventories is based on the cost of production less assessed the reasonableness of applied prices, consumption rates and obsolescence write-downs, if applicable. The valuation at production cost is assumptions regarding the allocation of indirect production costs. We have performed using inventory valuation models where direct and indirect producalso performed procedures on metal hedging related to inventory. tion-related costs are allocated to products. Incorrect assumptions and calcuFinally, we have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual lations related to direct and indirect production costs affect the valuation of report goods produced which affects recorded inventory and the cost of goods sold. For this reason we have determined that this is a key audit matter. A description of the Company’s inventory valuation method for finished goods and work-in-process products is presented in the accounting principles in Note 4 under the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 94 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Property, plant and equipment Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Company’s property, plant and equipment is recorded at 4 846 MSEK in Depreciation the consolidated balance sheet per the 31st of December 2019, equivalent to In our audit for the financial year we have assessed the reasonableness of 46 % of the Company’s total assets. Property, plant and equipment is recorded the assumptions for useful life which the Company has applied during the at acquisition cost net of accumulated depreciation and write-downs, if appliyear. These procedures have included an assessment of the Company’s cable. Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of components. method for determining useful life periods, comparisons to historical actuAccounting principles for property, plant and equipment is presented in Note als and business plans, as well as comparisons with the estimated useful 4, significant estimates and judgments are presented in Note 5 and disclolives used by other comparable companies. sures regarding property, plant and equipment is presented in Note 18. The valuation and accounting treatment of property, plant and equipment is a key Impairment audit matter due to the significance of the recorded amounts in relation to the In our audit for the financial year we have analyzed and assessed the total assets in the consolidated balance sheet, and because changes in estiassumptions and estimates made by the Company regarding potential mates and judgments could have a significant effect on the value. indicators of impairment compared to current and expected future cash flows from affected assets. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided Depreciation in the annual report. Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of components. Finally, we have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual A change in the estimated useful life of components would result in different report. recorded values. Impairment In case an indicator of impairment is identified, the recorded value is tested through comparison to the estimated recoverable amount for the asset. Based on current and expected future financial development the Company has determined that there was no indication of impairment for the financial year 2019. Other Information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the This document also contains other information than the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–40 and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 94–113. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responauditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a sible for this other information. high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in does not cover this other information and we do not express any form Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered mateIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolirial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesdure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in sional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be audit. We also: materially misstated. • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informadesign and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a this regard. basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for representations, or the override of internal control. the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordin the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material mismade by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. statement, whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or condiconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going tions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcand consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated the company’s financial reporting process. accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 95 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or confulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle ditions may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a the management of assets in a reassuring manner. going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Auditor’s responsibility annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member achieves fair presentation. of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the respect: financial information of the entities or business activities within the • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are give rise to liability to the company, or responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signifithe company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to cant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficienassess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is cies in internal control that we identified. in accordance with the Companies Act. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proand where applicable, related safeguards. posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordFrom the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we ance with the Companies Act. determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and mainimportant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are theretain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional Report on other legal and regulatory requirements judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that Opinions we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated that are material for the operations and where deviations and violaaccounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. Directors and the Managing Director of Gränges AB (publ) for the year We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the be appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the proposal in Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or the statutory administration report and that the members of the loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liaselection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether bility for the financial year. the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Basis for opinions The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditThe Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards ance statement on pages 41–51 has been prepared in accordance are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are with the Annual Accounts Act. independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conprofessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audifulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requiretor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means ments. that our examination of the corporate governance statement is differWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient ent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaA corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable consid2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and posiwith the Annual Accounts Act. tion in general. Ernst & Young AB, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44, Stockholm, was The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaappointed auditor of Gränges AB by the general meeting of the sharetion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes holders on the 8 May 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the the 10 May 2007. group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and Stockholm 12 Mars 2020 the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassurErnst & Young AB ing manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instrucErik Sandström tions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to Authorized Public Accountant 96 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABILITY NOTES ABOUT GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The sustainability information in this report relates to the financial Gränges has published a sustainability report each year since 2015. year 2019 and covers all fully owned operations of the Group at the The company’s last sustainability report was published on 14 March start of 2019, as listed on page 90.1) The statutory sustainability report 2019. Gränges intends to continue to publish a report annually. according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act has been issued by Gränges’ Board of Directors, read more on page 39. The sustainability information in this report has been prepared in For more information, please contact: accordance with GRI Standards: Core option and constitutes Gränges’ Sofia Hedevåg, VP Sustainability Communication on Progress in line with UN Global Compact guidesofia.hedevag@granges.com lines. The report and its contents have not been externally assured. +46 733 03 79 79 GRI’s guidance on the reporting principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and completeness, has been used to define the content of the report. 1) T  he sustainability report does not cover operations that are not fully owned by Gränges, for example the jointly owned production company Getek GmbH which was partly acquired by Gränges in October 2017. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Gränges’ sustainability efforts are led by Group Management and the ny’s vision and strategy. Group Management also reviews and moniVP Sustainability, who coordinates, facilitates and drives the global tors sustainability performance against sustainability targets, as well sustainability strategy, long-term targets and sustainability related as makes decisions related to global sustainability priorities. policies. The VP Sustainability also communicates on sustainability As illustrated below, each sustainability pillar is governed by one performance and progress to different stakeholders and coordinates member of Group Management. This individual proposes global susa continuous stakeholder dialogue. tainability priorities and coordinates with Gränges’ regional teams Gränges’ CEO regularly presents global sustainability performance through cross-regional teams to implement local sustainability activito the Board of Directors, who reviews and monitors performance ties within a specific sustainability pillar. against the company’s targets. The Board of Directors is the body The regional operations in turn ensure that a local sustainability which approves the company’s global sustainability strategy, longstrategy, long-term targets and policies are in place and aligned with term targets and policies, and adopts the annual sustainability report. the global strategy and the needs of the local business. They also Group Management ensures that Gränges’ global sustainability report on local sustainability performance and progress. strategy, long-term targets and policies are aligned with the compaGRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP MANAGEMENT CEO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION VP Sustainability OPERATIONS SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABLE DIVERSE ETHICAL IN ASIA PRODUCT AND SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS AND HIGHBUSINESS OFFERINGS SOURCING PERFORMING PRACTICES TEAMS OPERATIONS IN EUROPE SVP Process SVP Technology Engineering SVP Research & Business & Operational SVP Human General OPERATIONS & Innovation Development Development Resources Counsel IN AMERICAS Commercial Responsible EHS team Cross-regional sustainability sourcing HR Council GPS team teams team team 97 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Gränges seeks to establish long-term and transparent dialogues with ent stakeholder groups responded to the survey and provided input to its stakeholders. Stakeholder inclusiveness is a priority for Gränges Gränges’ materiality analysis. Gränges also conducted follow-up and the company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders interviews with a selection of stakeholders to better understand more to ensure it meets their expectations. Also, as part of the sustainabiltheir expectations. In 2018, Gränges validated its material topics ity reporting process, Gränges engages selected stakeholders in a through qualitative discussion with Group Management. structured dialogue to identify key sustainability topics and reporting In 2019, Gränges conducted structured interviews with representacontent. The key issues raised in the stakeholder dialogue constitute tives from different stakeholder group with the aim to better underthe main parts of the company’s materiality assessment and reportstand their perceptions of Gränges’ sustainability report, sustainabiling. Gränges has identified five main stakeholder groups to include in ity efforts and to validate that the company reports on relevant and the stakeholder dialogue: customers, employees, investors, society prioritized sustainability topics. Gränges also asked stakeholders and suppliers. about their future expectations on Gränges from a sustainability perGränges conducted a comprehensive and structured stakeholder spective. dialogue in 2016 (China and Sweden) and 2017 (the US). The company In summary, Gränges received positive feedback on both the report used a web-based survey which aimed to help identify which sustainand the sustainability efforts. Expectations on future efforts were for ability topics were most important to Gränges’ stakeholders. Topics example to work more on climate change, recycling and products’ endincluded in the survey were identified through analysis of industry of-life, dare to talk about challenges with circular business models standards, sustainability reporting frameworks, and topics previously and conduct more research on green energy. Input from stakeholders raised by stakeholders. Respondents could also raise additional sushave been integrated into this 2019 sustainability report. tainability issues in the survey. In total, 439 respondents from differStakeholder group Dialogue forum Key sustainability topics for stakeholders Page Customers • Customer survey • Customer satisfaction 23 • Fairs, seminars • Eco-responsible innovation 23 • Ongoing dialogue • Energy and emissions 22, 25–27, 103–105 • Questionnaires from customers • Health and safety 28, 30, 106, 108 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Product life-cycle performance 23, 102 • Recycled aluminium and raw materials 24–25, 102–103 • Supplier assessments 24–25, 102 Employees • Annual performance reviews • Diversity and equality 29–30, 107 • Employee surveys every two years • Emissions to air and water 22, 25, 27, 104–105 • Internal training • Ethics and anti-corruption 31, 108 • Intranet communication • Gränges’ workplace 28–30, 106–108 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Health and safety 28, 30, 106, 108 • Workplace meetings • Product life-cycle performance 23, 102 • Supplier assessments 24-25, 102 Investors • Annual general meeting • Customer satisfaction 23 • Annual and quarterly reports • Economic performance 1, 52–93 • Capital markets days every two years • Eco-responsible innovation 23 • Quarterly conference calls • Energy and emissions 22, 25–27, 103–105 • Investor and analyst seminars and meetings • Ethics and anti-corruption 31, 108 • Press releases • Gränges’ workplace 28–30, 106–108 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Recycled aluminium and raw materials 24–25, 102–103 • Sustainability questionnaires from ESG data providers • Supplier assessments 24–25, 102 • Website Society • Collaboration with universities and schools • Community involvement www.granges.com/sustainability • Interns and student dissertations • Energy and emissions 22, 25–27, 103–105 • Local cooperation, ongoing dialogue • Health and safety 28, 30, 106, 108 • Participation in networks and working groups • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews Suppliers • Ongoing dialogue • Customer satisfaction 23 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Economic performance 1, 52–93 • Supplier assessments • Energy and emissions 22, 25–27, 103–105 • Supplier Code of Conduct • Ethics and anti-corruption 31, 108 • Health and safety 28, 30, 106, 108 • Recycled aluminium and raw materials 24–25, 102–103 • Purchasing processes 24–25, 102 98 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES In line with the principle of materiality, Gränges in 2019 validated its sustainability topics across five sustainability pillars was in 2019 selection of material topics using input from the in-depth interviews assessed to be valid and relevant. described on page 98. Gränges’ decision from 2018 to prioritize twelve Gränges’ material topics and their boundaries Impact occurs in/at Gränges’ Gränges’ sustainability pillar Gränges’ material topics Corresponding GRI Standards topic Suppliers Operations Customers Page Eco-responsible innovation – x x 23 Sustainable product offering Product life-cycle sustainability Materials stewardship1) x x x 23, 102 performance Supplier environmental ­assessment Responsible sourcing x 24–25, 102 Responsible and Supplier social assessment sustainable sourcing Sourced recycled aluminium Materials x x x 24–25, 102 22, 25–27, Emissions and climate impact Emissions x x x 104 Sustainable Energy Energy x x 26, 103 operations Water management Water x 27, 105 Workplace safety Occupational health x 28, 106 Employee wellbeing and safety x 30, 108 Diverse and Diversity and equality Diversity and equal opportunity x 29–30, 107 high-performing teams Career and leadership development Training and education x 29, 107 Ethical business Ethics and anti-corruption Anti-corruption x x x 31, 108 practices 1) GRI G4 Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Gränges participates in the following industry initiatives: Aluminium Handels­kammaren, as there is a strategic interest at local level Association, Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, Big Science Sweden, related to areas such as recruitment, infrastructure and influence in China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association, Confederation of important political topics. Swedish Enterprise, European Aluminium, European Aluminium Foil Gränges supports international standards on human rights, labour Association, Global Aluminium Foil Roller Initiative, Nonferrous metals conditions, the environment and anti-corruption, the UN Global Society of Shanghai, Shanghai Aluminium Trade Association, Scandi­Compact, UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the OECD navian Automotive Supplier Association, and Svenskt Aluminium. Guidelines for Multinational Corporations. Gränges’ operations in Europe is also a member of the local associGränges also helps to fulfil the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable ations Näringslivsrådet, Vision East Sweden, and Östsvenska Development Goals (SDGs), read more on page 100. EXTERNAL REPORTING AND EVALUATION Gränges is continuously assessed by customers and sustainability/ Global Compact: The sustainability information in this report also ESG analysts through surveys about sustainability performance and constitutes Gränges’ Communication on Progress in line with UN management. These contacts serve as an important element of the Global Compact guidelines. ongoing stakeholder dialogue and is in line with the company’s ambiIn 2019, Gränges received a rating of AA in the MSCI ESG Ratings tion to provide stakeholders with a credible basis for their evaluation assessment, which positioned Gränges among the top 6 per cent comof Gränges. Below are some examples of Gränges’ reporting for exterpanies in the Metals and Mining sector (Non-Precious Metals).1) MSCI nal evaluation: ESG Research provides MSCI ESG Ratings on global public and a few Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Gränges’ sustainability report is private companies on a scale of AAA (highest rating) to CCC (lowest conducted in line with GRI Standards: Core option. A complete GRI rating), according to exposure to industry-specific ESG risks and the content index can be found on pages 109–111. ability to manage those risks relative to peers. 1) T  he use by Gränges of any MSCI ESG research llc or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Gränges by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. 99 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Gränges helps to fulfil the 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development as most relevant for Gränges’ business and where the company has its Goals (SDGs). In the table below, those SDGs that have been identified largest contributions, are outlined. UN SDG number and applicable UN SDG targets name Gränges’ contributions to the UN SDGs Gränges’ material topics 3.8 Good health • Gränges works to attract and safeguard competent employees and ensure proper working conditions, • Employee wellbeing 3.9 and wellbeing including access to essential health care services and medicines. • Gränges strives to minimize employee exposure to chemicals, and performs chemical risk assessments using a precautionary principle, to ensure employees use alternatives that are as safe and environmentally sound as possible. 4.4 Quality • Gränges works to attract and retain a skilled workforce and works closely with universities etc. to give •C areer and leadership education students access to the corporate environment. development • Gränges works to develop competencies that enhance both individual and organizational performance. As part of the annual performance and development discussion, each employee and their direct manager decide on individual training and development. 5.1 Gender • Gränges works to promote equal opportunities, diversity and gender equality and has articulated a 2025 • Diversity and equality 5.5 equality target to have at least 30 per cent women in senior management. • Gränges ‘ operations in Europe annually performs a gender-related disparity pay analysis to find any non-objective gaps. • Gränges works to promote an open and non-discriminatory workplace in its supply chain. 6.3 Clean water • Gränges works to reduce emissions to both air and water. The company has set a 2025 target to implement • Responsible sourcing 6.4 and sanitation local water management plans based on local water conditions (quality, quantity and governance) at all • Water management 6.5 production sites. Such plans should include local targets and actions to address water-related impacts, including water efficiency improvement. • Gränges works to put in place mechanisms to identify water risks throughout the global supply chain. 7.2 Affordable • Gränges has initiated efforts to increase the share of renewable energy in its operations and to promote • Energy 7.3 and clean the topic in its supply chain, as this is a way to reduce the supply chain carbon footprint. energy • Gränges works to improve energy intensity and has a target to reduce energy intensity by 17 per cent to 2025 compared with 2017. 8.4 Decent work • Gränges works to improve resource efficiency in its operations through energy and materials efficiency as • Career  and leadership 8.5 and economic well as increased use of recycled aluminium. development 8.7 growth • Gränges works to ensure full employment and decent work with equal pay, and to ensure a working • Diversity and equality 8.8 environment that promotes high safety standards. • Responsible sourcing • Gränges works to put in place mechanisms to identify social risks throughout the global supply chain, •Sourced recycled aluminium including human rights (forced labour, child labour etc.) and working conditions. • Workplace safety 9.4 Industry, • Gränges works to develop sustainable products. The company works to leverage properties of aluminium •E co-responsible innovation innovation (lightweight, recyclable etc.) to enable transition to low-carbon and efficient automotive applications •P roduct life-cycle sustainaand infra(increase fuel efficiency in vehicles) and in other industries such as HVAC. bility performance structure 10.3 Reduced • Gränges works to ensure equal opportunities and to eliminate discrimination among its workforce. • Diversity and equality inequalities This is followed up by for example employee surveys every second year. • Gränges works to promote an open and non-discriminatory workplace in its supply chain. 11.6 Sustainable • Gränges works to leverage the sustainability properties of aluminium (lightweight, recyclable etc.) • Eco-responsible innovation cities and and develops HVAC solutions that contribute to energy efficient and sustainable buildings. •P roduct life-cycle sustain­ communities ability performance 12.2 Responsible • Gränges works to improve material efficiency and recycling rates and to minimize harmful emissions and •E co-responsible innovation 12.4 consumption waste. The company performs chemical substance hazard analysis and substitutes chemicals to reduce •P roduct life-cycle sustain­ 12.5 and producexposure to personnel. ability performance 12.6 tion • Gränges integrates sustainability information into its reporting cycle and publishes an annual sustainability • Responsible sourcing report. •S ourced recycled aluminium • Gränges works to ensure sustainable procurement practices and traceable practices in the supply chain. The company works to promote and improve product life-cycle sustainability performance. • Gränges works to develop innovative products that can reduce energy needs in usage. 13.1 Climate • Gränges works to counteract climate change throughout the value chain. With regards to its own operations, •E co-responsible innovation 13.3 action Gränges works to improve energy efficiency and has initiated efforts to increase use of renewable energy. •E missions and climate • Gränges develops sustainable products aimed at improving customers’ and end-users’ energy efficiency. impact •G ränges works to understand the climate risks and build resilience into the company’s operations and supply chain. • Energy • Gränges has set a 2025 target to reduce carbon emissions intensity from own operations and purchased • Responsible sourcing energy by 25 per cent versus 2017 and to reduce carbon emissions intensity from purchased materials and services. 16.5 Peace, justice • Gränges has zero tolerance for bribery and other types of corruption in its operations, and has set a 2025 • Ethics and anti-corruption and strong target that white-collar employees are to be trained each year. institutions 17.16 Partnerships • Gränges has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2016, and works through industry associations •P roduct life-cycle for the goals and local community networks to support and enhance the partnership for sustainable development. performance • Gränges works to promote and improve the sustainability performance (life-cycle perspective) of aluminium • Responsible sourcing through value chain collaboration. One example is Gränges’ participation in Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI). 100 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Target 2025 2019 2018 2017 Note Sustainable product offering Products with verified sustainability information available, % 80 – – – 1 Responsible and sustainable sourcing Number of significant suppliers1) – 158 143 116 2 Share of significant suppliers committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent standard, % of purchase value 100 99 98 – 2 Number of supplier audits – 7 10 – 2 Share of recycled aluminium of total sourced metal inputs, % 20 19.8 16.7 11.5 3 Share of sourced renewable energy, % Increase6) 8 9 9 4 Carbon emissions intensity from purchased materials and services (scope 3), tonnes CO2e/tonne Reduce6) 10.5 11.2 11.9 5 Sustainable operations Environmental indicators Total energy use, GWh – 1,215.7 1,231.4 1,236.0 4 Energy intensity, MWh/tonne –17%6) 3.5 3.3 3.3 4 Carbon emissions intensity from own operations and purchased energy (scope 1+2), tonnes CO2e/tonne –25%6) 0.82 0.76 0.81 5 Water withdrawal, thousand m 3 – 3,203 3,468 3,346 6 Number of sites with a local water management plan All sites 0/5 0/5 0/5 6 Workplace safety indicators Number of recordable workplace accidents – 17 23 28 7 Number of lost workday cases – 10 14 14 7 Number of fatalities – 0 0 0 – Total Recordable Rate, number of recordable accidents per million hours worked < 3.0 4.4 6.1 7.8 7 Severity Rate, number of lost workdays per million hours worked < 50 142 165 112 7 Diverse and high-performing teams Average number of employees2) – 1,797 1,699 1,568 – Number of employees at year end3) – 1,782 1,803 1,637 8 Employees with permanent contract, % – 97 95 – 8 Employees with temporary contract, % – 3 5 – 8 Full-time employees, % – 100 100 – 8 Part-time employees, % – 0 0 – 8 White-collar employees, % – 31 30 31 8 Blue-collar employees, % – 69 70 69 8 Share of employees having annual performance and development discussion, % 100 100 99 – 9 Share of women in Board of Directors/Group Management3), 4), % – 43/13 43/13 50/13 10 Share of women among senior management3), 5), % 30 20 20 20 10 Share of women in total workforce3), % – 14 14 14 10 Employee engagement index, % 85 – 77 – 11 Sick-leave2), % – 1.6 1.6 2.0 11 Employee turnover2), % – 11.8 9.1 7.4 11 Share of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, % – 68 70 70 – Ethical business practices Share of employees trained in the Code of Conduct, % 100 99 99 – 12 Share of white-collar employees trained in anti-corruption, % 100 100 – – 12 Number of incidents related to corruption – 0 0 0 12 1) Suppliers with a purchase value above SEK 5 million, CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. 2) E  xpressed as full-time positions. Data presented does not cover operations that are not fully owned by Gränges, for example the jointly owned production company Getek GmbH. 3) Expressed as headcount on Dec 31. 4) Includes one external consultant, read more on pages 50–51. 5) Employees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. 6) Versus baseline 2017. 101 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES NOTES 1 PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Comment: The company in 2019 conducted a life-cycle assessment Reporting principles and definitions: Reporting principles and defini(LCA) pre-study in the operations in Europe covering selected products tions will be presented once Gränges has established a foundation for to decide on scope and calculation methodology to be used in the sushow the company will assess and communicate the sustainability tainability product declarations. In line with the pre-study, Gränges performance for its products from a life-cycle perspective. plans to build its declarations on LCA methodology in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Detailed results for this indicator will be preGovernance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Research & sented once Gränges has started to measure the share of its products Innovation in cooperation with the regional sales and product develhaving verified sustainability information available. opment representatives. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 80 per cent of its products have verified sustainability information available. 2 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Significant suppliers Comment: In 2019, Gränges continued to roll out its Supplier Code of Conduct to its significant suppliers. In total, 154 suppliers (137), correNumber of significant suppliers 2019 2018 2017 sponding to 99 per cent of the total purchase value from significant Asia 14 18 19 suppliers, signed the Supplier Code of Conduct or were – via an internal escalation process – assessed to have equivalent standards in Europe 38 35 32 place which are in line with Gränges’ sustainability requirements. Americas 106 90 65 Gränges’ operations in Asia and Europe conducted in total 7 supplier Gränges total 158 143 116 audits in 2019, of which no supplier was new. Such audits are conducted periodically depending on suppliers’ strategic importance and results from supplier performance assessments. In total, 19 new Supplier Code of Conduct commitment significant suppliers (17) were added to the supplier base in 2019. Share of ­all significant suppliers Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent standard, level by the purchasing organizations and consolidated annually at % of purchase value 2019 2018 2017 group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Europe. Comparable data for 2017 is not Asia 97 94 – available for one indicator. Europe 99 97 – Americas 100 100 – Significant supplier is defined as a supplier with a total purchase value Gränges total 99 98 – above SEK 5 million, CNY 5 million or USD 0.5 million. Local purchase value has been converted to SEK using average currency rates for 2019. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Technology & Supplier audits Business Development and the regional purchasing representatives. Number of audits conducted among The governing policy is Gränges’ Code of Conduct which states that significant suppliers 2019 2018 2017 the Supplier Code of Conduct, which in turn outlines Gränges’ requirements on suppliers’ commitment to sustainability principles, should Asia 5 5 5 be included as part of the supplier contract. Three of the company’s Europe 2 5 4 production sites are certified in accordance with the quality manageAmericas 0 0 0 ment standard IATF 16949, which includes criteria on suppliers’ qualGränges total 7 10 9 ity performance. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of all ­significant suppliers are committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of ­Conduct or equivalent standard. 102 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 3 SOURCED RECYCLED ALUMINIUM Weight of sourced metal inputs Comment: The use of sourced recycled aluminium increased to 19.8 per cent (16.7) in 2019, driven by the operations in Americas where the share ktonnes 2019 2018 2017 increased by 6 percentage points. The result was mainly achieved through expanded sourcing of recycled aluminium through commodity Primary aluminium 287.8 341.3 351.8 traders and customer collaborations. In the European operations, the Recycled aluminium 72.9 70.4 46.7 share of sourced recycled aluminium increased slightly whereas the Alloys 7.8 8.8 9.3 Asian operations showed a slight decline driven by fluctuations in availability of recycled material of sufficient quality. Gränges total 368.4 420.5 407.8 Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional level Weight of sourced recycled aluminium and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions ktonnes 2019 2018 2017 and principles. Asia 2.5 3.1 5.5 Sourced recycled aluminium is defined as sourced recycled aluminium Europe 12.3 14.0 15.3 used as input materials [tonnes] divided by total sourced metal input Americas 58.0 53.3 26.0 materials [tonnes]. Gränges total 72.9 70.4 46.7 Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Technology & Business Development and the regional purchasing representatives. Share of sourced recycled aluminium The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annuShare of recycled aluminium of total ally and applies to all employees working at Gränges. sourced metal inputs, % 2019 2018 2017 Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 20 per cent of total Asia 2.4 2.7 4.4 sourced metal inputs is recycled aluminium. Europe 13.9 13.5 16.0 Americas 32.5 26.5 13.8 Gränges total 19.8 16.7 11.5 4 ENERGY Total energy use products with a lower gauge. Gränges’ total share of renewable energy decreased to 8 per cent (9), driven by Europe where the share of GWh 2019 2018 2017 nuclear power in the purchased electricity mix increased. The energy Natural gas 756.8 764.6 773.4 mix in Asia also showed a slight decline in renewable energy sourced, whereas the energy mix in Americas was basically unchanged. Electricity 400.1 407.4 403.2 Liquefied petroleum gas 45.6 46.2 48.2 Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional level Diesel 9.8 9.0 8.5 and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions District heating 3.3 4.1 2.7 and principles. Petrol 0.1 0.1 0.1 Gränges total 1,215.7 1,231.4 1,236 .0 Energy intensity is defined as total energy use [MWh] divided by the total packed products [tonnes]. Note: Data for diesel and petrol consumption 2018 have been restated due to a reporting error. Renewable energy sources are defined as wind, solar, hydro, geotherEnergy intensity mal, tidal and biomass. The share of renewable energy is calculated as renewable energy sourced [MWh] divided by the total energy used MWh/tonne 2019 2018 2017 [MWh] using total energy use per source and the supplier-specific mix for delivered electricity and district heating. Asia 2.4 2.3 2.3 Europe 2.2 2.1 2.2 Regulations: Gränges adheres to applicable energy regulations in the Americas 4.7 4.3 4.4 countries of operations; Gränges’ operations in Asia under the ShangGränges total 3.5 3.3 3.3 hai Energy Conservation Regulations and the operations in Europe under the Energy E ­ fficiency Directive. Operations in Americas do curDevelopment versus prior year, % 7 –1 rently not have any energy related regulations affecting its operations. Share of sourced renewable energy Governance and policies: The topic energy use and intensity is man% 2019 2018 2017 aged by SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development and the regional representatives from operations. The topic sourced renew­able Asia 9 10 10 energy is managed by SVP Technology & Business Development and the Europe 31 36 38 regional purchasing representatives. The governing policy is Gränges’ Americas 2 2 2 EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. The production sites in Europe and Asia are certiGränges total 8 9 9 fied in accordance with the energy management standard ISO 50001, while the operations in Americas is preparing for implementation. Comment: The total energy use decreased by 1 per cent in 2019 to 1,215.7 GWh (1,231.4). Due to lower production volumes, the energy Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that energy intensity is intensity however increased by 7 per cent compared to 2018 and reduced by 17 per cent versus baseline 2017, and that the share of reached 3.5 MWh/tonne (3.3). In Americas, the increased energy intensourced renewable energy (electricity, heat, fuels) is increased versus sity was also explained by a changed production mix, with a higher baseline 2017. share of recycled aluminium and an increased focus on producing 103 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 5 EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACT Total emissions of greenhouse gases Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 ktonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Asia 25.6 27.5 28.6 57.4 61.1 63.8 1,970 2,250 2,430 Europe 10.6 11.3 11.2 0.4 0.4 0.2 500 590 530 Americas 129.7 128.7 129.9 59.1 56.0 68.9 1,150 1,400 1,530 Gränges total 166.0 167.5 169.7 116.9 117.4 132.9 3,620 4,230 4,490 Note: Data for scope 2 emissions in Europe 2017–2018 have been restated due to updated emission factors for district heating. Carbon emissions intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tonnes CO2e/tonne 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Asia 0.29 0.28 0.28 0.66 0.63 0.62 22.5 23.1 23.5 Europe 0.13 0.12 0.13 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.1 6.5 6.1 Americas 0.73 0.68 0.69 0.33 0.30 0.37 6.5 7.4 8.2 Gränges total 0.48 0.44 0.45 0.34 0.31 0.35 10.5 11.2 11.9 Development versus prior year, % 8 –2 8 –12 –7 –6 Emissions by category (scope 3) Other emissions to air – nitrogen oxides (NOX) ktonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017 Tonnes 2019 2018 2017 Purchased goods and services 3,520 4,120 4,370 Asia 23.1 25.5 24.0 Fuel and energy-related activities 60 60 60 Europe 10.4 11.2 10.6 Transportation incl. business travel 50 50 50 Americas 98.4 97.9 98.5 Gränges total 3,620 4,230 4,490 Gränges total 131.8 134.7 133.1 Other emissions to air – particulate matter Other emissions to air – sulphur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 2019 2018 2017 Tonnes 2019 2018 2017 Asia 3.3 3.6 3.8 Asia 2.5 2.6 2.9 Europe 0.1 0.2 0.2 Europe 0.0 0.1 0.1 Americas 7.6 7.3 7.5 Americas 0.6 0.6 0.6 Gränges total 11.1 11.1 11.5 Gränges total 3.2 3.3 3.5 Comment: In 2019, total carbon emissions intensity (scope 1+2+3) facilities and office buildings. Emissions are calculated using specific decreased by 6 per cent compared to 2018. The carbon emissions data from Gränges’ electricity and heat suppliers. intensity from own operations and purchased energy (scope 1+2) Scope 3 is defined as other indirect emissions. These include emisincreased by 8 per cent compared to 2018, driven by increased energy sions from extraction, production and processing of main purchased intensity in all regions. The carbon emissions intensity from purmaterials, fuel and energy related activities (not included in scope 1 or chased materials and services (scope 3) decreased by 7 per cent comscope 2), upstream and downstream goods transportation as well as pared to 2018, driven by increased use of recycled aluminium replacbusiness travel. Fuel and energy related activities include production ing primary aluminium in Americas and by an improved material of fuels used in Gränges’ operations and in generation of purchased efficiency in all regions. Emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulphur electricity. Emissions from producing primary aluminium are based on dioxide decreased compared to 2018 due to lower consumption of natregional industry averages, and supplier data is used for purchased ural gas and liquified petroleum gas. slabs and recycled aluminium. Emissions from producing fuels are based on regional industry data and emissions from transportation Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional and business travel are based on specific data from Gränges’ translevel and consolidated annually at group level using common definiport routes. tions and principles. Carbon emissions intensity is defined as total emissions of greenGreenhouse gas emissions are presented as carbon dioxide equivahouses gases [tonnes CO2e] divided by the total packed products lents. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the definitions of the [tonnes]. respective scopes are the following. Scope 1 is defined as direct emissions from Gränges’ operations, Other emissions to air of particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and sulwhich include production facilities, office buildings and company phur dioxide are calculated either based on fuel consumption using owned vehicles. Emissions are calculated based on fuel consumption local emission factors or based on continual measurements. Emisand emission factors. sions of oil and VOC are not reported as methods and data collection Scope 2 is defined as energy indirect emissions from the generation procedures are currently being harmonized across the organization. of purchased electricity and heat consumed by Gränges, in production Gränges aims to start reporting on these emissions next year. 104 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Regulations: Gränges observes all applicable local and international from purchased energy and from purchased materials and services), laws and regulations for environmental impact. Emission limits in and the regional operational and purchasing representatives. The govEurope are based on requirements from the Industry Emissions Direcerning policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and tive (IED). Gränges’ production site in Finspång is not included in the applies to all employees working at Gränges. The production sites in EU emissions trading system, EU ETS. In Asia, emission limits are Asia and Europe are certified in accordance with the environmental linked to Regulations of Shanghai Municipality on the Prevention and management standard ISO 14001, while the sites in Americas are preControl of Atmospheric Pollution, and in the US the National Ambient paring to implement an environmental management system. EmisAir Quality Standards (NA AQS) provides the relevant legal framework. sions are monitored and managed as part of daily operations. CompliLocal authorities continually monitor compliance to ensure that emisance is a prerequisite for Gränges’ continued license to operate. sions are within limits. Emissions regulated by legislation include nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, particulate matter, volatile organic Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that carbon emissions compounds (VOC) and, in some regions, oil emissions. intensity from own operations and purchased energy (scope 1+2) is reduced by 25 per cent versus baseline 2017. The company has also Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process Engiset a long-term target that carbon emissions intensity from purneering & Operational Development (direct emissions from own operchased materials and services (scope 3) is reduced versus the 2017 ations), SVP Technology & Business Development (indirect emissions baseline. 6 WATER MANAGEMENT Water withdrawal, by source 2019 2018 2017 Areas with Areas with Areas with Thousand m3 All areas water stress All areas water stress All areas water stress Surface water (total) 2,427 – 2,590 – 1,988 – Groundwater (total) 530 – 620 – 845 – Third-party water (total) 245 159 258 158 513 157 Gränges total 3,203 159 3,468 158 3,346 157 Third-party water withdrawal, by source Surface water 175 159 177 158 173 157 Groundwater 70 – 81 – 341 – Water withdrawal, by region Water intensity Thousand m3 2019 2018 2017 m3/tonne 2019 2018 2017 Asia 159 158 157 Asia 1.8 1.6 1.5 Europe 2,444 2,609 2,003 Europe 29.8 28.9 23.3 Americas 601 702 1,185 Americas 3.4 3.7 6.3 Gränges total 3,203 3,468 3,346 Gränges total 9.3 9.2 8.9 Note: All water withdrawal is categorised as freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids). Comment: In 2019, total water withdrawal decreased by 8 per cent Water intensity is defined as total water withdrawal [m3] divided by the compared to 2018, partly due more normal weather conditions in total packed products [tonnes]. Europe which led to a reduced need for cooling water, and partly due to the replacement of cooling tower units in the Huntingdon producRegulations: The water use and management for Gränges’ operations tion site. The water intensity, however, increased slightly due to lower in Asia is regulated via permits and by legislation such as Water Polluproduction volumes. In 2019, Gränges agreed on the key elements of tion Prevention and Control Law of the People’s Republic of China, the local water management plans, and in 2020 the company aims to Water Law of the People’s Republic of China, and Management in implement such plans in three production facilities. Shanghai Drainage Ordinance. Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process Engilevel and consolidated annually at group level using common definineering & Operational Development, and the regional representatives tions and principles. from operations. The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. Water withdrawal is defined as water used in the production facility withdrawn from wetlands, rivers, lakes, own wells, municipal water Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that all sites have implesuppliers or from other public or private water utilities [m3]. mented a local water management plan. Water stress is defined as the ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable surface and groundwater suppliers. The definition is based on Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by World Resources Institute, where the result for the indicator “Baseline water stress” is high (40–80 per cent) or extremely high (> 80 per cent) in the area. 105 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 7 WORKPLACE SAFETY Total Recordable Rate (TRR) Total Recordable Rate (TRR) is defined as total number of recordable accidents per million hours worked. Number of recordable accidents per million hours worked 2019 2018 2017 Lost workday cases are defined as number of recordable accidents Asia 2.2 2.8 6.3 resulting in absence from work. Europe 7.4 9.6 11.7 Lost workdays are defined as the sum of workdays by employees being Americas 4.8 7.3 7.2 absent from work due to a recordable accident. Gränges total 4.4 6.1 7.8 Severity Rate is defined as total number of lost workdays per million hours worked. Severity Rate Serious injury is defined as an irreversible injury such as an amputated Number of lost workdays per million hours worked 2019 2018 2017 finger or lost eyesight, or a reversible injury causing prolonged periods of pain or suffering for the employee, or an accident with an absence Asia 73 162 163 longer than 15 days. Europe 108 87 128 Americas 214 212 48 Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development and regional safety representaGränges total 142 165 112 tives. The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. Comment: In 2019, Total Recordable Rate (TRR) reached 4.4 (6.1), an All Gränges’ production sites, covering 98 per cent of Gränges’ total improvement of 28 per cent versus 2018 driven by a strong behavioural employees in 2019, has an occupation health and safety (OHS) mansafety programme and a successful implementation of a 5S system in all agement system in place, implemented in line with applicable legislaplants. Severity Rate improved slightly to 142 (165) driven by significant tion. The OHS system in the Shanghai site is certified in accordance improvements in Gränges’ operations in Asia, partly offset by Europe with OHSAS 18001, covering 29 per cent of all Gränges’ employees. where one accident led to a long recovery time for the injured individual. The sites in Americas and Europe have initiated pre-studies to implement OHS management systems in accordance with OHSAS 18001 or Reporting principles and definitions: All incidents and accidents are regISO 45001. In line with Gränges’ internal safety assessment process, istered and categorized in local incident reporting systems. Events cross-assessments were in 2019 conducted in the Salisbury and reported are tracked weekly and monthly. Data is reported at regional Finspång sites, covering in total 38 per cent of total employees. The level and consolidated monthly at group level using common definitions remaining sites were assessed in 2017–2018. and principles. Contracted workers are included in the safety statistics Gränges has employee-managed safety committees at all plants. except for disclosure of employee coverage of OHS management systems The efficiency of the committees is monitored by the Supervisory which is based on number of employees on 31 December. safety committees, headed by the regional Presidents. In the operations in Americas, each plant has an employee-managed safety comContracted worker is defined as individuals working onsite or offsite on mittee supported by local management. behalf of Gränges. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that Total Recordable Rate Recordable accident is defined as medical treatment cases, restricted (TRR) is < 3.0 recordable accidents per million hours worked and that work cases and lost workday cases. Severity Rate is < 50 lost workdays per million hours worked. 8 TOTAL EMPLOYEES Total number of employees by category Comment: Total number of employees decreased by 1 per cent to 1,782 (1,803) in 2019, mainly driven by efficiency improvements in Number 2019 2018 2017 Gränges’ operations in Europe, partly offset by a continued high Blue-collar 1,229 1,256 1,128 recruitment rate in the operations in Americas. The total number of contracted workers was 104 (104). White-collar 553 547 509 Gränges total 1,782 1,803 1,637 Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional Contracted workers 104 104 – level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Europe. Data is based on headcount on 31 December. Comparable Employment contract and type, by gender and region 2019 data for contracted workers 2017 is not available. Region Gender Contracted worker is defined as individuals working onsite of offsite Number of employees Asia Europe Americas Women Men on behalf of Gränges. Permanent contract 484 492 758 241 1,493 Permanent contract is defined as a contract for an indeterminate period. Temporary contract 35 12 1 12 36 Temporary contract is defined as a contract of limited duration. Gränges total 519 504 759 253 1,529 Full-time employee is defined according to national legislation and Gender practice regarding working time, such as employees working a Number of employees Women Men ­minimum of nine months per year and 30 hours per week. Full-time 247 1,527 Part-time employee is defined as employees working less than a ­full-time employee. Part-time 6 2 Gränges total 253 1,529 Governance and policies: Not applicable as this is a general disclosure. Long-term target: Not applicable as this is a general disclosure. 106 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 9 CAREER AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Performance and development discussion Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common defini% 2019 2018 2017 tions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Asia 100 100 – Europe. Comparable data for 2017 is not available. Data covers employees in duty adjusted for those who are long-term absent as Europe 100 98 – well as new employees who did not have a performance and developAmericas 100 100 – ment discussion as they started their employment after the period Gränges total 100 99 – when the annual performance and development discussions were conducted. The definition was updated in 2019 to clarify that individuComment: In total, 100 per cent (99) of all employees received a als who are long-term absent are excluded from the calculation. performance and development discussion in 2019. Per gender and category, 100 per cent of all women and men and 100 per cent of Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human blue-collar and white-collar employees employees received a Resources and the regional human resources representatives. ­p erformance and development discussion. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of all employees annually receive a performance and development discussion. 10 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Gender balance by region Comment: The share of women among the total workforce remained unchanged at 14 per cent (14) in 2019, with small increases for Share of women Gränges’ operations in Americas and Asia. The share of women among in total workforce, % 2019 2018 2017 senior management was unchanged at 20 per cent (20). Asia 12 11 11 Europe 20 20 20 Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definiAmericas 12 11 12 tions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Gränges total 14 14 14 Europe. Data is based on headcount on 31 December. Senior management is defined as employees eligible to participate in Share of women among senior management, % 2019 2018 2017 Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. Asia 20 20 20 Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human Europe 15 15 16 Resources and the regional human resources representatives. The Americas 29 29 25 governing policy is the Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually and Gränges total 20 20 20 applies to all employees working at Gränges. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that at least 30 per cent of Gender balance and age structure 2019 senior management is women. < 30 30–50 > 50 % Women Men years years years Board of Directors 43 57 0 14 86 Group Management1) 13 88 0 38 63 Senior management 20 80 0 64 36 White-collar 29 71 5 63 31 Blue-collar 8 92 15 58 27 Gränges total 14 86 12 60 28 1) Includes one external consultant, read more on pages 50-51. 107 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES 11 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING % 2019 2018 2017 Data for employee engagement comes from Gränges’ employee survey, which is conducted every other year. Next group-wide survey will Sick-leave 1.6 1.6 2.0 be conducted in 2020. Comparable data for 2017 is not available. Employee turnover 11.8 9.1 7.4 Employee engagement index – 77 – Sick-leave is defined as all absent hours for sickness within a year divided by total annual working hours (as applicable in local standNote: Employee engagement index for 2018 has been restated to reflect results from ards). Excludes permitted leave absences such as holidays, study and Gränges’ operations in Americas which conducted its first employee survey in the beginning of 2019. The consolidated figure for 2018 now reflects total Gränges Group. parental leave. Comment: Total sick-leave was unchanged at 1.6 per cent (1.6) in 2019. Employee turnover is defined as number of employees who leave the Total employee turnover increased to 11.8 per cent (9.1) as a result of organization (voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in record low unemployment rates and a strong employment market in service) during the reporting period divided by total number of the US. The continued high recruitment rate in the Americas operaemployees converted to full-time positions. tions led to a higher turnover rate as many new employees ended their their employent during the first time period at Gränges. By gender, Employee engagement index is a calculated mean from a number of employee turnover was 12.7 per cent among men and 6.4 per cent questions in Gränges’ employee survey related to energy and clarity, among women and by category 13.9 per cent among blue-collar two important dimensions of employee engagement. The mean is employees and 7.1 per cent among white-collar employees. There was ­converted to an index 0–100. no employee survey in 2019. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional Resources and the regional human resources representatives. level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that Employee engagement Europe. index should reach at least 85. Data for sick-leave and employee turnover is based on average number of employees (expressed as present full-time positions). 12 ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Code of Conduct training Comment: In 2019, Gränges continued to roll-out an annual group-wide Code of Conduct training. All employees, except blue-collar employees Share of employees trained in Gränges’ operations in Americas who conducted classroom training, in the Code of Conduct, % 2019 2018 2017 were invited to complete an e-learning. Total training participation Asia 100 100 – ended at 99 per cent (99), with 100 per cent participation rate in the Europe 98 98 – operations in Asia and Americas (100) and 98 per cent (98) in Europe. Gränges in 2019 also developed an anti-corruption e-learning which 100 Americas 100 100 – per cent of all white-collar employees completed. No corruption inciGränges total 99 99 – dents were detected during 2019. Reporting principles and definitions: Data for Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption training anti-corruption training participation is collected and consolidated annually via the e-learning system used for online training. Data for Share of white-collar employees trained in anti-corruption, % 2019 2018 2017 Gränges AB is included in the data for Europe. Comparable data for 2017 is not available, and for one indicator, comparable data is not Asia 100 – – available for 2018. Data includes employees in duty and is adjusted for Europe 100 – – long-term sick-leave, parental leave, resignations and employees off Americas 100 – – duty for a longer period. The anti-corruption training was conducted October to November 2019 while the Code of Conduct training was Gränges total 100 – – conducted November 2019 to January 2020. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by Gränges’ General Incidents of corruption Counsel and the regional legal representatives. The governing policy is Number 2019 2018 2017 Gränges’ Code of Conduct which is updated annually and applicable for all employees and board members in entities owned by Gränges. It Incidents of corruption 0 0 0 also applies to independent contractors and consultants or others Incidents of terminated business acting on behalf of Gränges. Also, Gränges’ Anti-Corruption Policy contracts due to corruption 0 0 0 defines, explains and expands on what Gränges means by corruption. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of all employees are annually trained in the Code of Conduct, and that 100 per cent of all white-collar employees are annually trained in anti-corruption. 108 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 38 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12–13, 17–18 102-3 Location of headquarters 11, 38 102-4 Location of operations 11, 38 102-5 Ownership and legal form 36–37, 39, 43 102-6 Markets served 10–11 102-7 Scale of the organization 1, 10–11, 29, 55 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 101, 106–107 102-9 Supply chain 10 8, 24–25 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 14, 16, 24–25, 36–37 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 7 33 102-12 External initiatives 99–100 102-13 Membership of associations 99 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 32–35 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 29–31 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 31 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 41–47, 97, 102–108 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 98 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3 101 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 98 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 98 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 98 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 90 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 99 102-47 List of material topics 99 102-48 Restatements of information 104, 108 102-49 Changes in reporting 99 102-50 Reporting period 97 102-51 Date of most recent report 97 102-52 Reporting cycle 38, 97 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 97 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 97 102-55 GRI content index 109–111 102-56 External assurance 97 109 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES MATERIAL TOPICS Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions Economic standards ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31, 99, 108 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 31, 108 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31, 108 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 31, 108 Anti-corruption 2016 and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 31, 108 Environmental standards MATERIALS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24–25, 99, 103 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 24–25, 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24–25, 103 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 24–25, 101, 103 301-2 Recycled input materials used 24–25, 101, 103 ENERGY 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26–27, 99, 103 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 26–27, 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26–27, 103 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 26–27, 101, 103 302-3 Energy intensity 26–27, 101, 103 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 26–27, 101, 103 WATER 7, 8 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27, 99, 105 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 27, 105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27, 105 GRI 303: Water and 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 27, 105 effluents 2018 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 27, 105 303-3 Water withdrawal 27, 105 EMISSIONS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22, 25, 27, 99, 104 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 22, 25, 27, 104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22, 25, 27, 104 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 22, 27, 101, 104 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 22, 27, 101, 104 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 22, 25, 101, 104 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 22, 101, 104 305-5 GHG emissions reductions 22, 101, 104 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other 104 VOC are not reported as significant air emissions methods and data collection procedures for these emissions are currently being harmonized across the organization. Gränges aims to start reporting these emissions next year. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24–25, 99, 102 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 24–25, 102 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24–25, 102 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 102 Environmental Assessment 2016 Social standards OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28, 99, 106, 108 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28, 106, 108 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 106, 108 110 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 106 Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, incident investigation 28, 106 403-3 Occupational health services 30 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 28, 106 Meeting frequency of safety occupational health and safety committees is not included due to lack of credible data. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 28 403-6 Promotion of worker health 30 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 24–25 impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety man106 Contracted workers are not agement system included due to a lack of credible data. 403-9 Work-related injuries 28, 101, 106 Contracted workers such as maintenance workers managed by Gränges are included in the safety data but not sick-leave. The reporting is aligned with Gränges’ internal procedures. TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 29, 99, 107 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 29, 107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 107 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 29, 101, 107 Education 2016 career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 29–30, 99, 107 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 29–30, 107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29–30, 107 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 29–30, 101, 107 Equal Opportunity 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24–25, 99, 102 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 24–25, 102 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24–25, 102 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 102 Assessment 2016 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the friendly technologies. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Anti-corruption Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of ­employment and including extortion and bribery. occupation. AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB, corporate identity number 556001-6122 Engagement and responsibility and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainthe examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. ability statement for the year 2019, as defined in the Board of Directors report on page 39, and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Opinions Annual Accounts Act. A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. The scope of the audit Stockholm 12 March 2020 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing Ernst & Young AB standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainaErik Sandström bility statement. This means that our examination of the corporate govAuthorized Public Accountant ernance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing 111 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES HISTORY The foundation of today’s Gränges was laid in 1896 in Grängesberg, was listed on the Stock Exchange in Stockholm and in 2000 Gränges Sweden. Thereafter, several different industrial enterprises became changed name to Sapa. In 2005 Sapa was acquired and delisted after part of the Group, including Grängesberg mines, the TGOJ rail busiOrkla made a bid for the company. At that time Sapa had two lines ness, Oxelösund ironworks, and a shipping business. In 1969, the of business: rolled aluminium products and extruded aluminium Group acquired Svenska Metallverken, which included an aluminium profiles. In 2013, the rolled products business took back the name products business, an operation that would later evolve into Gränges. of Gränges and in 2014 Orkla decided to list Gränges on the Nasdaq In 1972, work began on the development and production of aluminium Stockholm Stock Exchange. heat exchanger strips in Finspång. In 2016, Gränges acquired Noranda’s downstream operations in the After the Gränges Group was acquired by Electrolux in 1980, a United States and the name of the acquired company was changed to number of structural changes were implemented, resulting in the sale Gränges Americas. of most of Gränges’ businesses. What remained was the production In 2019, Gränges signed an agreement to acquire the Polish flat of aluminium products. rolled aluminium producer Aluminium Konin. The transaction is A key milestone came in 1996, when Gränges established a global subject to regulatory approval by the relevant competition authorities. presence by opening a production plant in Shanghai. In 1997 Gränges 1896 1972 1997 2013 2016 The industrial Production of materials Gränges is listed on Gränges becomes a Gränges acquires Noranda’s Group is formed in for brazed aluminium the Stock Exchange stand-alone company downstream business in the Grängesberg. heat exchangers in Stockholm. and takes back its US. The name is changed to begins. old name. Gränges Americas. 1922 1996 2005 2014 2019 Manufacturing of Gränges establishes Orkla buys Sapa The new Gränges is Gränges signs an agreealuminium products a production plant (Gränges) through a listed on the Nasdaq ment to acquire the Polish begins in Finspång. in Shanghai. public bid and delists Stockholm Stock flat rolled aluminium the company. Exchange. producer Aluminium Konin. 112 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY RISK THE SHARE BOARD OF CORPORATE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES DIRECTORS’ REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS NOTES ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020 Gränges’ 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 7 May, 2020 at 16:00 CEST at IVA Conference Centre (Wallenbergsalen), Grev Turegatan 16 in Stockholm. Registration begins at GRÄNGES’ ANNUAL REPORT 15:30 CEST. Gränges’ annual report is available on the Participation company’s website, www.granges.com, in Swedish Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting must be and English. The annual report is also available registered as shareholders in the share register maintained by Euroin printed format and can be ordered at ­ clear Sweden AB as of Thursday, 30 April, 2020, and have notified the reports@granges.com. company of their intention to attend no later than ­T hursday, 30 April, 2020. Registration of participation must be ­provided in writing to Gränges GRÄNGES’ FINANCIAL AB, Juridik, Box 5505, 114 85 Stockholm, Sweden; on the company’s CALENDAR 2020 website, www.granges.com; or by telephone at +46 732 07 42 52 on Interim report, weekdays between 09:00 and 16:00 CEST ­during the period 27 March– January–March 2020 30 April 2020 30 April. When registering, shareholders must state their name, personal ID Annual General Meeting 2020 7 May 2020 or company registration number, address and daytime telephone Half-year report, number and representatives. The information provided is only used for January–June 2020 16 July 2020 Gränges’ annual general meeting. Interim report, Nominee-registered shares January–September 2020 22 October 2020 Shareholders whose shares are registered with a nominee must, to have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting, have their shares temporarily reregistered with Euroclear Sweden AB. A request for reregistration should be submitted to the nominee well in advance of the Annual G­ eneral Meeting. Notice convening the Annual General Meeting Gränges’ notice convening the Annual General Meeting 2019 is expected to be published Friday, 27 March 2020 by a press release and on the company’s website. Information about other decision points will be available on the company’s website. Printed information can be ordered via reports@granges.com. Dividend The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.40 (3.20) per share for the 2019 fiscal year, in total SEK 257 million (242). The proposed record date for the dividend is Monday, 11 May, 2020. If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, the dividend is expected to be ­distributed through Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 14 May, 2020. For further information, please contact: Niclas Nelson General Counsel niclas.nelson@granges.com Tel: +46 8 459 59 00 Concept, text and production: Solberg in cooperation with Gränges. Photographers: Dan Coleman, Superstudio, Fredrik Schlyter, Robert Nilsson, Volvo Cars, Gränges among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet. 113 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2019 GRÄNGES IS A GLOBAL LEADER IN ALUMINIUM ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING AND INNOVATION ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE GRÄNGES EUROPE GRÄNGES ASIA GRÄNGES AMERICAS Gränges AB Gränges Sweden AB Gränges Aluminium Gränges Americas Inc Box 5505 SE-612 81 Finspång (Shanghai) Co., Ltd 501 Corporate Centre Drive, SE-114 85 Stockholm Sweden 1111 Jiatang Highway Suite 280 Sweden Phone: +46 122 838 00 201807 Shanghai Franklin, Tennessee 37067 Phone: +46 8 459 59 00 China USA VISITING ADDRESS Phone: +86 215 954 1111 Phone: +1 615 778 2000 VISITING ADDRESS Slottsvägen 1–3 Linnégatan 18 SE-612 31 Finspång SE-114 47 Stockholm Sweden Sweden www.granges.com Corp. identity no. 556001-6122
