UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Going beyond simply replacing what we take , our goal is to support regeneration, enabling our environment and communities to thrive and achieve abundance. March 2020 1 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT 2 OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Note to self.....remember these key points !! 3 WHAT DOES SUSTAINABILITY MEAN TO MCD ? GOVERNANCE ECONOMICS Meet statutory obligations and ensure Build and maintain a robust and responsible governance with transparent enduring business which provides reporting by operating in accordance with our an acceptable economic and third-party certified integrated management financial return to our shareholders system. Mitigate risk to acceptable levels through adherence to McConnell Dowell Group Risk Management practices. HEALTH & SAFETY OUR PEOPLE Ensure the well-being and Enhance the wellbeing of our protection of our workforce, workforce through skills and encouraging behaviour professional development, lifelong and practices that entrench learning, increased ability to deliver the McConnell Dowell Group’s sustainable outcomes, and safety vision ‘Home Without participation in the direction of the Harm, Everyone Everyday’. organisation. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL Minimise the environmental impact Make a positive and meaningful of our activities through the efficient difference to the health and well-being of use of resources including energy, the community through stakeholder water and construction engagement, social support and materials; Promote innovative investment. Provide industry leadership thinking and practices to achieve through the participation in peak industry positive environmental and associations. sustainability outcomes 4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 5 THE MCD SUSTAINABILITY RELATIONSHIP FRAMEWORK SUSTAINABILITY MCD VALUE GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Global Compact Principle PILLAR Alignment Social GRI 403 -2 OHS management system and its continual SDG3 – Good health and well-being Principle 1 – Businesses should Make a positive difference to improvement SDG9 – Industry innovation and infrastructure support and respect the protection of the health and well-being of GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health (and services internationally proclaimed human the community – an impact to available) e.g. employee assistance, skin cancer checks rights: improve lives and diversity GRI 405-1 Diversity of the Governance body (board/exco); SDG10 – Reduce inequality and employees by age, gender and other SDG11 Sustainable cities and communities Principle 6 – the elimination of GRI 201 1 Direct economic value generated – community discrimination in respect of investments (link to global compact report) employment and occupation. Governance GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the SDG16 – Peace, justice and strong institution Principle 10 – Businesses should Adoption of applicable social and economic area work against corruption in all its international governance Disclosures 101, 2 and 3 forms, including extortion and bribery. codes and practices GRI 205 Anti corruption GRI 206 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices Environment GRI 302-1 Energy SDG7 – Affordable and clean energy Principle 9 – Encourage the Reduced environmental GRI 303-5 Water SDG12 – Responsible consumption and development and diffusion of production environmentally friendly technologies impact and positive GRI 306-2 Waste contributions SDG14 – Life below water SDG15 – Life on land Economics GRI 204-1 proportion of spending on local suppliers SDG8 – Decent work and economic growth Principle 4 – The elimination of all Balance Sheet resilience SDG17 – Partnership for the goals forms of forced and compulsory through a diverse portfolio & labour KPI 404-3 – performance and career development reviews high performing successful 6 businesses Governance: Aligned with UN Global Compact Principle 10 • Meet statutory obligations and ensure responsible governance with transparent reporting by operating in accordance with our third-party certified integrated management system. • Mitigate risk to acceptable levels through adherence to McConnell Dowell Group Risk Management practices. • The McConnell Dowell Anti-Corruption Framework is in place across the Group Examples Of How Do We Do This On Projects? • Utilise the MMS and audit process • Application of the Code of Business Conduct and Annual Pledge • Communication – demonstrate leadership • Use the Legal and Commercial functions • Risk registers updated regularly • Zero tolerance to all forms of corruption and promote higher ethical standards across the industry Outcome • MMS compliance and use is measured and audited. KPIs met • Code of Business Conduct and Annual Pledge measured on-line 7 Social: Aligned with UN Global Compact Principles 1 and 6 • Make a positive and meaningful difference to the health and well-being of the community through stakeholder engagement, social support and investment. • Provide industry leadership through the participation in peak industry associations. • Long term partnerships with Indigenous or social business Examples Of How Do We Do This On Projects? • Working with local charities • Social procurement and involvement with Social Traders • Supporting local schools • Safety begins at home – provide education • Using local labour • Built Environs working with Auckland City Mission • WPA in Melbourne collaborating with Melbourne City Mission Outcome • CSR reporting system confirms KPIs are met • Codesafe platform used to increase safety education 8 Environment: Aligned with UN Global Compact Principal 9 • Minimise the environmental impact of our activities through the efficient use of resources including energy, water and construction materials. • Promote innovative thinking and practices to achieve positive environmental and sustainability outcomes • Be recognised as industry environmental guardians. Examples Of How Do We Do This On Projects? • CEMP implementation • Reuse of material • LED or solar light towers • Use sustainable materials • Innovative engineering • Providing mulch to schools from vegetation cleared from our projects Outcome • Data input into Sustainability Warehouse now at 100% • Assurance of data measured by EY audit process, KPI met 9 Economics: Aligned with UN Global Compact Principle 4 • Build and maintain a robust and enduring business and provide acceptable economic and financial return to our shareholders. • Realise sustainability outcomes from our partnerships with key suppliers. • 100% of our supply chain committed to sustainable practices. Examples Of How Do We Do This On Projects? • Accurate and timely reporting • No surprises culture • Use lessons learnt • Good customer relationship • Engagement with local labour hire companies • Recruitment of refugees on the WPA projects • Sourcing consumables through locally-based traders Outcome • Monitoring of employment diversity through employment records • KPI met of increasing gender equity and diversity year on year 10 WHY USE MCD VALUES & GLOBAL OBJECTIVES ? Why reference MCD Values ? They were developed from a staff survey and reflect the organisation. Metrics measured against them reinforce that the values are relevant and part of the integral fabric of McConnell Dowell. We are living the values. Why reference the Global Reporting Index (GRI) ? Disclosing significant economic, environmental, and/or social impact in accordance with a globally-accepted standard. The GRI Standards create a common language for organizations and stakeholders, with which the economic, environmental, and social impacts of organizations can be communicated and understood. Why reference the UN Sustainable Development Goal Alignment (SDG) ? The SDGs are designed to enhance the global comparability and quality of information about these goals, thereby enabling employees to know what part they play and accountability of organisations. They are a comprehensive plan of action to improve human lives and protect the environment. Why reference the UN Global Compact ? We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and report annually. Meeting these criteria reinforces the commitment to a set of core sustainable and socially responsible values. These provide a balanced picture of the organization’s material topics (values) and related impacts (economic, environmental, or social), as well as how these impacts are managed. 11
