United Nations Global Compact Creating Commmunities' Communication on Progress December 2020 1 Statement of Support Creating Communities is a leader in social planning, community engagement and social impact, delivering approaches to help people, communities and organisations thrive in ever-changing contexts. We employ the latest research, social planning methodologies, storytelling and human-centred design practices to collaborate and discover opportunities to move forward together. Through the integration of our services we empower local voices, unite business, community and the third sector to drive social change. We believe that vibrant, functioning and sustainable communities are in everyone’s interest and through our collaborative approach we have We are proud to have been the driving force of social change in communities across Australia. We may only be joined and confirm our a small team, but we have a big impact. continued participation Enclosed within this Communication of in the United Nations Progress we provide case studies exploring how our work across the four key areas has Global Compact. created lasting social change for community members, our clients and our staff. Despite the challenges faced by the global COVID-19 pandemic, we are proud of the Creating Communities team’s ability to innovate and pivot our projects ensuring that communities continued to be supported and strengthened throughout the year via our COVID-19 Stronger Together program which was communicated using our primary channels of communications (our website and Stronger Together blog). We look forward to continuing to align our strategies and operations with the United Nations Global Compact and unite individuals, businesses and community to find opportunities to move forward together. Yours Sincerely, Donna Shepherd Managing Director Note: Creating Communities does not publish formal reports to stakeholders. This COP is a standalone document following the UNGC template. A key action for 2021 is to embed written support and other communications on our company website. 2 Contents 1. Human Rights Principles 2. Labour Principles 3. Environmental Principles 4. AntiCorruption Principles 3 1.0 Human Rights Principles 4 Human Rights Principles Assessment, policy and goals Creating Communities supports the International Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to ensuring that its principles are embedded within our organisation. As a social value consultancy, Creating Communities has a positive impact on the rights of individuals and communities. Our project work and internal operations are underpinned by our company values – we nurture positive relationships, pursue common good, empower people to become positive change agents and build capacity to uncover opportunities that change places and communities for the better. By being grounded in our values we have successfully tackled a wide range of issues, including complex intergenerational disadvantage, fragmented collective action and broken community relations, to deliver positive outcomes throughout Australia. Our projects follow the Creating Communities “3D Model”: a threephase approach to Discover the local community context; Design (through collaboration) strategies that address local issues and enact opportunities; and Deliver great outcomes. For community development projects, the Discover phase includes an assessment of the current socio-economic baseline, key community concerns, government and governance processes, and systems mapping of key stakeholders. This process for our community development projects aligns with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Declaration of Human Rights. 1.0 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Walking together is core to our Creating Communities philosophy and our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) is central to our work. A RAP is a national initiative through which organisations commit to developing practices that build reconciliation between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and non-Indigenous Australians. Our RAP guides our work to ensure genuine collaboration and engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community members and reflects our belief in equality and social equity. 5 Through our Innovate RAP, we have committed to: • Recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history, culture and traditions in our work • Overcome division and inequality between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians, particularly as it relates to health, income and living standards • Authentically engage with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples • Build Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander insights, ideas and aspirations into our project planning and implementation • Foster understanding about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, cultures and histories in all our projects Implementation In 2021, we will seek to achieve: • Written support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights in our Company Values Handbook and on our website • Guidelines for assessing key human rights issues and indicators to formalise our Discover process, to ensure integration of the UN Declaration of Human Rights and Sustainable Development Goals into our projects • Development of inclusion and diversity standards that include increasing awareness through diversity training (LGBTQI, gender equality, disability, cultural awareness) • Finalising our child-safe practices and child protection policies and integrating these into our Staff Handbook 1.0 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 6 Measurement of Outcomes Case Study: Home in East Newman In 2020, Creating Communities and architecture and design firm Hames Sharley were engaged to deliver a holistic strategy to improve liveability and wellbeing in East Newman. Rather than being solely a planning exercise, the project proposes an integrated cultural, social, environmental and spatial strategy for the development of East Newman. Focusing on improved housing, landscaping, community service and amenity, the project team have been working closely with Martu and Nyiyaparli community members and the wider community to make this vision for East Newman a reality. The engagement process for the Home in East Newman project reflects the collaborative approach undertaken to uncover opportunities that meet the needs and aspirations of the local community. The project also includes an assessment of what is Home in East Newman currently not working and risks to the local community, in terms is an opportunity for of liveability. the community and Conversations with community throughout the project showed a organisations to work range of different priority areas together in a new way for the project, including shade, housing that is appropriate for the and transform East local climate and culture, improved Newman together. safety through CCTV, lighting and housing design, connectivity and amenity for children. Actions and strategies are now being implemented with goals to improve liveability and wellbeing through access to housing, community services (including health and medical services), water supply and food provision (street trees). These are the first steps in a much longer project to revitalise East Newman, but the project team is excited that these changes will be seen quickly, but while 1.0 BACKGROUND also working hand in hand with community on elements such as design and location. 7 2.0 Labour Principles 8 Labour Principles Assessment, policy and goals Our people are at the heart of everything we do. We have a strong commitment to ensuring all staff work in a safe environment, receive fair and equitable conditions and are supported to reach their full potential. As an organisation, we embrace diversity and empower inclusivity to ensure our team can continue to work together for the betterment of the communities we support. Integral to this is conducting continuous development of our Work Health and Safety policies to ensure we are protecting our staff in their day-to-day work, whilst working from home, in the office, in local communities or in regional Australia. Creating Communities ensures all staff receive contracts that are equitable and clearly outline the terms and conditions of their role, receive inductions and training and are consistently required to attend updates on Work Health and Safety and new procedures and policies. As part of employment at Creating Communities, all staff must have up-to-date police clearances and Working with Children checks. As well as ensuring clear health and safety policies are in place, our staff wellbeing is well maintained through social activities, celebrating achievements in their personal and professional life and ensuring that annual leave and time of in lieu are accessible. 2.0 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 9 Implementation In 2021, we will seek to achieve: • Continue to engage only with contractors, suppliers, clients and stakeholders who uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labour • Link current employment, contracting and supplier policies/ processes and the UN principles (e.g. ILO Core Conventions) • Conduct an overview of labour-related risks in the consultancy sector in Australia Measurement of Outcomes Case Study: Stronger Together COVID-19 Response The COVID-19 pandemic presented an unprecedented health risk to Creating Communities staff and the communities we support. Within two weeks of COVID-19 being recognised as a global pandemic, Creating Communities had initiated a Stronger Together COVID-19 Program to strengthen communities throughout the COVID-19 response. Vital to the Creating Communities COVID-19 response was keeping our staff and communities safe, productive and employed. The Stronger Together Creating Communities COVID-19 response included: • Updating risk management plans based on advice from our risk management advisor Amlec House • Providing project branded Digital Social Networking via community conferencing • Monitoring and responding to local government advice regarding locally appropriate best practice engagement and risk mitigation • 2.0 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Providing regular communications to communities on keeping well at home and in the community. 10 Specific outcomes included: • We developed COVID-19 Stronger Together strategies for all our projects and clients – providing innovative initiatives and ideas for people to stay connected • Management committed to avoid as far as possible and COVID-19 lay-offs and salary reductions and were successful in achieving this. • We have focused on the health and wellbeing of our team. Each team met daily and the entire CCA team came together three times a week. We ensured our staff feit supported and stayed connected while working from home • Our team continue to collaborate and work together and have achieved strong results throughout the year • We have continued to deliver much-needed support and connections for communities through digital platforms and new initiatives addressing pandemic related risks such as mental health and domestic abuse. As a community we spent a lot of our time physically isolated at home, but Creating Communities has ensured that our team could still make social connections and engage with the clients, community members and colleagues as needed. Apart from providing important social interaction, this helped to ensure important projects could proceed across Western Australia, providing a flow of investment, local development and jobs. 2.0 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 11 3.0 Environmental Principles 12 Environmental Principles Assessment, policy and goals As a community-focused organisation, Creating Communities recognises that environmental sustainability is essential for strong communities and human wellbeing. We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint and creating environmental benefits. Within our office, we are putting in place initiatives to reduce waste and our carbon footprint. This includes transitioning toward a paper-free office, assessing impacts of office supplies and marketing collateral, and implementing a recycling protocol. On our projects, we identify opportunities for communities and organisations to reduce negative impacts and enhance environmental benefits. Environmental initiatives on our projects range from large-scale environmental-focused projects of State significance (e.g. developing rehabilitation plans, assessing environmental impacts of oil and gas decommissioning) to working with communities and local governments to implement policies and actions at a local level (e.g. local government sustainability plans, community tree planting). Implementation In 2021, we will seek to achieve: • Improved waste management and recycling protocol • 3.0 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Reviews of supply chains to procure the most environmentally sustainable and ethically sourced products and services (e.g. paper suppliers, gifts and marketing collateral) • Encouraging reduction of unnecessary travel, use of public and active transport, or offsets to minimise greenhouse gas emissions • Specific limits on printing and reliance on hard-copy collateral • Procure energy-efficient appliances and fixtures 13 • Recommending options for renewable energy use through installation of solar panels, purchase of renewably sourced energy from the grid, or offsets • Recommending options for investing in ethical and sustainable financial institutions Measurement of Outcomes Case Study: Rehabilitating Roe 8 Roe 8 was a State Government initiative that proposed a fivekilometre (3.1 mile) extension to Roe Highway In Perth's southern suburbs, cutting through a portion of the Beeliar Wetlands. The wetlands consist of 26 lakes and numerous wetlands stretching 25km along the coast and covering an area of approximately 3,400 hectares. Before the highway extension project was cancelled, a key corridor of native bushland was cleared. Our role, in partnership with the Project Steering Committee and Emerge Associates, was to develop a plan for ecological rehabilitation, while also restoring community trust and connection to the area. Through a process driven by community engagement, the Rehabilitating Roe 8 Plan was developed and endorsed by State Government. It currently provides an approach for the rehabilitation of a 10km corridor of native bushland and ensures a high level of future protection for the land. This is the most significant urban land restoration project in Perth, which sits within a global biodiversity hotspot. A wide range of engagement activities built strong relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander stakeholders, as well as building trust and rapport with the broader community. 2.0 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 14 4.0 Anti-Corruption Principles 15 Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, policy and goals Creating Communities is aware of the potential risks related to corruption in the consulting sector, and in communities. We are committed to remaining compliant with all Australian and local laws, including our current commitment and adherence to the Australian and International Accounting Standards (AASB & IFRS). Although we are a small consultancy practice of 15 full-time staff, we work with local and State government, non-government organisations, and organisations with large contractual obligations. We have developed clear proposal guidelines and reporting processes to ensure we are transparent and accountable. This includes disclosing conflicts of interest, conducting in-depth budget management and regular reporting to clients and stakeholders. Implementation In 2021, we will seek to achieve: • Statement for support of UN Convention against Corruption integrated in our proposals • Overview of corruption-related risks in the consultancy sector in Australia • 4.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Description of how our current contracts (both employment contracts and terms of service with clients) reflect principles • Review current preferred supplier form • Current commitment and adherence to the Australian and International Accounting Standards (AASB & IFRS) • Transparency regarding conflict of interest 16 Measurement of Outcomes In 2020, Creating Communities has maintained our commitments to anti-corruption by upgrading our current project management and budgeting software to WorkFlowMax, continued to ensure our employees abide our code of ethics and confidentiality agreements to protect the confidentiality of our clients, contractors and partners. Creating Communities will continue to audit purchasing polices annually and evaluate our practices to reduce the risk of corruption with our key stakeholders and communities. 4.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 17 OUR PURPOSE To transform communities by uniting the interests of people, industry and government, driving shared value. 18
