2019 Corporate Responsibility Report Contents RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2019 REPORT SUMMARY 6 8 LETTER FROM THE CEO 10 COMPANY INTRODUCTION 12 Financial performance  12 CSR strategy and policy 15 R&D and Sustainability 19 2019 achievements review 20 Sustainable development goals 23 PRODUCT EXCELLENCE 24 New in 2019 27 EU Product safety award 27 RSL publication 27 Anti-bite 27 A fully recyclable jacket 27 Reima Kit 28 Coffee bean shimmer 28 Materials28 Safe chemistry 31 Repair, reuse, recycle 31 Safe and sustainable design principles 32 SUPPLY CHAIN COLLABORATION 35 COURAGE TO REACH OUT 50 New in 2019 36 New in 2019 53 Supplier list publication 36 United Nations Global Compact membership 53 Suppliers overview 36 Protect Our Winters (POW) Finland 53 Supplier selection 36 Compensate 53 Reima supplier code of conduct 36 Telaketju Enhancing circularity in the textile industry 53 Social compliance and amfori 39 Hanken SDG project 53 Principles and results of Reima’s supply chain assessments 39 Donating to save #OurSea 54 ACCORD39 WWF green office programme 54 Environmental assessments 40 Greenhouse gas emissions 54 Reducing carbon footprint in logistics 40 Consumer and customer engagement  54 PROFESSIONAL GROWTH AND INTEGRITY 43 CONTACT US 59 New in 2019 44 APPENDIX60 Reima’s 75th anniversary 44 GRI INDEX 64 Earth hour and climate action week participation 44 Principles and training 44 Remote work 44 Key Human Resources figures 46 Codetermination negotiations 46 Engagement 46 GDPR training 48 CSR training 48 Anti-corruption policy review 48 SUSTAINABLE Responsibility Highlights 2019 PRODUCT WE CHAMPION SHIPMENT INCREASED AN ACTIVE BY WEIGHT IN EU IN CHILDHOOD 2019 BY To raise a generation 13% ready for the world to come Reima brand sales SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT TO SUPPLY CHAIN ALL STAKEHOLDERS Finnish Baby Box and yet CO₂e emissions from electricity 311 CO₂e t kg Suppliers by country Share of materials CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCTION IN 2019 Stores 44% CO2 FOR EU SHIPMENTS Vietnam -5% 1 Elastane Offices * Excluding 2 Wool 56% Taiwan 2 offices (US & 1 Lyocell 2 Polyurethane Russia and three stores in Europe) 9 Polyamide Italy 3 1 2 9% *Our aim is to become carbon neutral own operations by 2023 India 3 Finland 2 25 Employee satisfaction NPS 83% Polyester 5 38 China 37 4 36 4,45 4,15 4,12 3 34 * We have published our supplier list in 2019 By 2023, we aim to have 50% of polyester and 100% of polyester wadding from recycled 2 32 31 31 origins,and 20% of clothing recyclable. 1 30 0 28 2017 2018 2019 8 Report summary Report summary 9 Report summary R Reima is a globally leading 2019, we increased the share of sustainable and rate of finished goods suppliers in risk-countries. No we can improve on ethical operation. Our ongoing cokids’ activewear brand certified materials in our collection. Not only that, significant human nor labour rights violations came operation with Emmy for returning Reima products helping children find the joy but we increased supply chain transparency by to our attention through either assessment cycles, and the introduction of Reima Kit strengthened our of movement in everyday life. publishing our finished goods supplier list as well as nor outside them. path towards circular economy. Our Finnish heritage of over our Restricted Substances List (RSL). In implementing 75 years means a love for the the RSL with the material suppliers, we have also We have started to measure our greenhouse gas The strategic and operational responsibility areas outdoors and a connection tightened restrictions beyond regulation on several emission footprint. The goal of accurate information are lead by the corporate responsibility team with with nature runs deep in how substances. Furthermore, our multistage process for gathering and gaining an understanding of our extensive support from the leadership through ISSG we operate. ensuring product safety led to Reima winning the emissions profile is to be able to reduce the emissions (Innovation and Sustainability Steering Group) and prestigious EU Product Safety Gold Award in the effectively and offset reliably. Our goal is a carbon the Board of Directors. We practice the basics of Our approach to corporate responsibility is category Children’s products. neutral own operation by 2023. CSR reporting, e.g. stakeholder analysis or materiality comprehensive: we champion an active childhood assessment to keep our corporate work structured through ethically produced sustainable products, It is critical to ensure our supply chain operations are We strongly believe that success is the result of many and follow the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ensuring value creation for all stakeholders. Product ethical; our Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) is based internal and external collaborations, strategically standards for reliability. An external expert from sustainability starts from design and requires on international UN conventions on human and labour analysing and implementing feedbacks and inputs. Ratkaisutoimisto Vinha has checked that this report innovation and know-how on green technologies, rights. Through our membership in amfori, we require Feedback from customers and consumers enables follows the GRI reporting guidelines. ethical operations in supply chain, restricting harmful suppliers to maintain and improve social compliance. us to always improve our product. Our employees’ substances in material manufacturing, ending up Furthermore, Reima’s own social and environmental wellbeing and professional development is the driving Dr. Shahriare Mahmood with a commercially viable, durable product for lower assessments improve our dialogue with the suppliers force behind our growth. Our suppliers bring our R&D & Sustainability Director impact throughout its lifecycle. and enable us to support them in improving where innovations to life. Our shareholders enable ambitious necessary. The chemical restrictions help protect innovations and expansion through trust. We are The core of our product sustainability has always the environment and workers in the supply chain, in intimately intertwined with the societies we operate been uncompromised quality and durability. Longer addition to the end-users. We have completed the in, and helping maintain mutual trust and integrity. product use-life saves resources through reducing screening of 84% of our existing suppliers for social We collaborate with research organizations for new the need to make from scratch in the first place. In compliance, and maintained a 87% third-party audit innovations and with NGOs for frank feedback on how 10 Letter from the CEO Letter from the CEO 11 Letter from R eima had an exceptional 2019. We The future is also increasingly transparent and turned our focus towards responsibility networked. That is why we have joined the United in an unprecedented way and got Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest ready to ramp up our efforts going corporate sustainability initiative, to enhance our the CEO forward. We created a new, ambitious commitment to human and labour rights, respect sustainability roadmap, which was for the environment and anti-corruption measures approved by our Board of Directors in October. Our in our operations. We continue to support the Global sustainability efforts went hand in hand with the Compact and are deeply committed to the initiative continuing revenue growth of 15%. and its principles. In this report we also outline our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) focus areas. Climate change is threatening the future of our In addition to the UNGC, we look forward to continuing children. The textile industry as a whole has had a fruitful collaborations within amfori, with national and year of reckoning in this regard. At Reima, we have international NGOs, and of course our suppliers and always invested in designing and making durable, customers. functional children’s wear, not fast fashion, and we continue to encourage our consumers to reduce, reuse You will find out this and so much more about and recycle their clothing. In the coming years we will our responsibility work in the pages that follow. increasingly invest in reducing our climate impact, Responsibility has always been, and always will be, an through energy efficiency, greener energy solutions integral part of the way we do business. We want to and reliable offsetting schemes. inspire kids to explore the world freely, to help raise generations ready for the world to come. Our innovations are focused on accelerating circularity in the textile industry. This year’s circularity superstars are the award-winning Voyager jacket which is the first of its kind in kidswear and its sibling, the lightly insulated Kulkija. They are designed Yours sustainably, for both endurance and recycling; while most Elina Björklund technical wear has too many different materials and CEO finishings to be recycled back to polymers, on these jackets all layers, and even the waterproofing are 100% polyester, making recycling at scale feasible. We will even help Reima families recycle the jackets, to ensure they end up in textile processing. This is the future of functional kidswear. We champion an active childhood to raise a generation ready for the world to come. Because time is one of the most precious resources families have, we’ve launched Reima Kit, a subscriptionbased kids’ clothing service, to ensure families will always have the right gear for adventures, without ever needing to worry about the inconvenience of shopping. What’s more, the service includes support for reselling outgrown gear, which is both convenient and sustainable. 12 Company introduction Company introduction 13 Company introduction Reima group structure Bindley Ltd. HK REIMA CHAMPIONS THE NEXT GENERATION OF ACTIVE, HAPPY KIDS, READY FOR THE WORLD TO COME. Reima Japan KK Reima is the leading premium performance and active collaboration, integrity and joy. Our highest priority is wear brand for children. Our focus is on comfortable, providing an excellent product. We can only do that, Reima Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. safe clothing for any weather and activity, enabling if we work collaboratively and take risks to innovate kids to move and explore the world around them. courageously. We need joy to be able to provide it to Recognising the current trends of kids’ growing media kids, and integrity, so that all our stakeholders can Reima Trading (Bejing) Co. Ltd. consumption and decreasing physical activity as well always trust us. as the consequent adverse effects on kids’ health, we are expanding from enabling to making moving fun. Reima Germany GmbH REF Reima provides a high-quality, year-round, tip-to-toe F I N A N C I A L P E RFO RM A N C E RE Child Children’s wardrobe for active children from 0 to 12 years of age. Wear Reima Oy Clothes The product range includes outerwear, mid-layers, Financial stability and solid growth are the foundations Group Oy Group Oy Reima Norway AS innerwear, accessories, footwear, sunproof clothing of Reima’s sustainability. Our excellent financial and rainwear. Besides our main brand, Reima, we offer performance and growth affect various stakeholders the Lassie brand mainly in Russia. positively, as they make Reima a reliable employer, Reima Sweden AB a credible choice for investors, and a sustainable Today, we sell more than 7 million products annually. organization. On the other hand, our sustainable Our headquarter is located in Vantaa, Finland and business practices support our strong growth. Our Reima Russia LLC Shanghai, China is part of HQ. Reima research and innovative products and business strategy have design operations are in Finland, and we source enabled us to enter new markets. The net sales in all globally, concentrating on Asia. We have additional the geographical areas and different sales channels Reima Denmark ApS offices in Russia, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany have grown significantly in recent years, which is and USA. illustrated in a table on the next spread. Reima has established good practices for both operational and Reima USA Inc. Our main sales channel is wholesale, both online and financial risk management, including currency risk offline. Reima gear is available at e-tailers, countless management. department stores and specialised retailers globally. In addition, the Group had 50 own retail stores and Each year, the Group CEO shares with the staff the 41 franchise stores in seven countries at year-end priorities and the management approach, which has 2019, and an online store www.Reima.com serving 38 been evaluated by the Board of Directors. Reima has a countries. Reima offers baby packages globally online clear financial target which is aligned with its business through www.finnishbabybox.com as well as solution strategy. Although the responsibility concerning the sales to businesses. financial performance remains with the CEO, CFO and the Board of Directors, the targets and results are All our operation and our corporate responsibility also shared openly with the employees. work is based on our values: excellence, courage, 14 Company introduction Company introduction 15 Net Sales, thousand Euros In 2019, Reima adopted International Financial NET SALES 2018 2019 Reporting Standards (IFRS). Earlier the reporting was done according to Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). In addition to 2019 financials, comparison Wholesale 88 754 102 253 figures for 2018 were prepared according to IFRS. KPMG conducts an audit of the company annually in Direct-to-consumer 34 013 38 472 accordance with good auditing practices in Finland and in compliance with the international standards in auditing. The audit comprises interim and year-end audits and focuses on both the financial information TOTAL 122 766 140 725 and control environment, and in 2019 with special focus on transition to IFRS. A standard audit report is issued as a result. CS R ST R AT EGY A N D P O L I CY Net sales Responsibility towards societies and individuals, as well as the environment, has always been a key aim 180 000 30% in our operations. In 2019, we conducted a critical review of our material assessments. This resulted in a broader, more inclusive view of issues to consider 150 000 25% in our responsibility framework: Reima champions an active childhood to help raise a generation ready 38 472 for the world to come. To protect that world and future generations, we will ensure our products are 120 000 20% 34 013 sustainable from cradle to grave, made in a socially and environmentally sustainable supply chain, while creating value for all stakeholders. Our responsibility 90 000 15% work is rooted in the foundations formed by our values 11,6% – excellence, collaboration, courage, integrity and joy. 8,5% 60 000 10% 102 253 30 000 88 754 5% 0 2018 2019 Direct-to-consumer Wholesale EBITDA % 16 Company introduction Company introduction 17 1. WE DESIGN HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS 2. WE WORK FOR IMPROVING SOCIAL AND THAT LAST FROM ONE CHILD TO ANOTHER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN PRODUCT Because product lifecycle impacts are at the core of our product sustainability work, sustainability starts Ethical manufacturing is a prerequisite for a at the drawing board. Timeless design is about making sustainable product. To ensure respect for human and clothes that kids and parents will enjoy and that last labour rights in our supply chain, Reima is a member year after year, from one user to another. This also of amfori, a leading global business association for requires durability, especially in outerwear, which we open and sustainable trade. Our aim is that all Reima test with industrial-level sandpaper tests. Chemical suppliers in amfori-defined risk-countries have an upand physical safety have always been a priority for us, to-date third-party social compliance audit and 75% and our processes for ensuring chemical and physical of them are amfori BSCI audited. Because we also safety beyond regulations earned us the first ever want to build a fruitful and trustful collaboration with European Product Safety Gold Award 2019 (highest our suppliers, we seek to cultivate long-term business achievement) in the category children’s products. partnerships with them, most of which last over five In material choices, we select recycled and other years. To emphasize our commitment to continuous WE CHAMPION environmentally-friendly materials when they meet development of responsibility in the supply chain, we AN ACTIVE our durability criteria – because a reused product have a supplier code of conduct, as well as regular CHILDHOOD is always the most environmental choice. Because social and environmental compliance assessments. technical wear is also notoriously challenging for The assessments help us get to know our suppliers To raise a generation textile recycling, we innovated a mono-material better, and also ensure we are not solely reliant on ready for the world windand waterproof mid-season jacket, Voyager, third-party audits. to come to ensure easy recycling. We will also help Reima consumers recycle the jacket after its been used Nominating the material suppliers helps us ensure up by several happy kids. This is yet another step both the quality of our products as well as control towards increasing circularity in the textile industry. and reduce environmental impacts. Material suppliers To pilot the recycling of Voyager, we’re participating in are subject to our Restricted Substances List Telaketju2, a project and a consortium for increasing requirements, which we monitor through environmental SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT TO textile circularity in Finland. Telaketju is just one of audits. In the coming years we will focus even more on our partnerships, however. Another important one is calculating and reducing the carbon footprint of our SUPPLY CHAIN ALL STAKEHOLDERS our collaboration with Emmy, Finland’s largest online products. second-hand store. Emmy installed collection boxes in our retail stores in Finland, which helped them 3. WE ARE COMMITTED TO ETHICAL increase their collection and sales of Reima gear, BUSINESS PRACTICES AND DELIVERING and Reima consumers gain a share of the profits. BENEFITS TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS This year, Reima has launched a subscription based clothing service, Reima Kit, through which customers Reima has five crucial stakeholders: consumers can also return used clothing to Emmy for resale, and customers, employees, suppliers, communities making recycling even easier. and shareholders. The previous paragraphs have 18 Company introduction Company introduction 19 described how we deliver value to consumers and increasing our efforts on sustainability throughout suppliers in particular. Employee welfare and personal our operations helps ensure we are relevant and an development are key to a sustainably functioning industry leader also in the future. operation. We measure employee satisfaction and commitment in regular surveys, and supervisors On the next page you can explore our 2019 targets are mandated to conduct personal development and achievements, and after that our goals for 2020 and follow-up discussions to ensure employees and 2023. have control over and feel content with their career development. R&D A N D S USTA I N A B I L I T Y Reima’s anti-corruption policy was reviewed in 2019 Reima’s “Innovation and Sustainability Steering Group and a comprehensive, mandatory anti-corruption (ISSG)” oversees the corporate responsibility activities online training will be made available to the employees. and officially approves plans and action points. The We take corruption extremely seriously and are steering group consists of the heads of different focusing our efforts on prevention, while ensuring functions, usually leadership team members, to ensure processes are in place to handle potential suspected company-wide understanding of and agreement on cases. In addition to the anti-corruption training, we sustainability work. The Reima CEO chairs the ISSG engage staff through sustainability trainings and and the Director of R&D and Sustainability facilitates workshops. the steering group meetings. The group convenes four times a year. The planning and implementation In additional to financial value, we have formalised of daily corporate responsibility work is lead by the our commitment to ethical operations and delivering Director of Sustainability, supported by their team, value to the communities in which we operate through and in collaboration with other functions as necessary becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact and for effective implementation. commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (you can read more about their importance in our work The review and reprioritization of material topics, in the following section). Dialogue with independent informing the subsequent new sustainability strategy NGOs such as Finnwatch and Eetti (Association for and roadmap 2020-23 was undertaken by the Ethical Trade) is a valuable feedback mechanism corporate responsibility team. Our recent expansions for us, for continuous improvement of social and into new markets as well as our significant financial and environmental responsibility. operational growth have stimulated a corresponding expansion in sporadic stakeholder engagement. Below Our financially responsible operating model ensures we expand on what our sustainability principles mean maintaining our value for shareholders. Additionally, in practice. 20 Company introduction OUR 2019 RESPONSIBILITY GOALS AND ACHIEVEMENTS AGENDA ACTION POINTS ACHIEVEMENT LEVEL PRODUCT 2019 AC H I EV E M E N TS REV I E W The 2019 Reima sustainability targets and program on desk research. The calculator is to be reviewed Product safe for kids Extend Reima’s product safety In 2019 we won Gold in the EU Product Safety were very comprehensive and ambitious. While we by a third-party. The environmental assessments of & free from known requirement beyond regulation Award 2019 for designing products that are not were committed to each target, it became evident material manufacturers were scheduled for late in the & possible harmful by 2019. only safe to use but also enhance the wearer's throughout the year that some projects we had more year, but had to be rescheduled to 2020. chemicals. safety. influence over, and therefore could impact more Improving product Introduce mono-material We are introducing two monomaterial technical directly with our own efforts, than others. This shows The anti-corruption training was overtaken by two recyclability. concept by 2020. jackets, a shell and a lightly insulated one in 2020. in what was achieved fully, and where we fell short. other priorities: revision of the anti-corruption policy itself, and a broader CSR and sustainability training. We have reached a good NPS, although not quite our The latter took priority because it was seen as the Timeless design Raising NPS to over 70 & The NPS for the whole 2019 was 55 – a 13-point extremely high goal. Our second-hand partnership necessary first step to mainstreaming sustainability to improve consumer doubling the number of improvement from 2018 and Reima branded with online store Emmy continued steadily, but in throughout the organization’s operations. The antisatisfaction & promote products sold second-hand sales on Emmy increased by 3%. order to have a bigger impact globally, we also need corruption training will be a natural next step, among product second life. through our partners in 2019. to consider other means of encouraging reuse. other planned thematic trainings. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We have successfully initiated product Lifecycle Similarly to the LCA study, the main obstacle for our Analysis (LCA), but the primary data that we received baseline study for Reima Green Office initiative, was Promoting human We will promote at least one Through our amfori Members’ Advisory Council from the manufacturers was missing some production data gathering. In some locations the data on e.g. rights & social new strategic measure membership we have worked to enhance stages, and the ones for which data was provided waste management, or energy use does not exist, accountability to improve the consideration transparency and impact assessment within was deemed insufficiently reliable. Because we have building management will not provide it, etc. However, throughout operations of human rights & social amfori as well as in member brands’ supply projects in the pipeline related to product carbon we managed to collect most of the crucial information & in community accountability within amfori chains. footprint, we decided to focus solely on that and and will continue data gathering throughout 2020. relations. BSCI during 2019. created a product carbon footprint calculator based Supply chain Assess all major suppliers We continued to ensure the majority of tier-I engagement & control in Tier-II besides continuing suppliers had an up-to-date third-party audit, for fair practices. assessments for Tier-I but were unable to conduct environmental audits Reima's sustainability priorities 2019 onwards suppliers located in amfori in Tier-II yet. defined risk countries in 2019. Business ethics & HR GDPR training for all staff. GDPR training was executed successfully, practices for preferable Creating online antihowever, the anti-corruption policy review Product Sustainable Product work place. corruption training for staff. delayed the training, which will be implemented in lifecycle materials safety 2020 instead. ENVIRONMENT Controlling & Implement & publish updated The RSL was published as planned. Environmental Social impact eliminating harmful comprehensive “Restricted Climate impact in supply in supply chain chemicals in Substance List (RSL)” by the change production. end of 2019. chain operations operations Reduction of carbon Conducting Reima offices We successfully gathered approximately half of footprint. green practice baseline study the data we requested from the offices. The good in 2019. news is that the data gathered was in the most Employee Consumer important categories, i.e. energy use and business Ethical business flights. engagement & & customer practice development satisfaction Minimizing waste & Conduct a product Lifecycle The initial primary data from the manufacturers maximizing recycling in Analysis (LCA) project to was insufficiently reliable, which led us to develop product lifecycle. establish baseline in 2019. our own product carbon footprint calculator instead. However, it doesn’t take into account other kinds of waste and water contamination. 22 Company introduction Company introduction 23 S USTA I N A B L E D EV E LO P M E N T G OA LS Reima is committed to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, created to make our shared world better for everyone. Although our operations touch nearly all the goals one way or another, we’ve narrowed our focus to the five most crucial ones explained below. WE CHAMPION AN ACTIVE CHILDHOOD, whatever the weather. Sufficient physical activity increases the likelihood of better health outcomes both in childhood and later on. EVERYBODY IN OUR VALUE CHAIN DESERVES FAIR COMPENSATION FOR THEIR LABOUR , on time, and respect for their human and labour rights. It start s with fair remuneration practices for our employees. Our finished goods suppliers are third-party audited for social responsibility, and we conduct our own social compliance assessments every other year. As part of amfori, we work to improve the social responsibility of global supply chains beyond our own. TEXTILE AND APPAREL MANUFACTURING USES A LOT OF WATER. It’s our responsibility to ensure that it’s used proportionately and responsibly, so that the wastewaters aren’t contaminated. Reima’s Restricted Substances List limits the use of chemicals in manufacturing, and we assess our fabric suppliers with a focus on environmental compliance. Our products are also designed so they can be washed less, helping to conserve freshwater also in the use phase. CHILDREN NEED TO BE CLOTHED PROPERLY. BUT DOES THE SEASONAL GEAR HAVE TO BE BRAND NEW EVERY YEAR? And what happens after a jacket’s been adventured to shreds? Reima has always designed for durability, and now we’ve started working on recyclability, too. To keep the clothing in use for as long as possible, we partner with secondhand stores and charities, offer a repair kit including the most common Reima spare parts, as well as a popup service for in-store repairs. CLIMATE CHANGE MAKES THE FUTURE LIVES OF KIDS INCREASINGLY UNCERTAIN. Reima’s first steps in mitigating our climate impact are offsetting our own operations’ carbon footprint for 2020, and promoting the reuse of our gear through partnerships. We also have a roadmap for getting to full carbon accounting and expanding our offsetting program annually for unavoidable emissions. 24 Product excellence Product excellence Our products are always non-toxic and safe to use. Our products are durable so they can be used by several kids, saving resources. We help care for, reuse and recycle our products. In this chapter you will find out about our sustainable product design principles, at bout how we won the EU Product Safety Award 2019, our newest product innovations as well as about our material selection process. KEY GOALS FOR 2020 AND 2023 PRIORITY 2020 TARGET 2023 TARGET Product safety Bluesign® partnership and Over 50% of materials bluesign® approved certified materials Sustainable materials GOTS certification for organic 100% cotton GOTS certified cotton Sustainable product Piloting recycling of mono20% of clothing is recyclable lifecycle material jacket 26 Product excellence Product excellence 27 N E W I N 2019 it Anti-bite. Anti-bite is chemically so safe it can be used even for babies (from 6 months onwards). It EU PRODUCT SAFETY AWARD has a repellent effect on the mentioned bugs and is effective for other insects, too. Fewer bites reduces Reima won first prize for product safety in children’s the risk of bug-born illnesses such as malaria and products in the EU. The jury praised Reima for going Lyme disease. beyond legal requirements, designing kidswear that’s not only safe to use, but adds extra protection A FULLY RECYCLABLE JACKET whatever the weather. For dark winters, there’s outdoor gear with reflective details; for the summer, The Reimatec jacket Voyager is Reima’s first ever ultraviolet protection with Reima Sunproof range, and high-performance product made of one single Anti-Bite wear. material which is the first of its kind for children.. Apart from the unavoidable bit of metal in the zipper lock, RSL PUBLICATION everything in the product is polyester. This means the jacket can be easily and completely regenerated into Reima is committed to offer high quality products polymers for new products. Reima will close the loop that are produced safely. We test products between production, active use and recycling, as long extensively for harmful substances, but it’s difficult as the jacket is handed back to Reima for recycling at to ensure chemical safety without restricting the the end of its life. use of dangerous substances in the manufacturing itself. The extensive list of restricted substances Durable garments are a great tool for fighting the applies to all materials, components, trimmings climate crisis: Another child reusing the Voyager and other materials used in and for Reima products jacket will save as much CO₂ as it would take to and other brands of the Reima Group. We share the produce a new garment. The high quality and classic knowledge about chemical safety for humans and design of the Voyager jacket ensure it has enough the environment, with our partners. As we operate value to be resold and reused by several children. in many different countries and their requirements To enable successful takeback at the end of the can differ, we integrate all the chemical requirements product’s life, each jacket has a unique ID. With the into our RSL. The list is also aligned with bluesign® ID, consumers can register and track the journey of requirements as we have recently become a bluesign® the jacket. After the first jackets have been handed system partner and intend to rapidly expand our share down to their next users, visitors can see the journey of bluesign® approved materials in our collections. of each jacket starting to be plotted out on the Reima Material suppliers are obliged to agree and ensure the registration web site. conformance with Reima RSL in order to be approved by us. Although the Voyager jacket is mono-material, Reima has not compromised on its functional features. The ANTI-BITE smooth, flexible 3-layer shell fabric boasts a water pillar of 12 000 mm and very good breathability In 2018, Reima developed an anti-mosquito finishing (8000 g/m2/24 h), and even the seams are taped to for selected materials by using a plant-based be waterproof – all this without using other synthetic innovative formulation. The finishing is not harmful for fibres than polyester. On the fabric surface, there is the kids, unlike permethrin, which is more commonly a fluorocarbon-free polymer finishing treatment that used by the performance wear industry. The antirepels water and dirt. It enables washing at lower mosquito products were launched in 2019. The awardtemperatures with less detergent, and quicker drying, winning innovation inspired us to work further and we all of which contribute to saving energy, water and have developed an even better solution for protecting chemicals during the hopefully very long life of the children from both ticks and mosquitoes. We named jacket. 28 Product excellence Product excellence 29 REIMA KIT M AT E RI A LS Reima Kit is a subscription-based clothing service Reima is known for high quality performance clothing that we started piloting in Finland in 2019 and launched that keep children safe and comfortable in harsh and in February 2020. Reima Kit includes three expertly unpleasant weather conditions. The high quality Reima chosen packages of outerwear and accessories in products demand high performance materials of spring, autumn and winter. Consumers can return greater durability. Our principle focus is to ensure the the product and get up to 50% of the selling price performance. We choose environmentally preferable through Emmy. By making reselling easier, we’re material only if it performs as intended, because helping extend the use-life of Reima clothing, which this helps ensure products are in use for longer, and is currently the most effective way of reducing the therefore help save resources by reducing the need environmental impact of our clothing. to buy new ones as often. We work with our partners to increase the share of good-quality materials COFFEE BEAN SHIMMER from recycled and organic origin. We are aiming for 50% recycled origin in synthetics and 100% GOTS Research and development at Reima are a regular certified cotton by 2023. process. In this approach, we have recently developed a heat-storing coffee bean shimmer jacket which offers The technical performance materials are usually three functionalities. These are rapid heating and synthetic and most of the materials we use is heat storage, antistatic and antibacterial properties. polyester (PES). We gradually increased the share The material is produced in a very innovative way. of PES compared to other synthetic material like Small particles of ground coffee are carbonized at a Polyamide (PA), because it is easier to recycle. For very high temperature. They will form honeycomb hole the same reason, we have also reduced the use of structures, which after grinding are about 300-500 blended materials. We also started to reduce the use nm in size. These are evenly distributed throughout of elastane, because of the known challenges for the fibre and have super absorbent surfaces that recycling with the present technologies. Polyester heat up quickly. When heat enters, it can’t easily get includes innovative fibres like Coolmax® and out. This causes the heat storage effect. Thermolite®. Although the share of natural fibres Share of materials 2019 1 21 2 2 9% Polyester Polyamide Cotton Lyocell Wool 83% Elastane Polyurethane 30 Product excellence Product excellence 31 is small, we are gradually increasing the share of RE PA I R , REUS E , RECYC L E cellulosic and biodegradable materials. The share of different fibres used in apparel is presented in the Reima helps families repair, reuse and graph (excluding accessories and shoes). recycle in three ways: SAFE CHEMISTRY 1. Reima is made to last. Reima gear is extra durable, to enable kids to adventure carefree. Reima offers innovative products to consumers regularly. Most of them are manufactured using 2. Reima helps with repairs. Because accidents different chemically intensive processes. Therefore, do happen, we offer a Repair Kit to help you fix safe chemistry and environmentally friendly processes the most common damage, like tears, or worn are the base for our R&D. We spent a long time looking foot loops. In some of our European stores, we for sufficiently reliable and safe formulations for our also have a biannual pop-up repair service. Anti-Bite collection. We have been also working deeply to replace the C8 chemistry and eventually 3. Reima helps you recycle. We help families pass to use C0. It was not easy as C8 chemistry provides on gear that they no longer have use for. In the the best performance and our clothes are made to USA and China, we donate them to a charity perform. Our PFC free materials are produced in PFCthat supports children in need, and in Finland free manufacturing lines to avoid contamination. We they’re resold and the original owner gets a banned many chemicals beyond normal regulatory share of the selling price. In 2020, we’re also limits. We are eliminating the use of optical brighteners piloting recycling our clothing back into fibers. for the next to skin products. We are continuing our work on finding better chemicals. Reima sold through Emmy and CO₂e saved REIMA'S CONTRIBUTION TO STANDARDIZATION 3 500 35 000 Reima participates in and contributes MADE TO LAST! to various national and international DID YOU KNOW? 3 000 30 000 product safety and standardization 25 000 2 500 groups. We are a member of the Up to 50% of clothing’s CO₂e kg Finnish Standardization Association environmental impact comes from 2 000 2326 20 000 2273 (TEVASTA), participate in TEVA the use-phase. On average a piece Pcs 1 500 15 000 (Finnish Standardization follow-up of clothing is used for only a few group), SIS (Swedish mirror committee months. 1 000 10 000 of CEN/TC 248/WG 20 Safety of 500 721 5 000 children’s clothing) and National By using clothing for 3 months 836 884 mirror committees of CEN/TC 248 longer, or handing it to another kid, 283 0 0 Textiles and textile products (WG 20 you can reduce its environmental Safety of children's clothing and WG impact by up to 40%. 2017 2018 2019 34 Risks in the sleeping environment). Reimatec Reima CO₂e saved 32 Product excellence Product excellence 33 SA F E A N D S USTA I N A B L E D ES I G N • We avoid any unnecessary decoration on our products, but when included, we are stringent P RI N C I P L ES about ensuring the safety of straps, attached belts or sashes, toggles, loops, zip pullers and so on. Chemical safety: Safety is the foremost priority for Reima products, so it is crucial to not only comply • Small parts and sharp edges can be injurious with regulations but to exceed them. Our Restricted for small kids. We follow CPSIA requirements Substances List (RSL) defines our chemical (USA) and other relevant standards. safety framework for material manufacturing. Animal origin materials from responsible source only • We do not use nanomaterials in our materials and products. They can be toxic and bio • We do not use real fur as there are synthetic accumulative and their impact on human health alternatives available to clothing kids warmly and especially children is still underexamined and fashionably without harming animals. and tested. E.g. nanosilver, the most common nanotech in textiles, can be toxic to aquatic life. • We use only certified mulesing-free wool. Mulesing is a painful removal of strips of • Our clothing and accessories products are free skin from a sheep’s backside, resulting from PFCs (perfluorinated carbons) since 2017 in scar tissue that doesn’t grow wool. and our highlight and popular shoe styles will be PFC-free, too, starting in 2020. None of our • The down we use is produced according to products contain PFOA (Perfluorooctanoic acid). the Responsible Down Standard (RDS). The Responsible Down Standard aims to ensure • PVC was banned in Reima products over that down and feathers are only produced a decade ago due to phthalates. In textile as a by-product of food-production, and industry, phthalates can be used in PVC that the waterfowl are treated humanely, materials, in printing and in manmade leather. i.e. they are not force-fed, nor live-plucked. Phthalates are known hormone-disruptors that can be absorbed through the skin. • We do not use real leather in our clothing. Leather does not have the qualities essential for the kind Physical and mechanical safety is critical for of functional clothing we make, and fake leather protection against injury and even deaths. We is just as good for decorative purposes. follow several regulations and recommendations to ensure the best safety features on our products. • Appropriate and safely designed cords and drawstrings are critical for prevent strangulation and fraying. Supply chain collaboration 35 Supply chain collaboration We only do business with socially and environmentally responsible firms. We support our partners in improving their business practices. We are transparent about where and how our products are made. In this chapter you will find out about our supplier base in 2019, our principles for selecting suppliers and human rights screening, about our membership in international social compliance programs and our logistics’ greenhouse gas emissions. KEY GOALS FOR 2020 AND 2023 PRIORITY 2020 TARGET 2023 TARGET Social responsibility in All tier I suppliers audited & All suppliers score in the top 75% in both supply chain operations certified BSCI audits and Reima assessments Environmental impact Public disclosure of material 100% material traceability in supply chain in supply chain suppliers list operations 36 Supply chain collaboration Supply chain collaboration 37 Suppliers by county 3 N E W I N 2019 SUPPLIER SELECTION 1 2 SUPPLIER LIST PUBLICATION In order to execute Reima’s sustainability agenda China successfully, we are rather choosy in our supplier 3 Finland In the interest of increasing transparency, we selection. In general, we work in long-term published our full first tier supplier list on our website relationships with suppliers, but due to our continuous 2 India for the first time this year. We will continue to update growth and increased offerings, we need to search 25 Italy the list annually to provide more detailed information for new suppliers. Reima has a well-established about the suppliers in the interest of our stakeholders. formal process for supplier-selection, which has been Taiwan followed for a long time with only minor revisions. We Vietnam have strengthened the capability analysis followed by S U P P L I E RS OV E RV I E W the selection phase where we verify the capability for quality and CSR. The foundation for social and environmental responsibility in the supply chain is Reima’s Code REIMA SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT of Conduct (CoC). It reflects our commitment to safeguarding human rights and improving working Through the Reima’s supplier code of conduct (CoC) practices. Reima’s own assessment scheme for the we share our view on human and labor rights and Supplier countries by share of purchase volume direct suppliers is based on the CoC as a regular social and environmental responsibility. To be our follow-up of progress and for enabling collaboration supplier, a factory must agree with the principles and on improvement when necessary. The CoC was to follow and implement them. The Code is based on 2% updated in 2019. International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and United Nations (UN) guiding principles on 7% In 2019, we purchased from 36 suppliers, 31 of which business and human rights. This helps ensure that the were in amfori-defined risk countries. 98% of the relevant international conventions, e.g. concerning the 6% purchase volume was from the risk countries. Among ban on forced or child labour, are respected even in the 31 suppliers, 87% are BSCI (81%), SA8000 or countries which have not ratified all ILO conventions, WRAP audited. such as China and India. China In 2019, 39% of our suppliers were assessed within our India own compliance program, in addition to the 36% of suppliers audited in 2018. Our aim is to have an up85% Vietnam to-date compliance assessment of all of our suppliers Others (Taiwan, by the end of 2020. Italy, Finland) * Purchases of over 10 000 euros per year. 38 Supply chain collaboration Supply chain collaboration 39 SOCIAL COMPLIANCE AND AMFORI responsibility for buying from trustworthy suppliers. Simply discontinuing the business relationship Reima is a member of amfori, the world’s leading wouldn’t help fix the wrongdoing. business association for open and sustainable trade. Reima joined amfori in 2010, as we found amfori Reima assessments cover six different performance BSCI’s (Business Social Compliance Initiative) areas. It is important for us that our suppliers follow compliance system and commitment of the members the supplier Code of Conduct. We check that working to be practical for maintaining and improving social conditions are decent, crucially that working hours Supplier selection process performance in the supply chain. The BSCI mandates are legal without forced overtime, and compensation an annual third-party audit for regular progress is reasonable and sufficient. We have a zeroassessment (or every two years for high performing tolerance policy on child and forced or bonded labour suppliers). The audits allow us to identify any and have not encountered any issues or suspicions PROFILE CAPABILITY SELECTION INITIATE meaningful gaps, which is important for Reima to work of these. Furthermore, our quality inspectors, who ANALYSIS ANALYSIS PHASE PARTNERSHIP on further with the partners. The auditor interviews the visit the factories often, also watch out and report factory management and workers and assesses the if they suspect any violations of zero-tolerance working conditions. Reima’s supplier code of conduct policies in particular. We believe that freedom of Company Supplier selfSupplier Forecast is aligned with the principles of BSCI. While we accept association is necessary for collective expression of profile assesment site visit also the other social audit schemes like SA8000 or worker grievances. All the audited suppliers in 2019 WRAP, we encourage suppliers to join BSCI. had a formal procedure for worker organization. The audits also ensure that the working environment Reima’s membership in amfori goes beyond is safe and we provide guidance where we find any Existing Request for Pre-inspection compliance audits. We want to contribute risk, even small. Our suppliers' social performance Production client base quotation (RFQ) (quality) meaningfully to improving social compliance in was satisfactory (average scores 7 out of 10) in 2019 supply chains. Therefore, we network with the Finnish according to our observance. Our effort on improving representation and participate in different project social performance will remain as priority in 2020 groups. Furthermore, Reima’s Sustainability Director too. Our general inspections of infrastructure and Forwarder COGS Pre-audit Quality was elected a representative in amfori’s global installations at the factories haven’t detected any reputation evaluation (CSR) inspections Member Advisory Council (MAC) in 2018 for a twohigh risks that would require further investigation. year term. We find it a great opportunity to contribute to the improvement of social compliance and human rights beyond the organization by providing strategic AC C O RD Periodic Compliance Test proto Signing direction within amfori BSCI. MAC represents the compliance certificates development RGTI 2300+ member organizations around the globe. The official ACCORD program for fire and building audit safety in Bangladesh ended in 2018 and a transition PRINCIPLES AND RESULTS OF REIMA’S Accord was signed to continue its work from June SUPPLY CHAIN ASSESSMENTS 2018 onwards. Reima took part in the original Accord Eco Equipment & Test Test signed in 2013 in the aftermath of the Rana Plaza certificates facilities order order Reima’s mission of enabling an active childhood is collapse and signed the Transition Accord to continue possible only through ensuring fair practices and supporting the work for improving fire and building preventing harm in the supply chain. We assess the safety. We didn’t have suppliers in Bangladesh at the suppliers regularly to get to know their operations time, but decided to keep our membership for two and processes more personally, beyond the thirdreasons. Firstly, we want to keep supporting such good party audits (e.g. BSCI, SA8000). This familiarity initiative and we might consider new partners there. also facilitates working with the suppliers on areas For new supplier selection, ACCORD verification will of improvement. In case misconduct comes to our give us confidence about the fire and building safety, attention through the assessment, we support the thus workers’ safety. supplier in fixing the issue. This way we also take 40 Supply chain collaboration Supply chain collaboration 41 E N V I RO N M E N TA L ASS ESS M E N TS RE D U C I N G CA RBO N FO OT P RI N T Share of CO2e emission by different I N LO G I ST I CS Material manufacturing causes the major share of transportation modes in EU in 2019 the environmental impact of the textile supply chain. It is also directly related to the chemical safety of the We have reported part of our logistics carbon products, the occupational safety of the workers in footprint in 2018 CSR report. The idea was to start 3% the factory as they are exposed to different chemicals, following the carbon footprint we produce in logistics and environmental protection in the manufacturing and to reduce it. However, due to some difficulties area. The environmental impact is produced through in data collection and for comparability, we have 6% water and air pollution, as well as the solid waste restricted the logistics data to our logistics to, from generated. Although we often choose the most and within Europe. environmentally friendly method in manufacturing, it 23% doesn’t guarantee the elimination of these problems. Major changes occur from the increase of sea We believe that safe chemistry is the basis for the shipment by 62% and reduction of air shipment by Sea environmental integrity for the sake of product safety 61% to Europe in 2019 compared to 2018. At the 68% and human health. Besides restricting the use of same time both rail shipment and road transport Air harmful chemicals through Reima RSL in our material reduced considerably. Although our aim is to reduce Road manufacturing, we take several additional measures. air shipments as this is the most carbon-intensive In addition to testing finished materials for chemical shipping method, we also try to increase the portion Railway traces, we also use certified materials, e.g. bluesign®. of sea shipment where possible. We are working We have launched a Reima environmental assessment on comprehensive carbon accounting to plan for program for material suppliers in 2017-2018. Within meaningful impact. the pilot program our major material suppliers were assessed. We are planning to take expand the program in 2020. We are additionally aiming to complete our partnership with bluesign®. Share of weight shipped in different modes in EU IN 2019 5% 23% SHIPMENT INCREASED CARBON FOOTPRINT BY WEIGHT IN EU IN REDUCTION IN 2019 AND YET 2019 BY FOR EU SHIPMENTS Sea 1% Air 13% -5% 71% Road Railway Professional growth and integrity 43 Professional growth and integrity We invest in our employees and support their professional growth. We are committed to ethical business practices and delivering benefits to all stakeholders. We acknowledge and learn from mistakes. In this chapter you will find out about our key human resources policies and figures, trainings, Reima’s 75th anniversary, our employee satisfaction survey and staff commitment to environmental events. KEY GOALS FOR 2020 AND 2023 PRIORITY 2020 TARGET 2023 TARGET Employee engagement Employee satisfaction in Employee satisfaction in survey >80% survey >80% Continuous Development discussions Development discussions and personal development for 90% and personal development plan for 100% of office staff development plan for 50% of office staff Ethical business 100% of the office staff 100% of staff passed e-learning training on practices pass e-learning training on anti-corruption and internal code of conduct anti-corruption and code of conduct 44 Professional growth and integrity Professional growth and integrity 45 N E W I N 2019 about conducting business legally and ethically. Fair and equal pay is an important principle to us, not to mention adhering to minimum wage legislation. REIMA’S 75TH ANNIVERSARY Employee agreements are managed at a national level due to differences in legislations. In Finland As Reima turned 75 in 2019, we celebrated with a gala and Nordics, all employees below senior pay level dinner in October, with over 200 guests including are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We Board members, office staff and key customers. The have an equality and non-discrimination policy, the evening featured fantastic musical performances by implementation of which we follow regularly. Ida Elina, as well as a light-hearted interview with the Chairman of the Board and company history We want to encourage all staff to share knowledge highlights, including a surprise singalong to an old and successes with each other and get together Reima commercial tune. In addition the anniversary every two weeks for a half an hour Reima Café to hear was celebrated with personnel in all our offices and internal news and learnings, and sometimes for a little stores. training session. The Cafés are live-broadcast to all offices and recorded and shared online afterwards. EARTH HOUR AND CLIMATE ACTION WEEK We offer training and skills updates opportunities for PARTICIPATION staff. As agile is a core method for us, by the end of 2019, more than half of our office staff in Finland have Reima staff took part in Earth Hour week by going participated in ReimAgile training sessions. With IT, we vegetarian for the week. 26 HQ staff members took offer easy-access online trainings on Microsoft Office part in the spring campaign. Instead of participating programs through Wistec Online, and our designers in the global climate strike in September, our Finnish got specialised training in the use of design programs. offices held a climate coffee, where we decided on Teams can attend trainings or webinars based on the climate actions with the staff. We came up with one need assessed by their team leader. In the sections fun staff challenge to encourage a more climatebelow you can read more about our 2019 GDPR and friendly lifestyle: challenge staff were challenged to CSR trainings. switch to more climate-friendly commuting (public transport, cycling, or walking) or diet (vegetarian or All Reima office staff have performance and career vegan) for the following week. For each participant, development reviews with their supervisors twice a Reima donated 10 Euros to WWF’s climate projects. year, whereby also individual level bonus targets are Altogether 52 people, or 25% of the staff of the agreed on together, in line with company financial Finnish offices participated, ending up in a 520 Euro targets. The employee benefits, including the bonus donation to WWF. system, are the same regardless of contract type. REMOTE WORK P RI N C I P L ES A N D T R A I N I N G Reima staff are allowed to work remotely regularly, and Reima is committed to constantly developing not many make use of this opportunity. This helps save only our product but also how we work together resources by reducing commuting, and also increases as an organization. We support staff ambitions to flexibility for the worker. Reima CEO Elina Björklund giving a speech The 75th anniversary gala was grow their expertise and skillset. We are very strict held in the heart of Helsinki, at the historic and beautiful Valkoinen Sali. The event was carbon neutral. 46 Professional growth and integrity Professional growth and integrity 47 Employment duration, office Age distribution, office Women Men 250 6% 200 Number of employees 55 150 33% 100 61% 0-3 years 137 14 4-10 years 50 over 10 years 6 38 15 0 -30 31-50 50Age (years) K EY H U M A N RESO U RC ES In line with our mission, we encourage our employees to be active, both in and out of office. During the F I G U RES working day, employees can use for example the Age distribution, all employees Women Cuckoo Workout application for exercise breaks. For Reima employed 477 staff members globally at the the free time, we offer an activity benefit, to support Men end of 2019. Of these, 83% were women, 17% men, an active lifestyle. compared with 84% and 16%, respectively, in 2018. 350 It is typical of the textile and fashion industry. Of the CODETERMINATION NEGOTIATIONS eight-person leadership team, three are women and 300 58 Number of employees five men. 52% of staff worked in our offices and 48% In early 2019, we restructured the company to better 250 in stores, compared to 53% and 47% in 2018. serve the needs of our customers and for our global presence. The restructuring involved opening a 200 62% of personnel have permanent contracts and new European cluster office in Vantaa and closing 38% fixed term. The relatively high share of fixed a support office in Tampere, Finland. As part of the 150 271 15 term contracts is due to Chinese legislation, whereby restructuring, our Shanghai office became part of our 100 first two employment contracts are always fixed headquarters and some functions were moved there. 107 term, even if the intention is to employ permanently. The closing of the Tampere office in Finland affected 50 6 Excluding China, 93% of employees have permanent 40 employees, some of whom relocated to Vantaa HQ. 20 0 contracts and 7% fixed term. 84% work full-time and -30 31-50 5016% part-time. ENGAGEMENT Age (years) We offer occupational health care for all employees. We conduct regular employee satisfaction surveys to In 2019 there was only one, low-impact incident office staff. This is a crucial tool for us to understand reported at one of our Finnish stores. employee engagement and commitment, and to gain 48 Professional growth and integrity Professional growth and integrity 49 Employee commitment “I can see myself working at Reima in three years” anonymous feedback on mood, culture, teamwork A N T I C O RRU P T I O N P O L I CY and leadership. The results of the survey in 2019 were REV I E W 6% 6% 18% 18% 52% the best ever: 70% said they could see themselves working at Reima in three years, with an overall satisfaction score of 4.45 out of 5. In 2019, we revised the Reima anti-corruption policy to be more comprehensive and easier to understand. GDPR TRAINING The new one will be accompanied by an online training made available to all staff members in 2020. The 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% In 2018 we revised our data security code to align revised anti-corruption policy has a clarified gift with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation policy including a register for gifts and hospitality in 2018. To ensure compliance internally, we made exceeding 50 euros in value, and a better-defined 1 Disagree 2 Disagree 3 Neither agree 4 Agree 5 Agree completely nor disagree completely an online training available to all employees in our process for reporting suspected instances of antiEuropean offices and stores. 56% of employees had corruption. The policy and training are designed to successfully completed the training in 2019. ensure effective prevention and handling of potential cases of corruption, in accordance with the UN Global Compact principles and best practices outlined by CS R T R A I N I N G e.g. Transparency International. Employee satisfaction survey We started corporate responsibility workshops for HQ staff in 2019. The workshops facilitate idea-generation 37 by employees themselves, in addition to providing 4,5 4,45 40 34 35 information on Reima’s existing responsibility 4,4 31 35 30 priorities and programmes. We’ve collected the best 4,3 4,24 30 4,22 23 ideas generated and presented in the workshops 4,2 4,16 25 4,1 4,08 20 and have reviewed the new strategic responsibility 4 4,0 15 priorities against them, to ensure our commitments 3,9 10 are in alignment with our employees’ ideas. 50% of 3,8 5 HQ staff participated in the corporate responsibility 3,7 0 workshops in 2019. Jan May Oct Mar Jun Nov -17 -17 -17 -18 -18 -19 Total grade 4,22 4,24 4,0 4,16 4,08 4,45 Employee Net Promoter 34 35 23 30 31 37 Score 50 Courage to reach out Courage to reach out 51 Courage to reach out We are committed to ethical business practices and delivering benefits to all stakeholders. We participate in organizations, networks and projects that facilitate information sharing on industry best practices, and are mutually beneficial in making a better world for the generations to come. In this chapter you will find out about our membership in various international and national networks, projects and other collaborations for the benefit of the societies we operate in, as well as about our customer and consumer engagement. KEY GOALS FOR 2020 AND 2023 PRIORITY 2020 TARGET 2023 TARGET Consumer satisfaction NPS target in own ecommerce NPS target in own ecommerce 80 70 Climate change Carbon compensation of Carbon neutral own operation and scope 1 & scope 2 emissions compensation beyond scope I & 2 * * we are aiming to compensate carbon footprint we produce from business travel and logistics 52 Courage to reach out Courage to reach out 53 N E W I N 2019 jacket, for example, you can choose to compensate its emissions, and then your funds will ensure trees will either be planted, or trees that would otherwise UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT have been chopped down, won’t be, and can continue MEMBERSHIP to absorb carbon from the atmosphere. Either way, this helps neutralize the emissions caused by making The United Nations Global Compact is the world’s a new jacket for you to buy in the first place. largest network of businesses that are committed to improving human and labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures in their TELAKETJU ENHANCING CIRCULARITY IN processes. Reima’s membership emphasizes our THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY commitment to these goals, and this report details those improvements in practise. Telaketju is a public-private collaboration network focused on textile recycling; developing the collection, sorting and refining processes of end-of-life textiles. PROTECT OUR WINTERS (POW) FINLAND Reima joined the second phase of Telaketju which started in May 2019. The Telaketju 2 project is about Climate change is threatening a vital part of Nordic building sustainable business models in the circular cultural heritage: snow play. We ran a petition textile economy. The project includes pilots on e.g. together with Protect Our Winters (POW) Finland improving material efficiency, lengthening material to get snow play onto the UNESCO world heritage and product life, as well as textile recycling. The list. The petition gained 20 822 signatures, and was network consists of three public research institutions presented to Finland's Minister for Culture and Sport and 26 companies and other organizations. Reima’s in February 2020. focus in Telaketju’s second phase is on the recycling pilots, whereby we can make recycling easier for our consumers. Through the project we also hope to learn COMPENSATE how we can better take recyclability into account in our design processes. As part of our climate action we started a collaboration with Compensate Foundation in Finland. Compensate’s FUR-FREE RETAILER mission is to make consumers aware of their own climate HANKEN SDG PROJECT footprint and to help individuals offset their emissions Reima participated in effortlessly, reliably and efficiently. We’re currently In addition to often collaborating with academic Animalia’s screening of calculating and verifying our products’ footprints, institutions on R&D projects, for second consecutive so we can offer customers the option of offsetting years we’ve collaborated with the Hanken School Inside fur, a documentary their purchases at the moment they buy them. of Economics (Helsinki). In 2019, a group of Masters about the fur industry in Compensate directs all funds directly into verified students reviewed the relevance of SDGs to Reima’s Norway in November 2019. carbon credit projects, focusing on reforestation operations, producing a thorough report which served We made a statement on and forest conservation projects. So, if you buy a as a basis for our SDG selection. our ongoing commitment to being a fur-free brand. 54 Courage to reach out Courage to reach out 55 collecting data on our own greenhouse gas emissions WWF Green office survey results DONATING TO SAVE #OURSEA and are creating a roadmap to carbon neutrality. In the WWF Green office survey results As the idea of registering a garment is new to most chart you can see Reima’s own operations’ purchased of us, Reima wants to promote this possibility and (or so-called scope 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) 100 100,0 the circular thinking that comes with it by offering emissions from 2019. Our scope 2 emissions consist 100 a special deal: For each recyclable Voyager jacket of GHG emissions from electricity use in our offices 100,0 registered, Reima donates 10 euros to save the Baltic and stores, as heat and air conditioning are included 80,0 73,8 71 Sea. For 10 euros we can remove 40 kilograms of toxic in the rent. Because the energy companies mostly do 80,0 Points Points 73,8 71 blue-green algae from this unique and vulnerable not provide our emissions figures, and the electricity 60,0 53 sea, helping marine life thrive and letting kids living supply comes from a national or regional grid, we have 60,0 53 around the Baltic swim in cleaner water. The money used a location-based approach to the reporting. In 40,0 37,2 39 will be donated to the John Nurminen Foundation other words, we have calculated the emissions based 40,0 37,2 39 through the #OurSea campaign organized by Moomin on our total use (MWh) within a country multiplied by 20,0 20 15,3 15,4 Characters Ltd. the country’s emissions intensity factor (kg of CO₂e 20 12 20,0 15,3 15,4 4,1 4,3 5 4,6 4,6 5 7,3 7,9 5 per MWh) as reported by the International Energy 0,0 12 2,6 2,6 7,3 7,9 5 4,6 4,6 5 5 Agency. In 2019 Reima used 729 MWh of electricity, 4,1 4,3 2,6 2,6 0,0 amounting to 311 tonnes of GHG emissions. The total En En P P W W W W F G RE E N O F F I C E Tr Tr Fo Fo M M To To excludes electricity use by one office in Moscow, three sa esrag erg sa aspae ape re raest ast av av od od o o co ctoiv tiv sc stcal tal P RO G R A M M E vin vyin y vin vrin r cy cye e el el lle llaet at or or stores in Europe and an office in the US, because of g g g g cli c&li & ag aingg ing e e unavailable data. ng ng ue ue Reima offices in Finland have been part of the WWF s s Green Office program since 2018. As part of the Our European offices, including HQ staff, reduced 2018 2019 Maximum program, we conduct a staff survey on their energy flying by 7% compared to 2018 despite growth in net 2018 2019 Maximum and paper saving, waste and recycling, business travel sales. However, our CO₂e emissions from flying grew and peer motivating. The total score reflects our green by 0,5 tonnes. office practises and progress in total. On the right you can a chart of our results for 2018 and 2020 . CO₂e emissions (t kg) from electricity use Our total score grew from 71 to 73,8 out of a 100. C O N S U M E R A N D C USTO M E R We made the most significant gains in substituting total 311 CO₂e t kg 2019 E N G AG E M E N T business travel with teleconferencing, decreasing per person travel abroad and enjoying more plant-based lunches. We had no similarly large decreases, but Frank, collaborative relationships with our wholesale we drove a little less economically when commuting customers are an especially fruitful feedback (a 0,27 point decrease). Our goal was to beat the mechanism for us. This dialogue helps us improve national Green Office average, which, unfortunately both our products and operations. we did not manage to do as the national average was 75. However, we aim to do better next time! Customer service online and in retail stores is our 44% primary form of contact with our consumers. Online privacy and data security continued to be big topics in Offices 2019, and while we had a handful of queries about our 56% G RE E N H O US E G AS E M I SS I O N S Stores data management from consumers, we experienced Climate change is a serious threat to the world and no breaches and no requests to erase personal data it will affect children the most. Reima takes climate as per the GDPR. * Excluding 2 offices change very seriously, which is why we have now started (US & Russia and three stores in Europe 56 Courage to reach out Courage to reach out 57 We measure consumer satisfaction with a Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey sent to webstore customers in Europe, Russia and North America. Of these, only Europe’s survey was live for all of 2019, and had an NPS of 50. Russia was live for the second half of the year with an NPS of 76. North America was live for December, with the maximum NPS score of 100. Because there were more European entries than others, the 2019 global average was 55. Our goal is to raise this to 70 in 2020. As before, we have also continued engaging Reima consumers through Reima Lab, an online survey platform. In May 2019, we asked consumers about their views on social and environmental responsibility and about communication them. Our key learning points were that especially at the point of purchase, certificates and familiar concepts, such as organic cotton, can impact their views. However, when looking for information about a clothing firm’s responsibility, our consumers’ top interest is social compliance; that the clothes are made ethically and in factories with third-party audits. 58 Courage to reach out Contact us 59 Contact us If you have any questions about this report, or any other matters related to sustainability, we are always happy to answer and discuss. SHAHRIARE MAHMOOD R&D and Sustainability Director +358 43 824 2469 Shahriare.mahmood@reima.com SISSI PENTTILÄ CSR Coordinator Sissi.Penttila@reima.com 60 Appendix Appendix 61 Appendix TABLE: KEY COMMUNITIES AND NETWORKS ORGANISATION TYPE LOCATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ORGANISATION TYPE LOCATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Association for Not-for-profit Finland We hold the ‘Design From Finland’ label European Outdoor Business network Europe Coalition for promoting an active and Finnish Work for Reima, Lassie and Finnish Baby Box Group’s It’s outdoorsy life (Suomalaisen työn brands. Great Out There liitto) Coalition (IGOT) Finnish Textile and Trade association Finland The trade association that negotiates Swedish Standards Governmental Sweden We participate in working groups Fashion (STJM) for the textile collective labour agreements on behalf Institute (SIS) agency concerning standardization industry of Reima. Also a valuable source of development for children's clothing. industry information and networks. TEVASTA Association Finland We participate in working groups Fashion and Trade association Finland Valuable source of industry for Textile concerning standardization sport commerce for fashion and information and networks. Standardization development for children's clothing association sporting goods ACCORD Public-private Bangladesh A venture to improve the fire and World Wildlife Not-for-profit Finland, global The Green Office program helps partnership building safety in the Bangladesh Fund (WWF) us improve the environmental textile industry. performance of our own offices in Finland. FIBS Not-for-profit Finland Leading Corporate Responsibility network in Finland Business Finland Government-led Finland We’ve been an active member of and Ecom Growth export-promotion the eCom growth network since its Network organization beginning, and in 2018 Business Telaketju Network Finland Public-private coalition for the Finland awarded Reima as the development and promotion of “International company of the year”. circularity in the textile industry Eetti (Association Not-for-profit Finland A key association promoting ethical for ethical trade) supply chain operations and sourcing amfori Global business Global Reima’s Director of R&D and practices association for Sustainability is an elected member of better trade the Member Advisory Council (MAC) of amfori 2018-2020. Finnwatch Not-for-profit Finland A key association promoting ethical supply chain operations and sourcing Scandinavian Business network Nordics A joint venture for promoting practices outdoor group Scandinavian outdoor brands. Reima’s Sales Director was appointed as a board member in 2017. 62 Appendix Appendix 63 TABLE: STAKEHOLDER SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION KEY SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS LABOUR RIGHTS CHAPTER SUBCHAPTER GROUP Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Supply chain collaboration; Suppliers overview; Principles Consumers Website, social media, in-store, on Product safety, product materials and the freedom of association and the Professional growth and and training product (hangtags and care labels), recyclability, reuse, repair and recycle, effective recognition of the right to integrity email, customer service, events, product second-life, joy of movement, collective bargaining; ReimaLab, ReimaWeather, ReimaGO supply chain integrity, data protection Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Supply chain collaboration Suppliers overview B2B key customers One-on-one meetings, catalogues, Product safety, product features and of forced and compulsory labour; on-demand information provision recyclability, durability Principle 5: the effective abolition of Supply chain collaboration Suppliers overview Employees Reimasters trainings, Reima Café, HR Employee wellbeing and satisfaction, child labour; and wellbeing events and tools, surveys, non-discrimination and fair HR practices, intranet and slack, email, performance training and ethical operations, reviews commitment to environmental goals Principle 6: the elimination of Professional growth and Principles and training discrimination in respect of integrity Shareholders Meetings, reports Regulation-compliance in all areas employment and occupation. of operations (finished product, manufacturing, data protection, labour) ENVIRONMENT CHAPTER SUBCHAPTER Suppliers Negotiations before starting Human and labour rights and Principle 7: Businesses should Product excellence; Supply New in 2019; Materials; Safe collaboration, factory visits, quality occupational safety (tier-I suppliers), support a precautionary approach to chain collaboration chemistry; Repair, reuse, control visits, social compliance/ chemical and occupational safety and environmental challenges; recycle; Safe and sustainable environmental assessments. environmental management (tier-II) design principles; Environmental assessments Principle 8: undertake initiatives Supply chain collaboration, Environmental assessments; to promote greater environmental Courage to reach out New in 2019; WWF green office UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED IN THIS REPORT responsibility; and programme; Greenhouse gas emissions HUMAN RIGHTS CHAPTER SUBCHAPTER Principle 9: encourage the development Product excellence, Supply New in 2019; Environmental Principle 1: Businesses should Supply chain collaboration Suppliers overview and diffusion of environmentally chain collaboration assessments support and respect the protection friendly technologies. of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ANTI-CORRUPTION CHAPTER SUBCHAPTER Principle 2: make sure that they are not Supply chain collaboration Suppliers overview Principle 10: Businesses should work Company introduction, 2019 achievements review; complicit in human rights abuses. against corruption in all its forms, Professional growth and Principles and training including extortion and bribery. integrity 64 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX 65 GRI INDEX 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES REPORT PAGE REPORTING PRACTICE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102 45 Entities included in the financial 13; 15 statements 102 1-7 Reima; size, business and structure 12-14 102 46-47 Report content and material topics 15-19 102 8 Employees and other workers 46-47 102 48-52 Information about the report 8-9 102 9 Supply chain 36-37 102 53 Contact point for questions regarding 59 102 10 Significant changes to the organization 12; 46 the report and its supply chain 103 -MANAGEMENT APPROACH REPORT PAGE 102 11 Precautionary approach 17; 32; 39-40 103 1-3 The management approach of material 17-21 102 12 External initiatives 23; 53 topics 102 13 Membership of associations 60-61 200 ECONOMIC REPORT PAGE STRATEGY ANTI-CORRUPTION 102 14 Message from the CEO 11 205 2 Communication and training about anti19-20; 48 corruption policies and procedures 102 15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9 300 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT PAGE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIALS 102 16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 12; 19; 36 of behavior 301 1 Materials used 28 GOVERNANCE 301 2 Recycled input materials used 28-31 102 18 Governance structure 12-13 301 3 Reclaimed products 31 102 20 Executive-level responsibility for 17 EMISSIONS economic, environmental, and social topics 301 1 Materials used 28 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 301 2 Recycled input materials used 28-31 102 40 Reima's stakeholders 19; 62 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 102 41 Collective bargaining agreements 44 308 1 Suppliers that were screened using 36; 40 environmental criteria 102 42-44 Stakeholder engagement 19; 53; 56; 62 66 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX 67 400 SOCIAL REPORT PAGE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403 7 Prevention and mitigation of 39-40 occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403 9 Work-related injuries 46 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404 1 Trainings 44; 48 404 2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 44 404 3 Employees receiving regular performance 44 and career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405 1 Diversity of governance bodies and 46-47 employees SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414 1 Suppliers that were screened using social 36-39 criteria CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416 1 Assessment of the health and safety 17; 27; 31-32 impacts of product and services MARKETING AND LABELING 417 1 Requirements for product information 32 and labeling CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
