United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 2020 Acknowledgement of Country We acknowledge and pay respect to the traditional custodians and carers of the land and waters on which we operate. We acknowledge the cultural and spiritual connection Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have to land and water and its importance to cultural vitality, life and identity. We acknowledge their Elders past, present and emerging, and thank them for sharing their knowledge and cultural lore. We are committed to reconciliation and support the vision of an Australia that respects and acknowledges the culture and heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island people as the first Australians. SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Contents Acknowledgement of Country 1 How we contribute to the SDGs 9 Primary focus: 9 Chief Executive statement of support 3 Goal 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation Purpose statement 4 Secondary contribution: 10 Goal 3 – Good Health and Wellbeing Secondary contribution: 10 A principle based approach 5 Goal 14 – Life Below Water Human rights 5 Secondary contribution: 11 Labour 6 Goal 15 – Life on Land Environment 7 Primary focus: 12 Goal 10 – Reduced Inequalities Anti-corruption 7 Secondary contribution: 12 Goal 4 – Quality Education Prioritising goals 8 Secondary contribution: 13 Goal 5 – Gender Equality Secondary contribution: 13 Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth Primary focus: 14 Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities Secondary contribution: 14 Goal 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Secondary contribution: 15 Goal 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Primary focus: 16 Goal 13 – Climate Action Secondary contribution: 16 Goal 7 – Affordable Clean Energy Supporting information 17 Continual improvement plan 17 2 Chief Executive statement of support Chief Executive statement of support With more than As a signatory to the Australian water industry’s commitment to support the 1.7 million South United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we are progressing action Australians at the for people, planet and prosperity. centre of everything we In 2018-19, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest do, we aim to support corporate sustainability initiative which growth, development supports progress towards achieving better outcomes. Our policies, procedures and quality of life for and actions have been assessed to communities across understand how they align to the Ten Principles of human rights, labour, our state by delivering environment and anti-corruption. safe, sustainable and Our commitment to the Global Compact is reaffirmed as we continue affordable drinking to work towards delivering our services and achieving positive outcomes for water, recycled water our community. and wastewater services. David Ryan Chief Executive 3 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Purpose statement Please read our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact in conjunction with our 2018-19 Annual Report. The data used in this document is largely from the 2018-19 financial year. This report extends beyond this reporting period, expanding on actions we have progressed since June 2019. From July 2020, our communications on progress will be within our annual report. 4 A principle based approach A principle based approach At SA Water, we are committed to ensuring our Our Supply Chain team is implementing plans aimed at addressing a range of customers receive reliable, quality services, and social impacts through the supply chain, including the State Government’s Local trust that we are transparent in what we do. Participation Policy, our Reconciliation Action Plan and Modern Slavery Action Plan. Our procurement procedures have To achieve this, we comply with many Human rights been enhanced to include the need to acts, laws, regulations, codes of practice, policies and procedures, as well as set identify and address any social impacts, Principle 1. Business should support including human rights, as part of our ourselves measurable goals which go and respect the protection of approaches to the supply market and beyond compliance and reach into internationally proclaimed human with our contracted partners and their working to improve outcomes rights; and associated supply chains. for communities. Principle 2. Make sure they are not Our Corporate Compliance Framework complicit in human rights abuses. Actions ensures an integrated, strategic and Through an industry-leading initiative consistent approach to managing – accessible services for a wider world our responsibilities, and provides Acts and regulations – we are changing the way we work processes for identifying, assessing, As a South Australian owned statutory to deliver better water services for prioritising, reporting, and monitoring corporation, we operate under Australian our customers living with a disability our performance on a regular basis and South Australian laws, including, or debilitating lifestyle condition. This so that what we do is safe, consistent, yet not limited to: program aims to ensure anyone living reliable, and in the best interest of • Age Discrimination Act 2004 with a disability or accessibility issue is our customers and our staff. • Disability Discrimination Act 1992 able to best engage with our services, iComply is our compliance system, • Racial Discrimination Act 1975 and that we are meeting their needs. providing a central repository for • Sex Discrimination Act 1984. We seek to work collaboratively with managing our obligations and licenses, our suppliers and the supply chain to raising non-compliances and all Policy identify risk and implement controls to associated reporting. Developing business-specific support minimising human rights risks In addition to our external responsibilities policies around human rights has throughout the supply chain. we have five business-wide policies which been identified as an opportunity for This includes: reinforce our commitment to operating improvement. Our Finance Policy states • developing focused local participation sustainably, to ensure our viability now that “when making decisions about plans and key social performance and into the future: purchasing goods, services or works, metrics with our strategic partners we consider customer, community and 1. Customer and Community • seeking to form and build environmental consequences as well 2. Environment relationships with Aboriginal owned as the financial benefits”. 3. Finance businesses and helping develop their 4. Governance Plans and procedures commercial acumen 5. People, Safety and Capability. Our Leave Procedure has provisions • identifying high risk human rights for people to access personal leave supply chains, working with our Our policies, legislative requirements suppliers and the supply chain within and enables people experiencing and strategy guide our procedures, these high-risk areas, and training and family and domestic violence additional priorities and actions. Through our developing our staff to improve social provision. It also has provisions for policies and compliance actions, our outcomes through our investment in gender affirmation leave to support business and operations are aligned the supply chain. our people who are undertaking with the Ten Principles of the UN Global gender transition or defining their Compact to achieve the Sustainable gender identity. Development Goals. 5 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour In addition, through our Finance Policy Actions we encourage equal opportunity to all Each of the four focus areas in our potential suppliers. The policy states Diversity and Inclusion Plan comprises Principle 3: Businesses should uphold that: “Potential suppliers are given equal multiple actions and programs so we the freedom of association and the opportunity to do business with us. To achieve in each area. effective recognition of the right to support the South Australian Industry collective bargaining; To support diversity across the Participation Policy and Aboriginal Principle 4: The elimination of all corporation, we measure the number of Business Procurement Policy, local forms of forced and compulsory women in leadership positions monthly and Aboriginal suppliers will be given labour; which forms one of our key strategic opportunities to satisfy our requirements, metrics. Initiatives include partnering Principle 5: The effective abolition including competitiveness and capability.” with The University of Adelaide as a of child labour; and Plans and procedures sponsor of their program Women in Principle 6: The elimination of Science, Technology, Engineering and discrimination in respect of Our Enterprise Agreement incorporates our commitment to providing appropriate Mathematics (STEM) Careers which employment and occupation. further encourages women to pursue support, training and development to promote diversity in the workplace. STEM careers. Acts and regulations This is supported by a number of As a member of Pride in Water, we As a responsible statutory corporation, plans including our Diversity and support this initiative to ensure inclusion we actively comply with antiInclusion Plan and our Reconciliation for our people who identify as LGBTIQ+ discrimination, equal opportunity Action Plan. This plan includes Aboriginal as well as our customers, across the responsibilities and labour laws including: and Torres Strait Islander employment water industry in Australia. and retention targets. To support our people, we have a • Equal opportunity Act 1984 (SA) • Work Health and Safety Act 2012 (SA) Our Diversity and Inclusion Plan has Together for Women networking group • Return to Work Act 2014 (SA) four priority areas of focus: and are developing a Pride Network 1. women at SA Water Group. • Long Service Leave Act 1987 (SA). 2. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander We also provide meaningful employment Our Enterprise Agreement enables employment and retention opportunities for young people through collective bargaining in accordance with 3. flexible and inclusive workforce our traineeships, apprenticeships and the Fair Work Act 2009. This requires the 4. emerging workforce. graduate placements. support from the majority of our people covered by the agreement and who can Our Leave Procedure has provisions To implement sustainable procurement vote on it, before it is then approved for trade union training leave which practices in our business, we are by the Fair Work Commission. It must acknowledges the right of our people investigating our supply chains to ensure provide better terms and conditions to choose to be members of a trade we are not involuntarily complicitous of employment for our people than union or employee association and in forced, compulsory or child labour if they were employed under the supports their development in promoting through any international procurement relevant modern award. effective industrial relations in the of goods and services. workplace. We also provide training for Policy employees to develop in becoming a Our People, Safety and Capability work health and safety representative. Policy provides our people clear boundaries and guiding principles In addition, this procedure also has on our approach to managing our provisions for cultural/ceremonial leave greatest asset – people. It states that for our Aboriginal and Torres Strait discrimination is not tolerated. Islander people enabling them to fulfil cultural requirements and obligations that are a recognised part of their culture. 6 A principle based approach Environment Our corporate Environmental Policy Management Plan outlines overarching As ‘public officers’ our people must environmental performance improvement comply with the South Australian Public Principle 7: Businesses should objectives and targets. Its actions align to Sector Fraud and Corruption Control support a precautionary approach to our operational and asset management Policy and the Code of Ethics for the environmental challenges; plans. South Australian Public Sector. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental To manage our environmental risks and Our business-wide Governance Policy responsibility; and ensure specified standards are met, our provides clear boundaries and guiding Environmental Management System has principles for good governance. It states Principle 9: Encourage the processes and procedures that determine that “we have a culture where ethical development and diffusion of how a specific process or activity must behaviour is paramount, and fraud environmentally friendly technologies. be performed. and corruption is not tolerated”. Environmental incidents, hazards and Acts and regulations risks are captured in our Safe, Actions, Plans and procedures Our register of Environmental Legal Assured, Managed system and managed Our Fraud and Corruption Control Requirements captures all the legislation in accordance with the policy and Plan establishes a uniform approach we must comply with including, yet not procedures. to managing risks associated with fraud limited to: and/or corruption. Fraud and corruption Actions control is a responsibility shared by all • Environment Protection Act 1993 our people and our contractors. The plan Environment and heritage assessments • Planning Development and is supported by a Fraud and Corruption ensure potential impacts to the Infrastructure Act 2016 Control Procedure. environment or heritage are identified • Aboriginal Heritage Act 1988 and managed throughout planning, Our Ethical Standards Procedure ensures • Landscape South Australia Act 2019. construction and operation of our assets. respect, safety, integrity and lawfulness Under the Environment Protection Act in our dealings with the public and 1993, the operation of our licenced Anti-corruption each other, and that our people do facilities are regulated by the South not engage in fraudulent, corrupt or Australian Environment Protection Principle 10: Businesses should work illegal activity. Authority. against corruption in all its forms, Our Procurement and Contract including extortion and bribery. Management Procedure provides the Policy steps and guidance to our people on Our business-wide Environment Policy Acts and regulations our procurement processes, authorities gives our people clear boundaries and and accountabilities to ensure probity guiding principles on how we provide All of our people are ‘public officers’ is applied and conflicts of interest are environmental outcomes that our and so bound by the provisions of the: managed. customers value, as we provide high • Independent Commissioner quality drinking water and recycled Against Corruption Act 2012 Actions water as well as the effective collection, • Independent Commissioner Against Our performance is monitored regularly, treatment and disposal of wastewater. Corruption Directions and Guidelines and this information is provided to for Public Officers our Senior Leadership Team, Board Plans and procedures • Public Interest Disclosure Act 2018 Committees and external regulators. To fulfil our environmental commitments, we established and maintain a corporate • Public Interest Disclosure Compliance Programs are managed Environmental Management System Regulations 2019 by specialist areas within our business which is certified to the Australian • Public Sector (Honesty and where a specific area of operation has and international standard AS/NZS Accountability) Act 1995 significant responsibility requirements. ISO14001:2015. • Public Sector (Honesty and Accountability) Regulations 2010. 7 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Prioritising goals The Sustainable Development Goals are inherently interdependent. Our materiality assessment highlights the areas in which we can make the biggest impact and we recognise our actions have secondary impacts where we can make a difference. Our material impacts are grouped in four narratives. 1. In delivering our core water and sanitation services, we are the interface between our customers and the natural environment. Our production and treatment activities ensure the water is fit for our customers to use and to be recycled or returned to the environment. 2. We serve the whole community and care for our people, customers and members of the community. We are committed to building enduring and respectful relationships with the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community. 3. We are part of the fabric of our towns, cities and regional centres, contributing to sustainable and liveable communities. We build and operate significant assets to provide water and sanitation services. 4. Climate change affects all aspects of our business including water security. Distribution of a reliable drinking water supply and provision of our services requires significant amounts of energy. The SDGs are all interconnected and we acknowledge our impact on these additional goals. 8 How we contribute to the SDGs Primary focus: Goal 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation How we contribute to this goal Our core business is to provide safe, clean water and sanitation services to meet the public health needs of communities across South Australia. Taking raw water from a range of sources, we treat it to meet stringent quality criteria. At the other end, we remove the wastewater and treat it to be suitable for reuse or for release back into the environment. Relevant Goal 6 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to Delivering water services across We supplied more than 220 billion safe and affordable drinking water for all. the state. litres of water to nearly 700,000 homes and businesses for more than 1.7 million people. Delivering a reduced average Our customers average bill made bill price. up on average 1.33 per cent of their household income, under our target of 1.44 per cent, and we continue to work to bring this down further in future. Providing services to remote We provided services to remote communities. Aboriginal communities including the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands, with an estimated population of 2,650. Supporting customers Delivery of our Customer Assist experiencing hardship. Program targets. 6.2 By 2030, achieve access to adequate and Delivering wastewater services We provided dependable equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open across the state. wastewater services to nearly defecation, paying special attention to the needs of 530,000 homes and businesses women and girls and those in vulnerable situations. in metropolitan Adelaide and larger regional towns. 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing Reducing wastewater overflows In 2018-19 we had 124 environmental pollution, eliminating dumping and minimising release into the environment. wastewater overflows. This of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the performance is also measured proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially over a five-year rolling average to increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. account for wet and dry conditions. Our five-year rolling average was 103 overflows. Both results are above our target of 79. 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency Reducing our reliance on With 372 kilometres of pipe across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals freshwater by increasing the networks and 6,344 connections, and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity amount of recycled water. we have the longest recycled water and substantially reduce the number of people mains network in Australia. suffering from water scarcity. We recycle more than 30 per cent of our wastewater, the second highest percentage of all large utilities in Australia. 9 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Secondary contribution: Goal 3 – Good Health and Wellbeing How we contribute to this goal The provision of safe water and sanitation services protects our customers and communities from waterborne diseases and death from contaminated water. By providing accessible drinking water fountains and encouraging our communities to use them we are working to reduce negative health impacts associated with consuming sugary drinks. Relevant Goal 3 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of Complying with the Australian We had 99.94 per cent health deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and Drinking Water Guidelines. compliance with the Australian air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Drinking Water Guidelines, against our target of 99.9 per cent. Secondary contribution: Goal 14 – Life Below Water How we contribute to this goal Our wastewater is treated so it can be released back to the environment. With 34.7 per cent reused as recycled water, we are reducing discharges to water courses and the sea. Coastal desalination plants supplement our water supply and we manage our operations to ensure waste streams do not have negative impacts on coastal waters. Relevant Goal 14 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine Reducing the load on receiving We recycled 34.7 per cent of water pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based waters by recycling water for from our wastewater treatment activities, including marine debris and nutrient reuse. plant effluent. This is above our pollution. target of 28 per cent. Complying with our We had 100 per cent compliance environmental protection with our legislative and regulated responsibilities. environmental protection responsibilities against a target of 98 per cent. 10 Secondary contribution: Goal 15 – Life on Land How we contribute to this goal Our barrier approach to managing drinking water quality ensures we take care of our catchments and reservoirs. As a significant landholder in South Australia with approximately 80,000 hectares, we have a duty of care to manage land and biodiversity. Relevant Goal 15 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and Maintain and enhance the The 10-yearly review of our major sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecological integrity of our land land holdings shows no reductions ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, and maximise areas of native in vegetation ratings and several wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with vegetation. vegetation ratings for specific land obligations under international agreements. management units are increasing. 47 hectares of new plantings are directed toward ecological restoration of degraded land and have created a measurable net gain in biodiversity value. 15.5 Take urgent and significant action to reduce No livestock grazing on our We have no grazing on any the degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of land abutting dams, weirs, of reservoir reserve sites (or biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the and natural aqueducts. groundwater basins) upstream extinction of threatened species. of dam walls. Active programs in place We continue to implement to control all pest species and record pest animal control prescribed in legislation. programs across all of our major landholdings for key species such as goats, deer, rabbits, pigs and foxes. Protect biodiversity through Since 2009, 3,000 hectares of prescribed burning of our land has been burnt through catchments. prescribed burning activities. 11 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Primary focus: Goal 10 – Reduced Inequalities How we contribute to this goal Our people By fostering an inclusive culture, diversity of thought, background and experience are embraced and celebrated within our business and our communities. Guided by our Diversity and Inclusion Plan, we are making changes to how we work so everyone feels comfortable to be who they are at work. Our priorities are focused on the four pillars that underpin our Diversity and Inclusion Plan that is in development. These are: 1. women at SA Water 2. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment and retention 3. flexible and inclusive workforce 4. emerging workforce. Our community Working on Aboriginal lands – including culturally sensitive and significant sites across South Australia – we have relationships with many communities that help guide us in how we operate on these lands and waters. We are committed to building enduring and respectful relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. In supporting Reconciliation Australia’s aim of closing the life expectancy gap that exists between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and other Australians, we continue to contribute by delivering our Reconciliation Action Plan. Relevant Goal 10 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, Increasing the number of 2.11 per cent of our people are economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or Islander employees. Islander people. By June 2020 economic or other status. we want to increase this to 2.5 per cent. Secondary contribution: Goal 4 – Quality Education How we contribute to this goal Our school programs feature activities promoting the importance of water as a resource, the water cycle, ways to overcome scarcity and how we can all contribute to sustainability. Relevant Goal 4 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number Providing learning opportunities 11,912 students and their teachers of youth and adults who have relevant skills, for our communities. participated in our Brainwave including technical and vocational skills, for education program. employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. 12 Secondary contribution: Goal 5 – Gender Equality How we contribute to this goal Our commitment is to increase opportunities for women in leadership and non-traditional roles including science, technology, engineering, mathematics and trades. Relevant Goal 5 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation Increasing the number of 35.39 per cent of leadership and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of women in leadership positions. positions are held by women. decision-making in political, economic and public life. Secondary contribution: Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth How we contribute to this goal Our people Our Enterprise Agreement provides simple, clear and unambiguous conditions of employment which are underpinned by National Employment Standards. Actions in this area demonstrate our commitment to growing and retaining our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander workforce through ongoing career support and development. Apprenticeships, traineeships and graduate placements are provided, particularly for young people, including targeting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Our community Our focus is on empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses to participate in opportunities through commercially competitive arrangements and ventures. Relevant Goal 8 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies Increasing Aboriginal and We spent $7.8 million (0.92 per cent that support productive activities, decent job Torres Strait Islander supplier of our total spend) with Aboriginal creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, diversity. businesses, exceeding our and encourage the formalisation and growth of 0.6 per cent target. micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services. 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion Providing a number of entry Provision of 70 positions across of youth not in employment, education or training. level positions for graduates, the business dedicated to these trainees, cadets and programs. apprentices. Providing work experience Of the 70 positions, 11 are filled opportunities for Aboriginal and by Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Torres Strait Islander people Islander people. through our partnering with Tauondi Aboriginal College. Provision of graduate roles. Provision of 18 graduate positions in our workforce. 13 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Primary focus: Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities How we contribute to this goal By delivering and promoting activities related to water and sanitation services, we support the development of resilient and liveable communities. Our Liveable Communities program is designed to create a better life for South Australians through innovative outdoor water use, leading to a greener city and state, reduced air temperature, improved health and wellbeing, and lower cost of living. We are also promoting the use of reusable bottles with safe, clean tap water as an alternative to single use plastic bottles including through our BYOB app that maps public drinking water fountains across South Australia. Relevant Goal 11 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 11.7 By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive Research new ways to cool our Trials undertaken on ways to use and accessible, green and public spaces, in particular communities and reduce the water to keep suburban houses for women and children, older persons and persons effect of urban heat islands and gardens cool, and our with disabilities. through urban greening world-first heat mitigation trial initiatives. at Adelaide Airport. Secondary contribution: Goal 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure How we contribute to this goal As an asset-intensive business, the infrastructure we build and operate is designed with consideration to the full lifecycle to ensure resilient provision of water and wastewater services into the future. Relevant Goal 9 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient Investing in sustainable We have applied for accreditation infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure. under the Infrastructure infrastructure, to support economic development Sustainability Council of Australia’s and human wellbeing, with a focus on affordable (ISCA) Infrastructure Sustainability and equitable access for all. rating system for the ‘design’ and ‘as built’ aspects of the newly constructed wastewater treatment plant at Brinkley. We recently submitted our design rating and are now awaiting official endorsement from the ISCA Board for certification. 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit Investing in renewable As part of our Zero Cost Energy industries to make them sustainable, with increased technologies to reduce our Future initiative, we are installing resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of greenhouse gas emissions. 500,000+ solar panels and clean and environmentally sound technologies and 34 megawatt hours of energy industrial processes, with all countries taking action storage. in accordance with their respective capabilities. 14 Secondary contribution: Goal 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production How we contribute to this goal Operating 17 recycled water schemes and three stormwater harvesting schemes reduces our reliance on drinking water and discharges to the environment. Relevant Goal 12 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management Complying with our water We achieved 100 per cent and efficient use of natural resources. extraction licences. compliance. 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound Maximise the beneficial In 2018-19 we achieved management of chemicals and all wastes throughout reuse of biosolids and water 100 per cent reuse of all suitable their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international treatment residuals generated biosolids generated from our frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to from our treatment plants. wastewater treatment plants. air, water and soil in order to minimise their adverse Achieve at least 28 per cent In 2018-19 we achieved 34.7 per cent impacts on human health and the environment. beneficial reuse of wastewater reuse of wastewater. generated from our wastewater treatment plants. 12.7 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation Encouraging our community Our Quench Bench trailers provided through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. to drink tap water and avoid more than 120,000 litres of drinking single use plastic bottles. water to about 1.8 million people at more than 150 public events across South Australia. This is equivalent to saving more than 210,000 single use 600mL plastic bottles. Our BYOB (bring your own bottle) initiative and public campaign is responsible for the installation of drinking water fountains at Adelaide Oval, the Royal Adelaide Showgrounds and across various local council areas. An app mapping the location of drinking water fountains has been developed for community use. 15 SA Water United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Primary focus: Goal 13 – Climate Action How we contribute to this goal Delivering safe, clean water and sanitation services to our customers, generates greenhouse emissions through our pumping, treatment and business operations. Emissions reductions and energy efficiencies are being developed through investment in research to minimise emissions from our wastewater treatment processes, and renewable energy generation. Relevant Goal 13 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national Meeting our greenhouse gas Our renewable energy policies, strategies and planning emissions reduction target generation capacity is now and our renewable energy equivalent to reducing emissions generation target. by 89,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. We have 2,285 hectares of reforestation for the purpose of carbon sequestration. Adequately adapt to climate The Adelaide Desalination change. Plant can meet 50 per cent of Adelaide’s water demand, providing a climate-independent water source. Secondary contribution: Goal 7 – Affordable Clean Energy How we contribute to this goal As one of South Australia’s largest electricity users, energy management is an important part of our business with 520 gigawatt hours of energy used in 2018-19. Relevant Goal 7 targets Our target Progress as at 30 June 2019 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of Delivering low and stable prices We have established seven renewable energy in the global energy mix. for our customers with the aim initiatives, including a $390 million of achieving a net electricity capital project to install 500,000 cost of $0 from 2020-21. solar panels and 34 megawatt hours of battery storage. 16 Supporting Continual information improvement plan 2018-19 Annual Report This is our first Communication on Progress and we have identified the following opportunities for improvement: • Combine our CoP reporting into our annual reporting process. • Clarity and greater transparency about how we are working to protect human rights. • Develop stronger alignment of UN targets with our internal measures, overarching strategy, and corporate strategies such as our climate change strategy. • Increase business-wide understanding of the SDGs and communicate about them on a regular basis. 17 0055R12006
