Suite 7, Portfolio House 3, Princes Street Dorchester, Dorset DT1 1TP, UK 28th February 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, This is our first annual Communication on Progress for Emily Fripp & Associates Ltd, trading as Efeca for the year from February 2019 to February 2020. This letter describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles and reiterates our support for public accountability and transparency. Statement from Emily Fripp, Director and Founder of Efeca I am pleased to confirm that Emily Fripp & Associates, trading as Efeca reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, and our engagement in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Efeca is also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Emily Fripp Director, for Efeca, COP for 2020 Efeca is the trading name of Emily Fripp & Associates Ltd Registered in England, No. 6823064, VAT Reg No. 974368181 Description of Actions Human Rights The human rights impact of Efeca is not only within our own internal processes, but also in the projects we engage in. We work to ensure that all work undertaken incorporates full consideration of human rights and gender mainstreaming where appropriate. This ensures that at all times throughout the lifetime of our projects, human rights are considered by ourselves. • Due to the nature of our business (UK based natural resources SME consultancy), we have very limited direct Human Rights related risks and impacts. • All Efeca staff and our business associates have read and signed that they comply with our policies that include Whistleblowing, Confidentiality, Child Protection, Equal Opportunities, and International Governance. • Our Code of Conduct is part of our Staff Handbook, which outlines our core values, our working practices and the key standards by which we work. • All staff have access to our HR advisor and have been made aware of the service provided by the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS), a UK nondepartmental public body should they require external advice and support. • All staff are provided with equipment to help provide a safe and suitable working environment. Measurement of Outcomes for Human Rights: Over the last year, no human rights issues and problems have been reported by employees or other stakeholders. Labour • All employees are encouraged to take their lunchbreak to go outside and get away from their desk. • Efeca ensures that we do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. • We ensure that we comply with minimum wage standards and that employment-related decisions are checked by our HR advisor and are based on relevant and objective criteria. Measurement of Outcomes for Labour: The senior management team at Efeca comprises of two females and one male. We have three males and six females in our team. We have not had any occupational diseases, injuries, and our sickness rate is low. Environment We are a local natural resources consultancy with an international environmental sphere of influence. Being mostly office based, the nature of the operations makes our direct environmental impact relatively small. We have recently moved offices, reusing and purchasing vintage furniture. Additionally, we try to use video conferencing and train travel instead of taking flights and cars, thus reducing our carbon footprint. Efeca is the trading name of Emily Fripp & Associates Ltd Registered in England, No. 6823064, VAT Reg No. 974368181 Unlike our previous office, we can now control our own lighting and heating in the new office, thereby allowing us to only have lights and radiators on when required. We can also now open our windows, so in the summer will not be reliant on air conditioning throughout the building. Having moved in January 2020, we have not yet measured this, but we believe this will reduce our overall carbon contribution. The environmental impact of Efeca is instead mostly indirect, via clients and businesses. As the facilitators for the UK Roundtable on Sustainable Soya, the UK Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and the secretariat for the UK Global Resource Initiative, a key part of our work is raising awareness amongst governments, public and private sector of deforestation concerns from commodities grown in hotspots of origin. Through providing assistance to industry in the form of communication, training and awareness raising throughout the supply chain, Efeca is encouraging members and suppliers to move forward with purchasing, monitoring and reporting on sustainable palm oil and other certified deforestation commodities and commitments. Measurement of Outcomes for Environment: For the UK Soya Initiative, we have produced briefings, provided workshops and technical assistance to support approximately 30 members decision making understand more fully their supply chain and have liaised with 8 other national initiatives to build a more global push towards sustainable, deforestation-free soya. Similarly, with the UK Sustainable Palm Oil Initiative, Efeca has researched, written and published the Industry Annual Report on Sourcing Sustainable Palm Oil since 2013. The Initiative is aimed to be UK wide, including industry, suppliers, associations and oil refineries. As the secretariat of the UK Global Resource Initiative (GRI), established as part of the UK Government’s 25 Year Environment Plan, Efeca is managing the GRI taskforce of influential thinkers from industry, finance and civil society. Through taskforce meetings and working groups, these high level influencers are making recommendations for ambitious and practical actions the UK can take to reduce the environmental footprint of its commodity supply chains, including on carbon market developments. Over 200 organisations have been engaged / influenced / involved through the GRI project. Anti-Corruption We have a anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy which has been read and signed by all staff members and all of our associates. It helps our employees to identity which corrupt business practices are prohibited in their day to day work so that corruption is avoided. It outlines acceptable and non-acceptable behaviours to ensure Efeca’s work is conducted in a socially responsible and ethical manner and in compliance with all applicable legislation, and confirms their duty to report any suspicions immediately in accordance with the Company’s Whistle blowing Policy. Efeca is the trading name of Emily Fripp & Associates Ltd Registered in England, No. 6823064, VAT Reg No. 974368181 Measurement of Outcomes for Anti-Corruption: The entire Efeca team undertook ethical training in September 2018 and intend on renewing the training every few years. Efeca has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Our external accountants check our books and accounts on a quarterly basis. Efeca is the trading name of Emily Fripp & Associates Ltd Registered in England, No. 6823064, VAT Reg No. 974368181
