Sustainability report 2019 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE CEO statement Materiality assessment We are pleased to confirm our commitment and endorsemoulded-fibre packaging while investing in our technology and As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann continuousment of the UN Global Compact and its principles again this maintaining a strict focus on efficient resource consumption. ly strives to improve within all four areas of the Global Compact year. As our business continues to grow and expand across – Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights and Labour Rights. existing and new geographies, the four areas of the Global In early 2020, we entered into an agreement to acquire Mohan And we require our suppliers to respect and support our comCompact – Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights and Fibre Products Pvt. Ltd. and expand our activities and sphere mitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles. Labour Rights – become increasingly relevant. of influence further into the attractive and increasing Indian market for egg and fruit packaging. We will continue to expand As a consequence of the group’s primary activities within producThe progress of our business is fuelled by demographic deour production capacity in existing and new markets alike tion of moulded-fibre packaging across Europe and the Americas velopments and consumer behaviour as well as an increasing while remaining committed to safeguarding the climate, our as well as the expected expansion into India during 2020, we focus on sustainability among consumers, politicians, organiemployees and other stakeholders. focus on Hartmann’s environmental and climate impact to ensure sations and retailers. We provide sustainable moulded-fibre the greatest possible effect of our sustainability efforts. Life Cycle packaging, offering customers and consumers a superior, We were also pleased to receive a ‘Prime’ corporate ESG perAssessments have shown that our products’ climate footprint well-proven and environmentally friendly alternative to oilformance rating by rating agency ISS ESG in early 2020 based constitutes the group’s most significant environmental impact. based plastic and polystyrene foam packaging. Our products on performance and results obtained in 2019. The ‘Prime’ ratare part of the solution to plastic pollution, and demand for ing ranks Hartmann as a top 3 industry leader and underlines We therefore remain committed to accommodating this impact. sustainable packaging is on the rise. the sustainable nature of our green packaging products as well We operate our business in adherence with European and as our responsible behaviour as a good corporate citizen. international regulation and frameworks as well as expectations Our ‘Think ahead’ strategy was launched in 2019 to ensure to companies such as Hartmann within the fields of Anti-corsufficient production capacity to accommodate the rising Torben Rosenkrantz-Theil ruption, Labour Rights and Human Rights, and we consider our demand in attractive markets around the world, and we CEO responsibility to reach throughout our sphere of influence and in have intensified the promotion of the unique features of our accordance with it. Materiality – Global Compact themes Highlights Environment and climate 4/4 Anti-corruption 49% reduction in workObtained ‘Prime’ rating from ISS Hartmann reached a 100% of paper raw 3/4 related accidents per million ESG as testament to sustainable completely even gender materials from FSC or working hours from 2015 business and processes distribution on the board recycled source Human Rights of directors in 2019 2/4 This Communication On Progress report is part of the management report in Brødrene Hartmann A/S’ annual report 2019 covering the period 1 January to 31 December 2019. This report ensures compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Labour Rights 2/4 H A RT M A N N 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Environment and climate In North America, specific efforts were made to continuously reduce Policy and manage solid waste from the production. KPI We systematically and proactively protect, respect and safeguard At group level, the risk management work group and CSR responWe measure and monitor electricity and heat-related energy the environment and climate in daily business activities by developsible hosted several meetings with representatives from all factories consumption at our factories to keep track of Hartmann’s overall ment of production methods and products, training of employees during the year, ensuring knowledge sharing within areas such as energy efficiency and identify potential areas of improvement. and influencing suppliers and stakeholders. climate and environment. We support a precautionary approach to environmental and In 2019, we thus maintained our overall focus on: climate challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater • Investments in new process technology Results responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of • Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment environmental and climate-friendly technologies in accordance • Product and production process development The investments in expansion and upgrading of production capacity with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. • Waste reduction across the group’s business units in 2019 entailed installation of new technology that contributed to reducing gas, electricity and water consumption. In addition, the State of Missouri awarded Hartmann’s factory in the USA an ‘Outstanding contribution in solid waste manAction Risks agement’ award. In 2019, we continued to drive energy reduction initiatives including The main environmental risks related to our activities include uninExisting ISO 14001 certificates for environmental management and installation of upgraded drying technology in connection with the tended wastewater spill as well as excessive energy consumption and ISO 50001 certificates for energy management as well as Hartmann’s continuous expansion and upgrading of our production capacity at CO2 emissions. Climate Partner certification were renewed in 2019. The certifiexisting factories in the European business. cates contribute to ensuring a structured and efficient approach Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations to environmental management and energy consumption, while The capacity expansion initiatives in South America entailed installagoverning, among other things, noise reductions, wastewater simultaneously serving to provide evidence of our efforts to external tion of new technology improving our activities’ climate and environtreatment and waste disposal as well as CO2 emissions. Risks are stakeholders. mental footprint in terms of gas, electricity and water consumption as monitored locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy or well as waste reduction. minimise any adverse effect on the external environment. H A RT M A N N 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Anti-corruption Policy Risks We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Hartmann’s moulded-fibre manufacturing is located in both lowbribery. and relatively high-risk countries1 in terms of corruption, and Hartmann sells technology and related services globally. We enter into open dialogue with relevant business partners, and we have set up guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery and The main risks related to our activities include employees’ and supcorruption, in accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. pliers’ violation of Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy and potential We contribute to minimizing bribery and corruption in companies legal and financial consequences hereof. forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann belongs. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and Our commitment is furthermore expressed in Hartmann’s antiregulations as well as legislation with an international reach. corruption policy. KPI Action We register any instances of whistleblowing by employees in In 2019, Hartmann maintained the group’s whistleblower system, accordance with applicable regulation. which is a voluntary alternative to the ordinary routes of communication and may be used if serious offences – including corruption – are observed or suspected by any employee. Results In addition, efforts were made by the CSR work group to promote and anchor Hartmann’s anticorruption policy in the South AmeriIn 2019, all business units conducted supplier audits, and no audits can locations. entailed termination of contracts. At the same time, no employees reported cases of attempted bribery, facilitation payments or Hartmann continued to enforce the anti-corruption principle as similar through the whistleblower program during the year. an integrated part of the group’s supplier handling process in 2019, and we maintained our focus on ensuring that suppliers acknowledge and respect their responsibility when doing business with Hartmann. 1 Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index 2019, www.transparency.org H A RT M A N N 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Human Rights In addition, an operational risk management group was established Policy in 2019 with an objective to follow up on insurance broker Willis’ Results recommendations following the comprehensive group-wide risk We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s review conducted in 2018. The risk management group facilitates The number of work-related accidents per million working hours human rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are knowledge sharing and application of best practice across factories (LTI-FR) was stable compared to 2018 and declined by 49% from part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. as well as compliance with management and investment decisions the 2015 base year. aiming to improve fire safety at each manufacturing site. In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, Based on the comprehensive group-wide risk review conducted Hartmann supports and respects the protection of internationally Food safety remained a key focus area at our facilities where we with insurance broker Willis in 2018, we invested in initiatives that proclaimed human rights and ensures that the group is not commonitored and controlled production processes and the materials have improved fire safety across several production sites in 2019. plicit in human rights abuses. We endeavour to secure: used as well as tested end-products in accordance with applicable We will continue to focus on implementing safety improvements requirements. at the workplace to further reduce the number of work-related • Health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner accidents per million working hours in 2020 and the coming years. technologies and improved procedures and practices as well as competency development. All existing OHSAS 18001 certificates for working environment Risks and ISO 22000 certificates for food safety management were • Fair wages by means of a wages policy and alignment with the renewed in 2019. level at local industrial companies. The main risks related to our activities include unintended incidents at factories potentially leading to severe injuries or fatalities • The well-being of employees and their families by means of as well as non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles local initiatives, practices and procedures in keeping with local internally or in the value chain to which the Hartmann group traditions, conditions and needs. belongs. Accident statistics • Good relations with the local community by means of active 125 participation in social and business-related activities at local level. KPI 100 We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents 75 per million working hours (LTI-FR). The KPI reflects overall devel50 Action opments in safety performance at our factories. 25 Efforts to improve safety at Hartmann’s factories in general, and in 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 South America in particular, continued in 2019 as the CSR work group and safety representatives from the group’s business units Work-related accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) participated in joint meetings to share knowledge. H A RT M A N N 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Labour Rights In addition, we continuously measure developments in the gender Policy Action composition at our other managerial levels and on the board of directors. We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s We conducted several internal audits and audits of selected suplabour rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are pliers during the year and maintained the group’s whistleblower part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. system, which provides an alternative channel for reporting of any Results wrongdoings. In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact, The supplier audits conducted in 2019 did not result in Hartmann Hartmann: Hartmann continued to pursue a balanced gender distribution at de-selecting any suppliers, and no wrongdoings were reported its other managerial levels in connection with recruitment as well through the group’s whistleblower system. • Recognises the right of employees to be members of a trade as evaluation and development of current employees. In line with union and negotiate pay and working conditions. the policy on gender equality, Hartmann required that internal In 2019, the representation of women on Hartmann’s other manaand external recruiters selected qualified representatives of both gerial levels was stable at 17%. • Supports elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory genders as candidates for vacancies during the year. labour, and does not accept use of forced labour. We reached the target of raising the share of the underrepresented gender to a minimum of 40% of the shareholder-elected • Applies preventive procedures and practices to ensure that board members in 2019 as the gender distribution was completely persons below the minimum age are not employed. Risks even following the appointment of two female directors and one male director at the annual general meeting in April. We expect to • Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices and secure The main risks related to our activities include non-adherence to maintain a strong representation of women on Hartmann’s board equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures Hartmann’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices and of directors even though the share is expected to decline to 40% in and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with securing equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and HR-­ 2020 as chairman Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen will not seek re-elecrecruitment or dismissal, career development, training and edurelated consequences hereof. Our business activities are subject to tion at the general meeting. We maintain our target of ensuring an cation, or the granting of staff benefits. various national laws and regulations. even gender distribution on the board of directors going forward. Our commitment is furthermore expressed in our policy on Representation of women Target gender equality in other management2, which serves to increase 2018 2019 2021 the number of the underrepresented gender at Hartmann's other managerial levels. KPI Board of directors3 25% 50% 40% Other managerial levels 17% 17% The policy defines and describes focus areas within recruitment, We monitor results of conducted audits on an ongoing basis, and 2 Members of the executive board and managers reporting to the executive board performance evaluation and development as well as networking. any potential instances of whistleblowing by employees are regisincluding plant managers at the group’s factories. The policy is available at our website, www.hartmann-packaging.com. tered in accordance with applicable regulation. 3 Shareholder-elected members. H A RT M A N N 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is the world’s leading manufacturer of moulded-fibre Denmark egg packaging, a market-leading manufacturer of fruit packaging Germany Canada Hungary in South America and one of the Croatia Conditional purchase world’s largest manufacturers of USA agreement early 2020 technology for the production of Israel moulded-fibre packaging. India Founded in 1917, Hartmann’s market position builds on its strong technology know-how and extensive experience of sustainable moulded-fibre production dating back to 1936. Brazil Argentina Factory Planned new factory Machine factory Office H A RT M A N N 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Business model Resources Core business Customers Expertise Manufacturer We continually enhance We help egg and fruit producers our expertise on packaging production, consumer Pulp grow sales and earnings through Consumer Deinking marketing and efficiency trends and the marketing improvements of eggs Employees Moulded-fibre Packing business Each year, our 2,000 highly packaging made We supply egg and fruit packing businessskilled and experienced es with retail and transport packaging and employees manufacture Delivery from recycled paper Moulding advise them on distribution and logistics billions of packaging units Technology Retail Our deep technology Based on our knowledge of consumer knowhow builds on Print/labelling preferences, we assist an increasing decades of experience in Drying number of retail chains with the marketmoulded-fibre production ing of eggs and the choice of packaging After-pressing Value creation Customers Environment Employees Shareholders We carry a customised portfolio of highWe make moulded-fibre packaging from We create jobs in our local communities and Our investments in production, products quality packaging products offering environrecycled paper as a sustainable alternative to provide our employees with attractive working and employees generate robust, long-term mentally friendly and protective qualities oil-based plastic packaging conditions and development opportunities returns for our shareholders H A RT M A N N 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 9 Corporate memberships Design and production: Noted • UN Global Compact • UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate • European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) • Green Industry Platform Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Tel: (+45) 45 97 00 00 e-mail: investor@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com Company reg. (CVR) no. 63 04 96 11
