SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Making sports betting and gambling entertaining, transparent, and fair. Better Collective A/S CVR no. 27 65 29 13 CONTENTS WHAT WE DO Sport and sports betting are all about entertainment Our vision is to empower online bettors by creating a In this way, Better Collective helps players navigate safely and passion. Better Collective is a leading sports betting transparent and safer online betting experience in a among the bookmakers that match their individual needs. media group that connects sports enthusiastic bettors growing and more complex entertainment industry. Our We provide leading online bookmakers with targeted with betting operators through innovative technologies media products cover more than 30 languages and attract user acquisition and increased user engagement because and trusted digital media products, which are centred on millions of sports fans and tipsters worldwide. Users can sports bettors actively seek our products. This makes engaging and responsible sports betting content. On a get access to educational content around sports betting, Better Collective, and affiliates in general, an important daily basis, millions of players around the world actively compare odds and bookmakers and share analysis, tips part of the sports betting ecosystem. search online for sports betting and gaming content. and the excitement when their favourite team or athlete competes. What we do Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 2 CONTENTS CONTENTS Introduction 4 CEO letter 6 At-a-glance 8 Sustainability strategy 10 Sustainability programme 11 Methodology and report scope Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Page 08 15 Responsible Gambling 20 People 22 Governance 23 Local communities and environment ESG key figures CEO letter 26 ESG key figures Page 04 28 Company information SDG targets Page 12 Responsible Gambling Page 15 This report forms part of the management report in the company’s annual report in compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act, Section 99a and Section 99b. The report covers the financial year 2019. Contents Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 3 CONTENTS Message from the CEO TAKING A STAND ON RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING Since our foundation 15 years ago, we engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broadare aware of the impact we have on the global iGaming er development goals of the United Nations, particularly industry, the rest of society and Better Collective’s other have aimed to make sports betting the Sustainable Development Goals. Last but not least, we stakeholders. We have the ambition to use our leading and gambling entertaining, transparstarted tracking our carbon emissions as part of our ESG position to influence and support responsible gambling ent, and fair for the global network of reporting. This report serves as a baseline for these new and a sustainable development of society in general – for initiatives and we are already updating and developing our the benefit of our employees, shareholders, users, partners, online bettors. policies, systems, and processes to manage and mitigate society, and our business. social, environmental, and ethical risks. Promoting responsible gambling We want to make sure that our users are better suited to Internally, we have dedicated resources to our sustainaTogether with two of our colleagues in the iGaming businavigate the iGaming world by visiting a Better Collecbility work and reporting by setting up a CSR committee ness, Oddschecker and Racing Post, we launched the trade tive website before registering an account or placing a and appointing a Head of CSR. Furthermore, the CSR association, Responsible Affiliates in Gambling (RAIG), in bet with a sports betting or gambling operator. For the strategy was discussed by board and management at the 2019. We recognise the role affiliate marketing providers iGaming industry to be sustainable, responsible gambling annual strategy seminar, revealing a full endorsement and must play as part of broader industry initiatives in the UK needs to be at the top of the agenda and embedded in deep understanding of the importance. We still have work to promote social responsibility and a safer gambling enviour business models. While we believe our approach has to do but with this report we believe a solid foundation ronment for consumers. Our ambition is for RAIG to be a been responsible throughout our growth journey from a has been created where we can build a clear vision of our game-changer in the industry. With compliance standards small start-up to leading sports betting media group, we sustainability work over the years to come. for affiliates, we ensure improvements to the entire indusrecognise that there is still more to be done. In 2019, we try for the benefit of the users. took significant steps to increase the collaboration around Our areas of focus responsible gambling. In our sustainability work, we focus on the areas of responWe invested in Mindway AI by acquiring 19.99% of the sible gambling, our people, our governance model and our shares, which specialises in innovative and advanced A structured approach to sustainability impact on the environment and local communities. We software solutions to identify at-risk gambling and problem While a responsible approach has been central to our busiwant to be “Better for Bettors” and contribute to a “Better gambling behaviours. The investment aligns with our ness since our foundation, throughout 2019 we have forCommunity” why we let these ambitions make up our ambition to practice social responsibility by establishing a malised our efforts and added structure to our reporting. sustainability program and guide our efforts. safe betting environment, while at the same time engaging We recently committed to making the UN Global Compact in a business where we foresee a sound future growth and and its 10 principles part of the strategy, culture and dayBeing a prominent sports betting media group in the profitability. to-day operations of our company. We are committed to iGaming industry, we recognise our responsibility and we CEO letter Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 4 CONTENTS “ We want to be “Better for Bettors” and contribute to “A Better Community” through our sustainability program” Jesper Søgaard, CEO People as key driver People remain the key driver in everything that we do as our business is based on expertise and innovation. With the COVID-19 outbreak currently spreading, we take extra care and precautions to keep our employees safe. At the minimum, we closely follow the new guidelines and restrictions where we operate. I want to thank all Better Collective employees who continuously live the values and shape our culture. Together we make BC a better place to be and a responsible company delivering trusted brands and products to our users. Jesper Søgaard CEO CEO letter Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 5 CONTENTS Stockholm Overview AT-A-GLANCE Stoke-on-trent HQ Copenhagen London Lodz Paris Krakow Better Collective is a leading sports betting media Vienna group within the iGaming industry. Through our products, we aim to make sports betting and gambling entertaining, transparent, and fair for NiŠ the global network of online bettors. Thessaloniki 2002 400+ Revenue EBITA before special items mEUR mEUR Founded Employees CAGR = 60% CAGR = 60% 2018 >50% New York Nashville 67.5 67.5 CAGR = 58% CAGR = 58% 40.5 40.5 Listed on Nasdaq Shares owned by founders 26.3 26.3 27.2 27.2 16.1 16.1 10.9 10.9 Stockholm (STO:BETCO) and management Port Lauderdale 2017 2018 2017 2019 2018 2019 2017 2018 2017 2019 2018 2019 at-a-glance Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 6 CONTENTS Vision Values Strategic goal To empower iGamers Be the #1 sports Talented employees are through transparency and betting aggregator the key to our success. technology in the world We respect each other, our users, and our partners. Mission We innovate remarkable products To make sports betting and and processes that make a gambling entertaining, difference to our users. transparent and fair We are dedicated to enrich betting and gambling for our users. Vision, Mission, Values and Strategic goal Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 7 CONTENTS Our approach SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Responsibility and sustainability have Key drivers been key value-drivers for Better Collective’s business ever since the Sustainability strategy focus areas company was founded in 2004. Our headquarters have remained in Denmark, where we have our roots. We proudly engage in the local communiResponsible ties and societies, where we are active, paying our taxes Gambling and initiating local projects partnering with local citizens and other local stakeholders. We have always strived to be a socially responsible company that also aspires to strengthen the standards of the industry to empower our users. These values have formed our culture and drive our business forward. At Better Collective, we believe that we People Governance as a business have an increasingly important role to play in society in securing a world that is sustainable for the next generations. We also strongly believe that operating in a responsible way, across all business verticals and adding value to society and the communities in which we operate, positively affects our business and competitiveLocal ness. We call this shared value creation. Our sustainability Communities strategy is therefore also a natural part of our overall busi& Environness strategy and strategic goals. ment With a vision to empower iGamers through transparency and technology, our sustainability strategy and goals are integral parts of our operations to support this vision and to realise our strategic goal to be the #1 sports betting Our approach Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 8 CONTENTS aggregator in the world. Our strategy and approach are deeply rooted in our core values, which – more than 15 years after Better Collective was founded – remain the same. Our sustainability strategy and reporting are built around four strategic priorities core to our business; Responsible Gambling, People, Governance, Local Communities and Environment. The UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) constitute the overall framework for our sustainability strategy and reporting. For Better Collective, sustainability and responsibility have always been key value-drivers for our business. However, working strategically with the UN Global Compact and SDGs is a new framework for our company. This sustainability report constitutes the first report, where we include and report on the UN Global Compact principles and SDGs. Hence it is the first year, where we structure the sustainability operations. The report should also be seen in this context, we are laying the foundation for the strategic sustainability work for years to come. We are implementing the SDGs in a stepwise approach: our starting point has been to define the SDGs where we can make an impact either through current activities or through new initiatives. We have sorted the SDGs into two groups based on the expected level of impact. In 2020, we will continue the work to single out the SDGs to focus on moving forward. Part of this work will be to define KPIs and set targets to implement in future reporting. As part of the SDG selection process, we will make sure that they are embedded in our corporate strategy and aspiration to be the #1 sports betting aggregator in the world. We believe working strategically with these goals will support us in creating a long-term competitive edge. Operationally, the strategy is rolled out through our overall sustainability programme “Better for Bettors” as well as the sub-programme “Better Community”. Our approach Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 9 CONTENTS Our approach SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME Our overall sustainability programme, nities where we are active. Contributing to the community also adds value to our business in different ways. We call “Better for Bettors” focuses on our this subprogram “Better Community”. core business being a leading sports betting media group and is closely Most of our community work is currently focused on our operations in Nis, Serbia under the program name “Better aligned with our business objectives. Nis”. As one of the largest tech employers in Nis, we recognise our role and potential impact on the local community, why this became the point of departure of our Better This programme is built to support our vision to empower Community program. Initiatives range from supporting iGamers and our long-term strategic goal to remain the #1 the IT community, in particular the IT youth, over cultursports betting aggregator in the world. The plan is to deal sponsorships to environmental activities with a local velop this programme even further in the years to come. impact. We have an ambition to roll out further local community programs in other key markets in the years to For the iGaming industry to be sustainable, responsible come. gambling needs to be at the top of the agenda. We want to be “Better for Bettors”, meaning that we want to make While “Better for Bettors” and “Better Community” focus sure that our users are better suited to navigate the iGaon our users and the communities around us, our internal ming world by visiting a Better Collective platform before sustainability efforts are centred around our employees registering an account or placing a bet with a sports and our governance structures. The UN Sustainability betting operator. In other words, we want to make sure Development Goals are implemented across all our efforts that our users’ iGaming experiences remain a form of fun wherever we find that we can make a reasonable impact. and entertainment. These are the guiding principles for all our products. Our local initiatives are tied to our key markets and communities. They go beyond our core business as we recognise our responsibility to contribute to the local commuOur approach Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 10 CONTENTS Our approach METHODOLOGY AND REPORT SCOPE We are a data-driven business in We consider our most important stakeholders for sustainability to be our shareholders, our partners and users, our many respects. Collecting, analysing employees, regulatory authorities and society as a whole. and presenting sustainability data The topics included in this report were selected and adds credibility to our reporting and prioritised in a basic materiality assessment by Better Collective’s management and the Sustainability Committee guides our efforts. based on dialogue over time with partners, shareholders, employees and the board. This report is our second annual sustainability report, covWe have used a third party to calculate our carbon emisering the financial year January 1, 2019 to December 31, sion across all operations. We have reached an average 2019. It is based on our efforts thus far and describes our accuracy level based on the data delivered to the third focus areas, ambitions, achievements and goals. This reparty and we expect to improve the accuracy of our port forms part of the management report in the compacarbon reporting going forward. Site energy consumpny’s annual report in compliance with the Danish Financial tion is a combination of actual data and estimates based Statements Act, Section 99a and Section 99b. on total floor area and or employee count. For travel data, improved reporting systems will help with the data The report is structured around the Ten Principles of the collection. For the 2019 assessment, the growth through UN Global Compact and UN SDGs supported by ESG acquisitions in recent years means that the newer offices (Environmental, Social, Governance) key metrics accordare not accounted for with the same accuracy as our ing to the recommendations set forward by Nasdaq and long-standing operations. reported to the Nasdaq ESG Data Portal. In 2020 we will work on setting measurable goals that Overall, the sustainability data collection in this report support our overall ambitions of doing better. relates to operations from 2019. This limits us in several aspects, i.e. when it comes to setting concrete targets for the years to come and evaluating our achievements. Therefore, we consider this report a kick-off for our sustainability program and a more comprehensive reporting in the years to come along with comparable data from our operations over time. Our approach Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 11 CONTENTS SDG TARGET IMPACT Goals Targets How we contribute Page Diversity and equal opportunities for all are key values at BC. We offer equal opportunities to men and Go to women across our organisation. We have a strategic goal to have more women in management positions 20 5.1 5.5 5.C Being a Danish incorporated company, we apply our Scandinavian values and standards across our 13 Go to offices globally. Our local office in Nis, Serbia, employs more than 100 persons – many of whom are young 20 IT talents. We work strategically with local authorities to promote the city as an attractive tech-city for young talent to settle down. While contributing to the economic growth and development in this region, 8.5 8.6 we also add value to our business. Responsible gambling and responsible consumption is a core part of our organisation’s DNA. Our vision Go to to empower iGamers, among others, includes our users’ ability to safely navigate the online betting world, 15 and that remains fully dependent on our ability to help educate users – e.g. when it comes to responsible gambling. As a leading sports betting media group, we push for more responsible operations. We are very well aware of the fact that we rely on partnerships with stakeholders to roll out our SustainGo to ability activities to realize our ambitions – both for the industry and society as a whole. To a large extent, 15 ensuring that the industry develops in a sustainable way requires a collective effort. Therefore, we establish strategic partnerships with local authorities, industry peers and other stakeholders. SDG target impact Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 12 CONTENTS SDG TARGET IMPACT Goals Targets How we contribute Page Operating within the tech industry, together with our industry peers we are facing challenges to attract Go to more women to our organisation. Therefore, we are supporting work that aims to attract more women to 20 the tech industry. 4.4 We aspire to make use of renewable energy solutions in our offices and be as energy efficient as possible. Go to In the long run, this is expected to lower our energy expenses. 23 7.2 Better Collective aims to offer equal opportunities to all employees across our organisation, as well as Go to promoting equal opportunities regardless of gender, ethnicity, race, religion, and sexual orientation. 20 10.2 Engaging in and supporting the local communities where we operate and building our local brand both Go to creates value for the local community and supports our business. For example, when it comes to attract23 ing tech talent and in terms of employee engagement. 11.6 Better Collective condemns the acts of corruption and bribery and we believe business should be conGo to ducted without facilitation payments. We have a zero-tolerance policy to corruption which is described in 22 our Code of Conduct. 16.4 16.5 sdg target impact Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 13 CONTENTS “ “When creating content or new platforms, we always have responsible gambling in mind; we aim to educate our users, and to create transparency” Better for Bettors Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 14 CONTENTS Better for Bettors RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING of insightful information and data to help our users feel more confident in their betting. However, we do not, and cannot, guarantee winning – and we will never claim to do so. As Better Collective is not a sports betting or gambling Better Collective views sports betoperator, we rely on the operators, as in our partners, to scan for user behaviour and take action when a user ting and gambling purely as a form of shows signs of at-risk and problem gambling behaviour. entertainment, and we want to make Due to our position in the value chain, and that all actual sure that our users’ and employees’ bets are placed with an operator, we have limited data on our users and no data on their betting behaviour. We iGaming experiences remain as a can help educate users, making sure that they are aware form of fun and entertainment. of the legal gambling age, of possible adverse effects of gambling, and prevention. We are continuously assessing new measures to implement on our sites. This includes awareness of the fact that gambling should Gambling addiction prevention not be seen as a source of income, but only be practised At Better Collective we are fully aware that there are as a fun activity. When gambling, the sole purpose users for whom gambling surpasses entertainment and should not be to increase one’s initial stake, but to set becomes a form of addiction. Our standpoint is that the aside a stake that one is willing to lose for the sake of entire iGaming industry needs to do all they can to minentertainment. This view of betting is the reason why imise the risk for people turning into problem gamblers we strongly endorse responsible gaming. When creating and take this responsibility seriously. Being one of the content or new platforms, we always have responsible leading companies within the iGaming affiliate industry, gambling in mind; we aim to educate our users, and to we also feel a strong responsibility to do everything that create transparency. is within our capabilities to support a safe online gamWe want to make sure that our users are better suited to bling environment. In 2019, we have taken significant navigate the iGaming world by visiting a Better Collecsteps to increase our role within responsible gambling tive platform before registering an account with a sports and among others invested in the company, Mindway AI betting or gambling operator. All our platforms focus on and co-founded the trade organisation Responsible Affilithe teaching of gambling strategies and the presentation ates in Gambling (RAiG). Better for Bettors Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 15 CONTENTS Better for Bettors INVESTMENT IN MINDWAY AI In September 2019, we acquired Mindway AI solutions: 19,99% of the shares in Mindway AI, who specialises in innovative and ¡ GameChanger – a training tool that ¡ Gamescanner – an artificial intelligence advanced software solutions for the helps at-risk and problem gamblers solution harvesting the newest identification of at-risk gambling and take back control over their gambling knowledge in neuroscience which problem gambling behaviour. by training to control their impulsivity identifies problem gambling behavior with the same performance as expert psychologists. ¡ Gamalyze – a self-test game, during which decision making is analysed, Mindway AI’s technology platform is based on neurosciusing validated neuroscientific ence and artificial intelligence, and the company works principles. The analysis provides deep with betting operators, platform providers, regulators, insight into gambling behaviour, and governments to supply state-of-the-art early detecthus identifying key characteristics tion and intervention solutions for safer gambling. “ associated with problem gambling. Mindway’s vision is to create safe customer journeys by bringing research to life and creating solutions that protect gamblers from developing a gambling disorder. We take our social responsibility very seriously. Through Better Collective’s strong global industry netWe see Mindway AI’s innovative technology work, we will support opening doors for Mindway AI to as a perfect addition to our Group and our operators and thus scaling the technologies for the benefit of the players. In addition, we are looking into ways to aspirations to help protect online sports bettors, while at utilise their technologies and products within the Better the same time engaging in a business where we foresee a Collective Group and expect to roll out initiatives in 2020. sound future for growth and profitability.” Jesper Søgaard, CEO Investment in Mindway AI Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 16 “ CONTENTS “In Better Collective, we have found a strong partner that shares our core values and vision to create a transparent and safe online betting experience. Partnering with a leading sports betting media group, we get access to a global market and therefore see this partnership as a win-win opportunity where both parties can enhance the protection for online bettors, while also strengthening our positions in the market”. Rasmus Kjærgaard, CEO of Mindway Facts Founded in 2018. Utilises AI and neuroscience to detect at-risk gambling behaviour, university Spin-off by scientists from the Institute for clinical medicine at Aarhus University. Awards; Winner of AlphaHub 2018 – Industry Innovation of the Year 2018 – Innovation in Compliance and Responsible Gambling 2018, works with betting operators, platform providers, regulators, and governments, read more about Mindway AI https://mindway-ai.com/ Better for Bettors Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 17 CONTENTS Better for Bettors CO-FOUNDING RESPONSIBLE AFFILIATES IN GAMBLING In May 2019, we partnered with Clive Hawkswood, former Chief Executive of the Remote Gambling Association (RGA), has been appointed chairRacing Post and Oddschecker to man of RAIG. The first additional members joined already co-found a new trade association, in 2019 and the ambition is for more members to join the Responsible Affiliates in Gambling trade association during 2020. (RAiG) that is established to promote In November, Better Collective passed the annual social the socially responsible marketing of responsibility audit made by Gambling Integrity. gambling products and a safer gam“ bling environment for consumers. We strongly believe the long-term sustainability and For Better Collective, compliance and responsible gambling growth of the iGaming industry is dependent on responhave always been core focus areas due to our commitment sible operations by the businesses within the industry. This is not achieved by a single business, but rather by a and vision to empower iGamers. Therefore, I am incredibly collective effort. Therefore, we entered a partnership with proud that we became co-founders of RAIG which I believe can be a our two affiliate peers. We recognise the role affiliate margame-changer for compliance standards for affiliates and which will keting providers must play as part of widering industry initiatives in the UK to promote social responsibility and a ensure a lift of the entire industry in terms of responsible behaviour safer gambling environment for consumers. for the benefit of the users”. As a condition of membership of RAIG, each member is subject to an annual social responsibility audit that is conducted by Gambling Integrity. This audit is designed Jesper Søgaard, to ensure compliance with a range of existing statutory CEO and non-statutory regulation as well as any additional measures which might be adopted over time. Better for Bettors Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 18 “ CONTENTS RAiG is now looking into including the “The new audit process following into the work programme: will be a key driver in achieving compliance, ¡ Marketing suppression for self-excluded customers (in the first instance, RAiG is exploring options with and progress in these crucial organisations such as GAMSTOP, the national online areas by raising the standards of self-exclusion scheme); the affiliate marketing sector as a ¡ Staff training – it is important that those working in the whole” affiliate sector are aware of the broader issues associated with gambling and the harm that gambling can cause. In pursuit of this, RAiG has begun engaging with Clive Hawkswood, providers of specialist training to develop courses that Chairman of RAiG would be available to both members and non-members of RAiG. ¡ Safer gambling information – for example, what should affiliates provide to their customers and how might that best be achieved? ¡ Improving coordination with gambling operators – it is in the interest of both sectors to seek a more consistent approach to regulation and compliance ¡ Transparency – assessing how consumers might best be made aware if a commercial relationship exists between an affiliate and an operator. Read more about RAiG www.raig.org Better for Bettors Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 19 CONTENTS People PEOPLE AS A KEY DRIVER practicalities, expresses our values (as seen on page 7), and outlines our policies. Being a Danish company, our Scandinavian heritage has a big influence on how we interact with each other and with the outside world. It has given us a unique perspective on transparency in the iGaming industry, which remains at People remain the key driver in the core of all our executions. The Scandinavian heritage everything that we do, as our busialso serves as inspiration for attracting and retaining ness is based on specialised expertise employees. The notion of work-life balance is actively practised, and trust, freedom and respect play a key role and innovation. Failure to attract, in our leadership. develop, and retain the most skilled employees and management talent All new employees, including those we welcome from acquired companies, are introduced to Better Collective and constitutes a risk. We maintain an our policies through an extensive introductory program. employment environment that proWe conduct biannual development dialogues to discuss motes and respects the rights of the performance and further development. In the beginning of 2019, a new leadership development initiative was individual wherever we operate. implemented to ensure continuous professional development of our managers to match the ever-changing nature of our business and continued growth. We believe that by At Better Collective, we celebrate that our core values supporting the professional and personal development of are built upon the principles of creating transparency our managers, we enable them to identify and deal with and education within the iGaming community. To ensure challenges in their teams. This ensures the well-being of that these values are adhered to, we rely on our Code of employees and making Better Collective an attractive Conduct to train our employees about how we expect and workplace. enforce our business practise standards. The Code of Conduct, implemented in 2018, is an integral part of Better Collective’s on-boarding program for new employees. Our Employee Handbook, Better Handbook, guides a range of People Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 20 CONTENTS We give priority to health and safety at work according Gender split in management levels in 2019 to the regulations and standards in the countries in which we operate. We have established a health and safety committee to assess health and safety risks and generate 80% 20% preventive solutions. The committee issues guidelines, performs workplace evaluations, and maintains the fire instructions and evacuation plan. Better Collective aims to offer equal opportunities to men Men Women and women across our organisation, as well as promoting equal opportunities regardless of gender, ethnicity, race, religion, nationality, and sexual orientation. Building on our philosophy to establish a diverse environment and maintain a mutually respectful and transparent atmosmeeting. In 2019, no changes were made to the compophere, we adhere to the Policy on Equal Employment sition of the board. Currently, the board consists of four Opportunities. All employees and applicants for employmen and one woman, therefore, the target figure was not ment at Better Collective, as well as all decisions regardreached in 2019. In the recruitment of new board meming employment and development, will be made per this bers, the company and its nomination committee will seek policy. to realise the target over the coming years and by 2023 at the latest. For gender diversity at the board of directors’ level, the company has set a target for a board, consisting of five The executive management is made up of three men. For to seven members, to have a minimum of two members the other management levels in the company, the gender of the underrepresented gender elected by the general split in 2019 was 80% men and 20% women, which is an improvement since 2018 (86% men and 14% women). 35% Recruitment and promotion of managers in 2019 was performed with the aim to increase diversity, resulting in new managers of both genders. We will continually work to increase the share of the underrepresented gender at all management levels, on average, aiming for a target of Target of women in management 35% women over the coming years and by 2023 at the in 2023 at the latest latest. People Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 21 CONTENTS Governance OPERATING A COMPLIANT BUSINESS why the regulatory landscape is still evolving. We have discovered or received any reports about bribery, faciliprocesses for being continuously updated on regulation tation payment or other forms of corruption nor have we and applying for licenses where relevant. An inhouse received any whistleblower reports. legal team is dedicated to this area and more resources were added in 2019. Furthermore, this year we automated In connection with the General Data Protection Regulaseveral compliance processes for our sites and we are tion (GDPR) came into force across the European Union Our commitment to being a sustaincontinuing to apply automation and the use of AI. in 2018, we have had a central team in place to ensure compliance with the regulation. We have updated privacy able business in the iGaming space is We do not engage with businesses operating in crypto notices and data processing agreements as well as implereflected in our business ethics. We currencies. When partnering with operators and reviewmenting policies and guidelines. Our focus in 2020 is to want to conduct business in compliing acquisition targets, it is an integrated part of any due update our internal training. diligence process to pay careful attention to any signs of ance with applicable laws, regulamoney laundering or fraud, in case of which we choose In 2019, RAiG completed a social responsibility audit, intions, and standards. We promote our not to engage. cluding an assessment of the compliance of the UK facing Code of Conduct as a guide for all our products with CAP and IGRG codes in the UK. The audit Better Collective condemns the acts of corruption and conclusion was satisfying in terms of compliance, and employees on the values and standbribery and we believe business should be conducted additionally, found Better Collective to be at best practise ards of a compliant business. without facilitation payments. Not only are they illegal; levels in several areas. they pose a threat to our trustworthiness and risk to our “ relations to partners, users and authorities. We have a zero-tolerance policy on corruption which is described in Better Collective is subject to a variety of national comour Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct also outlines pliance regulations in the countries where we operate. that all employees are to report on gifts, meals, and BC’s policy is that we must always comply with applicable entertainment (received and offered) in order to track BC’s policy is that we legislation in the countries where we are represented. We and prevent conflicts of interest, of which no occurrences only operate in regulated markets and markets where were confirmed in 2019. must always comply with gambling is accepted by the authorities (e.g. taxed). applicable legislation in the Our whistleblower scheme facilitates anonymous reportcountries where we are represented” Some countries have yet to adopt appropriate regulation ing and we instruct all employees to speak up – if you of the relatively new online segment of gambling. This is see something, say something. During 2019, we have not Governance Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 22 CONTENTS A Better Community LOCAL COMMUNITIES & ENVIRONMENT Case MAKE BC GREENER We recognise our responoperations – this is also the case when it During summer 2019, we hosted a sibility to go beyond our comes to our impact on the environment. workshop session “Make BC Greener” As we are an online service company, our core business and contribimpact is relatively small. Still, we aim to where Better Collective employees ute to the local communiminimise our carbon footprint and condiscussed initiatives for making our ties where we are active. tribute to a greener environment. organisation and business more enviAlso, we want to minimise Calculating our carbon footprint for the ronmentally friendly. our environmental impact. first time in 2019, it is evident that air travel accounts for almost 75% of our emissions. With 13 offices in 9 countries As a pilot project in the Copenhagen headquarters, and frequent participation in meetings management and employees were given the open task Most of our community work is currently and conferences abroad, we value the to make BC greener. During the workshop, we saw high focused on our operations in Nis, Serbia personal contact in business relations employee engagement which resulted in plenty of ideas under the program name “Better Nis”. as well as an integrating factor between – some of which are implemented already. Some are easy As one of the largest tech employers in our offices. However, a travel policy is in to implement; others require research and a change of Nis, we recognise our role and potential the making with the aim of substituting a business procedures. Still, letting the whole organisaimpact on the local community, which is reasonable part of travel with video contion pitch in in cross-functional teams proved to be very why this became the point of departure ferencing. Remote meeting facilities are fruitful. It is evident that doing good for the environment of our Better Community program. We in place in most offices and are kept up to is a topic which creates high engagement and motivation have an ambition to roll out further local standard to facilitate online meetings as among our employees. We will continue to raise awarecommunity programs in other key maran alternative. During 2020, we will assess ness and to spark new ideas for improvement, rolling out kets in the years to come. our impact and possible reductions to the workshop across our offices from 2020. define a target to be implemented going We have always been committed to forward. making responsible decisions across all A Better Community Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 23 CONTENTS Better Nis #BETTERNIŠ 152 kg Trash xxxx xxxxxx in xxx xxxx At the beginning of 2019, Better Collective Niš initiated its social responsible campaign #BetterNis, as a part of the Better Collective Sustainability Programme A Better Community. Our first sustainability initiative was collecting bottle caps and donating them to help procure orthopaedic support devices. To this day, we have collected almost 50 kg of plastic. Alongside our first donation of bottle caps, we also raised money for sick children. We have participated in a charity basketball tournament, and the money collected at this event has been used to renovate one of the schools in Niš. One of the key sustainability events held in Niš was the ITrash Challenge at the beginning of summer in Niš fortress. This event gathered more than 60 volunteers (7 organisations, including schools, NGOs and citizens of Niš), which collected one full truckload of garbage. Our goal was to point out the importance of a healthy environment and to contribute to the citizens of Niš. Taking part in the Let Niš breathe action, more than 30 of our employees volunteered to plant trees in the city. Better Collective Niš is not only involved in ecology and wellbeing of the citizens of Niš but also supports important events for the city. We are supporters of the Nišville jazz festival, sponsoring the festival, which attracts thousands of jazz fans, and some of the most famous jazz musicians. This way, we want to help the local community to grow, develop and be better. Better Nis Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 24 CONTENTS Better Nis SUPPORTING TALENTS IN NIŠ When we opened our office in Niš to IT Bootcamp students to help them on their journey towards a career in the IT sector. The Director of Better three years ago, we could not imagine Collective Nis, spoke at the Startup centre Niš about dethat we would achieve everything we veloping a startup into an international company, as well have achieved today. We came to Niš as to the students participating in the Board the Entrepreneurship project. Both as a way to present BC to a larger to get help with our technical develpool of talents, and to bring the company culture closer opment, but what we found was so to the community, we organised an Open Day, visited by much more. 150 people interested in the company. As there are many highly educated people in Nis, it is no wonder that Niš has become a centre of technological development. We have sponsored the Codestantine Conference, comprising two days of education and workshops, and exchanging experiences and gaining new knowledge; the ITkonekt conference, where many experts in information technology have gathered; and the WordCamp Conference which was hosted in Niš for the first time. Moreover, we are also supporting the youth in the 150 IT sector. We have taken part in the Job fair held at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, and the Job fair organised by the Advanced Technology Forum in cooperation with the Regional Chamber of Commerce. We hosted students from Norway, who were visiting Niš on a study trip. The Visitors to our open day intention was to ake them more familiar with the school in the Nis office system in Serbia, the IT sector, and the work of Scandinavian companies that successfully operate in Serbia, as is the case with Better Collective. We have taken part in the “Pick and Choose” programme, where we talked to high school students from Niš. Our developers gave lectures Better Nis Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 25 CONTENTS ESG KEY FIGURES Unit Target 2019 2018 Environment Environmental data covers the Group’s operations in Denmark, Serbia, USA, Poland, UK, Environmental data France, Sweden, Greece and Austria. The data is derived from actual consumption in CoCO2e, scope 1 Metric tonnes 13.95 penhagen (HQ) and Nis, Serbia. For the remaining sites, the emissions have been estimated CO2e, scope 2 Metric tonnes 215.14 based on either floor area or employee count. CO2e, scope 3 Metric tonnes 730.14 Carbon Footprint’s analysts have calculated Better Collective’s footprint using the 2019 Tonnes of CO₂e per employee Times 2.63 conversion factors developed by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Tonnes of CO₂e per mEUR turnover Times 10.81 Affairs (Defra) and the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS). Where international offices have been included within the scope of the assessment, the 2019 emissions factors released by the Association of Issuing Bodies (AIB) have been used Social data for the European sites. For the US sites the 2018 EPA eGRid factors have been used. These Full-time workforce FTE 364 198 factors are multiplied with the company’s GHG activity data. Carbon Footprint has selected this preferred method of calculation as a government recognised approach and uses data Gender diversity % 35 31 which is realistically available from the client, particularly when direct monitoring is either Gender diversity, management % 35 17 14 unavailable or prohibitively expensive. Gender pay ratio Times 1.45 The reporting period for the year 2019 runs from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. Employee turnover ratio % 13.79 Sickness absence Days per FTE 2 CO₂ emissions scope 1 Scope 1 comprises CO₂ emissions from heating using oil and gas and from the usage of Governance data company cars. Gender diversity, board % 28.5 20 20 CO₂ emissions scope 2 Board meeting attendance rate % 100 95 Scope 2 comprises CO₂ emissions from heating and electricity supplied by external suppliers. CO₂ emissions scope 3 Scope 3 comprises CO₂ emissions from business travel by employee cars and flights CO₂ emissions per FTE CO₂ emissions per employee (tonnes/FTE) is calculated on the basis of the total amount of CO₂ emissions (tonnes) and the number of full-time employees as stated in the annual accounts 2019. CO₂ emissions per mEUR revenue CO₂ emissions per mEUR revenue (tonnes/mEUR revenue) are calculated on the basis of the total amount of CO₂ emissions (tonnes) and the revenue in mEUR as stated in the annual accounts 2019. ESG key figures Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 26 CONTENTS Social Full-time employees The number of full-time employees (FTEs) as stated in the annual accounts 2019. Gender diversity The percentage of women in the workforce is based on information registered in the HR system at the end of 2019. Gender diversity, senior leadership positions and in management The percentages of women in senior leadership and management positions are based on the information registered in the HR System at the end of 2019. Gender pay ratio Gender pay ratio is calculated as the median male salary divided by the median female salary. Employee turnover Employee turnover is defined as voluntary and involuntary leavers (head count) divided by the number of employees (head count) and converted to a percentage rate. The information was retrieved from the HR system and covered the entire Group. The employee turnover rate is based on the information registered for 2019. Sickness absence The number of sick days for all FTEs for the period divided by total FTEs. Governance Gender diversity, board Percentage of women on the Board of Directors elected at the Annual General Meeting. The company has set a target for a board consisting of five to seven members to have a minimum of two members of the underrepresented gender elected by the general meeting. Board meeting attendance rate Percentage of board meetings attended per board member including board committee meetings (Audit committee and Remuneration committee respectively). ESG key figures Sustainability report 2019 Better Collective 27 Better Collective A/S Facebook Toldbodgade 12 1253 Copenhagen K Instagram Denmark Twitter CVR no. 27 65 29 13 LinkedIn Better Collective Better Collective Better Collective Paris Better Collective Headquarters Łódź 75 Rue d’Amsterdam Thessaloniki Toldbodgade 12 ul. Sienkiewicza Henryka 72 Paris-8E-Arrondissement Georgiou Papandreou 5, 4th floor 1253 Copenhagen K 90-318 Łódź France Thessaloniki 54645 Denmark Poland Greece copenhagenoffice@bettercollective.com polandoffice@bettercollective.com parisoffice@bettercollective.com thessalonikioffice@bettercollective.com +45 2991 9965 +33 (0)7 7606 0227 +30 231 022 0554 Better Collective Better Collective Better Collective Better Collective Kraków Niš Stockholm Vienna Zygmunta Augusta 5/18 Sedmog Jula 22 Holländargatan 27 Marxergasse 4C, 4th floor 31-505 Krakow 18000 Niš 113 59 Stockholm 1030 Vienna 3rd District Poland Serbia Sweden Austria polandoffice@bettercollective.com nisoffice@bettercollective.com swedenoffice@bettercollective.com viennaoffice@bettercollective.com +381 66 246 444
