TO: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT MAY 2020 GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS UNLOCKING HUMAN POTENTIAL ENABLING SUCCESS FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: CONTENTS: 1. LETTER FROM THE CEO Message to Stakeholders for the Global Compact 2. INTRODUCTION TO FSI 3. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Assessment, Policy and Goals • Implementation • Measurement of Outcomes 4. LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Assessment, Policy and Goals • Implementation • Measurement of Outcomes 5. ENVIRONMENTAL RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Assessment, Policy and Goals • Implementation • Measurement of Outcomes 6. ANTI-CORRUPTION RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Assessment, Policy and Goals • Implementation • Measurement of Outcomes FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 2 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS / MAY 2020 FSI has responded quickly and proactively to the Corona Virus Pandemic to try and help ensure that workforces are properly protected and supported as they start going back to work. Migrant workers living in close proximity on labour camps are particularly vulnerable and this is a main area of focus. FSI has signed a partnership with the DFID funded Skills Employment Programme in Nepal to run training courses to upskill disadvantaged Nepalese workers for the local and overseas labour market. We have been in discussions with the Home Office of the United Kingdom and the States of Jersey in the Channel Islands and are likely to be providing personnel from both Nepal and Kenya to work on temporary permits in the hospitality and agriculture industries. FSI is partnering with World Water Crisis to act as their implementation partner for large water decontamination projects in the developing world. The FairLabour Alliance has had a successful first year, managing to secure 18 Members including BP and Multiplex and we are in discussions regarding pilot projects to address exploitation and debt bondage in the labour supply chains of the member companies. In 2020, we will attempt to scale up our FairLabour recruitment capability across the GCC and within US Federal Labour Supply Chains. We will also implement COVID resilience protocols to increase protection to our work force and our clients and to ensure the sustainability of projects in the post COVID era. Furthermore I am pleased to confirm that the FSI Worldwide Group reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to continue to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy and ethos of our company. A key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the submission of a Communication on Progress that sets out FSI’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. FSI commits to do this annually and thereby record our involvement and improvements in attaining and maintaining the Ten Principles transparently. FSI is also committed in sharing this information with its stakeholders using its primary channels of communications. Yours sincerely Tristan Forster Founder and CEO FSI Worldwide Group FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 3 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: INTRODUCTION FSI Worldwide (FSI) is the award-winning world leader in the recruitment and management of ethically recruited migrant workers. Its pioneering manpower solution ‘FairLabour’ manages the labour supply chain from village to destination country in compliance with international recruitment and worker welfare standards. FSI founded in 2006, was determined to provide businesses with a responsible, sustainable and commercially viable ethical recruitment solution. Its aim of eradicating ubiquitous debt bondage, commonly accepted as an unfortunate reality of labour migration has always been core to everything it does. It used its indepth understanding of both the exploitation faced by workers which include, but are not limited to; fraudulent documentation, extortionate demands for payment and deception ahead of worker value and effectiveness, and the challenges faced by recruitment companies and employers in delivering ethical recruitment to develop its own ethical FairLabour recruitment model. The pioneering model brings together a complex set of processes and infrastructure in both source countries and destination countries, which cut out the risk of external agents corrupting the recruitment process, ensuring all personnel are protected from paying fees continues » FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 4 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL and free from exploitation, whilst enabling FSI to recruit, train, mobilise, and manage workers to a very high ethical and quality standard. Initially the business focused on security services, with the majority of recruits being former military personnel (Gurkhas) migrating for work from South Asia into the post-conflict environments of Iraq and Afghanistan. FSI now has a broad and diverse portfolio of global clients, spanning the security, construction, manufacturing, facilities management, agriculture, hospitality and catering sectors, and recruits all categories of migrant workers from multiple source countries across Asia and Africa, including Nepal, India, Kenya, the Philippines, Uganda, Zimbabwe and Colombia. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 5 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI’s core values wholly align it to the Global Compact principles and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Its pioneering business model provides businesses with world class quality services upholding the highest standards of human rights, whilst increasing productivity potential of client businesses. Human Rights are at the core of FSI’s foundations, as it was established with the aim of ending debt bondage of migrant workers, who are widely vulnerable to enormous exploitation. FSI’s guiding principles and Code of FSI’s Code of Conduct encompasses rights perspective and a business Conduct incorporates The Universal its vision and values, taking from one. This in starkly in contrast to the Declaration of Human Rights and are all of the above and is applied with otherwise widely accepted status quo of more specially based on: systematic adherence to all procedures, exploitation and debt bondage, that sees processes, operations and practice. over 40million people in modern day • The UN’s Guiding Principles Honesty, transparency, integrity and slavery today. Fees to agents and loans • ILO Operational Principles accountability are at the forefront of how or punitive financial arrangements and Guidelines FSI works to protect those recruited by with unofficial lenders forces millions • ILO Convention 181 and/or employed by FSI. of workers into debt and desperate • Dhaka Principles situations, whilst deploying workers • Palermo Protocol FSI’s Fairlabour Model advocates why it without any relevant experience or skills • The Verité Framework is imperative that businesses invest in training to employers, increasing their for Ethical Recruitment people and protect vulnerable workers profile of risk immediately. from exploitation, from both a human FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 6 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL Despite major legislative and policy 10 years and the commercial, legal changes that have occurred since and reputational risks for companies 2006, it remains the case that many associated with such practices have companies operating in the Middle expanded commensurately. East do not pay for the recruitment of their migrant workers. As a result, the In 2019, FSI, with funding support from workers themselves, who are often Humanity United and DFID set-up the recruited from South Asia and East Fair Labour Alliance (FLA), specifically Africa, have to assume debts amounting aimed at businesses to act as an to several thousand US Dollars to innovation hub for the development of The FLA participates at the ILO/Ministry of Labour obtain work. They are charged high practical, effective measures to drive Working Group on Fair Recruitment in Qatar. www.fairlabouralliance.com rates of interest on this debt. As a the market towards a fair labour model result, the amount of money they earn and away from a model predicated on is reduced as is the remittance they illegal and unethical exploitation of can send home to their families. These vulnerable migrant workers. These bonded labour practices are abusive innovations span the entire length and per se and are often used as levers breadth of the labour supply chain, of further exploitation. They can also from government procurement policies result in sub-optimal performance down to ‘first handshake’ village level outcomes in terms of productivity and recruitment procedures. As a leader quality of work, as well as being a of ethical recruitment, FSI is careful significant contributor to poor mental to maintain high working standards health amongst workers. They are a on all projects, so it regularly and recognised form of modern slavery and proactively reviews and develops its are thought to effect some 8m workers policies, processes and operations to in the global private economy. Media ensure the organisation is always fully scrutiny of these illegal activities has compliant with human rights principles increased exponentially in the last and legislation. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 7 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL IMPLEMENTATION FSI’s Code of Conduct and and Guiding due diliengence on all its clients and a separate independent membership Principles, which are published on its suppliers before engaging with them organisation for businesses dedicated website and posted publically in all of contractually, including an initial to creating, disseminating and its offices, stands at the core of all of its assessment of working and living incubating commercial best practice in operations. All FSI personnel and new conditions, health and safety protocols, the employment of migrant and other recruits, whether for employment within and welfare provisions. Further to this, vulnerable workers in global supply FSI or for employment on external client robust mechanisms are in place to chains. The FLA is designed to be a contracts receive comprehensive training ensure compliance throughout its work, collaborative and supportive forum in on FSI’s Code of Conduct and its guiding including thorough due dilligence of which commercial, NGO and government principles. Training on FSI’s Code of partners, clients and suppliers. FSI entities can interact positively with a view Conduct is refreshed annually for exisiting invests time into extensively briefing to driving demand for fair labour services employees ensuring that adoption of these all those it engages with on its guiding and protecting vulnerable workers. The policies are incorporated throughout principles and Code of Conduct, FLA is above all an organisation rooted FSI’s operations at all levels. Recruits on requiring compliance of these on in practice, not theory. Over the last 10 contracts also receive comprehensive all contracts and clients are offered years, major developments in the law orientation training prior to deployment, training where required. and policy have occurred in relation to including an overview of any third party protections for workers in global supply employer policies that are relevant to their Over the last year, FSI has incubated chains and the FLA exists in order to welfare and protection. This induction the FLA, which now has 18 members help translate those developments in training covers job site country briefs, engaged globally. It has developed into sustainable commercial practice. working hours, and grievance reporting tools, such as, Safecall; an independently operated toll free number anyone can call anonymously to log a complaint of misconduct or exploitation. Internally, FSI uses Eyedetect: a state-of-the-art lie detection technology that FSI uses randomly throughout the organisation, including on the executive leadership. Its vertically integrated FairLabour model means it self-performs the whole process of recruitment under its own license and infrastructure, therefore cutting out corruption and exploitation from third party agents, giving it full visibility over the process and ensuring worker protection. FSI operates transparently and employs a range of mechanisms to safeguard adherence to its Code of Conduct, including integrating regular internal and external audits. FSI takes every precaution to diminish risk. All the suppliers it works with for services such as the provision of air transportation, insurance, medical clinics tailoring services, hotels and travel agencies are inducted on FSI’s Code of Conduct and required to sign formal contracts, incorporating FSI’s ethical recruitment principles, including a clause of contract withdrawal in the event the service provider is in breach of FSI’s standards. In the case of a breach of contract, where possible a corrective action plan will be employed, or otherwise the contract will be terminated. FSI’s approach to client engagement is unique; it includes comprehensive Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 8 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES FSI’s Fairlabour model has FSI operates entirely transparently and the ILO, and the IOM. As a result of this fundamentally changed the lives of opens itself up for external evaluation and leading by example, FSI is regular thousands of vulnerable migrant and scrutiny to identify any gaps in its contributor and speaker at conferences workers seeking employment abroad training, processes and practice. When on the international stage, including by offering them the opportunity to FSI is audited, its service providers events hosted by the ILO and UN. deploy and work with dignity and are also audited as a part of the without having to pay any fees, where process, so as to ensure the whole The positive response to the introduction their protection and welfare is at the supply chain is free of corruption and of the FLA and the uptake of forefront of the recruitment agenda. exploitation. Verité conducted an audit membership in the last six months with Workers receive the salary they expect, on FSI’s Nepal operations in 2017/2018 requests for consultancy and training is contracts are not duplicated or revoked, resulting in it being awarded the highest also a successful outcome of progress work hours and leave allowance standard and IOM is in the process of being made in influencing the market is as contracted and agreed by the conducting an audit this year through place to adopt fair labour practices. worker and accommodation meets an its IRIS programme. FSI is the first acceptable standard. To date, it has recruitment agency to go through the helped over 12,000 vulnerable people IRIS audit process. Additionally, the U.S. move from conditions of modern day Department of State conducts detailed slavery into decent work. audits of FSI’s operations on behalf of its prime contractors annually and has FSI has developed an unparalleled always found that its standards exceed reputation for the successful provision their recommendations. of the highest quality ‘FairLabour’ workforce solutions. Clients are FSI continually boasts an impressive immediately impressed by the difference record of maintaining high standards in professionalism of workers, the across the recruitment sector. In 2017, hardworking attitude and loyalty of FSI received an honourable mention by recruits and the overall positive impact the Thomson Reuters Foundation at its this has on organisational efficiency and Stop Slavery Awards and before this in productivity. A prime example of this, is 2013, FSI was recognised with the UN the ILO Fair Project, part of the ‘Work in GIFT Award for leading international Freedom‘ programme, which created a industries in the fight against human safe pipeline for female migrant workers trafficking and exploitation of workers from Nepal into the apparel sector in at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Jordan. Compliance of ILO’s Labour Additionally, acclaim has been received Standards throughout the process is a from the US Department of State, the requisite for all partnering organisations, UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, FSI Worldwide, winner of the UN Global Compact business leaders award in 2013 of which FSI is now the only one. the UK Ministry of Defence, the UN, FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 9 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The context in which FSI works is at high risk of debt bondage, bonded labour and modern day slavery. It is imperative that FSI upholds the highest ethical standards and leads by example, as part of this FSI observes and adhers to all global labour law and principles and that of specific jursidictions of clients and recruits, such as: FSI’s Fairlabour model, is a workforce and participate in compulsory statutory • The ILO’s Operational Principles solution delivering specifically recruited medical tests. FSI carries out thorough and Guidelines and Convention 181 workers , whose skills have been due diligence on third party suppliers, operating to best practice standards matched and sourced to the requirements such as medical clinics and trains them stipulated by the Athens Ethical of both the client and the job, thereby in FSI’s Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles; safeguarding workers from being exposed Principles before contractually engaging • The Dhaka Principles; to risk in jobs they are not qualified with them. Additionally, these third party • Palermo and Luxor protocols; for, ensuring a happy and productive suppliers carrying out tests in the source • UN Guiding Principles on Business workforce. FSI leverages its services countries are vetted for discrepancies and Human Rights; to work against the widespread risks by having the medical tests of recruits • The U.S. Trafficking in Persons assosciated with debt bondage and repeated in the destination countries. regulations; modern day slavery to offer businesses an FSI’s dual testing process contractually • The Federal Acquisition alternative route to what could otherwise obliges the source country clinics to Regulation of 2015; be argued as ‘the only choice’. FSI also take financial responsibilty for the costs • The Protections Against Trafficking consults with businesses to identify, of participants who fail the tests in in Persons in Federal Contracts map and quantify risks, often in complex destination countries, which is a costly Executive Order; supply chains, offering them solutions to deterrent against misconduct. • it implements title XVII of the mitigate and eradicate exploitation. National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013; Recruits pay absolutely no fees for their • Ending Trafficking in Government jobs and are selected on merit with no Contracting Act of 2012; bias or nepotism via a transparent and • The UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015; fair recruitment process where they • The UK’s Bribery Act of 2 are security screened, ability tested FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 10 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL IMPLEMENTATION FSI trains all its employees in its Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles, alongside giving them all access to the Staff Handbook, which is translated into all the languages of its employees. Policies concerning equal opportunities, anti-harassment and bullying, whistleblowing, health and safety, stress at work, social responsibilities and grievance mechanisms are all covered in the handbook. FSI recruits are also given training in the Code of Conduct, Guiding Princioles and their rights as a part of their induction training, before being deployed. FSI’s Code of Conduct contains the following provisions, specifically in relation to forced labour: • We do not charge any fees or costs of recruitment to the candidate in whole or in part, including costs associated with travel and visa processing. • We ensure that workers are not subject to any form of forced labour and have the freedom to terminate their contracts. • We do not withhold identity documents such as passports. Where it is necessary to take documents from workers (for visa processing or similar), or if the worker requests we hold them for safe keeping, a signed receipt is given to the worker and they may request the document back at any time as well as a Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of Conduct and Guiding Principles. photocopy of the document. • We ensure workers’ freedom of movement is not unreasonably restricted. • We ensure employment contracts MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES are understood and translated into native languages where required. FSI FSI’s pioneering FairLabour model is (FMCG) manufacturers and common ensure that employees receive copies contributing hugely to encouraging suppliers, assembled to enable of their employment contracts prior to businesses to engage with the fair and and promote responsible sourcing deployment. Contract substitution (the ethical recruitment of migrant workers, practices and sustainable supply replacement of an original contract or which is critical to ending debt bondage chains”, sponsored by AIM in Europe any of its provisions with those that are and modern day slavery. FSI and the and GMA in North America. less favourable) is strictly prohibited. FLA are influencing the market place, • FSI is also a Board member of ISOA • We ensure all employees receive shaping opinion, leading by example, and engages regularly on panels at pre-deployment orientation covering setting kitemarks of standards, their annual gatherings. topics such as the terms and demonstrating valuable leadership and conditions of work, their rights and offering workable tangible solutions. FSI allocates significant resources and responsibilities, living conditions and capacity to engage collaboratively with grievance mechanisms. FSI is also a member of a number of a broad range of stakeholders, such as • We ensure that workers are paid in associations: the ILO, IOM, the UN, Humanity United, full on time every month and that Verité, Open Society Foundations, clear and transparent information is • The Aim-Progress forum, which governments and business to share best provided to workers regarding days is a global initiative made up of practice and expertise. worked, rates of pay etc. “Fast Moving Consumer Goods FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 11 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI’s policy across the organisation has been to set a high standard with regards to it positively impacting the environment. As an organisation, its impact is largely secondary through the clients and suppliers it works with, for which it responsibly and carefully does thorough due diligence on before working with, so as to mitigate any harm caused to the environment through its work. FSI’s Code of Conduct and staff IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF handbook include policies that guide the OUTCOMES business’s environmentally responsible FSI employs environmentally friendly approach to all its work. There is even technologies whereever applicable and FSI’s record for environmental a section in the handbook that directly has banned the use of single use plastics negilience or misconduct is clean. addresses employees obligations to in all of its offices. It has also consciously This is regulated internally by FSI and report suspicions of anyone undertaking moved the majority of its work online, externally where and if necessary. By any activity that may cause serious vastly limiting the consumption of the nature of FSI’s business, its general harm to the environment. paper. Staff are careful not to waste impact on the environment is very low. water, to recycle waste, to switch off monitors and printers at night and to use energy as efficiently as possible to meet the standards for environmental responsibility that FSI has set for itself. FSI is committed to review its policies and actions regularly, not only to check that it is complying with its policies, but also to see where and how it can improve how it conducts business to further mitigate any harmful impact on the environment. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 12 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI has a clear zero-tolerance policy to any sort of corruption within the organisation and within any of its supply chains between clients and suppliers. Being an organisation that prides itself on pioneering ethical recruitment, it plays a leadership role in best practice across the sector, which means it is imperative that the FSI’s policies are clear and transparent at every level and throughout its work. Its policy is based on and references global legislation, such as the UN Convention against Corruption, the Dhaka Principles, the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the OECD antibribery convention. Additionally, FSI complies with all source country legislation and employment law of the jurisdictions where it operates, such as legal recruitment processes, minimum salary regulations and recruitment time frames. FSI’s ethical recruitment business is destination countries. FSI is a specialist founded on the policy that it doesn’t in identifying and mitigating labour charge applicants or recruits any fees supply chain risks and developing or facilitation payments for jobs and practical solutions to achieve ethically with that it has a zero-tolerance policy compliant working modalities and to bribes, this includes involvement labour supply chains. in any political campaigning and gifts, including hospitality and expenses. FSI FSI being a pioneer leader of ethical operates a transparent zero-tolerance recruitment, it was founded on the policy to bribery and corruption. principles that endemic corruption and exploitation in supply chains must be All of FSI’s contracts with clients and eradicated and has continously worked suppliers include clauses to ensure to achieve the widespread adoption of they are also obligated to observe the fair and ethical recruitment practices. laws and regulations of source and FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 13 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / MAY 2020 CONFIDENTIAL IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES FSI’s vertically integrated FairLabour effective deterent in both mitigating Model mitigates corruption risks and and exposing non-compliance. FSI FSI has an exemplenary record of allows for prompt decisive disciplinary understands the challenges faced by passing all of its audits without any action in the rare instances it may occur. employees, employers, government issues since its inception. FSI’s staff handbook clearly outlines its and other stakeholders which is why zero-tolerance policies to corruption its approach is based on constructive Any historic incidences or concerns of and bribery and provides clear guidance collaboration and transparency to corruption or bribery have always been on the procedures in place to report non the benefit of all parties, but without thoroughly investigated, and quickly compliance relating to these policies. flexibility where corruption is concerned. and robustly dealt with to ensure full This includes, a free and independent compliance with its corruption policies. hotline service called Safecall that staff, The Staff Handbook given to all FSI’s legal track record is entirely clean. applicants, recruits, suppliers or clients employees, outlines the grievance can use to whistleblow misconduct, reporting process, encouraging vigilence FSI prides itself on the reputation it which will then be followed up by a and reporting of policy violations. has built within the global migrant thorough investigation, ultimately All employees sign a non-extraction recruitment industry, which it ensures resulting in a dismissal of an employee form at the start of their employment, through full compliance, accountability, or termination of a contract if the which is a form stating that the FSI quality, transparency and integrity. investigation proves that there has been employee understands that no payment a breach of policy. is to be taken from candidates and that any breach of this will result in the The geographic landscape in which termination of their employment. FSI largely works is ridden with widely accepted and endemic corruption, FSI routinely assesses its internal which means traditional auditing procedures, processes and operations, processes end up being largely nugatory, as a part of this and its accounting with bribes bypassing the process. department is regularly scrutinised via FSI’s vertically integrated FairLabour monthly trading meetings, quarterly Model is specifically designed using board meetings and yearly audits a multipronged approach to ensure carried out by external auditors and the compliance, including using asymmetic Board, the CEO and divisional heads auditing which has proven to be an have full visibility of the accounts. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 14 CONTACT US FSI Worldwide Limited E: info@fsi-worldwide.com www.fsi-worldwide.com GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE
