Lloyd’s Global Compact 2019 Report Our commitment to support the United Nations’ sustainability principles Contents Foreword by CEO John Neal  About Lloyd’s and this report  04 Our commitment to human rights 06 Our commitment to fair labour 13 Our commitment to the environment 19 Our commitment to anti-corruption 26 Our ambition  31 Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Foreword John Neal, CEO, Lloyd’s I am delighted to publish our first ever United Nations Global Compact report that sets out our responsible business approach in 2019. As society starts to think about post Covid-19 recovery, it is more important than ever that businesses take the opportunity to think about the kind of world we want to return to and “build back better”. At Lloyd’s, we are working with the rest of the insurance sector and the UK Government to help customers recover from the impacts of Covid-19 and look at what ways we can build greater resilience to systemic threats like pandemics over the longer term. These include a focus on innovation to ensure we offer our customers new products and services that protect them from their changing risk profiles in a post-Covid world, as well as Recover Re, a government-backed reinsurance vehicle designed to provide “after the event” cover for pandemic-related business recovery. However, our response and that of all other business sectors must go wider if we are to tackle the many challenges society faces, such as inequality, poverty, disease and climate change. We must reflect on how we could build a better, fairer, less polluted, lower carbon world and work together to achieve it. The principles of the better, fairer UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals help business sectors focus and work consistently towards this ambition. The Corporation of Lloyd’s (the body that provides services to the Lloyd’s market) signed up to the Global Compact because we felt its principles dovetailed with Lloyd’s purpose of “sharing risk to create a braver world.” We also felt that by committing to them it would push us as an organisation to move faster, show leadership and demonstrate best practice to the 90 or so syndicates that make up the Lloyd’s insurance market. More broadly, the principles strongly align with the inherent social purpose of insurance in general, which is to help millions of people, communities and businesses recover quickly after disasters by paying claims. This report represents a continuation of Lloyd’s journey to become a more responsible organisation. Our ambition throughout 2020 and beyond is to build on our progress and commitments as described to benefit our people, our customers and society. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report About Lloyd's and this report 04 About Lloyd's and this report 05 About this report As a new member, this is our first report on the Corporation of The Corporation of Lloyd’s signed up to the United Nations Lloyd’s activities (2019) in relation to the Global Compact’s ten Global Compact in 2018, and in so doing committed to universal principles for human rights, labour, the environment and communicating its responsible business approach to its anti-corruption. Our actions in these areas improve our responsible stakeholders on an annual basis. business practices, thereby supporting the United Nations For more information on the United Nations Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals. visit www.unglobalcompact.org About Lloyd’s Lloyd’s responsible business approach Our role in the community In 2019, our community initiatives achieved the following: Lloyd’s is the world’s leading insurance and The Corporation of Lloyd’s is committed to being The Corporation not only has its own responsible reinsurance marketplace. It comprises more than 50 a responsible global corporate citizen by adopting business initiatives, but also manages three £956,000 insurance companies (managing agents), over 300 ethical principles and practices, sharing knowledge independent charities and a volunteer programme on registered Lloyd’s brokers and a global network of and expertise, and by making a positive contribution behalf of the Lloyd’s market in London. Our initiatives nearly 4,000 local coverholders (managing general to social and environmental issues. The Corporation focus on innovation, managing risk, building resilient agents), who operate in and bring business to the operates in a way that meets fundamental communities and empowering individuals to reach donated to charitable organisations Lloyd’s market. The Corporation oversees and responsibilities in the areas of human rights and their potential. supports the Lloyd’s market, ensuring it operates labour, as well as environment and anti-corruption. efficiently and retains its reputation as the market of choice for specialist insurance and reinsurance risk. In 2018, we carried out research to understand The organisations we support are: 2,900 (Note: this report details the Corporation’s better our employees’ attitudes to responsible – Lloyd’s Charities Trust: building resilient commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, business, how the Corporation was performing as communities by supporting causes relevant to business volunteers from more than 70 companies not that of the Lloyd’s market as a whole.) a responsible organisation, and what behaviours the market and our people across the Lloyd’s market and actions were required to bring our responsible business strategy to life. – Lloyd’s Patriotic Fund: the market’s military charity Through an employee survey, interviews and focus – Lloyd’s Tercentenary Research Foundation: 184 groups with employees from a cross-section of managing the future of risk roles and departments, including the Executive organisations supported worldwide, reaching Committee, participants were asked what – Lloyd’s Community Programme: helping more than 18,000 people directly responsible business meant for the Lloyd’s market individuals achieve their full potential through in general and the insurance sector. The findings volunteer support from the Lloyd’s market identified four key areas for Lloyd’s responsible business approach to address: – Influencing and working with the market – Core services, products and operations – Workplace and culture – Role in the community Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Our commitment to human rights Principle 1: Businesses should 1. Our commitment to human rights 09 support and respect the protection 1. Our commitment to human rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Introduction As a global business, with licences to operate in more than 200 territories, the Corporation recognises the importance of upholding Principle 2: make sure they are not human rights. We respect the dignity and rights of every individual who works for us and in the Lloyd’s market, as well as those who complicit in human rights abuses. we work with. The Corporation fully supports the principles set out What we achieved in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation core In 2019 we enhanced our Minimum Standards labour standards. In doing so, we underpin the Lloyd’s to provide more robust guidance on responsible market’s inherent social purpose of supporting business practice. This included demonstrating people, businesses and governments by building that: resilience, reducing risk and helping them recover quickly after disasters by paying claims. – The Board and senior leaders establish and oversee the responsible business culture and ethos of their organisations, which includes Lloyd’s Minimum Standards guidance on ethical values and behaviours The Corporation has a responsibility to ensure our – There is guidance and a process in place for marketplace works in accordance with our values. We employees to raise concerns and report do this through our Minimum Standards, which cover misconduct all areas of operation and conduct. – Their governance and management structures See Lloyd’s Minimum Standards for more acknowledge the importance of, and have information. processes in place, to address the social, environmental and ethical impacts of their operations Complaints – They comply with all relevant legislation Most Lloyd’s policyholders have had a positive experience dealing with the market. However, when issues arise in the UK, Lloyd’s has a two-stage complaints procedure to deal with them fairly; for What we will do in 2020 complaints outside the UK, managing agents are responsible for dealing with them, in accordance We will continue to work in collaboration with our with the rules in each country. key Lloyd’s market stakeholders to share good practice around responsible business activities and to encourage knowledge sharing. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 1. Our commitment to human rights 10 1. Our commitment to human rights Modern slavery What we achieved We have a zero-tolerance approach to human right – Agreed a new Human Rights Policy and abuses and modern slavery. In practice, this means strengthened our Modern Slavery Act statement we are constantly trying to improve our business practices, systems and controls to combat slavery – Introduced a supplier performance and risk and human trafficking. management framework To that end, we work with all our suppliers, – Refreshed our tender vetting and on-boarding contractors and business partners in our global process in relation to suppliers’ positions on supply chain through our supplier code of conduct, human rights and other environmental, labour which asks them to tell us about the controls they and anti-corruption issues have in place relating to anti-bribery and financial crime, their approach to diversity and inclusion, and – Reviewed supplier contract templates to ensure their environmental and health and safety practices. they capture human rights requirements We also work with them to uphold high standards of – Conducted annual risk and performance conduct regarding safe working conditions, treating reviews of critical supplier relationships and workers with dignity and respect, and acting fairly vetted new ones and ethically. This includes those of their employees who work on Lloyd’s premises. – Re-launched our English language coaching programme between Corporation staff and the We work closely with our suppliers to improve living employees of our service providers standards. One way we do this is by being a living wage employer. As a signatory to the Living Wage Foundation, in the UK we guarantee all Lloyd’s employees including those working for our subWhat we will do in 2020 contractors, a fair wage that reflects the cost of living. We also make it simple for people to report – Invest in e-procurement tools that make it wrongdoing or illegality regarding wages. easier to vet and monitor suppliers – Include modern slavery risk in our supplier performance and risk management framework Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 1. Our commitment to human rights 11 1. Our commitment to human rights Health and safety – Set up a confidential, independently managed, 24/7 bullying and harassment advice line The Corporation has an active working group, the Health Safety and Environmental Co-ordination – Issued clear and simple standards of business Group, that ensures the safety and protection of the conduct to the Lloyd’s market and began a Corporation’s employees, and that the guidelines as review of the market policies and practices laid down in the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and in the Corporation’s occupational health and – Ran a successful #SpeakUp campaign in 2019 safety, environmental and security policies, are that seeks to address directly the Lloyd’s annual adhered to and demonstrate best practice. culture survey findings to encourage everyone to take responsibility and act when they witness or experience inappropriate behaviour Fair treatment – Introduced active bystander training to We ensure that all Corporation employees and all empower individuals to act and intervene companies in the market have a clear understanding whenever they witness inappropriate behaviour of what is expected of them in relation to speaking up about inappropriate behaviour, acting with integrity – Launched market-leading family friendly and being respectful. There are several policies in policies at Lloyd’s and a best practice guide this area including the Whistleblowing Policy and the for the market Diversity and Inclusion Policy, and there is also a helpline for Corporation and market employees to – Appointed a Talent and Culture Non-Executive ring should they need advice in this area. If behaviour Director for Lloyd’s to ensure inclusive standards are breached, we can act against the leadership perpetrators, which can include banning them from working in the Lloyd’s market. – Created an external expert advisory group to ensure inclusivity, set metrics and design Family care provisions action plans As part of our commitment to employee welfare, in 2019 we revised and reissued our care policies, which now lead the sector by providing significantly more What we will do in 2020 benefits than the statutory requirement. For example, our family care provision provides 26 weeks paid – Establish gender balance targets to increase leave for primary or secondary caregivers when they the number of women at the senior leadership start a family, with an additional four weeks full pay to level across the Lloyd’s market support a phased return to work. It applies to all genders, regardless of how they choose to start a – Publish a Lloyd’s culture dashboard with CEO family. The policy also offers five days of paid responsibility to measure progress in 2020 on emergency leave, sabbaticals, flexible working the culture within the Corporation and the practices and a “dress for your day” ethos. Lloyd’s market – Extend our inclusive hiring training to our What we achieved charity partners to encourage best practice in the charity sector – Applied sanctions, including bans on entering the Lloyd’s building and working in the market when appropriate to ensure minimum standards are adhered to Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 1. Our commitment to human rights 12 1. Our commitment to human rights Community impacts Relevant links We work with several charities through Lloyd’s – Modern Slavery Act statement Charities Trust to advance human rights. Between – Supplier Code of Conduct 2016 and 2019, these included RedR UK, Build – Sustainable Procurement Change and Whizz-Kidz. For more information on – Talent Development our partnerships, see our impact report here. – Future Culture at Lloyd’s – Business Conduct – Data Collection toolkit What we achieved (2016-2019) – The Clear Company –W e also have a Human Rights Policy, – Supported RedR to develop the skills of Whistleblowing Policy, Anti-Bullying and 3,400 humanitarian workers responding to Harassment Policy, Diversity and Inclusion global crises Policy and Talent Development Policy for the Corporation of Lloyd’s – Partnered with Build Change to improve the resilience of communities by retrofitting homes in Medellin in Colombia and Manila in the Philippines to make them stronger and better able to withstand disasters, and to help communities influence local governments – Funded mobility therapists working with Whizz-Kidz to improve the lives of 470 disabled children What we will do in 2020 – Embed our new partnership between Lloyd’s Charities Trust and Habitat for Humanity Great Britain to build community resilience in disaster-affected countries Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Our commitment to fair labour Principle 3: Businesses should 2. Our commitment to fair labour 16 uphold the freedom of association 2. Our commitment to fair labour and the effective recognition of the right to collective Introduction Lloyd’s strives be a leader in the sector in attracting, developing and bargaining; and retaining talent, recognising we need world-class employees to compete in the global insurance marketplace. The Corporation supports this aim by creating an inclusive workplace and providing Principle 4: the elimination of all equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of race, nationality, forms of forced and compulsory gender and religion. Lloyd’s complies with all equal opportunity, civil rights, human rights and labour laws. labour; and Inclusivity What we achieved Principle 5: the effective abolition The Corporation promotes inclusivity at work through six employee resource groups: the Cultural – Produced a wide range of resources and toolkits to individuals and companies on of child labour; and Awareness Network, the Families Network, Inspire diversity and inclusion topics – our gender network, the Personal Assistant Network, and Pride and Allies and Workability – Ranked in the Top 100 Stonewall Workplace (encouraging disability-friendly practices in the Equality Index for the first time Corporation). Principle 6: the elimination of Each year, we take part in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index to benchmark our progress on LGBT – Delivered the fifth Dive In festival in 2019 with events in 32 countries and more than 60 cities discrimination in respect of inclusion in the workplace. In 2019, the Corporation was placed 95th, rising more than 100 places in two years, and making the Top 100 of the index – Held the Dive In Impact Awards, acknowledging the people, networks, and organisations who reflect its mission, and employment and occupation. for the first time. As part of our commitment to create a diverse have made a marked impact in Diversity and Inclusion within insurance and inclusive market we lead Inclusion@Lloyd’s, a market-wide group representing senior leaders from across the Lloyd’s market, providing strategy, What we will do in 2020 governance and best practice for Lloyd’s and the wider insurance market. – Expand Dive In to have more of a global presence across the Lloyd’s market We also lead and sponsor the Dive In festival, which promotes diversity and inclusion in the insurance – Extend Lloyd’s new family friendly policies to sector around the world. Spread across three days, its global offices 2019’s events took place in 32 countries and more than 60 cities. The 2019 theme was #time4inclusion in response to Lloyd’s research that found that CEOs see time as the biggest barrier to creating inclusive cultures in their organisations. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 2. Our commitment to fair labour 17 2. Our commitment to fair labour Gender equality What we achieved The Corporation is committed to creating – Ran mandatory on-line training modules greater gender equality within the organisation on conflicts of interest and diversity in and throughout the Lloyd’s market. In 2019, the the workplace Corporation reported a gender pay gap of 23.6%, an increase of 3.7 percentage points compared – Put 33 future female leaders through the to last year, which showed a gap of 19.9%. This market-wide Advance programme is primarily due to changes to our executive team last year. – Put 38 people from the Corporation and market through Lloyd’s management There has been better progress on the mean training programme bonus pay gap, which at 28.3%, represents a decrease of 1.8% compared to last year. The median bonus gap has also decreased by 9.6% to 33.2%. While 2018 figures were partially impacted by the What we will do in 2020 way we paid bonuses that year, the mean and median bonus figures over the past three years show the – Grow the Advance programme to include gap is closing. a virtual offering, increasing the number of cohorts Lloyd’s is a charter signatory of the Women in Finance Charter, a UK Government-backed initiative – Continue and grow targeted training and designed to improve gender diversity in senior development programmes to increase positions across the financial services sector. gender balance As part of our commitment, we set a target to achieve at least 40% male and at least 40% – Put in place a gender balance plan in 2020 female representation in our senior management that will set clear and measurable targets for population by 2021. improving the representation of women at senior levels within the Lloyd’s market We carried out several other steps to promote gender equality, including: – Rolled out unconscious bias awareness learning and supporting resources for senior leaders – Signed up to the Working Forward campaign to support new parents, which has led to the recent introduction of gender-neutral parental policies in the UK – Introduced a market-wide female development programme, Advance , and implanted mandatory inclusive hiring workshops for all hiring managers that will help us achieve our gender targets Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 2. Our commitment to fair labour 18 2. Our commitment to fair labour Wellbeing Relevant links This year, we made a wide range of resources and – Lloyd’s 2019 Gender Pay Gap report toolkits available to colleagues and companies on – Family Guidance diversity and inclusion, including resources for – 5 steps to diversity and inclusion working parents and mental health at work toolkits. – D&I scorecard Lloyd’s also has its own Wellbeing Centre in the – DiveIn Lloyd’s building in London providing a range of – Inclusion@Lloyd’s medical services to the Corporation and the – Inclusive behaviours in insurance Lloyd’s market. – Women in Finance Charter – Working forward campaign What we achieved – Ran a varied programme of workshops, events and resources to support wellbeing across the Lloyd’s market though Wellbeing@Lloyd’s – Formalised a network of wellbeing champions with 120 trained and visible champions in place What we will do in 2020 – Run a wellbeing campaign to raise awareness of personal resilience and mental wellbeing – Release a wellbeing strategy for the Corporation and roll it out to the Lloyd’s market – Grow our network of wellbeing champions in the Corporation and the Lloyd’s market Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Our commitment to the environment Principle 7: Businesses should 3. Our commitment to the environment 22 support a precautionary approach 3. Our commitment to the environment to environmental challenges; and Introduction Principle 8: undertake initiatives The Corporation is a founding member of ClimateWise, the global network of leading insurance industry organisations, and is in regular to promote greater environmental dialogue with insurers, businesses, NGOs and policymakers to address the challenges of climate change. The Corporation has a responsibility; and number of initiatives in place to reduce its carbon footprint through a combination of environmental and energy reducing activities. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Responsible investment ClimateWise The Corporation has a responsible investment Climate change affects everyone, and recent natural environmentally friendly strategy that is built upon three core pillars: disasters show the cost climate change could cause insurers in the future and the devastating impact it – Protecting the Central Fund assets by considering has on businesses and communities. Lloyd’s is technologies. environmental, social and governance risks therefore in regular dialogue with insurers, businesses and policymakers to address the – Promoting responsible business practices in challenges posed by climate change that affect companies through activities such as corporate our sector and society in general. engagement and shareholder action In 2007, Lloyd’s became one of the founding – Providing capital to support a sustainable future, members of ClimateWise, the global network of through investments in green and social impact leading insurance industry organisations focused bonds, and by excluding investments in coalon driving action on climate change. focused companies The ClimateWise principles were developed following As part of this approach and acknowledging that coal consultation between The Prince of Wales’s Business combustion is believed to be the largest single cause & Sustainability Programme, Lloyd’s, the Association of global greenhouse gas emissions, we implemented of British Insurers and other insurance market a coal exclusion policy in April 2018. This is applicable participants. Lloyd’s is an active member of the group, to those Central Fund assets held directly in which has more than 30 insurance companies as segregated portfolios. members, including ten managing agents in the Lloyd’s market. For the full details of our approach in the Lloyd’s Central Fund strategy The latest ClimateWise report can be found at https://www.lloyds.com/about-lloyds/responsiblebusiness/environment/climatewise Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 3. Our commitment to the environment 23 3. Our commitment to the environment Lobbying Supply chain management Our government policy team engages directly with We expect our suppliers to support sound UK and EU regulators to discuss regulatory policy to environmental management principles and reduce facilitate adaptation and mitigation of climate change. their impact through our supplier code of conduct. For example, in January 2019, we provided a detailed Among other things, we ask that they: response to the FCA’s discussion paper on climate change and green finance. – Have a written environmental/sustainability policy or equivalent Reducing our carbon footprint – Have effective internal environmental management programmes with adequately trained staff The Corporation has been working with Avieco responsible for managing the organisation’s (formally Carbon Smart), our environmental environmental performance consultants, to track greenhouse gas emissions from our global operations. These are published each year – Try to use products which can be re-used, recycled, in our annual report. In 2019, we continued to reduce used in an energy-efficient manner and which cause our emissions on a total global basis from 9,732 minimal environmental damage at all stages of the tCO2e (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) in 2018 supply chain to 8,364 tCO2e – a reduction of 14%. We have reduced our total global emissions per full time – Must abide by all legislation and regulations related employee (FTE) by 23% from 9.4 tCO2e/FTE in 2018 to the protection of the environment and the to 7.3 tCO2e/FTE in 2019. We introduced reporting handling of dangerous and hazardous materials against the Energy and Carbon Report Regulations in 2019, one year prior to the regulatory requirement. Product innovation The Corporation has a “zero to landfill” policy with 82% of our waste from UK offices recycled and the We strengthened our position as a global centre of rest used as fuel for power generation. Lloyd’s insurance innovation through the Lloyd’s Lab, a commitment to waste management is recognised by leading hub for technology-led innovation, which has our status as a Platinum Award member in the City of seen more than 500 international insurtechs applying London’s Clean City Campaign. Lloyd’s purchases to join in its first two years. Success stories include 100% renewable electricity for our offices in London Parsyl, which provides an internet-of-things sensor and Kent. We also implemented chemical-free that can help protect sensitive shipments such as cleaning in our UK offices and use a self-charge vaccines being sent to the developing world; hybrid car for postal services. FloodFlash, which installs flood sensors to speed up claims payments – paying claims from Storm We offset air travel emissions by buying carbon Ciara flooding within one day, for instance; and credits for carbon offset projects through Natural ClimaCell, which uses micro-weather forecasting to Capital Partners. For example, we have purchased help customers reduce their exposure to credits for an “improved cookstoves” project in India, meteorological events. which reduces indoor pollution. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 3. Our commitment to the environment 24 3. Our commitment to the environment OASIS Loss Modelling Framework Reducing environmental impacts through our charity partners Lloyd’s is a founder-member of OASIS LMF and provides its Chairman to this organisation. OASIS is Lloyd’s charities also focused on addressing an open source catastrophe modelling platform environmental issues through partnerships with key which the insurance industry has made available organisations. Lloyd’s Charities Trust and Lloyd’s via GitHub. Tercentenary Research Foundation reviewed their strategies in 2019 and have placed a greater focus Oasis has been retained to facilitate the coon funding climate-related risks going forward. development of catastrophe models for flood in the Philippines and windstorm in Bangladesh, bringing One example of a climate-related project funded together a multinational public-private partnership to through Lloyd’s Tercentenary Research Foundation build solutions to understand and manage the was a two-year research project led by the increasing costs of disasters. We are pleased to join Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, which other industry members in supporting OASIS, which increased understanding of large-scale and longis funded by the International Climate Initiative of the term implications of land-use choices throughout German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature the tropics. It will create a science-based tool to Conservation and Nuclear Safety. better inform choices that can minimise negative environmental and economic impacts. We have also created and launched Lloyd’s Charities Trust’s new strategy, which will build climate resilience through disaster risk reduction. We launched a new partnership with Habitat for Humanity Great Britain, funding a flood resilience programme in Malawi. In addition, the Corporation is funding a project in partnership with Mercy Corps, to educate smallholder families in east Africa about risk management and the benefits of agricultural insurance. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report 3. Our commitment to the environment 25 3. Our commitment to the environment What we achieved What we will do in 2020 – Reduced our carbon footprint by 14% in 2019 – Continue to set targets to reduce our carbon compared to 2018 footprint and encourage environmentally friendly behaviours across the Corporation and – Supported the revision of the ClimateWise the Lloyd’s market principles to align fully with the recommendations set out by the Taskforce for – Replace the current compact fluorescent lamps Climate-related Financial Disclosures across the ground floor in the underwriting room in London with new LED lamps; aiming for – Delivered 80 presentations on climate-related an almost 50% reduction in power consumption risks to key stakeholders in the market, and to regulator and government programmes – Work with contractors to encourage bicycle deliveries as well as consolidate orders into – Celebrated the United Nation’s World single deliveries in the UK Environment Day with a week of global environmental initiatives in June – Respond to global climate emergencies as appropriate – Ran a recycling awareness campaign in our London office, educating colleagues, visitors – Run further cohorts in the Lloyd’s Lab to and tenants about how to improve recycling encourage innovation – Reduced water consumption in our London – Publication of a report titled “Below 2C” office in October 2019 by 57% compared to the which explores the implications of same month in 2018 decarbonisation on key sectors of the economy and suggests insurance responses – Reduced food waste in our London restaurant by more than 50% – Publication of a series of reports titled “Renewable Energy: Risk and Reward” – Replaced plastic cutlery, coffee lids, and takewhich explore the rapid advances in renewable away food containers in the UK restaurants with energy and highlight insurance responses PLA (corn starch) and replaced plastic straws with paper straws – Share the knowledge and skills that exist in the Lloyd’s market with our charity partner, Habitat for Humanity Great Britain, to enable the organisation to respond better to disasters globally and to develop preventative approaches Relevant links – Environmental Commitments – ClimateWise – Environmental Policy – Emerging Risks library – Energy and Carbon Report – Responsible Investment strategy Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Our commitment to anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should 4. Our commitment to anti-corruption 29 work against all forms of corruption, 4. Our commitment to anti-corruption including extortion and bribery. Introduction Lloyd’s complies with anti-corruption laws, has a robust anticorruption approach and encourages a supportive environment where employees feel able to speak up. Anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, conflicts of interest and diversity in the workplace on-line training modules are mandatory for all employees. Financial crime What we achieved The Corporation is committed to ensuring the Lloyd’s – Ensured more than 1,000 Corporation market, associated parties and the Corporation itself employees completed whistleblowing training, has robust systems, policies and controls in place to whilst others completed more specialist training minimise the risk of financial crime. This includes the six pillars of financial crime: money laundering/ – Improved our reporting mechanisms for terrorist financing, sanctions, bribery and corruption, whistleblowing, making them easier to access tax evasion facilitation, fraud and market abuse/ and more widely known insider dealing. The Corporation also makes sure the market adheres to the financial crime-related minimum standards, and that it complies with financial crime prevention requirements. What we will do in 2020 – Embed and develop the whistleblowing Whistleblowing procedures already put in place, particularly among staff operating outside of the UK We continue to strengthen our whistleblowing protocols by ensuring selected employees are – Refresh training materials and make them equipped to handle concerns and by increasing the available to additional staff channels people can use to report concerns (e.g. a web-based reporting system and a mobile reporting – Assess the design and operating effectiveness app). More than 1,000 staff members also completed of our key processes and controls whistleblowing training during the year with others completing more specialised training. We are – Organise a review by Protect (the currently obliged to report to the PRA on the whistleblowing charity) to benchmark our soundness of our whistleblowing systems and Whistleblowing Policy against our peers controls on an annual basis for each of the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. Relevant links – Policyholder complaints – International complaints – UK complaints – Corporation complaints – Agents complaints – Lloyd’s Arbitration Scheme Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Our ambition 31 Our ambition Thank you for reading our first report on our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our ambition throughout 2020 is to act on our commitments as outlined in this report. As the Corporation of Lloyd’s, we aim to improve our reporting against the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2020 onwards and encourage the Lloyd’s market to take a more responsible business approach in relation to the Global Compact’s ten principles. Lloyd’s United Nations Global Compact 2019 Report Twitter @LloydsofLondon LinkedIn lloyds.com/linkedin Facebook lloyds.com/facebook © Lloyd’s 2020 All rights reserved Lloyd’s is a registered trademark of the Society of Lloyd’s. This brochure has been produced by Lloyd’s for general information purposes only. While care has been taken in gathering the data and preparing the brochure, Lloyd’s does not make any representations or warranties as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly excludes to the maximum extent permitted by law all those that might otherwise be implied. Lloyd’s accepts no responsibility or liability for any loss or damage of any nature occasioned to any person as a result of acting or refraining from acting as a result of, or in reliance on, any statement, fact, figure or expression of opinion or belief contained in this brochure. This brochure does not constitute advice of any kind.
