Shimizu Corporation supports the Sustainable Development Goals ABOUT SHIMIZU CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Creating Value Over Time .......................................................................... 04 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers ........ 56 Corporate Philosophy ................................................................................ 07 Governance .............................................................................................. 60 Compliance .............................................................................................. 65 SHIMZ VISION 2030 Risk Management ..................................................................................... 66 Top Message ............................................................................................ 08 Shimizu’s Response to COVID-19 .............................................................. 14 DATA COLLECTION SHIMZ VISION 2030 .................................................................................. 16 Ten-Year Highlights (Consolidated) ............................................................. 68 Initiatives in Innovation ............................................................................... 18 ESG Important Management Indicators ....................................................... 70 Technology and Hearts That Form a Bridge to the Next Generation ............... 72 SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Shimizu’s Social Contribution Activities ....................................................... 73 Shimizu Group Businesses ........................................................................ 20 Today’s work, Tomorrow’s Heritage in 2030 and Beyond. List of External Awards Received ................................................................ 74 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights ........................................................ 22 Independent Opinion ................................................................................. 75 The Shimizu Group is constantly changing. Special Contents: SDGs Initiatives Created with Shimizu (Sustainable Future) Global Network ......................................................................................... 76 We will continue to take on every challenge to Corporate Information/Investor Information ................................................. 77 Building and Infrastructure a Resilient create new value in the world, Construction that Protects Lives society and Businesses from Disasters Where everyone can feel FINANCIAL SECTION extending beyond the boundaries of construction. 25 safe and secure P Financial Section ....................................................................................... 79 Creating Communities Inclusion in ESG index Where All Can an Inclusive society Live Comfortably Where all people can live 26 together in comfort and health P *1 Targeting ZEB with the Latest in Energy Conservation and a Sustainable society Energy Generation Where future generations 27 can inherit a well-cared for environment P Awards Editorial Policy Mid-Term Management Plan of Shimizu Group <2019-2023> .................... 28 Shimizu’s Corporate Report describes our vision and the strategy for achieving our vision, as well as business and ESG initiatives. Our goal Information Disclosure System SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS in issuing this report is to have all our stakeholders gain a better understanding of the Shimizu Group. Building Construction Business in Japan .................................................... 30 Important & The Corporate Report focuses on telling the story of our Company and we concise Financial Non-financial Civil Engineering Business in Japan ........................................................... 32 have edited it to keep it concise. More detailed information may be viewed on the corporate website and can be accessed through the QR code. Information Information https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/ Overseas Construction Business ................................................................. 34 Shimizu Corporate Report Reporting Organizations Investment and Development Business (Real Estate Development Business) ....... 36 ∙ Head office, branches and group companies in Japan and overseas Reports (to shareholders) Company brochure Engineering .............................................................................................. 38 ∙ Numerical results reflect activities of the head office, domestic branches and sales offices. IR meeting presentations stream DEW LCV........................................................................................................... 40 United Nations Global Compact Reporting Timeframe Summary financial statements Civil Engineering Quarterly Emerging Frontier Business ....................................................................... 42 Mainly fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (April 2019 to March 2020), Annual securities reports Corporate Governance Report includes some activities from earlier and later time periods Technology Development and Digital Strategy ............................................. 44 Guidelines for Reference IR website: Information ESG Management website: Talent Development and Working Style Reform ............................................ 46 ∙ Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018, Ministry of the Environment for shareholders and investors ESG activities https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/ir/ https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/csr/ *2 ∙ Sustainability Reporting Standards, GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Strengthening the Supply Chain and Group Management ............................ 48 ∙ International Integrated Reporting Framework, IIRC (International Contributing to the Global Environment ....................................................... 50 *1 The S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index is an index that weights companies based on carbon efficiency Integrated Reporting Council) All corporate activities reported on the corporate website and provision of sufficient disclosure of information on its carbon emissions. It overweights companies Detailed & https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/ Health and Safety ...................................................................................... 55 with high ratings. Shimizu has received a high rating in the second decile for carbon-to-revenue comprehensive footprint with sufficient disclosure. *2 Shimizu became a participant signatory in of the UN Global Compact in March 2013. 02 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 03 Creating Value Over Time Forging a Path to a New Era through a Spirit of Innovation 1946 ~ 2000 Shimizu has provided value that exceeds the expectations of customers for more than 210 years. We have accomplished this while maintaining the high aspirations of our founder Kisuke Shimizu I in taking a sincere approach to monozukuri craftsmanship From post-war recovery to establishing a firm position in the general construction industry and preserving and passing on the enterprising spirit of anticipating the times and taking on new challenges. Management reform modernization of management Performed construction on DN Tower 21 (Dai-Ichi Life and Norinchukin 1948 Company name changed from Shimizu Gumi to Shimizu Corporation Bank buildings) to preserve and renovate famous pre-war architecture 1804 ~ 1945 1962 Listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 1988-1995 First case of redevelopment that achieved both preservation of Took on the challenge of a never attempted suspension roof construction Founding to the end of World War II — National Indoor General Stadium, Main Gymnasium (now Yoyogi historical value and renovation to create a state-of-the-art office National Stadium) building in an area designated by 1964 Built a sports arena for the Games of the XVIII Olympiad in Tokyo used the Tokyo Metropolitan Government a suspension roof structure unprecedented in the world at that time to as an area with architectural create the complex curve of the roof exterior structures of historical value Kisuke Shimizu I and Kisuke Shimizu II Japan’s first bank Built Japan’s first full steel frame building built the foundation of Shimizu 1872 Kisuke Shimizu II built The Dai-Ichi National Bank 1910 Completed the headquarter building for 1804 Kisuke Shimizu I founded the company in Kanda Kajicho, (the former Mitsui-gumi House), Japan’s first bank Nihonbashi Maruzen Head Office, Japan’s Edo (present day Tokyo) first full steel frame building, in Nihonbashi 1838 Kisuke Shimizu I helped to build the west wing of Edo Castle 1849 Kisuke Shimizu I built the Zuishin Gate of Takada Hachiman Shrine (now Anahachiman Shrine) in the Ushigome district of Edo Built the Tokyo Bay Aqua-Line Expressway, which galvanized logistics in the Greater Tokyo Area Built Japan’s first in-ground LNG storage tank as a leader 1995-1997 Connecting Kawasaki City in Kanagawa Prefecture to Kisarazu City in Chiba in the new era of energy Prefecture, the expressway was built to galvanize transportation in the Greater 1970 Built Japan’s first in-ground LNG storage tank (capacity of 10,000 kl) Tokyo Area at the Negishi LNG Terminal of Tokyo Gas Co, Ltd., as the introduction Shimizu built the tunnel and Umihotaru sections, which were the world’s largest Tokyo Mokkoujou Arts & Crafts Furnishings shield tunnel construction project at the time of green energy progressed established to pass on woodworking techniques handed down from the craftsmen of old Began full-scale entrance into civil engineering 1884 Shimizu opened its own woodworking factory (present 1936 Shimizu built its first full dam, and completed 1859 Expanded business in the Yokohama port town day Tokyo Mokkoujou Arts & Crafts Furnishings) in Kiba, the Yasuoka power plant for Yahagi Hydroelectric Koto-ku, Tokyo, the only such factory owned by a major (now owned by Chubu Electric Power Co., Inc.) construction company Japan’s first fully Western-style hotel Shimizu opened the first design department in the 1868 Kisuke Shimizu II completed the Tsukiji Hotel, Japan’s construction industry first fully Western-style hotel 1886 The drafting department, which was the predecessor of the Design Division, was established to develop designers skilled in Western architecture Shimizu hired Eiichi Shibusawa as an advisor and put The Analects and the Abacus into practice as Established a new real estate headquarters and entered the the basis of management developer business Established the construction industry’s first R&D organization 1971 Established a new real estate headquarters and entered the developer 1887 The teachings of the entrepreneur Eiichi Shibusawa in business with the Shinmatsudo New Town Project the Analects and the Abacus was designated as the basis 1944 Established the research department in the Design for management policy and the business was managed Division, which was the predecessor to the Institute Pursuing full-scale globalization Renovated the National Museum of Western Art with Japan’s first seismic in accordance with its tenet that ethics and economics of Technology, as the first in the industry retrofitting were compatible 1974 Opened a sales office in Singapore 1998 The main building of the museum, which was designed by Le Corbusier and built by Supported traditional Japanese architecture Shimizu in 1959, was renovated with seismic retrofitting with the latest technology at the time — Major Showa-era renovation of the Daibutsuden (Great Buddha Hall) at Todaiji Temple 1980 Replaced the approximately 130,000 tiles on the massive roof, which covers an area of 7,900 m2, over the course of six years, beginning in 1974 The two Kisuke’s laid the foundation for Shimizu Corporation Kisuke Shimizu I, who was born in Toyama Prefecture, founded the company in 1804 in the Kanda Kajicho district of Edo (now Tokyo). From the moment he founded the company, he brought a strong resolve and a passion for monozukuri. He earned the trust of his customers by doing his work with integrity and devotion. He built a strong business base and attracted customers by using the company’s superior technology and management skills. This led to projects such as managing of the reconstruction of the West Wing of Edo-castle in 1838. Kisuke Shimizu II, who succeeded Kisuke Shimizu I, built the Tsukiji Hotel, Japan’s first western-style hotel in the Tsukiji district where foreigners lived, at his own expense. He managed the hotel after it was completed in 1868. He then went on to design and build the Daiichi National Bank (the Kisuke Shimizu I Kisuke Shimizu II former home of the Mitsui Group) and the Mitsui-gumi Exchange Bank, which were representative of early Meiji period architecture. Kisuke Shimizu II used his spirit of enterprise, advanced technical skills, and the trust he cultivated in these and other projects to further build the foundations of the company. Our Heritage (Japanese only) https://www.shimz.co.jp/heritage/ 04 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 05 2001 Onward Corporate Philosophy Toward the future of the construction industry ABOUT SHIMIZU Credo/Management Principles Credo Using Shimizu’s technological strengths in initiatives targeting environmental problems Heisei shrine renewal at Izumo Taisha, a national treasure, completed 2002 Developed the world’s first concrete materials recycling system 2013 Shimizu was in charge of preservation and repair work on 14 buildings during the renewal Built a soil washing plant for practical use at a Kawasaki site, and began operations of the Izumo Grand Shrine for the first time in 60 years. The main shrine and other buildings designated as important cultural treasures were included among the buildings renovated The Analects and the Abacus Efforts to strengthen monozukuri aimed at the 200th anniversary of the company’s founding 2003 Completed construction of the new main building of the Institute of Technology as part of a project to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the company’s founding The challenge of lifting up the steel frame trusses for a large roof, a first in the world — Changi Airport Terminal 3 SHIMZ VISION 2030 2007 Management Principles Built a new airport terminal in Singapore, an important economic center in Asia. The method of lifting up steel frame trusses measuring 300 meters wide and 215 m deep, was a first in the world Building renovation fusing traditional skills and the latest technology With devotion and a spirit of innovation, ― GINZA KABUKIZA 2013 Built a multipurpose complex consisting of we work to create value that exceeds the low-rise KABUKIZA and the KABUKIZA TOWER, a high-rise office building. It was built by combining the wisdom of the expectations and contribute to a sustainable tomorrow traditional master carpenters of the old Kabukiza with BIM modern technology 2008 Announced the corporate slogan of “Today’s Work, Tomorrow’s Heritage” SHIMIZU’S FUTURE First lecture presented in the Shimizu Open Academy public lecture course Received first international Emporis Skyscraper Award in Japan for construction of a high-rise building — Mode Gakuen Cocoon Tower Shimizu Group’s Strategy Towards 2030 (See p. 16 for further details) 2008 Created a complex cocoon-shaped building exterior through advanced simulation technology using a 3D system SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS (Photo provided by Shochiku Co., Ltd. and Kabuki Za) Creating a new town in an area devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake Earthquake restoration project on the coast of Miyagi and Iwate Prefectures The Shimizu Group will create new value and contribute to a safe, 2014 onward Contributed to development of new towns by raising the land elevation in healthy and sustainable future for everyone by transforming areas that were damaged by flooding from the tsunami in the cities of and challenging ourselves beyond construction Ishinomaki and Kesennuma in Miyagi Prefecture and Rikuzentakata in Iwate and co-creating with diverse partners. Prefecture Aiming for a society in which people can live comfortably and securely CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2011 Performed damage survey and mounted recovery activities for the Great East Japan Earthquake 2012 Communicating the spirit and techniques of craftsmanship to the next generation The headquarter building in Kyobashi, Monozukuri Training Center opened as 2017 Chuo-ku, Tokyo was completed. It is a venue for systematically learning the equipped with facilities that save energy (eco) during routine operation basics of monozukuri (craftsmanship) Corporate Slogan and respond flexibly to BCP during an emergency. Seismic isolation devices Today’s Work, Tomorrow’s Heritage were installed beneath the building and it can also serve as a local disaster center to accommodate people who cannot return home when a disaster occurs We have cultivated what Shimizu stands for throughout our history and will continue to create new history. Changing the way work is done at construction sites in the future 2017 Developed Shimz Smart Site, an AI-based next-generation production system This slogan expresses the message that we want people around the world to understand. DATA COLLECTION It is our resolute pledge to reflect that attitude in the performance of all processes, Aiming for business opportunities that create new value 2017 LCV* Headquarters established with the goal of creating new value in facilities and infrastructure 1 and in the individual conduct and actions of each and every employee. 2018 New Emerging Frontiers Division* established to pursue market research and technological 2 development in the ocean, space, and other frontiers with the aim of early commercialization 2019 SHIMZ VISION 2030, our new long-term vision *1 Life Cycle Valuation: See pp. 40-41 for further details. *2 Emerging Frontier Business: See pp. 42-43 for further details. 06 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 07 Top Message ABOUT SHIMIZU SHIMZ VISION 2030 SHIMIZU’S FUTURE SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Shimizu will create value that exceeds the expectations of society ¥99.6 billion reached in fiscal 2018. However, COVID-19 has become and contribute to creating a sustainable future through initiatives Reflecting on Fiscal 2019 and Status of Response a global pandemic and this has caused major changes in the busito the COVID-19 Pandemic ness environment since late fiscal 2019. Shimizu established the Crisis aimed at achieving SDGs and bold innovation. Response Headquarters in February due to the spread of COVID-19 and the entire company is taking steps to prevent infections. We endured the heartbreak of having an employee die from the virus in early April. —We will continue our transformation to adapt to the New Normal, and tackle challenging social CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The entire Group will work as one team to In light of this and the spread of the virus, which was growing more issues through the optimal mixture of the digital and the real— secure and improve current performance with a serious by the day, the Company placed highest priority on the lives and sense of urgency. safety of employees of the Group and its subcontractors and temporarily closed some job sites. We would like to express our appreciation to I would first like to offer my prayers for those who have lost their lives to COVID-19, and for a rapid recovery for those who have Shimizu announced SHIMZ VISION 2030, our long-term vision, in May our customers and all involved for their understanding of and cooperacontracted the virus. I would also like to express my heartfelt gratitude for the many healthcare providers and others working to 2019. Mid-Term Management Plan (2019–2023) was formulated as tion with Shimizu’s response. combat the virus. Phase 1 of that vision, and initiatives based on the key strategies in the The consolidated performance forecast for fiscal 2020 projects a plan have been steadily implemented. Consolidated financial results for deterioration in the profitability of construction due to rising construcWhile we still cannot predict when COVID-19 will be brought under control, the Shimizu Group has taken comprehensive steps fiscal 2019, the initial year of the Mid-Term Management Plan, were tion costs for preventive measures implemented against COVID-19, to prevent infection in our business activities, and will fulfill our responsibilities to society as a construction company. net sales of ¥1,698.2 billion (up 2.0% YoY) and ordinary income of among other factors, and a decline in revenues due to deterioration DATA COLLECTION ¥137.9 billion (up 3.0% YoY). We were able to maintain net income in capital investment trends and other aspects of the external environattributable to shareholders of the corporation at ¥98.9 billion (down ment. While severe conditions will persist, the entire Group will continue 0.7% YoY), a high level despite underperforming the record high of to unite as one team to secure and improve performance. President and Director 08 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 09 Top Message ABOUT SHIMIZU company whose essential mission is physical craftsmanship and we a large project consisting of the largest office building and hotel that Initiatives Aimed at Adapting to the New Normal will take care not to rely solely on digitalization as we work to maximize Progress on Mid-Term Management Plan Shimizu has developed on its own. In the surrounding Toyosu area, we and Corporate Transformation its use. We will fuse digital technology and the real world to transform (2019–2023) are pursuing creation of a Smart City by building a data platform that the company in the living with COVID-19 and post-COVID-19 eras. combines real and virtual space aimed at building digital twins. In the I also think that many people have developed a new appreciation renewable energy business, the number of initiatives in solar power We will seize this crisis as an opportunity and for the importance of gratitude and consideration for those around us Shimizu will accelerate initiatives targeting generation has increased and we have also entered the biomass power will adapt to the new normal and transform the during the current COVID-19 pandemic. I, too, wanted to draw closer sustainable growth based on the key strategies generation business. Shimizu is also targeting top share in the offshore company. to employees who undoubtedly were disoriented by the rapid changes in Mid-Term Management Plan (2019–2023). wind turbine construction business, which is a promising future marin the environment, felt lonely, and were worried about the future, so I ket. Construction of the world’s largest self-propelled SEP vessel* is SHIMZ VISION 2030 The current COVID-19 pandemic is transforming our sense of values decided to send videos and text messages to employees at each turnShimizu has positioned the five years of Mid-Term Management Plan (2019– underway. In the emerging frontier business, Shimizu is investing in and behavior, and is having a major impact on workstyles, business ing point in the pandemic. My annual chat sessions with employees 2023) as a period of advance investment to establish a new profit base. and collaborating with multiple startups to develop an integrated space models, and other corporate activities. We will not regard this pandemic were held with each business location online in 2020. With the theme We are pushing forcefully ahead on implementing this plan to expand and company that provides a diverse range of services that encompass only as a crisis; but also as an opportunity providing dynamic change. of being “united in spirit,” I again keenly felt the importance of comevolve the construction business, establish a profit base in non-construction both the hard and soft aspects of development, from launching small We believe that how rapidly we adapt and identify a path to success will munication. Although the COVID-19 pandemic has made it difficult to businesses, and strengthen the management base to support growth. We private sector rockets to satellite data transmission and analysis, and affect our performance in the future. Shimizu formed the New Normal engage in face-to-face dialog with stakeholders as we have always will accelerate global expansion and pursue ESG management to enhance infrastructure construction on the surface of the moon. Committee as a company-wide initiative to consider ways to adapt to done, we will be creative in the use of online and other means to comShimizu’s corporate value and contribute to the achievement of SDGs as our * SEP vessel: A ship with a Self-Elevating Platform to perform construction work. the living with COVID-19 phase and transform the company with our municate accurate information in a timely manner. basic policy. sights set on the post-COVID-19 phase. The Digital Strategy Promotion Accelerating Global Expansion SHIMIZU’S FUTURE See pp. 14-15 “Shimizu’s Response to COVID-19” for further details. Division established in April 2019 is pursuing initiatives to improve proExpanding and Evolving the Construction Business While the impact from COVID-19 pandemic differs in each country, the ductivity by optimizing the ICT environment and making greater use of To expand and evolve the construction business, we are concentrating current business environment in the overseas construction business digital technology. We are also working with the relevant head office on accelerating R&D and improving productivity, and will pursue digcontinues to be more severe than in Japan. Nevertheless, there is litdepartments to rapidly review systems and implement standardized ital transformation as our main initiative in the building construction tle expectation of significant growth in the Japanese construction maroperations, and are rolling out these changes company-wide. After segment. Digital transformation involves the fusion of data and digital ket over the medium and long term. There has consequently been no sorting out the things that must and must not be changed, we will technology through the use of computational design techniques, and change in our business policy of targeting promising overseas markets, redesign those that are not in sync with the times and use the changes building Shimz One BIM, which links the entire construction process planting strong roots, and seizing business opportunities. We established to accelerate workstyle reforms throughout the company. We are a from design to material fabrication and construction, and extending to Shimizu America, Inc. in March 2020 to manage all operations of our operation. In the civil engineering segment, we have made progress on North American business and have begun organizing our business strucSHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS the development and practical application of the basic technology for ture to generate synergies within the Group. We will work to accelerate Shimizu Smart Tunnel, a next-generation tunnel construction system global expansion in order to derive 25% of consolidated gross profit on using CIM and i-Construction, and are working to complete the entire net sales from overseas businesses in fiscal 2030, a goal stated in our system. We are searching for the best mix of digital technology and long-term vision. the real world to improve productivity and transform the construction system in a manner that does not neglect the actual location, structure Strengthening the Management Platform to Support Growth and real conditions, while making maximal use of digital technologies Shimizu is building a platform for generating innovation. We are making based on the spirit of innovation that Shimizu has exhibited since it was steady progress on initiatives in many areas, including technology develfounded. The order environment is expected to worsen in the future opment and digital strategy, human resource development and workstyle CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and we will strive to strengthen sales and proposal skills in addition to reform, and strengthening the supply chain and global management. Our these technological capabilities amid that environment. We will respond greatest management resource is human talent. We are pursuing workstyles to dynamic changes in society and accurately capture the increasingly reforms that will enable diverse talent to actively contribute as well as and diverse and complex needs of customers to improve business competinnovations related to human resources. I am personally taking the lead itiveness and earning power. on establishing an environment that enables employees to maintain health while working actively, and to improve job satisfaction and happiness of Establishing a Profit Base in Non-construction Businesses each and every employee. In addition to targeting sustained growth, it is essential to restructure Shimizu is also pursuing collaboration with companies in different the business portfolio and align it with the business environment. industries, and has established an investment budget of ¥10 billion over 10 Shimizu is targeting a profit structure of 35% of consolidated gross years to invest in venture firms and venture funds from fiscal 2020 onward DATA COLLECTION profit on net sales from non-construction businesses in its long-term with the goal of strengthening R&D and expanding our business domain. Our plan and seeks to innovate the business structure to use real estate first investment through this program was in a venture firm that possesses development, engineering, LCV, and emerging frontiers businesses high-performance wireless communications technology in July 2020. We as the drivers of growth. Our main initiatives include the following. In will continue to pursue strategic open innovation in the future. the real estate development business overseas, we are entering the In Group management, we are augmenting the Group company manNorth American real estate market in addition to various ASEAN counagement and support structure and are targeting further improvement in tries. In Japan, development of Toyosu 6-chome is underway. This is consolidated performance and Group governance. 10 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 11 Top Message ABOUT SHIMIZU Financial Status Environment (E) Governance (G) The financial KPIs in the Mid-Term Management Plan and Fiscal 2019 Contributing to a sustainable global environment Ensuring strict compliance and strengthening risk management To Our Stakeholders Results are as follows: Shimizu approaches environmental management in four ways: To further strengthen corporate governance, Shimizu increased the Environmental protection, environmental business, environmental risk number of non-executive directors from three to four in fiscal 2019 Financial KPIs and Fiscal 2019 Results management, and environmental social contributions. In May 2019, we (also increasing the number of outside directors from two to three, The current COVID-19 pandemic has reminded us of many things, such KPI Fiscal 2019 Results Fiscal 2023 Goal revised our Environmental Management Policy to clarify our position and the number of female directors from one to two). We shortened as respect for life, feeling compassion and gratitude, teamwork, and on contributing to the achievement of SDGs, and express our posithe term of directors from two years to one in order to clarify directhings that we must and must not change. In times like this, it is even ROE 13.6% 10% or higher tion for the entire group on engaging in business activities that reduce tor management responsibility. Shimizu has steadily strengthened more important to ground our business activities in our corporate credo, Equity ratio 38.3% 40% or higher negative environmental impact and initiatives to create and restore the the governance structure since April 2020 by clarifying responsibility The Analects and the Abacus, and embody our management principle SHIMZ VISION 2030 D/E ratio 0.6x 0.7x or less environment in every process. Efforts to mitigate environmental issues for business execution, and by revising parts of the executive officer of “With devotion and a spirit of innovation, we work to create value Dividend payout ratio 29.6% Around 30% are perpetual in nature and we will contribute to a sustainable global system to increase the percentage of non-executive directors and that exceeds expectations and contribute to a sustainable tomorrow.” community by making steady progress on reducing CO2 emissions thereby strengthen the management supervisory function. We are also We intend to the meet the expectations of our stakeholders and ask for Our basic policy on shareholder return is to strengthen financial soundand other medium and long-term goals stated in Ecological Mission strengthening management of investment risk, geopolitical risk, natural your continued support. ness as the foundation for long-term growth and maintain stable 2030–2050. We think that global warming due to climate change is disasters, and other risks. ordinary dividends. We aim to provide shareholder returns from profit an especially important management issue. We have endorsed the We will continue to conduct corporate activities in a fair and transearned from growth, and are targeting a consolidated dividend payout TCFD*1 Recommendations, and are analyzing climate-related risks and parent manner by steadily strengthening corporate governance. ratio of around 30%. We also intend to utilize capital more effectively opportunities and taking steps to prevent climate change. Shimizu is and will gradually reduce cross-shareholdings after thorough negotiaalso contributing to a sustainable global environment through green Shimizu will continue to work to earn even greater trust from our SHIMIZU’S FUTURE tion with our customers. infrastructure initiatives that make innovative use of natural forces in stakeholders by enhancing corporate value and achieving sustainable Our investment plans call for investments totaling ¥750 billion over building infrastructure and recycling the earth’s limited resources. growth over the medium and long term through fulfillment of our social the five years up to 2023. In fiscal 2019, we made steady investments *1 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures responsibilities by our business activities. into real estate development and businesses related to renewable energy. See p. 23 for further details on results achieved on non-financial KPIs in MidWe also invested in productivity improvements, R&D, and initiatives Social (S) Term Management Plan (2019–2023). related to human resources. We will continue to invest steadily toward Co-existing with all stakeholders future growth, while making sure to preserve financial soundness. Providing safe, reliable buildings, structures, and services to society See pp. 28-29 for further details on Mid-Term Management Plan (2019-2023). and working to improve customer satisfaction by providing value that exceeds a customer’s expectations are the mission of the Shimizu SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Group. Respecting human rights is naturally a cornerstone for those Practicing the Corporate Credo, The Analects and activities, and we are working to create an environment and workplaces the Abacus that make it easy to work, to promote diversity and inclusion through the Pursuing ESG Management advancement of women and people with disabilities, and efforts aimed at co-existing with local communities. In recent years, typhoons, torEach and every one of us will practice rential rains, strong winds, and other natural disasters have increased The Analects and Abacus in our daily actions and in frequency and severity, threatening our lives and lifestyles. We also pass it on to the next generation. We will manage through an ESG perspective to cannot neglect preparation for large earthquakes. Shimizu is working increase corporate value and achieve sustained to strengthen risk management by providing services for both the hard The corporate credo of Shimizu, The Analects and the Abacus, contains CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the teachings of Eiichi Shibusawa, who served as an advisor to the growth. and soft aspects of disaster prevention and mitigation, and revising our own BCP-related rules and systems as needed. Company in 1887. The philosophy of merging ethics and economics is Shimizu believes that working towards a sustainable global environWith a normal human lifespan of 100 years in sight, we will also a consistent thread through the sincere monozukuri (craftsmanment, co-existing harmoniously with local communities, and improving increase the mandatory retirement age for employees from age 60 to ship) and customer-first spirit espoused by our founder, Kisuke Shimizu corporate governance from a long-term perspective are major prerequiage 65 in April 2021 and will support diverse and flexible workstyles I, values that we have cherished since the company was founded. sites for achieving sustained corporate growth. We declared advancing for senior employees. Moreover, as the trends toward having fewer These enduring teachings, which remain relevant in every age, are ESG-based management as a basic policy in Mid-Term Management children, an aging society, and a declining productive workforce progimportant values of Shimizu and are the DNA of the Company that Plan (2019–2023) based on this conviction. ESG initiatives also conress, we are working to hire and develop skilled construction workers we have inherited from our predecessors. We will continue to provide tribute to achieving the sustainable development goals (SDGs). Each and strengthen our supply chain. We are also working to increase the training in corporate ethics based on The Analects and the Abacus. of our employees takes initiative to fulfill corporate responsibilities to attractiveness of the construction industry in general. In cooperation Management will take the lead in cultivating an ethical mindset and ensuring strict compliance, and every employee will continue to strive DATA COLLECTION society and a diverse range of stakeholders and, as a member of the with our subcontractors, we aim to reduce occupational accidents and current working generation, also takes responsibility for the next generincrease wages and benefits for skilled labor, while reducing the stanto embody this spirit. ation through our business activities. dard job site work week to five days. 12 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 13 Shimizu’s Response to COVID-19 Main Responses by Shimizu Thus Far ABOUT SHIMIZU Measures to Prevent Infection of Employees Steps Taken at Job Sites We pray that those who have lost their lives to COVID-19 To prevent infections within the company, we are conscientiously Shimizu is implementing Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and may rest in peace and express our sympathy to those who performing basic infection prevention steps such as hand washing, Tourism guidelines and the Company’s own measures to prevent the have contracted the virus and all those who have had their wearing masks, and avoiding the three conditions (of closed spaces, spread of infection. lifestyles affected by the spread of the virus. crowded places, and close contact), as well as pursuing staggered (1) Temperatures taken upon entering a workplace The Shimizu Group regards ensuring the safety of all working hours and telecommuting. (2) Wearing of masks or mouth shields (to reduce the risk of heatstroke) employees and their families as well as our customers, Roughly 50% of employees in permanent offices are telecom(3) Conscientious hand washing and disinfection at each location SHIMZ VISION 2030 subcontractors and suppliers, and everyone in the commuting. We are taking steps to prevent infection, including placing In addition to the three basic steps noted above, we are taking other munity as our highest priority. We have specified the steps thermographic cameras at office entrances or use of contactless thersteps to prevent infection according to the characteristics of the workto take to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and are working mometers to check each person’s temperature. Hand sanitizer stations place. Other steps include avoiding the three conditions (of closed to accomplish them as we take the requests and guidance have also been installed at each location. Social distancing is secured in spaces, crowded places, and close contact) by securing social disfrom the Japanese government and local governments “One mind” online chat with the president, during which the president engaged in direct workspaces and visiting tancing, installing partitions, and regularly ventilating and disinfecting dialog with local employees. (12 chats, in total) into account. guest spaces, and transplaces where many people gather, such as various meetings in the * The contents on See pp. 14-15 provide current information as of September 30, 2020. parent acrylic panels have workplace, break rooms and cafeterias. been installed to prevent Shimizu will continue to implement thorough, appropriate infection predroplet transmission. vention measures and will make the lives and safety of employees, workers, COVID-19 Crisis Response Headquarters Established Organizational Diagram of the COVID-19 Crisis Response Headquarters and others involved our top priority as we proceed with construction. SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Shimizu established the internal COVID-19 Crisis Response Headquarters HQ Director headed by the president in February 2020 in response to the spread of COVID-19. HQ Acting Director Thermographic camera installed at the first floor head office entrance Structure of the COVID-19 Crisis Response Headquarters Secretariat HQ Director: President Support for Subcontractors HQ Acting Director: Executive Vice President The Japanese government issued a state of emergency declaration for seven Overseas Response Domestic Response Officer in charge of domestic response: Executive Vice President Matters concerning overseas business, etc. Employee measures prefectures on April 7, 2020. In light of the spread of COVID-19 in the Greater ● Matters concerning employees, etc. Matters concerning personnel working Officer in charge of overseas response: Executive Vice President (and overseas, etc. ● Matters concerning office management, etc. Tokyo Area and other urban areas, which was increasing in severity day by day, Matters concerning secondees and Workplace measures Shimizu set the policy of closing corporate offices in areas covered by the state Acting HQ Director) personnel studying abroad, etc. ● Matters concerning management of Mouth shield (to prevent Partitions installed in the worker break room SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Director of Secretariat: Officer in charge of crisis management Matters concerning personnel on overseas workplaces, etc. of emergency until it was lifted, in principle. This decision was based on our view heatstroke) business trips, etc. Customer measures Domestic response: Each general headquarters and business headquarMatters concerning support on office and ● Matters concerning reporting to and that the lives and safety of Shimizu Group employees and employees of subsupplies, etc. coordination with customers, etc. ters, Human Resources Dept., General Affairs Dept. contractors was our top priority and to further strengthen efforts to prevent the Social Contributions Overseas response: Global Strategy Div., International Div., Human Resources Supervision & instruction Reporting & collaboration spread of COVID-19. We provided a certain level of business closure subsidies The spread of COVID-19 has caused a nationwide shortage of medical supplies. Dept., General Affairs Dept. A collaborative structure is also rapidly being to protect the employment of people who work at subcontractors and related Shimizu donated medical supplies, including masks and other personal protecIndividual divisions built between each of the divisions and the Crisis Response Headquarters. individuals who work with them during the closure period, and to secure a stable tive equipment (PPE) at the request of the Japan Business Federation and to supply chain after construction resumed. support medical facilities. Impact of COVID-19 on the Shimizu Group Shimizu’s View on COVID-19 Shimizu Initiatives Aimed at the New Normal CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Areas of Anticipated Impact In consideration of the impacts of COVID-19 on the Shimizu Group Nationwide Roll-out of New Normal Activities New Workstyles from Living with COVID-19 to Post-COVID-19 Business activities noted at left, the Crisis Response Headquarters is considering and proThe current COVID-19 crisis has heightened people’s awareness of viruses We are rapidly pursuing efforts to digitalize operations and reform work• Increase in construction costs from measures to prevent infection viding support for the steps the Shimizu Group should take to carry on and caused changes in behavior. Amid this, Shimizu recognizes the need to styles by equipping employees with mobile PCs, using video conferences, • Deterioration in construction profitability due to delays in construction, etc. with business, based on the following policies and the prerequisite of bring about a transformation in corporate activities and workstyles aimed at and other means to reduce the risk of infection while maintaining corpo• Decline in orders received due to postponement and modification of new ensuring employee safety. project plan responding to changes in the environment and establishing a new normal. We rate activities. Specific steps taken include the installation of video confer(1) Place highest priority on ensuring the safety of employees and • Changes in external environment such as real estate market conditions and are currently rolling out these new normal activities company-wide. We are encing systems in each meeting room and installation of privacy booths capital investment trends their families. reviewing each operation at branches and other locations and making changes for video conferencing where people can concentrate to respond to the (2) Respond in a manner that complies with national and local governSupply-chain related that will lead to improved productivity and better performance. We will also raprapid increase in video conferences. We are also making bold changes • Securing the supply chain, mainly for construction materials ment policies. idly implement measures to establish a company-wide cross-organizational ICT such as promoting paperless and PC-based workstyles by establishing Working environment (3) Formulate an action plan for business continuity and implement environment and modify systems, work to change the mindset of employees, a workflow for document approval and eliminating the need to stamp on DATA COLLECTION • Disinfection in workplaces and careful avoidance of the three close conditions the plan. and implement workstyle reforms. internal communications. In addition to these steps, we are also estab• Encouraging telecommuting and staggered working hours Shimizu has also formed the New Normal Committee as a compa• Establishing a work environment that provides for social distancing lishing spaces in some company housing and dormitories that can be ny-wide committee that will consider ways to transform the company used as satellite offices to realize flexible workstyles. Shimizu is also Overseas business activities from the initial phase of the COVID-19 crisis to the living with COVID-19 • Increase in geopolitical risk that results in closure of workplaces working to improve productivity by maximizing the use of ICT in job site phase and the post-COVID-19 phase. management operations through the use of wearable cameras and video conferencing systems to inspect rebar layout, and other work processes. 14 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 15 SHIMZ VISION 2030 We formulated SHIMZ VISION 2030, our long-term vision in May 2019. Shimizu Group’s Strategy Towards 2030 Towards the Achievement of our Vision ABOUT SHIMIZU The Shimizu Group will create new value and contribute to a safe, The Shimizu Group aims to be a Smart Innovation Company that creates new value through the healthy and sustainable future for everyone by transforming and challenging integration of three innovations ourselves beyond construction and co-creating with diverse partners. SHIMZ VISION 2030 Smart Innovation Company Business Structure Innovation Smart Innovation Company · Diversify business models, accelerate global expansion, Creating new value through transformation & taking on challenges improve group management capabilities Technology Innovation Fusing the innovations · Develop advanced technology to respond to the mega-trends of the future Technology Talent a Resilient an Inclusive a Sustainable · Accelerate construction process technology development to increase competitive edge society society society Business Structure Talent Innovation SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Where everyone can feel Where all people can live Where future generations safe and secure together in comfort can inherit a well-cared · Promote working style reforms that will enable diverse talent and health for environment Smart Solutions to thrive · Build knowledge/expertise through co-creation with others Company ● ● ● The Value Shimizu Provides ● ● ● SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS The Value Shimizu Group Provides Target Revenue Structure We will contribute to the 17 SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) by providing value through innovation By evolving into a Smart Innovation Company, we aim to achieve consolidated Realizing a resilient society Targeted Goals ordinary income of ¥200 billion or higher in fiscal 2030. The composition of FY2030 With the heightened risk of natural disasters such as earthquakes, super-typhoons and torrential rain, there is consolidated gross profit is 65% for construction, 35% for non-construction an ever-increasing need to protect lives and businesses. businesses. And by region, 75% domestic business and 25% overseas. ■ Building strong and resilient infrastructure ■ Extending the life of the built-environment Overseas 25% ■ Disaster prevention & mitigation technology ■ Disseminate ecoBCP* * Facilities and urban development concepts that can effect both saving measures for normal operation (eco), and business continuity planning (BCP) for emergencies. FY2018 Domestic 75% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overseas 5% inclusive society Realizing an With rapid changes such as aging, population decline and urbanization, the future requires a society where Domestic 95% Consolidated gross profit % 35 Non-construction businesses anyone can live safely and comfortably. ■ Urban development utilizing ICT ■ Use of universal design 10 % ■ Provide built-environments that enhance ■ Expand the fields of human activity (to the oceans and space) Non-construction businesses 65 health and well-being 90% % Construction businesses Realizing a sustainable society Construction businesses As global warming, deforestation and environmental pollution become more serious, we must increase efforts DATA COLLECTION to leave behind an bountiful earth for the next generation. Consolidated ordinary income ■ Use of sustainable energy ■ Promotion of energy-saving, energy creation and ZEB (zero energy) facilities FY2018 FY2030 ■ CO2 emissions reduction in all business ¥133.9 billion ¥200.0 billion or higher activities ■ Conservation of the natural environment and biodiversity 16 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 17 Initiatives in Innovation Business Structure Innovation Electric Power Retail Business Ocean Development Shimizu is pursuing initiatives aimed at participation in businesses We are nearing the limits of urban land reclamation as sea levels ABOUT SHIMIZU Aiming to Be a Smart Innovation Company that generate power with renewable energy such as wind power, biomass, geothermal, and small hydroelectric power generation. In rise due to global warming and this is increasing interest in floating structures, floating cities, and other ocean development in various June 2020, we built a solar power generation facility with a rated locations around the world. Shimizu announced the GREEN FLOAT output of 400 kW on a section of the Chubu University Ena campus future ocean city concept in 2008 and the OCEAN SPIRAL deep Generating New Innovations in Ena City, Gifu Prefecture and launched a non-FIT power sea future city concept in 2010. These concepts have achieved a generation business (which does not use the Feed-In Tariff system) certain amount of recognition and acclaim worldwide in ocean and an electric power retail business in procuring and supplying structures. Shimizu will contribute to the expansion of the sphere of green electric power. Shimizu will continue to procure green human activities from land to the ocean and realizing sustainable electric power and supply it to customers who place importance on communities by fusing our city planning capabilities with our environmental management in the future. floating structure technical capabilities. SHIMZ VISION 2030, our long-term vision, raises the goal of creating value that anticipates the times (Smart Innovation). SHIMZ VISION 2030 We aim to be a Smart Innovation Company that creates new value through the integration of three innovations in business structure, technology, and talent. We are also training human resources skilled in “monozukuri” craftsmanship and are passing on technologies to the next generation in Koto-ku, Tokyo. Technology Innovation INNOVATION FUTURE SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Automating Construction with AI Hydrogen Energy System Creating A large decline in the number of highly skilled technical workers is anticipated in the future, making it necessary to secure Shimizu developed the hydrogen energy utilization system jointly with the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology new value people to perform the work and improve productivity. Shimizu began developing the Shimz Smart Site next-generation building production system in 2016. This system makes it (AIST). The system takes surplus electricity generated by solar power and other renewable energy sources, converts it into hydrogen, and stores it. It is then utilized for power generation as needed. in three areas possible for humans and robots to work together on Trial operation of the system began in July 2019 at the construction. We first introduced the system at the job site for a Koriyama comprehensive regional wholesale market administrahigh-rise hotel in Shin-Osaka and are continuing to apply it to tion building in Koriyama, Fukushima Prefecture. We aim to other job sites in stages. commercialize this as an energy network for Smart Cities. This section introduces innovations SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS in business structure, technology, and talent that Shimizu is currently pursuing. Talent Innovation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Developing Modern Master Craftsmen Diversity Shimizu built the Monozukuri Training Center in April 2017 as a There are major changes occurring in society with digitalization practical training center that provides hands-on training for Shimizu’s and globalization. Accepting human resources with diverse young engineers in the basic knowledge for framework construction, characteristics and values, and using their differing abilities and quality inspection methods, and other practical aspects of construction. opinions to generate innovation and enhance corporate value is We also established the “Takumi Training Center” in July 2020 to essential for sustainable growth. Shimizu is actively employing provide hands-on training for skilled construction workers, and are global talent and we are aiming to build an organization that developing the talent that will operate our construction business in enables diverse human resources to demonstrate their creativity. the future. DATA COLLECTION 18 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 19 Shimizu Group Businesses ABOUT SHIMIZU Shimizu’s Business Fields: Evolution and Growth Communication with Important Stakeholders The Shimizu Group consists of the Company, 70 subsidiaries, and 16 affiliates. We count community members and others among our important stakeholders We have a variety of businesses, including construction, investment development, in addition to our employees, customers, and shareholders/investors. engineering and LCV Business, both in Japan and overseas. Shimizu builds good relationships with all of our stakeholders and engages in responsible corporate activities. (as of June 26, 2020) SHIMIZU CORPORATION Group Companies Stakeholders Main Activities Description SHIMZ VISION 2030 Construction Business Construction Business Provide value that exceeds the customer’s expectations, rather than simply accurately assessing the Business activities Main Subsidiaries customer’s needs Customers ● FaB-Tec Japan Corporation ● Daiichi Setsubi Engineering Corporation Website Provide information on a timely basis ● SHIMIZU BLC Co., Ltd. ● Shimizu Corporation (China) Ltd. ● Shimizu North America LLC General Meeting of Shareholders Held annually in June Main Affiliates ● The Nippon Road Co., Ltd. Financial results meetings Future forecasts, etc. explained to analysts SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Building Construction Civil Engineering Overseas Construction Shareholders Business in Japan Business in Japan Business Development Business and Investors P30 P32 P34 IR events Offer tours of job sites, the Institute of Technology, and other locations in Japan and overseas Main Subsidiaries Non-Construction Businesses ● Shimizu Comprehensive Development Corporation Meetings for overseas Hold meetings with institutional investors in Europe, the U.S., and Asia. ● Shimizu Investment (Asia) Pte. Ltd. institutional investors ● Shimizu Realty Development (U.S.A) Inc Main Affiliates Internal reports Published 10 times a year ● Makuhari Techno-Garden Co., Ltd. Informal social gatherings with Other Companies Direct dialog between the president and employees nationwide every year SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS the president Investment and Development (Sales of construction equipment, leasing, Employees Business (Real Estate Development Business) P36 Engineering P38 PFI business, and others) Family Day event An event held for the family members of employees Main Subsidiaries ● MILX Corporation ● SC Machinery Corp. Union activities Discuss labor relations and work environment ● Tama Medical PFI Corporation ● Shimizu Finance Co., Ltd. Kanekikai A conference for Shimizu subcontractors in 12 regions nationwide ● Shimizu International Capital (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Subcontractors LCV P40 Emerging Frontier Business P42 ● Shimizu International Finance (U.S.A), Inc. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Successor education & training An initiative to develop the next generation of leaders Briefings to explain construction Held to explain construction projects before construction begins projects to local residents Members of the Local Shimizu Group Management Resources Supporting Growth Community Job site tours To report the status of progress on construction Social contribution activities Local events and active volunteer participation Technology Development and Digital Strategy Talent Development and Working Style Reform Strengthening Supply Chain and Group Management We will establish new research facilities and external We will hire and develop talent for the future of the We will strengthen and expand the construction supply Government and alliances to accelerate the development of innovative global Shimizu Group, and create a workplace chain to support a reliable production structure in Japan Administrative BCP response Rapid response to government requests during an emergency DATA COLLECTION technologies across Group businesses. environment that accommodates diverse and flexible and overseas. Agencies We will implement and use digital platforms to working styles and leads to higher employee satisfaction. We will improve reliability, expand alliances, and transform internal business models and working styles We will build a system of inclusive human resource implement a Group management structure that will External Activities in collaboration with throughout the entire Group. management that will enable diverse, global talent and enable diversification and global expansion. Work together to solve social problems Organizations NPOs and NGOs people skilled in innovation to contribute actively. PP44~ 45 PP46~ 47 PP48~49 20 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 21 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights The Shimizu Group in FY2019 Non-financial KPIs We specified the following non-financial KPIs in the Mid-Term Management Plan (2019–2023) to improve labor productivity in the construction business, ABOUT SHIMIZU enhance corporate value from the ESG perspectives, and contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals (SDGs). Financial Highlight Construction orders awarded Net sales Improve productivity Environmental (E) Improve productivity in the construction business (vs. FY2016) Reduce CO2 emissions in the construction business (vs. FY2017)*1 ¥1,318.7 billion ¥1,698.2 billion 11.8% 7.0% (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Fiscal 2019 results) (Fiscal 2019 results) 2,000 2,000 SHIMZ VISION 2030 1,698.2 We established the percentage improvement in productivity in the construction business We have established long-term targets for the percentage reduction in CO2 emissions in 1,500 1,500 (compared to fiscal 2016) as a KPI because we recognize this as an especially important the construction business (compared to fiscal 2017) in 2030 and 2050 in Ecological 1,318.7 indicator from the perspectives of improvement in the work environment and addressing Mission 2030–2050. An interim numerical target for 2023 has also been set to make the medium and long-term labor shortage, apart from the ESG perspective. steady progress on and monitor the various measures. 1,000 1,000 500 500 Fiscal 2023 Target Main Related SDGs Fiscal 2023 Target Main Related SDGs 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Ordinary income Net income attributable to shareholders of the Corporation/ROE 20.0 % or higher 10.0 % or higher Net income ROE ¥137.9 billion ¥98.9 billion 13.6 % (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 200 100 98.9 20 SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS 150 137.9 75 15 Social (S) Governance (G) 13.6% Improve employee satisfaction scores* 2 Number of serious legal violations 100 50 10 50 0 25 0 5 0 3.76 (Fiscal 2019 results) 0(Fiscal 2019 results) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) The job satisfaction indicator consists of three questions on the awareness survey of The number of serious legal violations is naturally an indicator that we must achieve, but all Shimizu employees: 1) relationships of trust in the workplace, 2) job satisfaction, we have established this as an indicator to make clear our resolve and to point everyone and 3) mental and physical health. It is calculated by taking the average of ratings by in the company in the same direction. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE all employees on a 5-point scale. Net assets Total assets/Equity ratio Total assets Equity ratio ¥736.4 ¥1,904.9 38.3 Fiscal 2023 Target Main Related SDGs Fiscal 2023 Target Main Related SDGs billion billion % (Billions of yen) 800 736.4 (Billions of yen) 2,000 1,904.9 38.3% (%) 40 4.0 or higher 0 DATA COLLECTION 600 1,500 30 400 1,000 20 *1 : Targets for Shimizu Ecology Mission 2030-2050 activities *2 : Scores from the Shimizu Japan employee awareness survey (average of 5-level ratings) 200 500 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 22 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 23 Special Contents Building and Infrastructure a Resilient SDGs Initiatives Created society Construction that Protects Lives ABOUT SHIMIZU Where everyone can feel and Businesses from Disasters with Shimizu safe and secure As a member of the construction industry, we view construction, mainte(Sustainable Future) nance, and management of facilities and infrastructure that are resilient to disasters, and renovation to make them safer and more secure as the mission We want to realize a society that gives all people a real of Shimizu. From the perspective of SDGs, we contribute mainly to SDG 9, With the heightened risk of natural disasters such as earthsense of abundance and happiness, sustainable Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, and SDG 11, Sustainable Cities and quakes, super-typhoons and torrential rain, there is an Communities. A representative example of infrastructure that is resilient to communities that provide hope for the future, and ever-increasing need to protect lives and businesses. We will disasters is dam construction. The Yamba Dam (Gunma Prefecture) that was SHIMZ VISION 2030 communities that strive to achieve SDGs (sustainable contribute to the development of safe, secure, and resilient completed in March 2020 is a concrete gravity dam that is 116 m high. development goals) together with our customers. communities by building resilient buildings and infrastructure. This dam provides flood control for and maintains normal function of the These are the aspirations of the Shimizu Group. Tonegawa River. It was built mainly to supply water for urban use and to generate electricity. Shimizu also contributes by renovating existing dams to We operate a broad range of businesses, such as real enable them to be used effectively. We built a tunnel spillway in the Kanogawa estate development, engineering, facility management, and Dam in Ehime Prefecture to increase flood control capacity. This was the first energy, that extend beyond the construction industry and time this was attempted in redevelopment construction in Japan. possesses many kinds of technology and expertise. We will combine this “wisdom” to create new value to Social Trends, Issues, and Needs SHIMIZU’S FUTURE satisfy each customer and user. • Increasing intensity and frequency of natural disasters • Urban/regional polarization • Aging social infrastructure • Preserving cultural and natural heritage sites • Demand for extending the lifespan of facilities Value that Shimizu Creates with Customers • Building strong and resilient infrastructure • Extending the life of the built-environment • Disaster prevention & mitigation technology • Disseminate ecoBCP SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Tunnel spillway (on left in photo) built in the Kanogawa Dam (Ozu City, Ehime Prefecture) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DATA COLLECTION Yamba Dam, a 116-m-high concrete gravity dam (Agatsuma-gun, Gunma Prefecture) Video introducing the Yamba Dam construction project (Japanese only) https://www.shimz.co.jp/company/about/pr/ 24 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 25 Creating Communities Targeting ZEB with the Latest an Inclusive a Sustainable society Where All Can Live society in Energy Conservation and ABOUT SHIMIZU Where all people can live Comfortably Where future generations Energy Generation together in comfort can inherit a well-cared and health Shimizu will build Toyosu MiCHi no Eki, Japan’s first “urban road station” for environment Shimizu has led the industry in working to create ZEB (zero energy in the Toyosu 6-chome, Blocks 4-2 and 4-3 Project (tentative name) in building) thus far. We acquired the first carbon neutral* status in Koto-ku Tokyo, which is scheduled to open in the fall of 2021. In addition Japan in our headquarters building, which was completed in 2012, to providing open space for shoppers to relax and interact, it will also be and completed Seicho-no-Ie’s Office in the Forest in 2013, Japan’s With rapid changes such as aging, population decline and urbanAs global warming, deforestation and environmental pollution equipped with a smartphone-compatible voice navigation system to easfirst ZEB. We are also building new office buildings for our Tohoku ization, the future requires a society where everyone can live ily guide visitors, including wheelchair users and visually impaired peobecome more serious, we must increase efforts to leave behind Branch and Hokuriku Branch using new energy conservation and safely and comfortably. Shimizu is contributing to the creation ple, to their destinations by the appropriate route. Urban digital twins will an bountiful earth for the next generation. Shimizu will contribenergy generation technologies. Shimizu will build the region’s first SHIMZ VISION 2030 of inclusive communities where everyone can live in health and be built to link physical (real) space to cyber (virtual) space. The goal is ute to the realization of an environmentally friendly, sustainable ZEB. for Hokuriku Branch using natural energy from the local clicomfort by building user-friendly facilities and communities. to create a community that is comfortable and provides a high quality of society through corporate activities aimed at reducing the burmate and a hydrogen energy usage system. We aim to contribute to a life full of vitality. We think this will not only contribute to the achievement den on the environment. broad range of SDGs, including SDG 7, Affordable and Clean Energy, of SDG 11, Sustainable Cities and Communities; it will also contribute to and SDG 13, Climate Action. achieving SDG 3, Good Health and Well-being, SDG 8, Decent Work and * An initiative in offsetting the total volume of greenhouse gas emissions from business activities and other company-related sources with reduction in emissions and Economic Growth, and SDG 10, Reduced Inequalities. emissions absorbed in other locations. Social Trends, Issues, and Needs Social Trends, Issues, and Needs SHIMIZU’S FUTURE ● Aging society with low birthrate ● Health management ● Climate change ● Ocean pollution ● Waste reduction & recycling ● Progression of the Fourth Industrial ● Workstyle reform (job satisfaction ● Natural environment and ecosystem protection Revolution innovation) ● Environmental compliance ● Diversity & inclusion Value that Shimizu Creates with Customers Value that Shimizu Creates with Customers ● Use of sustainable energy ● Promotion of energy-saving, energy creation and • Urban development utilizing ICT • Use of universal design ZEB (zero energy) facilities ● CO2 emissions reduction in all business activities • Provide built-environments that enhance health and well-being ● Conservation of natural environment and biodiversity New Tohoku Branch office building (completed perspective, Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture) A next-generation office building that aims to achieve energy conservation and resilience to • Expand the fields of the frontiers of human activity (to the oceans and space) disasters, and be a workplace where people can work in health SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Voice navigation system CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DATA COLLECTION Toyosu MiCHi no Eki, Japan’s first “urban roadside station” (completed perspective, Koto-ku, Tokyo) The new Hokuriku Branch office, which was selected as a “sustainable building pacesetter project (CO2 reduction pacesetter)” by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, News release News release Transport and Tourism (MLIT) and as a “project that builds an independent distributed energy system using hydrogen” by the Ministry of the Environment in fiscal 2019. Shimizu builds Japan’s first “Urban Roadside Station” in our Developing Facilities in the Toyosu area Shimizu Soon Beginning Construction of the Most Energy-efficient Building in Hokuriku (Completed perspective, Kanazawa City, Ishikawa Prefecture) https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/news-release/2020/2019055.html https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/news-release/2020/2019045.html 26 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 27 Mid-Term Management Plan of Shimizu Group <2019-2023> Shimizu formulated Mid-Term Management Plan of Shimizu Group (2019-2023) in May 2019. It contains the basic policies and key strategies for the next five years. ABOUT SHIMIZU 中期経営計画 経営数値目標（連結ベース） Positioning Management の位置付け 〈2019－2023〉 of the Mid-Term Plan <2019-2023> Management Financial Goals (consolidated base) Towards the Realization of SHIMZ VISION 2030 In order to achieve sustained growth, we plan to maintain the construction business while steadily investing in and improving profitability of non-construction businesses. Our aim is sustainable growth of the company’s value. We are positioning the next five years as an upfront investment period to establish new earnings platforms. Sustainable growth Mid-Term Management Plan (2019-2023) period with new value creation (Billions of Yen) FY2018 Results FY2019 Results FY2023 Target Financial KPI Consolidated ordinary SHIMZ VISION 2030 Upfront investment income ¥ 200 billion Total net sales 1,664.9 1,698.2 1,880.0 period to establish new or higher ■ROE earnings platforms Construction business 1,504.6 1,517.8 1,550.0 10% or higher Non-construction businesses Non-construction businesses ■Equity ratio ¥ 140 billion (Development & others) 160.3 180.4 330.0 ¥ 133.9 billion Non-construction 40% or higher Non-construction businesses businesses Gross profit 216.6 225.6 235.0 ■Debt to equity ratio Construction business 196.8 198.7 185.0 0.7 times or less ¥ 56.2 billion Construction Construction Construction businesses ■Dividend payout ratio Non-construction businesses businesses businesses (Development & others) 19.8 26.9 50.0 Approx. 30% SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Ordinary income 133.9 137.9 140.0 FY2014 Result FY2018 Result FY2023 FY2030 Mid-Term Management Plan 2014 (2014-2018) Mid-Term Management Plan (2019-2023) SHIMZ VISION 2030 01 基本方針 Capital Management Policy Investment Plan (FY2019-FY2023) 03 Basic Policy □ Reduction of Securities Holdings In order to achieve the 10-year Plan and establish new revenue SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS bases, we will invest ¥750 billion over the next five years. Our company’s basic policy is to enhance the corporate value of Shimizu Group and contribute to the achievement of SDGs. Gradually reduce securities holdings and use part of the proceeds to implement share buybacks. Investment Type Investment Amount (5 years) □ Increase Shareholder Returns I. Construction Business II. Non-construction Businesses Productivity improvement & R&D While maintaining a basic policy of building a foundation for long-term growth by ¥100 billion Transform our construction business Create value beyond our core businesses strengthening our financial position and maintaining stable dividends (ordinary Respond to the business environment & maximize company capabilities Focus investment in growth areas dividends), we will return profits earned through growth with a consolidated payout Strengthen profitability of overseas construction business Collaboration Optimize business and regional portfolios ratio target of 30%. & Synergy Building Construction Civil Engineering Real Estate Development Engineering Overseas Construction LCV* 1 Frontier Business*2 (JPY) : Ordinary dividends : Special dividends 36 36 Real estate development business ¥500 billion CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35 Towards ordinary Maintain stable dividends of ¥20 dividends 30 per share Consolidated III. Management Foundations 26 26 16 dividends payout 22 ratio target of 30% 25 Infrastructure, renewable energy, Technology Development and Digital Strategy Talent Development and Working Style Reform Strengthened Supply Chain and Group Management new businesses ¥130 billion 20 12 16 (frontier business, etc.) 16 15 *1: LCV (Life Cycle Valuation): Respond to customer needs, utilize 6 renewable energy, IoT, etc. to provide comprehensive services and solutions including investment and partnerships 10 20 20 *2: Emerging Frontier Business: Business development in Talent development ¥20 billion 14 14 Global Expansion ESG-based Management promising future markets such as space, ocean and harmony with nature, and investment in next generation technology 5 10 10 8 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2023 (FY) Total investment over 5 years ¥750 billion Mid-Term Management Plan DATA COLLECTION Corporate Value Contribution to SDGs (2019-2023) Mid-Term Management Plan of Shimizu Group <2019-2023> https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/strategy/index.html#sec4 See p. 23 for non-financial KPIs. 28 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 29 Building Construction Business in Japan TOPICS Taking on the Challenges of Prominent Large-scale Projects in Japan Tackling Construction of the Highest Ultra-high-rise Building in Japan ABOUT SHIMIZU Shimizu is building the main tower (Block A) and East tower (Block B-2) of the Type 1 urban Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities redevelopment project currently under construction in the Toranomon/Azabudai area, based on Overview of Activities the concept of a modern urban village surrounded by greenery and equipped with a plaza to We are implementing more improvements in job site production sysfoster person-to-person interaction. The main tower is an ultra-high-rise building that will be tems and infrastructure to achieve sustained growth of the domestic the highest building in Japan when completed, at a maximum height of about 330 m. Shimizu construction business, and are making a concerted effort on various will continue to work full force on completing this challenging project by March 2023. (See the initiatives to improve productivity and strengthen competitiveness. page at left for the completed perspective) We are innovating operating processes in various ways through Development of New Technology and Evolution of Shimz One BIM standardization, ICT, and migrating to the cloud, developing and rolling We will use all of our strengths to create even more Shimizu also has large projects planned for the future. Such projects include train station SHIMZ VISION 2030 out self-controlled robots and construction methods that streamline the reliable construction production systems based on buildings and redevelopment in the Greater Tokyo Area and core regional cities, and as well construction process, and building production systems based on BIM. strong organizational alliances that include Shimizu As the needs of our customer and communities grow more diverse as e-commerce and sports business-related body-building structures and other projects. We group companies. We will work to transform the received orders for these large projects and subsequently developed various new technologies and technology advances, we are restructuring our business strategy domestic building construction business, which is the to build ultra-high-rise buildings and wooden structures with large open spaces to achieve and organization to achieve flexibility, and strengthening our proposal core of our construction business, to enhance quality high quality, highly efficient construction. We also built Shimz One BIM, a system that improves capabilities through use of computational design. operating efficiency by linking BIM design data to and improve competitiveness. Our goal is to anticiFuture Initiatives every stage, from creation through fabrication and pate changes in society and customer needs, expand We will further strengthen our strategic approach and cost competitiveness operation, and are accelerating innovation in varibusiness scale, and build a stable revenue base. from the upstream stage to improve our ability to respond to increasingly ous scenarios by using computational design techSHIMIZU’S FUTURE complex large-scale projects, and will accelerate development of machinniques (see p. 45 for further details) to strengthen ery and construction methods and the use of AI and other next-generation our ability to produce high value-added proposals. Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan technologies targeted at actual projects. We will also take advantage of • Improve productivity and sales capabilities Completed perspective of Moriokaminami Park PFI our extensive construction record to strengthen our renovation business • Leverage technology to respond to customers’changing needs maintenance project (Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture) and will accelerate strategic initiatives for large-scale renovation projects • Expand renovations and enter new businesses that incorporate response to new functions and needs such as zero energy buildings (ZEB) and business continuity planning (BCP). Strengthening the Renovation Business and Contributing to Creation of a Shimizu will also pursue a finely segmented sales strategy and achieve Sustainable Future innovation in building construction systems. We will strengthen group manSHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS agement capabilities to maximize synergistic benefits and pursue and enter We will work to further strengthen our ability to secure orders in the renovation market, which Type 1 urban redevelopment project in the Toranomon/Azabudai area is expected to expand in the future, through our company-wide renovation strategy based on (completed perspective, in Minato-ku, Tokyo) new business areas through close alliances with group companies. (Construction by Shimizu: Main tower (center right) and East tower (center building)) the three cornerstones of 1) clearly outlining a sales strategy, 2) building a framework for initiatives, and 3) strengthening Shimizu Group alliances. We will accomplish this by capitalizing on our extensive construction record, which stretches back more than 210 years, and using the latest environmental and BCP-related technologies. In fiscal 2019, we performed seismic retrofitting renovation work on Yoyogi 1st Gymnasium, which Shimizu built as the swimming competition arena for the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games. We also performed seismic retrofitting renovation work on the Ministry of Finance headquarCORPORATE GOVERNANCE ters building (completed in 1943) using the large seismic base isolation structure in Japan, and successfully completed large-scale renovation work to increase the seating capacity of Yokohama Stadium to around 6,000 seats. Shimizu will continue to provide the optimal solution to the needs of customers over a building’s entire life cycle and contribute to creating a sustainable future. Yoyogi 1st Gymnasium (Shibuya-ku, Tokyo) (First built in 1964, seismic retrofitting completed in 2020) DATA COLLECTION Business Topics Yoyogi National Stadium, a Symbol of Challenge https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/topics/construction/item01/content01/ 30 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 31 Civil Engineering Business in Japan TOPICS Automated Concrete Pouring System for Mountain Tunnel Lining Developed The decline in skilled construction workers is a future concern in Japan. Skilled workers perABOUT SHIMIZU form the work of pouring concrete and compacting concrete in narrow spaces when constructContributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities ing mountain tunnels, and steps to reduce their workload are therefore required. The quality of Overview of Activities concrete compaction is also dependent on the judgment of highly skilled workers at present. Shimizu has earned revenue by contributing to society. We contribute by Shimizu developed an automated concrete pouring system to reduce this harsh work and implementing disaster prevention and mitigation measures to respond to the improve and achieve consistent construction quality. We have deployed it in construction of intensification of natural disasters, increasing national resilience, renovating the riverbank along Yuasagobou Road in Wakayama Prefecture (construction ordered by West aging infrastructure, and working to build important social capital. We are Nippon Expressway Co., Ltd. (NEXCO West)). The working to build a sustainable revenue base through systematic developsystem consists of automated pouring equipment ment of young engineers and strengthening customer support capabilities to pour the concrete, and multiple sensors and SHIMZ VISION 2030 and communication skills. formwork vibrators placed at various locations. It Shimizu is working to improve productivity and earnShimizu is leveraging technology such as CIM/BIM and i-Construction automates the pouring work and reduces the labor ing power by strengthening organizational skills and to improve productivity, prepare for future shortages of skilled workers, and involved. This has made quality control that is not research and development to respond precisely to reform our workstyle. We are also building a stronger structure to support dependent on a skilled worker’s skill level possible. the dynamic changes in the environment surrounding expansion of overseas business, strengthening the engineering and technolThis system is one of the technologies used the civil engineering business in Japan. We are also ogy functions, and strengthening alliances with external companies. to create Shimizu Smart Tunnel and it has received expanding our business domains through external Concrete lining that high praise from customers and others. We will has been poured Ceiling pouring Pouring Pouring nozzle moving nozzle mechanism outlet partnerships. We will contribute to safe, secure, and Future Initiatives continue to improve the system further as we Piping replacement abundant living for everyone through high quality Shimizu is actively investing in innovative improvements to our production deploy it at job sites nationwide. device public infrastructure. and management systems, implementation of i-Construction in all aspects SHIMIZU’S FUTURE of construction, disaster prevention and mitigation, infrastructure renovation, Formwork vibrator Concrete sensor the energy sector, and development of other differentiating technologies. Pouring nozzle Concrete Concrete Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan We are aiming to introduce automated and robotic construction of shield movement guide rail pipes hydraulic pump • Strengthen organizational capabilities tunnels, mountain tunnels, and dams, and are targeting commercialization • Improve productivity through technology and innovation of a next-generation construction management system that integrates CIM/ • Expand businesses BIM. Development of the underlying technology for Shimizu Smart Tunnel, an SLaT-FaB Road Slab Developed for Large-scale Expressway Renovation initiative that we are taking the lead on, is progressing and we are working to complete the entire system. Other key initiatives Shimizu will continue Large-scale renovation and repair work on Japan’s expressways have recently begun in earto work on include development and commercialization of dam restoration nest. It is said that the total project will cost 4 trillion yen, half of which will be spent on replacSHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS technology and large-scale expressway renovation technology. ing the road slab. The main steps of the construction process involve removing the existing The largest shield machine in Japan (outer diameter of approx. 16.1 m) excavating the main line tunnel (south bound) Oizumi south construction project on the Tokyo Outer Ring road slabs, laying the PCa road slabs produced at the factory on previously installed slats, Road in Nerima-ku, Tokyo and connecting the slab joints with steel-reinforced concrete. However, the structure of the joints on the PCa slab currently used for replacement is thicker than on the existing slabs. This makes the weight of the slab after replacement heavier than the existing slab, and this necessitates reinforcement of existing slats. Making them slimmer has therefore been the challenge. The SLaT-FaB slab developed by Shimizu achieved a weight that is equal to or less than the weight of existing slab. We accomplished this through ingenious design joint reinforcement, controlling joint thickness, and using lightweight Ultra-compact joint CORPORATE GOVERNANCE concrete together with embedding square steel pipe in the slab, and creating space gaps. These rox. 2m App Joint length T-head method innovations completely resolved the challenges Approx. 200 mm Rebar involved in use the current replacement PCa slab for construction and made construction easier. Shimizu intends to actively use this technology in Approx. 10 m the expressway renovation and repair work orders and link this to expansion of applications. DATA COLLECTION 32 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 33 Overseas Construction Business TOPICS Steady Accumulation of a Construction Record for Medical Facilities and Office Buildings ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities Shimizu builds production facilities for various customers in many locations around the world, but also focuses on construction of many other types of buildings, such as medical facilities, Overview of Activities office buildings, and commercial facilities. Shimizu again received orders for many projects overseas in fiscal 2019. We have continued to maintain the No. 1 rank We received numerous orders for production facilities, office in net sales from construction of medical facilities buildings, and complexes from Japanese customers, local companies, in Japan for many years, and have used the extenlocal governments and multinational corporations in Singapore, China, sive track record and expertise to complete multiple other parts of Asia and the U.S. Orders for infrastructure projects were medical facility projects in Singapore, Ghana, and received in the Philippines, Indonesia, and Uganda. In addition to pursuZambia. We currently have construction projects SHIMZ VISION 2030 ing collaboration with the real estate development and other non-conUtilizing our global experience and technical experstruction businesses, Shimizu is developing and increasing our global in progress at Singapore and Taiwan. We are also tise, as well as Shimizu’s capability in real estate building a 250-meter-tall ultra-high-rise building, talent by giving some newly-hired employees immediate overseas development, engineering, energy, the environment, condominiums, and other buildings in Indonesia, a assignments, personnel exchanges between Japan and overseas, prolarge office building and hotel facilities in Singapore, and many other business areas, we provide optimal moting staff members who were hired locally, study abroad programs, and completed a large lodging facility in Thailand. solutions related to cost, quality, and delivery, answerand other opportunities. Shimizu is contributing to realize our customing customer needs and infrastructure demand, ceners’ businesses by utilizing our strength in being tered around emerging markets. Future Initiatives able to provide one-stop service, from design Shimizu will improve earning power and accelerate global expansion to through construction. maintain a stable revenue base in the construction business. Jakarta Office Tower Project (tentative name) in SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Indonesia (completed perspective) Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan More specifically, we are rolling out a differentiation strategy • Improve profitability of projects through the proposal skills, technological capabilities, and trust we • Build organizational capabilities have cultivated in highly complex projects in various locations around • Expand and broaden global presence the world. We will refine our management structure to make it efficient and effective for global expansion and our production structure Contributing to Economic Growth in Africa and Asia Through ODA to make it resilient and successful in the global market. We will also Projects Implemented by Japan push ahead in using the integrated strengths from partnering with Shimizu has undertaken many ODA construction projects in Africa and Asia in the past. We our real estate development, engineering, and other non-construction have contributed to the economic growth of various countries by providing Japanese technolbusinesses to diversify revenue sources, expand Group businesses, ogy and knowledge, employing and developing local human resources through construction. SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS and secure new revenue sources. Recently, we completed construction of a multi-level overpass for an intersection on the main road in Ghana and are in the process of renovation work on National Highway No. 8, which Medical center for Changi General Hospital, a regional general hospital in eastern Singapore connects the second largest city in the interior of Ghana to the main international road along the coast. We are also undertaking other ODA projects in areas of Africa such as Uganda and Zambia, where we have also established a track record. In Asia, we completed construction and renovation of three bridges in Bangladesh in the beginning of 2020. In Indonesia, we completed construction of a subway running through the capital in 2019 using the shield construction method for the first time in the country, and received an order for building a subway extension in 2020. In addition to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE these projects, construction of an access road to the new port for international trade and an underground power plant is proceeding smoothly. In the Philippines, we are engaged in new construction of a bridge and new construction and expansion of a rail yard for Light Rail Transit System Line No.1 in Manila. We also recently received orders for the country’s first large subway construction project in Manila and construction of a new bypass in the city of Davao, southDATA COLLECTION ern part of Mindanao Island. Overpass for an intersection on the main road in Ghana 34 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 35 Investment and Development Business TOPICS Completion of YOKOHAMA GRANGATE, a Next-generation Workplace (Real Estate Development Business) Located in Area 21 of Minato Mirai, YOKOHAMA GRANGATE is a rental office building develABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities oped by Shimizu for a total investment of around 55 billion yen, the largest project Shimizu has taken on its own. It was completed in February 2020. An 18-story building with a total floor Overview of Activities space of around 100,000 m2, YOKOHAMA GRANGATE is the second large investment and The Shimizu Group has used its integrated strengths and advanced development project that Shimizu has built in the area after Yokohama i-Mark Place, which technical capabilities to handle everything from development to the opened for business in 2014. It was developed based on the concept of a next-generation operation of office buildings, logistics facilities, hotels, residential housworkplace that supports creative corporate activities and is equipped with floors that can ing, and other facilities in Japan and overseas. be configured as test kitchens, R&D facilities, or other special purposes to provide a high Shimizu will optimize the business portfolio for furIn fiscal 2019, in Japan, we completed construction and entered the degree of flexibility in meeting the diverse needs of tenants. We built it to meet the highther growth while expanding businesses and regions operating phase on a series of large projects like YOKOHAMA GRANGATE grade specifications of ecoBCP by installing a radiant air conditioning system to save energy SHIMZ VISION 2030 in the real estate development business, the core of and Building W of S.LOGi Niiza. We are also continuing to pursue large projand provide a comfortable room environment, and our non-construction businesses. We will utilize the ects such as Toyosu 6-chome and further expanding the scale of investment. by using our Dual Fit Damper, which demonstrates technologies of the Shimizu Group to develop comOverseas, we acquired an office in New York, in the U.S., and optimal effectiveness in the seismic isolation fortable, efficient communities. We will also expand entered the North American real estate business. This follows the system for all types of earthquakes, from small development of office buildings, data centers, residential housing, and our asset management business to expand the buildand medium-sized earthquakes to large ones. In other projects in ASEAN countries. ing stock business for the entire Shimizu group. addition to obtaining the LEED Gold and CASBEE Yokohama S-rank environmental certifications, Future Initiatives Shimizu plans to obtain the first WELL certification The Toyosu 6-chome, Blocks 4-2 and 4-3 project is located in the Toyosu for a tenant building in Japan, which evaluates the Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan Smart City area selected by the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, SHIMIZU’S FUTURE buildings and room interiors from the perspective • Create new value through all facets of urban development Transport and Tourism (MLIT), and we are building Toyosu MiCHi no Eki of the health and comfort of users. • Optimize overseas portfolio urban “road station” in the area being developed. A bus terminal will be at its center, and it will be a transportation hub that is equipped to serves as a place for shoppers to take a break and relax, a communication hub, and YOKOHAMA GRANGATE (Yokohama City, Kanagawa that can be used for disaster response. Shimizu will use its expertise in Prefecture) Business Topics building a data platform for communication and disaster prevention aimed Giving Tokyo a New Face at creating a Smart City that will include the surrounding area to expand Commencement of Construction on Blocks 4-2 and 4-3 in Toyosu 6-chome https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/topics/stock/item06/ into other large development projects in key urban areas in the future to add new value in real estate development. Acquisition of a Rental Office Building in New York SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Toyosu MiCHi no Eki urban “road station” (completed perspective, in Koto-ku, Tokyo) We will also pursue such business in North America, in addition to ASEAN As part of our overseas expansion, Shimizu acquired sole ownership rights to the Albano A complex development project located next to Shijo-mae Station in Toyosu and consisting of the largest office and hotel complex built by Shimizu, for a total countries, and will strengthen alliances with local companies to accomplish this. Building, a rental office building located in Manhattan, New York in the U.S., in November investment of around 60 billion yen. 2019. The property was acquired for an investment of around 16.5 billion yen through Shimizu Realty Development (U.S.A) Inc., a local subsidiary that operates a real estate investment business in the U.S. Located in the center of Manhattan Island, New York, Albano Building has 16 floors with total leasable floor space of approximately 17,300 m2. It is located in an area suitable for dual office/residential use and there are many office buildings interspersed with luxury residential properties in the surrounding area. All floors are currently rented by the same tenant and the building is providing stable rental income. Shimizu intends to diversity CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the revenue base of its real estate business based on the Mid-Term Management Plan, and is targeting expansion into real estate investment overseas, in addition to Japan. We plan to further expand investment in the North American region in the future, in addition to investment in ASEAN countries. The acquisition of this property was our first concrete foray into the business. Albano Building in the U.S. Information on Other Trends DATA COLLECTION Business Topics Phase 4 Construction Begins on S·LOGI Niiza, a Shimizu Brand Distribution Facility https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/topics/stock/item04/ 36 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 37 Engineering TOPICS Providing AI-based Solutions Shimizu entered a capital and business alliance with EDGEMATRIX, Inc., a start-up company ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities involved in the advance AI solution business, in August 2019. The two companies are working to manifest the synergies created to actively expand the use of AI. Overview of Activities In March 2020, Shimizu installed an AI-equipped product inspection system in the Kobe In alternative energy, Shimizu contributed to cleaner energy by building 75 plant of Rokko Butter Co., LTD. This is contributing to greater productivity in the food plant by wind turbines with a total generation capacity of 226 MW in fiscal 2019. In reducing the labor required in the inspection process on the filling and packaging line. environment, we successfully verified our proprietary soil-washing technology We have also installed two state-of-the-art systems in S.LOGI Niiza, a large logistics facilin an experiment to decontaminate soil contaminated by dioxins in Vietnam. We are focusing on alternative energy, environmental ity under development in the city of Niiza. One system is an early fire detection system. This In production and logistics facilities, we combined plants and informasystem uses AI to comprehensively analyze data obtained from various sensors and detect cleanup, life sciences, and digital solutions to protion to provide better solutions and expand the EPC business. fire with a high degree of accuracy, which contributes of improving safety. The other system vide carbon-free communities and safe, secure, and SHIMZ VISION 2030 is a vehicle management and guidance system. This system uses AI to analyze images from healthy living environments. Future Initiatives monitoring cameras in the parkWe will continue to strengthen our sales capabilities, competitiveness, ing lot and provide information and earning power in the four core areas. In the area of alternative on open parking spaces and daily Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan energy, we are building the world’s largest SEP vessel, which will enable congestion forecasts on a portal • Expand the EPC business* in the four core areas of energy, envihighly efficient, steady construction of ultra-large-scale wind turbines site. This eases vehicle congesronment, production plants, and information technology for offshore wind power, a market that shows future promise. We aim to tion and improves efficiency in • Enter new markets and diversity our revenue base secure top market share in offshore wind power, in addition to onshore the multi-tenant logistics facility. wind power. In the environment area, we will work to further improve and diversify soil decontamination technology and will expand a wide SHIMIZU’S FUTURE variety of environmental cleanup businesses, such as onsite remediation and washing to reduce the amount of pollution in soil and groundwater Production inspection at the Kobe plant of Rokko Butter Co., LTD. and water decontamination. In the plant area, we will expand orders for turnkey projects by supporting higher efficiency and automation in advanced production facilities. In the information area, we will use AI and IoT to expand ICT system integration to match the facility’s purpose, the Soil Decontamination to Remove Dioxins in Vietnam customer’s needs, and accommodate the new normal. Shimizu will also In Vietnam, soil contaminated with dioxins from defoliants sprayed by the U.S. military during establish a global business base and expand in strategic areas, in addithe Vietnam war are still causing serious health problems today. The Vietnamese government tion to our initiatives in next-generation energy, life sciences, advanced is aiming to decontaminate all soil nationwide by 2030. Shimizu performed a soil washing SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Highly efficient automated SEP vessel (SEP: Self-Elevating Platform) equipped with the world’s digital technology, ocean resources, and other new areas of engineering. experiment on soil contaminated with dioxins together with a research institution that is largest carrying and crane capacity, capable of constructing ultra-large-scale offshore wind part of the Vietnamese Ministry of National Defence. Processing by soil washing successturbines (completed perspective) fully removed 95% of contaminants. Dioxin-contaminated soil was also rendered completely harmless by using heat processing on the residue from soil washing. Shimizu will expand its environmental improvement business in decontamination of soil contaminated not only by dioxins, but also by heavy metals, pesticides, and other hazardous CORPORATE GOVERNANCE elements, in other areas. This will contribute to the economic development of Vietnam. Soil washing plant to remove dioxins at Bien Hoa Airport in Vietnam News Release Shimizu Complete Soil Washing Pilot Test on Dioxin Contaminated Soil at Bien Hoa Airport, Vietnam DATA COLLECTION https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/news-release/2019/2019038.html 38 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 39 LCV TOPICS Joint Biomass Power Generation Business with Local Community Launched ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities Shinshu Wood Power & Chip (SWPC) generation plant (output, 1990 kW) began operations in Tomi, Nagano Prefecture in July 2020. This business generates power by burning unused Overview of Activities lumber from local forests of Japanese larch, Japanese red pine, and Japanese cedar. This proShimizu established the LCV Headquarters in October 2017 to estabmotes regional vitalization, forestry, and local production and local consumption, and creates a lish stable revenue bases in the building stock management and suswin-win relationship with the community. tainability business domains. Japan is one of the world’s most highly forested countries and the volume of the unused We link our BSP*2, Energy/Infrastructure management, and ICT/ lumber stockpile, mainly from tree plantations is increasing year after year. We are at the Smart businesses and utilize renewable energy, IoT, AI, and other techstage where it is possible to make full use of this resource. While appropriate tree-thinning is nologies to provide comprehensive services and solutions, including required in order to properly maintain and protect the forest, the bent branches and roots that SHIMZ VISION 2030 investment and partnerships, to meet the increasingly diverse and Shimizu will create value across the spectrum of are generated by tree-thinning are left unused. The shortage of forestry managers and workers complex needs of customers for energy savings, carbon-free operabuildings and infrastructure, energy, and commuis also becoming a major issue. SWPC contributes to promotion of the forestry industry by tions, more resilient business continuity, and healthier, more comfortusing these unused resources effectively, using ICT in local forests, taking care of the mounnities, to improve user satisfaction and build a susable work and living environments. tains, and skillfully using the wood materials. tainable future based on the business concept of LCV *2 BSP (Building Service Provider): Facility operation and management services after a facility is built including Project Management (PM), Building Management (BM), energy savings, and Business Shimizu will team up with communities (Life Cycle Valuation)*1. Continuity Planning (BCP) and develop a biomass power generation *1 LCV (Life Cycle Valuation): Utilizing renewable energy, IoT, AI, etc. to provide comprehensive services and solutions including investment and partnerships business that contributes to community vitalFuture Initiatives ization by modeling SWPC’s business. We will expand our BSP business mainly by providing a wide range of one-stop services, from energy-saving equipment to manageSHIMIZU’S FUTURE Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan ment, through our facility management business and supporting the • Expand service businesses (BSP)*2 introduction of solar power generation. SWPC (Tomi City, Nagano Prefecture) • Expand power and concession businesses In the energy and infrastructure management business, we will • Leverage advanced technology to promote the services business expand renewable energy power generation and the electric power retail and create smart cities business. We will also strengthen initiatives in infrastructure management. Use of Solar Power Generation in Many Initiatives in the In the ICT/Smart business, we aim to develop inclusive commuRenewable Energy Business nities and smart cities by promoting inclusive navigation systems and other services. Combining the three businesses described above will A new solar power plant began operating in Tsuchiura City, Ibaraki Prefecture from July 2019. accelerate our efforts to achieve sustainable communities. This is Shimizu’s eighth power plant. We are in the process of developing 14 solar power plants SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS nationwide, in addition to this. S.LOGI Niiza (Niiza City, Saitama Prefecture) We have also launched a new business that uses solar power generation. The S.LOGI Niiza Our Investment and Development Division uses the roof of the logistics facility for a solar power generation business as part of the LCV business. logistics facility developed by the Shimizu Investment and Development Division launched a solar power generation business on the rooftop of the facility in September 2019. We will contribute to improve environmental friendliness and BCP functions in the future by installing solar panels on the roofs of logistics facilities, plants, and other large facilities, and on surrounding unused land to generate electricity for these facilities. We also partnered with a farm operator in the Midori-ku, Chiba City and launched a CORPORATE GOVERNANCE solar sharing business in September 2019. By installing solar panels on crop land, we will link the farming and power generation business and this will contribute to the realization of a sustainable community. Shimizu will continue to pursue a diverse range of renewable energy businesses like this in the future. FY2019 DATA COLLECTION Renewable power generation (Shimizu business) 24,048 MWh Farm-style solar power plant in Okido, Chiba Prefecture (Midori-ku, Chiba City) 40 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 41 Emerging Frontier Business TOPICS Small Rocket Launching Business New technology enabling smaller artificial satellites and the diversification of missions have ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities increased their number as well as the need for dedicated launch vehicles. In July 2018, Shimizu made an equity investment in SPACE ONE Co., Ltd., which aims to be the first priOverview of Activities vate-sector based small satellite launching business, as our first foray into the space business. Shimizu has been researching development of space, the ocean, and Since then we have worked with our joint venture partners on developing small rockets other untapped frontiers since the 1980s. Development is expected to and establishing the terrestrial infrastructure. The town of Kushimoto in Wakayama was progress from the R&D stage to commercialization due to advances in selected as the site for construction of a launching pad where small rocket assembly, launch IT technology and an influx of private capital in recent years, and future and control will be performed and work on that site is progressing. growth is anticipated. Shimizu established the Emerging Frontiers It is scheduled for completion in 2021. Once completed, it will be the first private Division in 2018 with an eye on commercialization of this area. sector small rocket launch site in Japan, and will contribute to further expansion of the SHIMZ VISION 2030 Shimizu will expand the sphere of human activities space business. from “onshore” to “offshore,” and from “earth” to Future Initiatives We will continue to focus on four areas: Space, Ocean, Nature, and “space,” while contributing to sustainable developVentures in the future. ment of the earth and humankind. We will also conIn the Space area, we will lead the new era of space business tribute to measures to combat climate change and as an Integrated Space Company that provides services in building protect the global environment through businesses space-related facilities on earth, analyzing and using satellite data, that co-exist with nature, and will be agile in investing and even development on the surface of the moon. In the Ocean busiin start-up companies as a strategic move towards ness, we will create a new market for cities that float on the surface Image of a launch Image of a small rocket the future. of the ocean (ocean city of the future) and build a new busines model SHIMIZU’S FUTURE (Both photos provided by SPACE ONE Co., Ltd.) for ocean city development, based on the concept of a Green city that utilizes the ocean. Using Construction Industry Expertise in Strawberry Production Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan In the Nature business, we will work on initiatives to combat cli• Expand ocean and space businesses Shimizu is working on large-scale greenhouses in the field of agriculture. We are participating in mate change through agri-businesses, develop sustainable communi• Launch environmentally innovative agri-businesses a strawberry production business in Hokkaido as part of a project by the Ministry of Agriculture, ties, and contribute to the revitalization of local communities. • Invest in next-generation construction technology and global-scale Forestry and Fisheries to accelerate the introduction of next-generation greenhouses. In the Venture business, we will establish a budget for investing in solutions We will create sustainable agricultural operations by utilizing our expertise in facility venture firms that show future promise and maintain agility in investing construction, environmental controls and other technologies, and in process and personnel in and collaborating with them to realize our vision of the future. We management to reduce costs through large-scale facility consolidation and achieve efficient, will also develop businesses in the construction business domain, and SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS systematic production utilizing ICT-based environmental control technology. expand into the business of developing emerging frontiers. GREEN FLOAT II (announced in 2017), certified by NIPPON KAIJI KYOKAI (ClassNK) for floating structure safety due to Shimizu’s technical experimentation and analysis Strawberry greenhouse at Tomatoh Farm, a Shimizu joint venture in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Information on Other Trends News release Investment Allowance of 10 Billion Yen Set for Active Investment in Venture Firms in Japan and Overseas https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/news-release/2020/2020012.html News release Shimizu will build a Research Center for Lignophenol, a raw material for bioplastics DATA COLLECTION https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/news-release/2018/2018037.html 42 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 43 Technology Development and Digital Strategy TOPICS Introduction of Slim Fire-Resistant Wood and Shimz Hy-wood ABOUT SHIMIZU Shimizu will establish new research facilities, develop human resources, Contributing to the achievement of SDGs Technologies for Wooden Structures through business activities and implement an intellectual property strategy to accelerate the develThe use of wood in medium and large-sized fire resistant buildings other than public buildings opment of innovative technologies across Group businesses. We are also is expected to increase with stronger implementation of the Act for Promotion of Use of Wood pursuing a digital strategy to reform business models and workstyles in Public Buildings. Shimizu will also promote greater use of wooden structures that employ through the use of a digital platform. new technologies. We introduced Slim Fire-Resistant Wood, which is made of wood and fire-resistance components, and the Shimz Hy-wood construction method for wooden structures in the construction of the Chayagasaka company housing (in Chikusa-ku, Nagoya) owned by Shimizu in July 2020. Although we used a large volume of wooden materials, 220 m3 in Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan total, we succeeded in building a fire-resistant wooden structure that met the structural and SHIMZ VISION 2030 [Technology Development] [Digital Strategy] fire-resistance performance requirements for modern buildings. • Create innovative production and quality management systems • Grow existing businesses and accelerate creation of new businesses Slim Fire-Resistant Wood has a thin fire-resistant layer inserted between wooden mate• Provide safe, secure, and sustainable communities by utilizing the latest information and communications technology to rials. It is used for wooden columns and beams and makes it possible to achieve both fire • Strengthen the foundations for technological development (human respond flexibly and swiftly to changes in the external environment resistance and efficient space design. Shimz Hy-Wood is a wooden hybrid frame construction resources, research facilities, external alliances, intellectual property • Establish a global digital platform using the latest technology to method that uses technology that makes it possible to connect and integrate a wooden strucstrategy) accommodate diversity in lifestyles and working styles ture with a steel frame. This construction method provides superior earthquake resistance and workability and makes it possible to control the spread when a fire breaks out. Integration of Construction Project Data and Operating Innovations in the Construction Production Process SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Shimizu optimized the entire operating system, which had been optimized for each process such as sales stage to design, quoting, procurement, construction, and maintenance, and linked them to a common project code. We are building a project database that supports the efficient accumulation and use of data on improved accuracy of building information and preservation activities, and data on after service. This will make it possible to achieve dramatic innovations in the construction Design production process, not just in our company, but through colSales Construction laboration with customers and subcontractors. Quotes & Maintenance To explain in greater detail, this will enable data to be procurement and operation obtained rapidly and simultaneously, so it will be possible to d manag ement and use of ope rating grate data Inte improve the quality of operations through strict risk manageSHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Management information ment and operating the PDCA cycle at the upstream stage of a Data on construction progress Quotes Design Construction Maintenance Management information Data on construction progress Payment data Payment and approval data project. Moreover, the use of linked data from multiple operatBIM data CIM data EV operating data Sales Procurement Cost Accounting Monitoring camera data ing systems makes the transition from what is optimal for one part to what is optimal for the whole and improves the efficiency Subcontractors Quality Environment Safety Building Shimizu Group Overview of Activities Future Initiatives of the entire project. This can improve productivity. The ability Respon se t o dive rs e w orkstyles Frontline support Shimizu is actively working to improve productivity and advance i-ConShimizu aims to establish innovative production and quality manageto use project information safely anywhere, at any time is also Management Safety and struction that supports the lifestyles of people through community ment systems using IoT, AI, and robotics, mainly as part of Shimz Smart leading to workstyle reform. environment development and high quality infrastructure. Advances in construction Site. Shimizu is working to develop technologies that are a step above Conceptual diagram of data management platform robots are being achieved daily and we are accelerating the introducthe rest. To accomplish this, we are working to enhance technology CORPORATE GOVERNANCE tion of these robots at job sites as the front runner in the industry. for safety and security aimed primarily at response to the increasing Shimizu has achieved results in technology development. We received intensity and types of disasters. Shimizu is also accelerating developBuilding Shimz Digital Design Enhancement (DDE) Platform an award from the Architectural Institute of Japan in 2019 for Zeroment of new workplaces that are at the forefront of workstyle reform Shimizu is building a BIM system that integrates the design and build process using Shrink concrete and in 2020 for CW-QUIC quality control technology for and development related to the environment and energy. To realize a of data over the entire building lifecycle from planning and basic design to constructhe pilings that support buildings and other structures. society in which no one is left behind, which is asserted in the sustaintion and facility management. Environmental Computer As part of our digital strategy, we are working to build a digital able development goals (SDGs), we are also putting effort into inclusimulation graphics platform consisting of a data management platform, human resources sive technologies. We are currently working on the plans for Shiomi We built Shimz DDE and are systematically operating it to deploy advanced skilled in digital technology, networks, and an infrastructure environInnovation Center (tentative name) and also intend to build a research computational design techniques in all design divisions company-wide to add ment to accelerate growth of existing businesses and creation of new facility aimed at innovations in construction robots, structures, materigreater value in the planning and basic design stage. Designers can use the various Structural Equipment businesses. We are standardizing the methods for linking data from als, and other aspects of production. tools in Shimz DDE to create value-added design proposals supported by data. simulation simulation Programming sales to maintenance and preservation and integrating this with conThrough our digital strategy, we are working to improve synergies Building this platform has dramatically expanded the scope of things considered DATA COLLECTION struction summary data, mainly for building construction projects in between businesses and speed up business creation. We will accomwhen creating a design proposal. It can add even greater value than proposals by Regulatory Planning Japan. We are focusing on collecting and accumulating data on conplish this by building a digital platform and sharing information among highly skilled designers. This naturally enables us to provide buildings that exceed checking support function function struction results and other information together with data on business the construction business, non-construction businesses, and affiliated the expectations of our customers. We also accumulate the company’s design characteristics, and building a digital management platform. companies within the Group. Shimizu will also pursue digitalization of all expertise in Shimz DDE in the form of 3D data and will pass this on to the next operations through more widespread use of devices for telecommuting generation as shared organizational knowledge. and speeding up the process of going paperless in approval and payment processes to support the environmental aspects of workstyle reform. 44 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 45 Talent Development and Working Style Reform TOPICS New HR Innovation Department Established ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through Shimizu will secure and develop the talent who will operate the business business activities Finding and developing more talent to assume operation of the busiis responsible for formulating a strategy for facilitating development in the next generation and create a workplace environment that ness in the future is an important management issue for achieving of leaders who will be effective globally and will take the initiative on establishes diverse, flexible working styles and provides job satisfaction. sustained growth of the Shimizu Group. innovation. The department is also in charge of systematic planning The HR Innovation Department was established on April 1, and promotion of talent development measures, including establish2020 as a new organization that reports directly to the president. It ment of a human resource management system. Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan Continual Improvement of Job Satisfaction • Implement a global talent strategy • Improve employee satisfaction We have held Working Style Reform Week to encourage every The response rate and job satisfaction KPIs* for the fiscal 2019 employee to take the initiative to reform working styles. We have Shimizu Japan Employee Survey both improved. SHIMZ VISION 2030 • Roll out inclusive talent systems Shimizu mascots Act (on left) and Will (on right) also conducted the Shimizu Japan Employee Survey to quantitato cheer on working style reform Job satisfaction KPI Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Goal tively visualize job satisfaction every year since 2018. Work satisfaction 3.76 3.80 Multiple good examples of reforms that changed conventional All KPIs at 4.0 or practices at job sites received working style reform awards during Workplace relationships of trust 3.63 3.67 higher up to 2023 Working Style Reform Week and were rolled out within the Company. Mental and physical health 3.77 3.80 COLUMN Reforming conventional practices and creating a job site office where people feel at home SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Shinichi Matsumoto, Construction Manager, Building Construction Dept. III, Tokyo Branch Many employees work in job site offices. The reason for the initiative to make this office a little home-like because employees spend the majority of their time in the office. This office is in a tenant building, but we designed it with temporary prefabs so that it can be applied to other job sites. The office design is simple. There are no ready-made fancy tables and sofas. Desks and shelving are made of recycled materials by combining temporary construction materials and laminated wooden boards used at job sites. We have created an office that has caused everyone who visited it to compliment the inviting atmosphere. Construction Manager Matsumoto, who received Shimizu’s “monozukuri craftmanship” is born from friendly job sites and employees the Good Challenge award in the 2019 Working Style SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS with numerous ideas and a spirit of challenge. Reform awards Rolling out the Shimizu Group Basic Human Rights Policy Shimizu pursues initiatives to ensure respect for human rights and technical trainees and other foreign workers who work at our job enacted the Shimizu Group Basic Human Rights Policy to serve as sites. We surveyed 10 subcontractors that Shimizu does business Overview of Activities Future Initiatives a guide in fulfilling that responsibility to realize our mission of being with and interviewed the business owners, confirmed documenShimizu is pursuing working style reforms and building a system of We aim to establish an environment that supports diversity in human “a company that values people,” stated in our Code of Corporate tation, interviewed foreign workers in their native languages, and inclusive talent management that will enable all employees to fully resources while also enabling everyone to feel secure and actively conEthics and Conduct. confirmed living conditions and other conditions. The results of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE demonstrate their abilities without respect to gender, age, nationality, or tribute for many years, as the human lifespan approaches 100 years We perform due diligence focused on the human rights of survey revealed no significant human rights risks. However, some other attributes while also working continuously to hire and develop the and globalization advances further. skilled workers at construction job sites as part of that mission. points in need of improvement were found and we will set up a dedtalent who will perform our work in the future. Shimizu will implement initiatives that promote employee mental In fiscal 2019, we worked with a third-party institution to icated website and provide training to subcontractors, and impleThe mindset and behavior of every employee has steadily changed and physical health and promote health management by energizing the conduct a fact-finding survey of the human rights risks to foreign ment other initiatives to mitigate and prevent human rights risks. due to the implementation of company-wide events since 2018. Such workplace as the foundation for that environment. events include Working Style Reform Week, the Diversity Forum, and We will also build a framework that pushes each employee to exerCOLUMN the Challenge Forum. cise self-initiative and take on the challenges of new work or higher Prayer Room Established Shimizu also established a new Shimizu Group Basic Human level fields to further improve job satisfaction. Shimizu established the Diversity Promotion Office in 2009 to implement Rights Policy in 2018 and is working to establish a corporate culture measures to support the active engagement of women, employees who that respects human rights while pursuing initiatives in due diligence are foreign nationals, and employees with disabilities. We established a DATA COLLECTION on human rights. prayer room in the head office in November 2019 as one of the Diversity Promotion Office efforts. An informational poster using pictograms is posted at the entrance. While we anticipate that it will be mainly be used by Muslims, it is not limSee the corporate website for further details. ited to a specific religion and may also be used for praying, meditation, etc. Promoting Diversity https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/diversity/ 46 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 47 Strengthening the Supply Chain and TOPICS CSR Procurement ABOUT SHIMIZU Group Management We established the Shimizu Group Basic Human Rights Policy in 2018, in keeping with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. To ensure fair and transparent business activities, we ask all suppliers and subcontractors in our supply chain to comply Contributing to the achievement of SDGs Shimizu will strengthen and expand the supply chain to support a reliable through business activities with laws, regulations, and social standards, including those related to human rights and labor, “Basic Procurement Policy” “Things We Request of production structure and achieve flexible and agile Group management that in addition to our Basic Procurement Policy and Things We Request of Our Suppliers. Shimizu Our Suppliers” https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/csr/procurement/ also holds compliance training for our subcontractors and suppliers. In fiscal 2019, we held 19 will enable development of diverse businesses. compliance training sessions, which were attended by 1,374 people from 1,322 companies. Securing Future Workers and Improving Benefits Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan SHIMZ VISION 2030 • Strengthen construction supply chain Despite the currently anticipated high demand in the construction industry, the trend toward • Enter into new alliances an increase in the number of elderly persons and a decline in the number of young people is • Agile group management for new business and global expansion progressing and securing human resources is becoming an urgent issue. Shimizu is pursuing various initiatives to secure the workers to perform construction in the future. To improve the working environment of skilled workers, we are supplementing wages if designated conditions for job site closure are met in an effort to establish a five-day work week and reduce the amount of overtime work. This will make the construction industry more attractive and help to retain workers. We are also encouraging enrollment in social insurance, and are actively moving forward on rolling out a system of career advancement in construction. SHIMIZU’S FUTURE To support hiring, we implemented new job site tours for guardians in addition to the hands-on experiential tours for technical high school students to give their guardians a better understanding of the construction industry. We are developing skilled workers who have the skills to perform many types of construction work by cross-training them and this has contributed to ensuring a reliable production structure. Shimizu will recommend cross-training in multiple skills to subcontractors and support them in providing it this fiscal year as well. We are also working to improve benefits with a system of benefit pay for outstanding skilled workers, and SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS are lengthening the pay period and increasing the wage amount for outstanding foremen who have Experience in assembling formwork frames in a hands-on received the Shimizu President’s Award. experiential tour for technical high school students S & BLC Technical Training Center for Hands-on Training in Group Management Fully Operational Shimizu Building Life Care Co., Ltd. operates a building maintenance, management, and renovaTeam working at the Shin Tomei Expressway Kawanishi construction zone (Ashigarakami District, Kanagawa Prefecture) tion business. To develop high-quality specialists in building management for the company, the new S & BLC Technical Training Center was built in Koto-ku, Tokyo. This is an experiential training center based on using building emergency equipment, plumbing sanitation equipment, and other CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overview of Activities Future Initiatives actual equipment to provide hands-on training in seeing, touching, dismantling, assembling, and Shimizu strengthened alliances with subcontractors, secured a reliable To strengthen our ability to respond to the numerous large-scale moving such equipment. The center began full operations in January 2020. The roughly 1,350 production structure through nationwide alliances, and developed and projects anticipated in various locations nationwide, we will work to m2 floor space contains six hands-on technical training rooms for emergencies; plumbing sanitautilized multi-skilled construction workers who can perform many types strengthen the supply chain even more to ensure a reliable production tion; air conditioning and electricity; doors, windows, and screens; renovation; and a safety trainof work to respond to a busy period for large construction projects, structure and stronger cost competitiveness. We will steadily expand ing station; as well as two classrooms for desk learning and one office. Trainees can gain actual including facilities related to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic our network connections nationwide and also expand alliances with experience in the essential aspects of practical building management, such as checking and Games. This has strengthened the current production structure and companies in Japan and overseas that possess the technologies and management of emergency response, plumbing sanitation, and air conditioning and electrical supply chain. To secure the workers who will perform construction amid production structures which will enhance competitiveness. systems, handling of the special hardware for fire a future shortage of skilled construction workers, we are also working Shimizu opened a new training center for skilled workers in fiscal shutters, etc., maintenance and cleaning of exterior with Kanekikai, an organization of Shimizu’s suppliers and subcontrac2020 to secure and train skilled workers for the future. In addition to walls and floors, safety management during work, DATA COLLECTION tors, and other business partners to support hiring. working cooperatively with subcontractors to provide skills development and other essential tasks. In the future, the training In Group Management, we are working to strengthen and improve training, it will also develop and test assistive tools to reduce the workcenter will establish about 100 training courses for our response capabilities by engaging in human resources exchanges load at job sites and provide cross-training to develop multiple skills, 400 classes and will train around 4,000 employamong groups to increase sharing of expertise and technology. among other types of training, to establish a new production structure. ees a year to develop human resources and move them from “knowing something” to “being able to Hands-on training classrooms for emergencies do it themselves.” 48 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 49 Contributing to the Global Environment TOPICS Plan to use biodiesel fuel (BDF) derived from Euglena ABOUT SHIMIZU Contributing to the achievement of SDGs We create value for customers and contribute to sustainable community through business activities Construction produces a large volume of CO2 emissions at job sites. The majority of those development by engaging in business activities that have a low impact on emissions are generated by the use of diesel fuel in heavy machinery and other equipment. the environment and that create and restore the environment. Shimizu procured next-generation BDF derived from Euglena from euglena Co., Ltd. and began trial operation of a commuter bus that runs between the head office and the Institute of Technology in 2020. The GREEN OIL JAPAN declaration by euglena Co., Ltd. and Key Strategies of the Mid-Term Management Plan In the future, we are planning to use next-generation BDF in crawler cranes and other others targets making Japan a global leader in biofuels. It has been endorsed by 28 local governments. companies, • Steady promotion of the mid and long-term CO2 reduction target “Ecology Mission heavy machinery at our main job sites in the Greater Tokyo Area. and organizations as of August 2020. 2030–2050” • Conservation and indexing of biodiversity within our businesses SHIMZ VISION 2030 • Efforts for waste reduction and effective use of limited global resources Going carbon free: To prevent global warming Shimizu is pursuing activities contained in Ecology Mission 2030–2050 medium and long-term goals for reduction in CO2 emissions. These goals are aimed at achieving SDG 13, Climate Action. Medium and Long-term Goals: 0% CO2 reduction during CO2 reduction in Results: building operation due to Shimizu offices Initiatives in CO2 reduction during construction energy-saving design The bullet point indicate the offset from CO2 credits acquired by SHIMIZU’S FUTURE -47% the company FY2019 emissions results vs. FY1990 FY2020 goal vs. FY1990 -40% 220,000 58 58 CO2 reduction during -49% 50% construction -58% -56% tons-CO2 % reduction % reduction 60% -60% -80% -60% -80% 80% -80% Initiatives in reducing CO2 in company offices 100% FY2019 emissions results vs. FY1990 FY2020 goal vs. FY1990 1990 2019 2030 2050 (FY) 8,800 tons-CO2 49 % reduction 50 % reduction SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Urban Biotope, Saisei-no-Mori, in the Institute of Technology (Koto-ku, Tokyo) Job site emissions during construction CO2 (vs. FY1990) Contribution to reducing CO2 emissions by customers Initiatives in CO2 reduction during building operation in buildings Nationwide expansion of renewable energy for elec◦ 60% reduction in FY2030 Aiming to be a company that Helps to build sustainable ◦ 80% reduction in FY2050 designed by Shimizu communities tricity used in construction through Renewable Energy FY2019 emissions results vs. FY1990 FY2020 goal vs. FY1990 Certificates (Tradeable Green Certificates) CO2 emissions during operation of buildings The Shimizu Global Environmental Charter established in 1991 embraces the basic principle of contributing to building a sustainable society by Shimizu procured 20 GWh of power through renewable energy certifdesigned and constructed by Shimizu (vs. FY1990) ◦ 60% reduction in FY2030 ◦ 80% reduction in FY2050 45,000 tons-CO2 47 % reduction 48 % reduction working to preserve the global environment and to create a better enviicates (REC) for power generated from biomass. We have used green ronment as a corporate citizen and as a member of the construction power for all electricity used in construction at sites designated by each industry. We are pursuing environmental management through the four branch nationwide since April 2020. Our goal is to procure around 8% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of total annual electricity used at job sites in Japan. approaches of environmental protection, environmental business, enviGreen Bond Issuance ronmental risk management, and environmental and social contributions. We are expanding the sites covered by this in stages, every year, Shimizu revised its Basic Environmental Policy in May 2019. The and are working to achieve the goal of a 10% reduction in CO2 in fiscal Shimizu issued its first green bond in October 2019. policy now applies to the entire Shimizu Group and establishes goals 2023, compared to the fiscal 2017 level. This is a KPI specified in the We are using the proceeds to fund construction of YOKOHAMA GRANGATE, a project for contributing to the achievement of SDGs, preventing global warming, Mid-Term Management Plan. involving construction of an energy-saving, environmentally friendly office building in the city resource conservation and reuse, and preserving biodiversity. The policy of Yokohama as a project that will contribute to realizing a sustainable, earth-friendly society, Green Bond CDP rating improved to Awhich is a goal of our long-term vision. The project will take five years and have a total cost https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/csr/ contains measures to achieve each of those goals. environment/greenbond/ · September 2019 Commitment to SBT*1, one of which is a target for The CDP*3 Japan reporting conference was held on January of 10 billion yen. In fiscal 2019, we endorsed reducing CO2 emission levels 2020 and Shimizu’s rating improved from B in 2019 to A-. We We will continue to consider issuing green bonds, depending on green bond market trends the domestic and overseas environmental initiatives · October 2019 TCFD*2 Recommendations are targeting a CDP rating of A in 2020 and beyond, and are and project timing. · February 2020 Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren listed at right. disclosing information related to climate change based on the DATA COLLECTION · March 2020 Keidanren Challenge Zero Declaration TCFD declaration in addition to reducing CO2 emissions from *1 SBT: Science Based Targets our business. Target for reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) based on scientific knowledge to keep the rise in average global temperature below 2˚C (1.5˚C). *3 CDP: A global NGO working on climate change. CDP publishes a report on responses *2 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to a climate change survey provided by over 7,000 companies worldwide to institutional investors. Environmental Management https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/csr/environment/manage/ 50 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 51 TOPICS Climate-related Financial Disclosures Based on The Task Force on Climate-related Main Shimizu Group Climate-related Risks and Opportunities ABOUT SHIMIZU Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendation Factor Impact on Business Degree of Impact Shimizu’s Response ◦New building regulations on high environmental burden are introduced and new building demand ◦ Organize a BSP business division that specializes in facility management Strengthening of declines. However, demand for renovation will also services. Endorsed the TCFD recommendations various regulations increase and this will require an organizational ◦ Strengthen renovation sales. Medium aimed at achieving a structure to respond to that. ◦ Develop human resources for building management (establish technical training According to a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate that the disclosure of related information is essential from the perspecRisks carbon-free society ◦ In  the investment and development business, the installation centers in Group companies). of energy-saving equipment, etc. will increase property ◦ Provide high environmental performance in terms of cost performance. Change (IPCC) the average global temperature has risen by about tive of ESG management. We endorsed the TCFD recommendations construction and operation costs. 1˚C compared to before the industrial revolution, and is expected to and joined the TCFD Consortium in October 2019, and recently disIntroduction of a ◦A carbon tax would be changed on CO₂ emissions ◦ Pursue Ecological Mission 2030-2050 and reduce CO₂ emissions. Transition from business activities, increasing the cost. Small ◦ Promote the proliferation of wood construction and wooden structures (wood rise higher as global warming progresses. Natural disasters caused closed climate-related information in line with the recommendations. Scenario carbon tax ◦ Increase  in the prices of main materials would increase costs. materials are carbon neutral and presumably would not incur a carbon tax). by climate change may increase, and there are concerns about the ◦ Will  increase demand for new ZEB projects and ◦ Promote ZEB design and construction. TCFD Recommendations: Thematic Areas of Climate-related Information Disclosure Expansion of need energy-serving renovation projects. ◦ Work to increase the value of existing facilities based on Shimizu’s record in financial impact on companies as well as the impact on society. for energy-saving ◦ In  the investment and development business, will Large sustainability and renovation*². SHIMZ VISION 2030 Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. buildings increase the value of properties equipped for ZEB, ◦ Pursue investment and development business based on Shimizu’s record in ZEB To address these issues, TCFD which was established by Financial Opportunities BEMS,*¹ etc. construction and roll out a Shimizu brand. Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities Stability Board (FSB), released its Final Report in June 2017, which Strategy on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. ◦ Pursue renewable energy businesses such as solar power, wind power, Expansion of need for ◦ Will expand renewable energy-related business. biomass, geothermal power, small hydroelectric power generation. contains recommendations on the disclosure of information to stakeRisk Disclose the processes used by the organization to identify, assess, and manage renewable energy ◦ Demand for renewable energy facilities will increase. Large ◦ Begin construction of a SEP ship for constructing large offshore wind farms. ◦ Develop and commercialize a hydrogen energy usage system. holders concerning the risks and opportunities from climate change Management climate-related risks. Metrics and Disclose the metrics and targets used assess and manage relevant climate-related for companies in four thematic areas: Governance, Strategy, Risk Targets risks and opportunities. Management, and Metrics and Targets. ◦The problem with a shortage of skilled workers will worsen due to the deterioration in the outdoor work ◦ Pursue improvement in job site workforce reduction and productivity through the use of robots, ICT, AI, and other technologies. Source: “Practical guide for Scenario Analysis in line with the TCFD recommendations,” Rise in average Shimizu recognizes the impacts from climate change on our 2nd edition, Climate Change Policy Division, Ministry of the Environment, Government of summer temperature environment. Large ◦ Improve the work environment through workstyle reform and measures to ◦ Heatstroke  and other damage to health will increase, prevent heatstroke, etc. businesses as an important management issue, and has determined Japan, March 2019 mainly in outdoor workers. ◦ Use the Monozukuri Training Center to develop skilled workers. Risks ◦Damage suffered by suppliers will make it difficult to ◦ Strengthen alliances with suppliers, mainly with Group companies and Governance Increasing frequency ◦ procure materials and labor. Job site operation will become difficult and the risk of ◦ subcontractors. Consider disaster response measures including third parties in the provisional and intensity of In SHIMZ VISION 2030 and Mid-Term Management Plan (2019Committee and Group Company Environmental Council. They are also meteorological causing harm to third parties will increase. Medium design plans during construction. SHIMIZU’S FUTURE ◦ In  the investment and development business, the risk of ◦ Formulate disaster plans that include measures to prevent flooding before designing disasters 2023), Shimizu and its group companies (hereafter, the “Shimizu shared with subcontractors and Shimizu is also building an environmenbusiness reparations and reputational risk will increase if and constructing infrastructure-related facilities. the lifeline of owned properties is damaged. ◦ Pursue ecoBCP*⁵ for new and existing buildings. Group”) have positioned environmental issues, including climate tal governance structure that includes its main suppliers. Physical Policies that ◦Construction and maintenance of infrastructure for Scenario ◦ Pursue activities aimed at obtaining orders in the infrastructure maintenance change, as one issue that will have a material impact on manageShimizu Group Governance Structure for Environmental Issues strengthen national resilience flooding and violent rainstorms and construction to renovate buildings will increase. Large business. ment and we have appointed an officer in charge of the environment. Board of Directors ◦ The impact from natural disasters and the rise in sea We have also established the SDGs and ESG Promotion Committee Oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Market changes caused by climate ◦ levels will increase the need to relocate facilities. The market for new construction and renovation Medium ◦ Implement proposals for BCP preparedness (design proposals using hazard maps, etc.) (chaired by the President) to deliberate on basic policies and meaSDGs and ESG Promotion Committee Opportunities change will expand to prepare for the increasing intensity of ◦ Pursue development of GREEN FLOAT environmental islands. natural disasters. sures concerning environmental issues. This committee consists of Chair: President Acceleration of Committee members: ◦ The market for infrastructure maintenance and the officers in charge of various areas such as the officer in charge Officer in charge of Safety Administration and Environment, officer in privatization of management will be opened to private companies charge of SDGs and ESG, officers in charge of Building Construction, public services such ◦ Pursue business in managing public infrastructure and facilities based on because the government is under pressure to recover Medium of Safety Administration and Environment, the officer in charge of Engineering Business, and LCV Businesses and Emerging Frontiers, et al. as infrastructure from natural disasters and this will create new Shimizu’s record in the PFI business. ● Deliberation and decisions on basic policies and measures concerning maintenance and SDGs and ESG, and the officers in charge of Building Construction, environmental issues, including climate change management business opportunities. SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS ● Formulation and roll-out of plans for company-wide measures relating Engineering Business, and LCV Businesses and Frontier Business. to SDGs and ESG *1 BEMS: An abbreviation of Building Energy Management System. Refers to a system for managing building energy. ● Formulation and roll-out of plans for effective communication of The committee deliberates on the results of specification and evalinformation on SDGs and ESG *2 Sustainability renovation: Refers to the renovation of existing buildings mainly to improve environmental performance, BCP performance, and health and comfort. Meeting frequency: Approx. six times a year uation of climate-related risks and opportunities and also manages Risk Management progress on achieving the greenhouse gas (CO2) emission targets in Main supervisory divisions in the environmental area Trends in responses to climate change in Japan and the world are policy. The committee has also established targets for the reducEcological Mission 2030-2050. The results of these deliberations Environmental Management Supervisors Committee Group Company Environmental Committee reported in SDGs and ESG Promotion Committee meetings and the tion in greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions as one means of managing are reported to the Board of Directors. Important decisions on environmental issues in the Shimizu Group Business divisions (including branches) Group companies committee discusses climate-related risk management for the company. the risk of global warming. It has decided on specific measures to are communicated to business divisions (including branches) and Subcontractors In fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, this committee examachieve the targets (in the construction business, shift from fuel oil Group companies through Environmental Management Supervisors ined aspects of external environmental changes that will impact the to electric power as the form of energy used at construction sites, Main suppliers Shimizu Group and revised the Environmental Management Policy expand the use of electric power from renewable energy sources, Strategy which specifies the company’s basic stance on environmental manCORPORATE GOVERNANCE etc.), and is regularly monitoring emissions volume. Climate-related risks and opportunities that impact Shimizu Group The following representative scenarios were also used to examine agement and provides guidelines for action. The Shimizu Group is The Shimizu Group will address the increasingly diverse and businesses include those concerning strengthening the policies the risks and opportunities in transitions and physical changes. aiming to minimize climate change related risks and business risks widespread climate change-related risks through the management and regulations needed to build a zero-carbon society and market ∙ Transition Scenario: One of the International Energy Agency (IEA) related to the environment and maximize opportunities based on this of these risks. changes and other transitions. It can also include acute and chronic scenarios in which the rise in temperature at the end of this century physical changes due to global warming. is 1.5˚C or lower, compared to before the industrial revolution (SDS) Metrics and Targets Shimizu launched the company-wide, cross-organizational ∙ Physical Scenario: One of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate To evaluate and manage the impact of climate-related issues on Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Reduction Targets TCFD Working Group to extract and categorize the risks and opporChange (IPCC) scenarios in which the rise in temperature by the end of this management, the Shimizu Group has specified total volume of Scope Base Year Target Year Target tunities presented by these transitions and physical changes as century exceeds 4˚C, compared to before the industrial revolution (RCP 8.5) greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions as an indicator (KPI) and has set impacts on each level: procurement, direct operations, and product As factors that would cause a large impact, the working group targets for reduction based on SBT (certification acquired from the Short term: 2023 -10% demand. The Working Group analyzed the impact and the response selected the three factors of “expansion in the need for energy-efficient SBT Initiative in September 2019). Scope 1*1 Medium term: 2030 -33%*5 of the Shimizu Group. While the quantitative impact has not been buildings,” “expansion in the need for renewable energy,” and “policies *1 Scope 1: Emissions from use of heavy equipment and machinery (direct emissions) +Scope 2*2 DATA COLLECTION calculated, the relative impact on business activities was predicted that improve national resilience” as opportunities, and the single factor *2 Scope 2: Emissions from electric power and heat purchased and used (indirect emissions Long term: 2050 -63%*5 from electric power companies, etc.) 2017 and expressed as three levels: Large, Medium, and Small. of “rise in summer average temperature” as a risk. Shimizu’s response *3 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions from the supply chain Short term: 2023 — As the first stage in disclosure of information based on the TCFD to these factors was verified. The SDGs and ESG Promotion Committee *4 Category 11: (From use of products sold) Volume of CO2 emissions from operation of buildings that Shimizu designed and built Scope 3*3 recommendations, the Working Group analyzed the Construction confirmed that the responses were consistent with the business stratMedium term: 2030 -20% *5 The medium and long-term targets for Scope 1 + Scope 2 have been certified by the (Category 11*4) Business and Real Estate Development Business, which is one of the egy in SHIMZ VISION 2030 and Mid-Term Management Plan (2019SBT Initiatives as WB2D (Targets that are low enough to control the rise in temperature Long term: 2050 -43% to under 2˚C). non-construction businesses. 2023), and the results were reported to the Board of Directors. 52 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 53 Health and Safety TOPICS Contributing to the achievement of SDGs through business activities Biodiversity: Pursuit of Green Infrastructure ABOUT SHIMIZU The construction industry has a huge impact on the global environment and living creatures. In Shimizu stands on the principle of respect for human life and human beings and recent years, green infrastructure initiatives that utilize many functions of the natural environplaces the highest priority on safeguarding the lives and health of our employees ment (ecosystems, scenery, controlling temperature increase, etc.) have drawn interest as an in all corporate activities. Our basic policy on health and safety management is to effective means of social capital development, safe and secure sustainable national land use, establish a corporate culture that is grounded in safety and maintain a safe, comand local community development. fortable work environment, as we maintain the goal of zero accidents resulting in Shimizu also uses green infrastructure concepts in community development and building serious injury or death and zero accidents involving the public. social infrastructure. To achieve this, we utilize the local potential and ecological landscaping techniques to preserve and create an Green infrastructure + (PLUS) (Japanese only) Measures for Achieving Our Goal environment that is only possible in that area. SHIMZ VISION 2030 https://www.shimz.co.jp/greeninfraplus/ 1. Perform risk assessments to promote preventive safety and continually strive to reduce occupational accidents. Awareness of these green infrastructure con2. Conduct business activities in a manner that achieves both safety and production, based on safety as the cepts is shared company-wide, and we will highest priority. contribute to the realization of sustainable com3. Encourage independent safety management by subcontractors and efforts to prevent accidents. munities in which people and living creatures 4. Improve initial education on projects and eliminate accidents involving new workers. 5. Educate employees, equip them with the knowledge and power to act, and develop them as promoters of can thrive and co-exist by strengthening initiadisaster prevention. tives that extend beyond one area and develop6. Provide comprehensive education on preventing health hazards to eliminate exposure to dust and other ing closer alliances with external organizations. Kinkai habitat (Photo taken in 2016, Setouchi City, materials that are harmful to health. Okayama Prefecture) Fiscal 2019 Health & Safety Results SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Water: Hydrologic Cycle and Ecosystem Restoration —Rain Garden— Trend in LTI (lost time injury) Frequency Rate The LTI (lost time injury) frequency rate*1 in fiscal 2019 was 0.64, on par with Water is one of the foundations that support the co-existence of humans and living creafiscal 2018. Shimizu Construction industry All industries 1.83 tures. However, rapid increases in rainfall that overwhelms sewer systems in urban areas 2.0 1.80 Analysis of Accidents in Fiscal 2019 and Future Measures 1.61 1.63 1.66 has occurred in Japan and overseas in recent years due to climate change. This has caused An analysis of accidents in fiscal 2019 revealed that the largest number of ac1.5 1.69 increasingly serious flood damage in urban areas, ocean pollution, and other problems. cidents by type involved high falls, being pinned, and slips and trips, followed 1.09 Shimizu is pursuing research and development of rain gardens amid these conditions. Rain by low falls. Accidents resulting in four or more days off work decreased, while 0.92 1.0 0.81 gardens are a greening technology that is useful in controlling rainwater run-off on building high falls, which is designated in key measures, increased in both number and 0.64 0.64 premises. Rain gardens are temporary reservoirs that collect rain that falls on roofs and roads, percentage of total accidents. 0.5 0.64 0.59 and are green areas shaped like a sunken basin that allows water to soak into the ground. They In fiscal 2020, we established the major premise of ensuring safe work0.53 0.47 SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS offer many advantages in addition to mitigating urban flooding damage, such as improving biodiplaces to eliminate falls from high places. We provided safety belt testing equip0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) versity and scenery, and are becoming popular in European and U.S. cities as one type of green ment and practical training on safety belt use to ensure appropriate use of safety infrastructure. Shimizu also proposes these, mainly to customers who are highly environmentally belts and took steps to raise awareness through vocal “praise and advise” activities. In addition to these measures, we will also operate a strict penalty system Breakdown by Type of Accident aware, and we use them in developing sustainable premises and communities that contribute to and take various other steps to prevent accidents. 2018 restoring the hydrologic cycle and ecosystem. (61 accidents) 11 8 8 6 5 23 *1 LTI (lost time injury) frequency rate: The number of deaths and injuries per million cumulative man-hours. Figures for all industries and for the construction industry represent accidents 2019 7 11 11 5 11 14 Rain garden in the TERIHA SEKISUI HOUSE ARENA resulting in one or more lost workdays, calculated on a calendar-year basis. Figures (59 accidents) in Fukuoka City for Shimizu represent accidents resulting in four or more lost workdays, calculated on Low falls*2 High falls*3 Being pinned Flying & Slips & trips Other Resources and Pollution: Resources, Energy, and Material Flow a fiscal-year basis. falling objects CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The final disposal and recycling material flow of energy, water, and resources used and *2 Low falls: Accidents involving falls from a height of less than 2 m *3 High falls: Accidents involving falls from a height of 2 m or higher construction waste generated during construction activities in fiscal 2019 is shown below. Construction by-product final disposal rate 3.0 (FY2019 results) TOPICS The entire company is working as one team to reduce and recycle by-products. % Shimizu Group Health Management Declaration FY2019 Resources, Energy, and Material Flow The Shimizu Group will provide an environment in which employees can be healthy and work enerConstruction by-product generated per square getically, and that will help improve the job satisfaction and happiness of all employees. 16.3 INPUT OUTPUT meter (FY2019 results) Prevent mental & The Shimizu Group aims to be a company that advances each employee by ensuring that each employee can Determine policy physical illness Office activities Office activities and measures and build health be healthy, work energetically, and demonstrate the skills they possess. To accomplish these thing, we have Controlled kg/m2 established a company-wide structure for improving employee health and promoting improvements in the Follow-up, Improve health final disposal: 50,000 tons workplace environment, and continue to take the necessary steps. A committee dedicated to this has been esprovide support, and measures and the Green Miscellaneous verify effectiveness working environment procurement Construction tablished with the president as the committee chair, and this committee is promoting the following measures. DATA COLLECTION debris Minimally controlled waste generated Health management promotion cycle Construction (from construction final disposal: Main construction activities work) 40,000 tons Concrete Measures materials Construction sludge 2.29 million tons ● Consistently perform various kinds of exams and stress checks ● Provide health guidance and promote health education for people at risk of lifestyle diseases Mixed waste Recycling: Environmental Performance Data ● Promote anti-smoking measures ● Reduce long working hours ● Provide support for working while undergoing medical treatment, etc. Construction Wood chips from 1.73 million tons https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/ activities construction csr/environment/data/index.html#material 54 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 55 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers (as of June 30, 2020) ABOUT SHIMIZU Directors Yoichi Miyamoto Kazuyuki Inoue Hiroshi Fujimura Kimio Handa Chairman of the Board and President and Representative Director Senior Managing Officer Director & Senior Managing Officer Representative Director President and Executive Officer Director, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, and Director, Corporate Ethics Office July 1971 : Joined the Corporation April 1981 : Joined the Corporation Director, Yumeshima (Osaka) Projects In charge of Administration and SDGs & ESG June 2003 : Executive Officer, Director, April 2013 : Executive Officer, Director, Marketing & Sales April 1979 : Joined the Corporation April 1979 : Joined the Corporation HOKURIKU Branch of the Corporation Promotion Div. II, Building Headquarters of the April 2015 : Executive Officer, Building Headquarters, Deputy Director, July 2005 : Manager, Accounting Dept., Civil Engineering April 2005 : Executive Officer, Director, KYUSHU Corporation Marketing & Sales Promotion Div. of the Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation Branch of the Corporation April 2014 : Managing Officer, Director, NAGOYA Branch of the January 2016 : Executive Officer, Building Construction Headquarters, June 2008 : Manager, Accounting Dept., Building Headquarters June 2005 : Managing Officer, Director, KYUSHU Corporation Deputy Director, Marketing & Sales Promotion Div. of the of the Corporation Branch of the Corporation April 2015 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, NAGOYA Branch Corporation June 2010 : Deputy Director, HOKURIKU Branch of the SHIMZ VISION 2030 April 2006 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, of the Corporation April 2017 : Managing Officer, Building Construction Headquarters, Corporation KYUSHU Branch of the Corporation June 2015 : Director, Senior Managing Officer, Director, Deputy Director, Marketing & Sales Promotion Div. of the April 2014 : President and Representative Director of Shimizu April 2007 : Senior Managing Officer, in charge of NAGOYA Branch of the Corporation Corporation Comprehensive Development Corporation Marketing & Sales Promotion of the March 2016 : Director, Senior Managing Officer, in charge of April 2018 : Managing Officer, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, April 2018 : Managing Officer, Deputy Director, Sales & Corporation Marketing & Sales Promotion of the Corporation Director, Building Construction Sales & Marketing Div. of Marketing Headquarters, in charge of Compliance, June 2007 : President and Representative April 2016 : President and Representative Director of the the Corporation Civil Engineering Headquarters, Deputy Director, Director of the Corporation Corporation November 2018 : Managing Officer, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, Corporate Ethics Office of the Corporation April 2016 : Chairman of the Board and April 2020 : President and Representative Director, President Director, Building Construction Sales & Marketing Div., April 2020 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, Corporate Ethics Representative Director of the and Executive Officer of the Corporation(up to the Director, Development Promotion Dept., Building Office, and in charge of Compliance, Sales & Corporation(up to the present) present) Construction Sales & Marketing Div., Sales & Marketing Marketing Headquarters of the Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation June 2020 : Director & Senior Managing Officer April 2019 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, Building Construction In charge of Administration, Sales & Marketing Div., Sales & Marketing Headquarters In charge of SDGs & ESG, of the Corporation Director, Corporate Ethics Office (up to the present) April 2020 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, Sales & Marketing SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Headquarters, and Director, Yumeshima (Osaka) Projects of the Corporation June 2020 : Director & Senior Managing Officer Director, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, Director, Yumeshima (Osaka) Projects (up to the present) Motoaki Shimizu*1 Tamotsu Iwamoto*2 Director Director February 1998 : Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. April 1974 : Joined Ajinomoto Co., Inc. July 2004 : Joined the Corporation July 2001 : President of AJINOMOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. Toshiyuki Imaki Toru Yamaji Tsunehiko Yamanaka June 2011 : Director of SHIMIZU & CO., LTD. June 2005 : Corporate Executive Officer, General Manager, SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS June 2014 : President and Representative Director Human Resources Dept. of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Executive Vice President and Representative Director Executive Vice President and Representative Director Senior Managing Officer and Representative Director of SHIMIZU & CO., LTD. (incumbent) June 2009 : Director, Corporate Vice President of Ajinomoto Executive Vice President and Executive Officer Executive Vice President and Executive Officer Director, Civil Engineering Headquarters March 2017 : Resigned from the Corporation Co., Inc. Director, Building Construction Headquarters, In charge of Engineering Business, LCV Business and In charge of Safety Administration & Environment June 2017 : Director of the Corporation(up to the June 2011 : Director, Corporate Senior Vice President of present) Ajinomoto Co., Inc. In charge of Information Management and Emerging Frontiers April 1980 : Joined the Corporation June 2015 : Representative Director, Corporate Executive Productivity Improvement April 1981 : Joined the Corporation April 2013 : Executive Officer, Director, HOKKAIDO Branch of the Deputy President of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. April 2011 : Executive Officer, Deputy Director, TOKYO Branch, Building Corporation June 2017 : Senior Advisor of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. April 1980 : Joined the Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation March 2016 : Executive Officer, Director, KANTO Branch of the June 2017 : Outside Auditor of HOUSE FOODS GROUP INC. April 2007 : Executive Officer, Director, Tokyo Building Construction April 2012 : Executive Officer, Director, KYUSHU Branch of the Corporation (incumbent) Business Div. III, Building Headquarters of the Corporation Corporation April 2016 : Managing Officer, Director, KANTO Branch of the June 2019 : Director of the Corporation (up to the present) June 2008 : Executive Officer, Manager, Human Resources Dept. of the April 2015 : Managing Officer, Director, KYUSHU Branch of the Corporation Corporation Corporation April 2018 : Senior Managing Officer, Director, Civil Engineering April 2010 : Executive Officer, Director, HOKURIKU Branch of the Corporation April 2016 : Senior Managing Officer, in charge of Marketing & Sales Headquarters of the Corporation April 2013 : Managing Officer, Director, HOKURIKU Branch of the Corporation Promotion of the Corporation June 2018 : Senior Managing Officer and Representative Director, Aya Murakami*2 Mayumi Tamura*2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE April 2014 : Senior Managing Officer, Deputy Director, Building April 2017 : Senior Managing Officer, in charge of Marketing & Sales Director, Civil Engineering Headquarters of the Headquarters and Director, TOKYO Branch, Building Promotion, Director, Marketing & Sales Promotion Div., Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation April 2020 : Senior Managing Officer and Representative Director, Director Director June 2015 : Director, Senior Managing Officer, Deputy Director, Building Building Construction Headquarters of the Corporation June 2017 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, in Director, Civil Engineering Headquarters, in charge of April 1977 : Joined the Ministry of Labor April 1983 : Joined Sony Corporation Headquarters and Director, TOKYO Branch, Building charge of Marketing & Sales Promotion, Director, Safety Administration & Environment of the April 1996 : Director of Women’s Welfare Division, July 2002 : Executive Officer of Johnson Diversey Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation Marketing & Sales Promotion Div., Building Construction Corporation(up to the present) Women’s Bureau, Ministry of Labor (currently CxS Corporation) January 2016 : Director, Senior Managing Officer, in charge of Tokyo Metropolitan Area, Director, TOKYO Branch of the Corporation Headquarters of the Corporation July 1998 : Member of Long-term Care Insurance December 2004 : CFO of adidas Japan K.K. April 2016 : Executive Vice President and Director, in charge of Tokyo April 2018 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, Promotion Office, Director of Welfare June 2007 : Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and CFO of Metropolitan Area, Director, TOKYO Branch of the Corporation Director, Sales & Marketing Headquarters of the Promotion for the Elderly Division, Health Seiyu Corporation (currently Seiyu GK.) April 2017 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, Corporation and Welfare Bureau for the Elderly, Ministry May 2010 : Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and CFO of Director, Building Construction Headquarters, in charge of March 2019 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, of Health and Welfare Seiyu Corporation (currently Seiyu GK.) and Productivity Improvement and Information Management of Director, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, Director, January 2001 : Director of Promotion Division, Gender Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and CFO of the Corporation Yumeshima (Osaka) Projects of the Corporation Equality Bureau, Cabinet Office Walmart Japan Holdings GK. (Currently Walmart April 2018 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, April 2020 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, August 2003 : Director-General, Saitama Labour Bureau Japan Holdings K.K.) Director, Building Construction Headquarters, in charge of Executive Vice President and Executive Officer, in charge of of Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare June 2015 : Outside Auditor of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. Productivity Improvement, Information Management, and Engineering Business and LCV Business, and in charge of December 2006 : Managing Director of Japan Institute for June 2017 : Outside Director, Audit and Supervisory Committee DATA COLLECTION Nuclear Business of the Corporation Emerging Frontiers of the Corporation(up to the present) Women’s Empowerment & Diversity Member of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. (incumbent) April 2019 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, Director, Management June 2017 : Outside Director of Hitachi High-Technologies Building Construction Headquarters, in charge of Productivity April 2011 : Professor, Department of Law, Faculty of Corporation (currently Hitachi High-Tech Corporation) Improvement, Nuclear Business, Information Management, Law, Teikyo University (incumbent) (incumbent) Director, Digital Strategy Promotion Div. of the Corporation June 2015 : Director of the Corporation (up to the June 2019 : Director of the Corporation (up to the present) April 2020 : Executive Vice President and Representative Director, present) Executive Vice President and Executive Officer, Director, Building Construction Headquarters, in charge of Information Management and Productivity Improvement of the *1 Director Motoaki Shimizu is a Non-Executive Director and head of the Nomination and Compensation Committee. *2 Directors Tamotsu Iwamoto, Aya Murakami and Mayumi Tamura are External Directors. Corporation(up to the present) 56 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 57 ABOUT SHIMIZU Audit & Supervisory Board Members Executive Officers President Naoki Kita Yoshinari Dendoh Kazuyuki Inoue In charge of International Business, Manager, Human Resource Dept., Civil Engineering Headquarters In charge of Working Style Reform Executive Vice Presidents Hiroaki Taniguchi Tomoaki Harada Toshiyuki Imaki Director, NAGOYA Branch Director, Building Construction Planning Div., Director, Building Construction Headquarters, Building Construction Headquarters, In charge of Information Management, Productivity Shinichi Takiguchi Director, Monozukuri Training Center, Improvement and Associated Companies Director, Emerging Frontiers Div., In charge of Sales & Building Construction Headquarters, SHIMZ VISION 2030 Marketing, Sales & Marketing Headquarters In charge of Tokyo Mokkoujou, Hideto Watanabe Koichi Matsuoka Hatsuhito Kaneko* 3 Toru Yamaji Building Construction Headquarters, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (standing) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (standing) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (standing) In charge of Engineering Business, Takahisa Shirota Director, Shiomi Project LCV Businesses and Emerging Frontiers In charge of Sales & Marketing, Sales & Marketing April 1980 : Joined the Corporation April 1981 : Joined the Corporation April 1979 : Joined Mitsubishi Trust and Banking June 2006 : Manager, Accounting Dept. of the Corporation July 2006 : Manager, Accounting Dept., TOHOKU Branch Corporation Headquarters Masamichi Miki June 2016 : Manager, Audit Department of the Corporation of the Corporation June 2006 : Executive Officer, General Manager, Retail Koji Ikeda Director, HIROSHIMA Branch June 2017 : Audit & Supervisory Board Member (up to the April 2008 : Manager, Financial Management Dept. of the Business Planning Promotion Department of In charge of Kansai Area, present) Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Akira Yamazaki Director, KANSAI Branch, Director, Procurement & Estimation Center, Yasuhide Yamada April 2013 : Manager, Affiliates’ Business Dept. of the October 2006 : Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporation Retail Business Planning Department of Deputy Director, Yumeshima (Osaka) Project, in charge of Building Construction Headquarters In charge of Sales & Marketing, June 2017 : Manager, Audit Dept. of the Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Building Construction, Yumeshima Project Sales & Marketing Headquarters June 2020 : Audit & Supervisory Board Member (up to the June 2008 : Executive Officer, Manager, KYOTO Branch present) and KYOTO Central Branch of Mitsubishi UFJ Atsushi Osada Senior Managing Officers Deputy Director, Civil Engineering Sales & Marketing Div., Masakazu Hyodo Trust and Banking Corporation June 2009 : Managing Executive Officer of Mitsubishi Tsunehiko Yamanaka Sales & Marketing Headquarters In charge of Finance & Accounting, Affiliated Business SHIMIZU’S FUTURE UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Dept., and IR Director, Civil Engineering Headquarters, June 2011 : Senior Managing Executive Officer of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation In charge of Safety Administration & Environment Takeshi Sekiguchi June 2012 : Senior Managing Director of Mitsubishi UFJ General Manager, Engineering Headquarters Kazuhiko Kato Trust and Banking Corporation Yutaka Ishikawa Deputy Director, Civil Engineering Sales & Marketing Div., June 2013 : Director, Deputy President of Mitsubishi UFJ In charge of Technology, Yasuhide Kuwahara Sales & Marketing Headquarters Trust and Banking Corporation Director, Technology Planning Div., Director, TOKYO Civil Engineering Branch June 2015 : Representative Chairman of Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services Co., Ltd. Director, Institute of Technology Kenichi Ozono June 2016 : Outside Corporate Auditor of Mitsubishi Mitsuo Morii Manager, Operation Control Dept. Paper Mills Limited Koichi Ishimizu Director, Global Strategy Div. June 2017 : Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shimizu Corporation (up to the present) In charge of Tokyo Metropolitan Area, Haruhiko Washimi Director, TOKYO Branch, Yoshiki Higashi General Manager, Investment and Development Div. Director, Corporate Planning Div., SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS In Charge of Nuclear and Thermal Power Generation Businesses In charge of Human Resource System Reform Tetsu Mizuno Tetsuya Nishikawa*3 Kaoru Ishikawa*3 In charge of Sales & Marketing, NAGOYA Branch Audit & Supervisory Board Member (part-time) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (part-time) Hiroshi Fujimura Takao Haneda Director, Sales & Marketing Headquarters, In charge of General Affairs, Takayuki Sakakima April 1972 : Joined National Policy Agency April 1972 : Joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Director, Yumeshima (Osaka) Projects Director, Corporate Ethics Help-line Office, Deputy Director, Design Div., Building Construction August 1989 : Manager, Investigation Div. II, The Criminal September 2002 : Manager, International Society Cooperation Dept., Investigation Bureau of Metropolitan Police Foreign Policy Bureau In charge of Crisis Management General Manager Headquarters, In charge of Structure Department January 2005 : Chief, Economic Affairs Bureau Shigeru Namioka April 1993 : Chief of Wakayama Prefectural Police January 2007 : Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Director, KANTO Branch Executive Officers Toshikazu Tsuji Headquarters Japan to Egypt Tatsuya Shinmura In charge of Civil Engineering, Kansai Area, March 1998 : Chief of Niigata Prefectural Police Headquarters June 2010 : Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of January 2007 : Director General, Minister’ Secretariat of Ministry Japan to Canada Kimio Handa Director, YOKOHAMA Branch In charge of Civil Engineering, Yumeshima (Osaka) Project of Defense April 2013 : Retired the Ministry of Foreign Affairs In charge of Administrative Functions, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE August 2009 : Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary June 2013 : Senior Managing Director, The Japan Forum on SDGs & ESG Promotion Director, Corporate Ethics Office Yutaka Gozu Yoshihiro Higuchi November 2011 : Advisor to Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. (currently International Relations, Inc. Senior Project Director, Singapore Director, Technology, Civil Engineering Headquarters Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc.) April 2014 : Specially-appointed Professor, Kawamura Gakuen December 2011 : Registered as Lawyer (Daiichi Tokyo BAR Women’s University (incumbent) Masahiro Indo Neil Road Development Project, International Div. Association) May 2014 : Director, Kawamura Gakuen (incumbent) Director, Production Technology Div., Building Sadao Matsuhashi January 2012 : Joined Kasahara Law Office (incumbent) June 2015 : Director, The Society for Promotion of Japanese In charge of Technology, Civil Engineering Headquarters June 2012 : External Auditor of TAIHEI Engineering Co., Ltd. Diplomacy (incumbent) Construction Headquarters Takefumi Saito (incumbent) June 2016 : Auditor of the Corporation (incumbent) Director, HOKURIKU Branch May 2013 : External Auditor of SEKIDO Co., Ltd. (incumbent) June 2017 : Outside Director of SMK Corporation (incumbent) Managing Officers Toru Furuya June 2013 : External Director of LAC Co., Ltd. (incumbent) June 2020 : Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation (up to the Osamu Nakagawa President and Representative Director, Shimizu America, Inc. June 2014 : Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the present) Yoshito Tsutsumi Director, KYUSHU Branch Director, HOKKAIDO Branch Corporation (incumbent) Kazuya Osako December 2018 : Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Soken Co., Ltd. Kojiro Shimizu Director, SHIKOKU Branch (incumbent) Kentaro Ikeda June 2020 : Director, Kodokan Judo Institute (up to the Director, TOHOKU Branch Director, Civil Engineering Sales & Marketing Div., present) Hideo Yokoyama Sales & Marketing Headquarters Kouichi Yamashita Director, Building Construction Sales & Marketing Div., DATA COLLECTION Director, KOBE Branch Sales & Marketing Headquarters Masatoshi Misawa Director, CHIBA Branch In charge of Construction, Kansai Area Hitoshi Fujita Toshihide Suenaga Director, International Div. Masanobu Onishi Director, Design Div., Building Construction Headquarters In charge of Marketing & Sales promotion Kansai Area, *3 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Hatsuhito Kaneko, Tetsuya Nishikawa, and Kaoru Ishikawa are independent outside auditors. In charge of Sales & Marketing, Yumeshima (Osaka) Project 58 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 59 Governance Basic Views on Corporate Governance independent of the business execution function. Main Governing Bodies Established by Shimizu Executive Officers Council ABOUT SHIMIZU Shimizu manages the company based on the principles contained in our corpo∙ Outside directors and other non-executive directors and outside Audit & (including discretionary committees and other meeting formats) Shimizu has established an Executive Officers Council to communicate importrate credo, The Analects and the Abacus. We strive to manage the company in Supervisory Board members use their extensive experience and sophisticated Board of Directors ant matters and policies decided by the Board of Directors to executive officers a timely, highly efficient, transparent, and lawful manner to achieve sustained insight based on their individual career histories to oversee and supervise manThe Board of Directors holds meetings once a month as a rule, and as needed. It and provide instructions to them. The President and Representative Director growth and increase corporate value over the medium and long term, while also agement and provide necessary advice as appropriate. makes decisions on matters specified in laws and regulations and the Articles of serves as the chair of this council and members consist of executive directors earning a greater degree of trust from all our shareholders, investors, and all ∙ The Company established a structure mainly consisting of the head office Incorporation as well as other important matters, and supervises the execution (other than the chair) and executive officers. One full-time Audit & Supervisory other stakeholders, including customers, employees, and local communities. We administrative departments to provide timely information and other materials of duties. The Articles of Incorporation specifies 12 as the maximum number of Board member also attends council meetings. do so by fulfilling our social responsibilities through business activities. to assist outside directors and other non-executive directors in performing directors. These directors consist of seven executive directors who are highly Overview of Corporate Governance Structure (as of June 26, 2020) SHIMZ VISION 2030 To achieve this, we have separated the management strategy and decitheir management supervisory duties. knowledgeable in each area of Shimizu’s business and four non-executive direcItem Description sion-making function from the business execution function, and have estab∙ The relevant divisions provide an overview of the Company and detailed tors, three of whom are outside directors with extensive expertise and experiOrganizational form Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board lished a structure that enables the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory explanations of the businesses, and other matters as guidance to new outside ence in their respective specialties. All three meet the standards for indepenNumber of Directors 11 (maximum of 12 permitted) Board to appropriately supervise and audit the performance of each of these directors. dence specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Chairman and Representative Director term 1 year functions. Our basic policy on corporate governance is for our directors, exec∙ Outside directors audit all duties performed by directors from a fair and imparDirector serves as the chair of the Board of Directors. Number of female Directors 2 utive officers, Audit & Supervisory Board members, and employees to impletial perspective. Number of Non-Executive Directors 4 (including 3 independent Directors) ment compliance management based on the highest ethical standards. ∙ The Audit & Supervisory Board Members Office was established as the dediAudit & Supervisory Board Number of Independent Directors 3 cated organization to support Audit & Supervisory Board members. This office The Audit & Supervisory Board meets once a month as a rule, and additionally as Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members 5 Overview of the Corporate Governance Structure secures the necessary support staff to enable more effective audits by Audit & necessary. It makes decisions on audit policy, audit plans, auditing methods, and Number of Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members 3 Shimizu has adopted the structure of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members. Executive officer system* Yes other important audit matters, and deliberates on necessary matters concerning SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Board. We have limited the number of directors and introduced an executive ∙ Audit & Supervisory Board members improve the effectiveness of management Name of Accounting Auditor Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC audits. The Articles of Incorporation sets the number of Audit & Supervisory Board officer system to clearly separate the management strategy, decision-making, supervision by attending important meetings and obtaining sufficient information * On April 1, 2020, the executive officer system was partially revised. Responsibility for operational members at a maximum of five, including three outside Audit & Supervisory Board execution was clarified to strengthen the business execution function and the percentage of nonand oversight functions from the business execution function. We have estabfrom officers and employees without delay. executive directors was increased to strengthen the management supervisory function. members. The chair of the Audit & Supervisory Board is an Audit & Supervisory lished a system for supervising and overseeing management from an objective ∙ When a Board of Directors meeting is held, the Board of Directors administrative office Board member chosen through discussion by the Audit & Supervisory Board. All and neutral perspective by taking steps to encourage energetic debate at Board and other divisions provide explanations in advance to the outside directors, non-execthree outside Audit & Supervisory Board members meet the standards set by the Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors of Directors meetings, and by electing outside directors, other non-executive utive directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Our Board of Directors evaluates the overall effectiveness of the Board of Tokyo Stock Exchange for independent officers, and oversee the management of directors, and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members who maintain a high ∙ Outside directors and other non-executive directors regularly exchange opinDirectors once a year. Shimizu from an objective and neutral standpoint. degree of independence. The concrete structure and implementation status are ions with the chairman and president. A summary of the evaluation method and results for 2019 are provided below: detailed below. ∙ Regular Outside Officers Meetings are held for outside directors and outside Nomination & Compensation Committee (1) Evaluation Method ∙ To promote more energetic debate by the Board of Directors and strengthen Audit & Supervisory Board members, and regular Outside Directors and Audit Shimizu has established a Nomination & Compensation Committee to ensure Self-evaluation through discussion by all directors and all Audit & Supervisory Board members SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS the management function, one-third or more of the total number of directors & Supervisory Board Members Meetings are held for outside directors and fairness and transparency in the selection, dismissal, evaluation, and com∙ Time period: 12 months beginning in January 2019 (one year) do not have executive duties. We elect non-executive directors to supervise all Audit & Supervisory Board members to facilitate the exchange of opinions. pensation of directors and executive officers. The members of this committee ∙ Evaluation date: December 2019 Board of Directors meeting corporate management and the execution of duties from a standpoint that is consist of four non-executive directors (three outside directors and one non-ex∙ Main items evaluated: Composition, function, and operational status of the Diagram of Corporate Governance Structure ecutive internal director) and two executive directors. The committee is chaired Board of Directors, status of support provided to outside directors, status of by a non-executive director. training and other support provided to directors, status of dialog with shareholders and stakeholders, and other aspects of operation Shareholders/General Meeting of Shareholders Appoints Discloses information Risk Management Committee (2) Summary of Evaluation Results Appoints Appoints Our Risk Management Committee ascertains and analyzes risks that would have Shimizu’s Board of Directors is judged to be operating effectively. The folInvestigates Investigates Audit & Supervisory Board Members/ lowing main issues for future consideration were also raised as opinions and Directors/Board of Directors a serious impact on our corporate group, which consists of Shimizu and its CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reports Audit & Supervisory Board subsidiaries. It also determines key risk management items, and follows up and proposals during discussion. Consultation Corporate Reports Reports Reports Reports and refers Auditor’s reports to the Board of Directors. The President and Representative Director Functional & operational status of Board of Directors meetings: (1) Strengthen Nominates Office Audits and reports Accounting Auditor Audits serves as the chair of the committee and one full-time Audit & Supervisory the management strategy and management supervisory function to maintain global, for discussion & supervises Reports Nominating Advises and Board member also attends committee meetings. group awareness. (2) Revise the criteria for referral to the Board of Directors and operCompensation Committee guides Reports Instructs and ate meetings efficiently to secure sufficient time for discussion of important matters. Law Firm communicates information Committee on Corporate Ethics Status of support for outside directors: (1) Provide advance explanations of Board President/Representative Director Discloses Reports Shimizu has established the Committee on Corporate Ethics to determine comof Directors meeting items earlier and provide more information that will contribute to information Stakeholders Instructs, Risk Management Committee on pany-wide policies on strict compliance with corporate ethics, laws and regumanagement. (2) Increase the number of opportunities outside of Board of Directors Appoints & notifies, Committee Corporate Ethics Provide supervises and lations, and deploy and follow up on compliance. The committee is also tasked meetings for non-executive directors (including outside directors) or outside Audit & supervises Summarizes information Corporate Ethics Office Information with collecting all information on serious incidents involving wrongdoing as well Supervisory Board members to exchange opinions with the Chairman and President. Various types of meetings Dialog with Shareholders and Investors: Report the opinions obtained from and committees Reports examining ways to prevent incidents and recurrence and issuing directions to DATA COLLECTION Reports and Consultation and Reporting Desks accomplish that. The President and Representative Director serves as the chair shareholders and investors through IR activities, etc. to the Board of Directors in refers for (Corporate Ethics Help-Line Office) discussion Internal of the committee. One full-time Audit & Supervisory Board member and one a timely manner. audits Executive Officers Audit Department Subsidiary Presidents Internal audits outside expert (an attorney) also attend committee meetings. (3) Future Initiatives Instruct, notify, Reports Whistleblowing Whistleblowing Internal Shimizu will use the results from evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of and supervise audits Directors to further improve its effectiveness and corporate governance. Operating Divisions Operating Divisions 60 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 61 Governance Appointed Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of June 30, 2020) Support Structure for Outside Officers (outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members) ABOUT SHIMIZU Outside Directors Shimizu has established a system to provide information to facilitate of staff members have been secured to assist outside Audit & Supervisory supervision of management by outside directors and other non-execBoard members. Independent Meeting Name Important Concurrent Positions Reasons for Appointment utive directors in performing their duties. The administration departWhen a Board of Directors meeting is held, materials are distribOfficer Attendance During FY2019 Tamotsu Iwamoto possesses expert knowledge and experience as an officer ments in the head office play the main role in providing this information uted in advance and the Board of Directors administrative office and of listed companies and extensive knowledge and experience from many in a timely manner. other divisions provide explanations in advance to the outside directors Outside Audit & Board of Directors meetings: Tamotsu years in corporate management. Shimizu deemed him to be appropriate for ○ Supervisory Board Member, Attended 12 out of a total of Iwamoto House Foods Group Inc. appointment as an Outside Director because we think he will utilize this 12 meetings (100% attendance rate) The Corporate Auditor’s Office was established as a dedicated organiand the outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. SHIMZ VISION 2030 experience in supervising management of the company from an objective, neutral perspective. zation to support Audit & Supervisory Board members. A sufficient number Aya Murakami possesses expert knowledge and experience as a university Professor, Dept. of Law, professor and knowledge and experience from involvement in labor and welfare Board of Directors meetings: Policy on Determining Officer Compensation Aya administration for many years. We deemed her to be appropriate for appointment ○ Faculty of Law, Attended 16 out of a total of Director and executive officer compensation consists of a base salary for each director is contributed to the officers’ stock ownership plan Murakami as an Outside Director because she is using this expertise to promote working Teikyo University 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) style reform, diversity management, and otherwise contribute to the management which is paid monthly and performance-linked bonuses. Shimizu has and is used to acquire Shimizu shares. Directors must also hold the of the company. established a Nomination & Compensation Committee which mainly shares acquired while employed by Shimizu and for a certain period of Outside Director, Audit & Supervisory Mayumi Tamura possesses expert knowledge and many years of experience consists of non-executive directors, including outside directors, to time after leaving the company. in global companies. We deemed her to be appropriate for appointment as an Board of Directors meetings: Mayumi Committee Member, ensure fair and transparent evaluation and compensation of directors Non-executive directors, including outside directors, are only paid ○ Outside Director because we think she will utilize this experience in Attended 12 out of a total of Tamura Honda Motor Co., Ltd., supervising management of the company from an objective, neutral 12 meetings (100% attendance rate) and officers through deliberation by the committee. Outside Director, perspective. a monthly salary to enhance the management supervisory function. Hitachi High-Tech Corporation Director bonuses are indexed to consolidated net income, which A maximum total of 90 million yen a month in director compensation SHIMIZU’S FUTURE * Tamotsu Iwamoto and Mayumi Tamura have attended all Board of Directors meetings held since they were appointed on June 27, 2019. represents the ultimate results of Shimizu Group business activities for was established at the 117th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders one fiscal year. The degree of progress on achieving the goal for conheld on June 27, 2019. Compensation of outside directors is capped Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members solidated ordinary income for the fiscal year is also considered and the at 10 million yen of the amount noted above. A maximum annual total Independent Meeting Name Important Concurrent Positions Reasons for Appointment basic bonus is calculated by multiplying the net income indicator by a of 500 million yen for bonuses was established at the 118th Annual Officer Attendance During FY2019 Board of Directors meetings: certain percentage. This is multiplied by a specific index for each posiGeneral Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2020. Hatsuhito Kaneko possesses considerable knowledge of finance and accounting, Attended 16 out of a total of tion and an additional amount is added to according to the performance Hatsuhito and extensive experience and expertise in management as an officer of financial 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) A maximum total limit of 13 million yen a month in Audit & ○ Full-time institutions for many years. Shimizu deemed him to be appropriate for Kaneko appointment as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member because he is Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: of each director. Moreover, an amount equivalent to 20% of the bonus is Supervisory Board member compensation was established at the 89th Attended 16 out of a total of supervising management of the company from an objective, neutral perspective. 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) granted as compensation for acquiring Company shares to give direcAnnual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 1991 and Attorney (Kasahara Law Office); Tetsuya Nishikawa has held positions of authority in the police force, the Ministry Board of Directors meetings: tors greater shared value with shareholders and to enhance corporate the compensation is determined through discussion by the Audit & SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Outside Audit & Supervisory of Defense, and the Cabinet Secretariat. He has extensive knowledge and Attended 16 out of a total of value over the medium and long term. The share-based compensation Supervisory Board. Tetsuya Board Member at SEKIDO Co., Ltd.; experience in crisis management administration, and possesses expert 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) ○ Nishikawa Outside Director at LAC Co., Ltd.; knowledge as an attorney. Shimizu deemed him to be appropriate for Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: Outside Audit & Supervisory appointment as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member because he is Attended 16 out of a total of Board Member at Sokensha Co., Ltd. supervising management of the company from an objective, neutral perspective. 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Compensation (FY2019) Kaoru Ishikawa has played a leading role in the field of diplomacy and has a Board of Directors meetings: Total Compensation by Compensation Type (¥ millions) Director at Kawamura Gakuen, wealth of experience and knowledge as a diplomat and specialized knowledge on Attended 16 out of a total of Director at The Society for Promotion Bonus Kaoru international relations and SDGs. Shimizu deemed him to be appropriate for 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) Total Compensation Number of Eligible ○ of Japanese Diplomacy, and Outside Officer Category Ishikawa appointment as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member because he will Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: (¥ millions) Monthly Salary Of Which, Compensation Officers Director at SMK Corporation monitor management of the Corporation from an objective and neutral standpoint Attended 16 out of a total of for Acquiring Director at Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation and from a global perspective by utilizing his experience and knowledge. 16 meetings (100% attendance rate) Company Shares Directors 934 663 271 53 9 (excluding Outside Directors) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Standards regarding the Independence of Outside Officers (Outside Directors and Outside Auditors) Audit & Supervisory Board Members 64 64 ー ー 2 (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) The Corporation deems an outside officer or a candidate for outside officer to have independence against the Corporation if he or she satisfies the following requirements: 1. An outside officer shall not be currently acting, nor have acted in the ten years before taking office, as a person who executes business (executive director or executive officer and Outside Officers 98 98 ー ー 7 other employee) of the Corporation or its subsidiaries. 2. An outside officer shall not currently be an important person who executes business (executive director, accounting advisor, managing officer, executive officer or manager and other important employee) of a major shareholder (a shareholder who holds 10% or more of the voting rights) of the Corporation. Securities Holding Policy 3. An outside officer shall not currently be an important person who executes business of a major business partner of the Corporation (a business partner in the case when the amount Shimizu holds shares of business partners as securities holdings in is necessary to hold the stock and confirming the relationship of trust received by the Corporation from such business partner in the most recent fiscal year exceeds 2% of annual consolidated net sales of the Corporation). 4. An outside officer shall not currently be an important person who executes business of a business partner who has major transactions with the Corporation (a business partner in the order to “strengthen and maintain the relationships with business partwith the business partner. Shimizu sold securities holdings of listed case when the amount paid by the Corporation to such business partner in the most recent fiscal year exceeds 2% of annual consolidated net sales of the business partner). ners” when necessary from the viewpoint of sales policy. The Board stocks valued at 16.8 billion yen in fiscal 2019. 5. An outside officer shall not currently be an important person who executes business of a financial institution with which the Corporation has a financing reliance that is nonsubstitutable. of Directors determines whether to acquire major securities holdings The Company exercises voting rights on securities holdings appro6. An outside officer shall not currently be a person who provides professional service as an attorney, certified public accountant or other consultant gaining from the Corporation a and takes the benefits to Shimizu, acquisition cost, risk of share price priately. Shimizu examines the content of resolutions and makes a DATA COLLECTION substantial amount of remuneration (more than ¥10 million in the most recent fiscal year) other than remuneration for directors and auditors. changes, and other factors into collective consideration in making such decision on whether to vote for or against each resolution after con7. An outside officer shall not be a relative (a spouse or a relative who is within the second degree of kinship) of an important person who executes business of the Corporation or its subsidiaries. decisions. The Board of Directors examines the necessity of securities sidering the resolution from the perspective of avoiding impairment of holdings for individual stocks each year, taking into collective considershareholder value, in addition to the perspective of strengthening the ation the economic rationality of such holdings including cost, risk, and relationship with the business partner, the original purpose for holding sales benefits. The Company will reduce securities holdings in stages to the shares. promote the effective utilization of capital, after first verifying whether it 62 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 63 Governance Compliance Policy on Constructive Dialog with Stakeholders Code of Corporate Ethics and Conduct and Internal Initiatives Aimed at Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act ABOUT SHIMIZU Shimizu believes that information disclosure and dialog with shareholders, institutional FY2019 Activities Number Corporate Structure In October 2018, the court found Shimizu Corporation guilty of violainvestors, and financial analysts is important to achieve sustained growth and increase Financial results briefings and job site tours for Code of Corporate Ethics and Conduct tions of the Antimonopoly Act relating to a bid on a Chuo Shinkansen 3 corporate value. financial analysts Shimizu has adopted The Analects and the Abacus, which contains the construction project ordered by the Central Japan Railway Company, The President and other executive management attend financial results briefings and Individual meetings with financial analysts 102 teachings of Eiichi Shibusawa, as our corporate credo. We base our and ordered suspension of certain business activities from February 2 overseas IR meetings to engage in substantial dialog. Meetings with institutional investors in Japan 15 business activities on the conviction that our company’s business will to June 1, 2019 as specified in the Construction Business Act. We have We also conduct job site tours and disclose information on the corporate website in Meetings with overseas institutional investors 25 always prosper if we pursue ethics and economic gain simultaneously, been continuously implementing measures to prevent recurrence since SHIMZ VISION 2030 a fair and timely manner to enable stakeholders to correctly understand the Shimizu’s or in other words, if we do good work that delights the community and March 2018. The status of measures to prevent recurrence impleJob site tours for individual shareholders 1 business strategy and the management our customers and is grounded in a strong sense of ethics. As socimented in fiscal 2019 are as follows: SDGs and ESG briefings for ESG analysts 1 ety changes and imposes stronger demands on companies to be good (1) The Company’s top management took the initiative in bolstering high ethical standards corporate citizens and exercise corporate social responsibility, Shimizu and compliance in the workplace. a. Conducted corporate ethics training for management executives (a total of approximately works to make sure that officers and employees fully understand our 900 attended the training, with approximately 300 officers and executive staff members Internal Control System Establishment and Status attending each time) corporate credo, The Analects and the Abacus, and act accordingly · “Practice of the Analects and Abacus in Business” by Mr. Atsushi Moriya Shimizu has established a system of internal controls and the Board of Directors makes decisions on the Basic Policy on Establishing a System of · “Eiichi Shibusawa and the Analects” by Mr. Yoshifumi Taguchi each day. We formulated the Code of Corporate Ethics and Conduct and · “Recent Practice of Antimonopoly Act, etc.” by Attorney Ryuta Kawai Internal Controls to ensure proper operation of the company. b. Provided The Analects and the Abacus” e-learning training conduct compliance training based on it for all employees each year to · Taken by approximately 10,000 all employees of the Company, and approximately 4,200 An overview of the operational status of internal control systems in fiscal 2019 is provided below. officers and employees of its subsidiaries make sure that everyone understands the Code. Training topics include c. Raised awareness on compliance through the company magazine and the company conducting fair bidding (compliance with the Antimonopoly Act, etc.); Intranet SHIMIZU’S FUTURE (1) We provide ongoing education and training to officers and employees to ensure strict compliance. · Series of articles on “The Analects and the Abacus” by Director of the Shibusawa Memorial (2) Shimizu has established three compliance hotlines based on an internal reporting system: A corporate ethics hotline, a counseling hotline, and an preventing corruption, including bribery and accounting fraud; human Museum (7 issues) outside hotline. All employees have been made aware of them, and the system’s operations are reported to the Committee on Corporate Ethics (2) Thorough implementation of the Company’s Code of Conduct rights; labor; and the environment. · Training and exchange of opinions with outside lawyer (targeting officers in charge of civil and the Audit & Supervisory Board. engineering and sales and executive staff members at branches) (3) The Committee on Corporate Ethics meets twice a year. It rolls out measures aimed at strict compliance with corporate ethics and laws and Code of Corporate Ethics and Conduct · Training by Legal Department/Interviews with executive staff members at branches regulations to the entire company and follows up on implementation. (3) Strengthening compliance checks on specified projects https://www.shimz.co.jp/en/company/about/governance/pdf/202005e.pdf · Identified high-risk projects which are considered likely to cause anticompetitive actions (4) We continue to implement measures to prevent recurrence and ensure even stricter compliance in light of the violation of the Antimonopoly Act (around 70 projects were designated from Building Construction and Civil Engineering in total, Compliance System that occurred in the Chuo Shinkansen construction project made public in March 2018. which are re-examined every month based on the progress of the projects) (5) To eradicate antisocial forces and groups, Shimizu has clearly stated “Elimination of Antisocial Behavior” in our Code of Corporate Ethics and · Conducted interviews and checks with sales officers, department managers, and persons in Conduct. We also provide education and training, have appointed a person in charge of preventing improper demands, have established an internal charge of sales in regards to the above-mentioned high-risk projects (a cumulative total of approximately 280 projects in fiscal 2019) reporting system for reporting any improper demands received, have included a clearly worded clause on eliminating relationships with organized · Conducted interviews by an outside lawyer as necessary (7 projects in fiscal 2019) crime groups in contracts with business partners, and have taken other steps to establish an internal system for practical implementation. (4) Evaluation by lawyer on the status of implementation of recurrence prevention measures (6) To prevent acts of bribery in Japan and overseas, Shimizu clearly states that that we do not condone acts of bribery in our Code of Corporate Ethics · An evaluation by an outside lawyer in April 2020 concluded that “the Corporation is judged and Conduct. We have also established an internal system that includes the establishment of Anti-Bribery Rules, establishment of a system for Establishment of Internal Corporate Structure to be seriously making an effort to ensure compliance with the Antimonopoly Act and its SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS approach to compliance is worth high praise.” implementation, provision of education and training, and strict punishment of violators. Shimizu provides education and training to ensure strict implementation This type of evaluation will continue to be carried out. (1) The Risk Management Committee meets twice a year. It identifies and analyzes risks that would have a serious impact on the corporate group, and practical operation of the Code of Corporate Ethics and Conduct by which consists of Shimizu and its subsidiaries, and determines the key areas of risk management. It follows up on implementation and reports to officers and employees, We have also appointed an officer in charge the Board of Directors. of corporate ethics, established a Committee on Corporate Ethics, the TOPICS (2) To confirm communication lines and the initial response to large earthquakes, we hold regular earthquake disaster drills and ask suppliers and Risk Management System local residents and others to participate. Corporate Ethics Office, the corporate ethics hotline, and an internal Sharing the Founding Spirit (3) For overseas safety risks, we collect information on hazards based on the guidelines on overseas emergency response. As necessary, we also reporting system. Shimizu Mind: Our Promise strengthen the security structure, issue warnings to relevant people, and limit overseas travel. (4) To firmly establish information security measures and make sure that everyone understands them, we provide ongoing education and training to Compliance Training officers and employees, share information with relevant divisions, and respond swiftly when a problem occurs. Our e-learning course for all employees once again achieved a 100% completion rate in fiscal 2019. The International Division and other busiCORPORATE GOVERNANCE (1) Shimizu holds two meetings a year to share information between the President of Shimizu and the presidents of group subsidiaries. We manage Systems to Ensure Proper important items related to operational execution at subsidiaries through the Rules on Subsidiary Management. ness divisions also conduct compliance training tailored to the circumOperation of the Shimizu (2) The Audit Department performs internal audits of subsidiaries based on the audit plan. Proper operational execution by subsidiaries is also Group stances of each division, as necessary. We also hold a compliance conmonitored by dispatching auditors and other means. ference for affiliates and other group companies, and work to establish System for Ensuring (1) The Corporate Auditor’s Office is an organization dedicated to assisting the Audit & Supervisory Board. It is staffed with three full-time employees. connections in the Shimizu Group. Group companies establish a code of Effectiveness of Audits (2) An Audit & Supervisory Board member designated by the Audit & Supervisory Board attends important meetings such as meetings of the conduct and system that conforms to Shimizu’s and conduct compliance In May 2019, Shimizu produced “Shimizu Mind: Our Promise,” a small pamphlet by Auditors President’s Office, meetings of Business Division heads, Risk Management Committee meetings, and Committee on Corporate Ethics meetings. training for all employees. containing thoughts to convey the founding spirit that has been passed down continuously throughout Shimizu’s history over the more than 210 years since Proper Management of Personal Information the Company was founded. It was distributed to all officers and employees. We In the construction industry, companies retain personal information will share our founding spirit and continue to pass it down to the next generation of customers, subcontractors, etc., and the personal information of so that we do not forget the pride in the work we do at Shimizu and to put our corporate slogan “Today’s Work, Tomorrow’s Heritage” into practice. employees obtained through business activities. DATA COLLECTION Shimizu has formulated a Privacy Policy and takes necessary and appropriate steps to maintain security based on the policy. We manage national identification numbers and other personal information appropriately. 64 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 65 Risk Management ABOUT SHIMIZU Risk Management New Policy on Natural Disaster Risk Formulated emergency evacuation center as the operational structure and works The Shimizu Group recognizes that various risks can emerge in the and recommends corrective actions and improvements as necessary, The increase in the types, duration, and scale of natural disasters had with Chuo-ku and other companies to help establish a mutual aid course of business activities and works to ensure business continuity while also responding to emerging risks and reporting on the status of made it necessary to respond to risks that were previously unforeseen disaster response structure. and stable growth by properly managing such risks to reduce the posresponse to the Board of Directors twice a year. in our existing business continuity plan (BCP). On September 7, 2020, we enlisted the participation and coopersibility that they will materialize, while also minimizing losses for those By risks, we mean all factors that hinder achievement of manWe are reviewing and revising the rules on general plans for steps ation of Chuo-ku and neighboring companies in conducting a drill for that do materialize. In Mid-Term Management Plan (2019—2023), we agement goals in managing the Shimizu Group, from the following to take during normal operation, BCP and emergencies. reception of stranded people while ensuring social distancing under SHIMZ VISION 2030 also stated the basic policy of Advancing ESG-based Management and perspectives: In 2019, we revised the structure for responding to a scenario conditions of uncontrolled spread of COVID-19. The drill confirmed the designated Strict Compliance & Strengthened Risk Management as ∙ Factors that have the potential to cause economic loss to the Shimizu involving a series of earthquakes in the Nankai Trough and conditions response procedures for reception, preparations, distribution of emerone of the key means to achieve this. Group, either directly or indirectly causing widespread impact in business activities. gency supplies, and other procedures. Each fiscal year, the Risk Management Committee (Chair: CEO) ∙ Factors that could interrupt or halt ongoing Group business activities. In 2020, we established standards for response to wind and flood makes decisions on key items of risk management for the entire com∙ Factors that could result in a loss of trust in the Shimizu Group and damage before beginning construction and standards for action when Configuring an Electronic Information Security System pany and each division incorporates these decisions into its business harm to the brand image. wind and flood damage occur, in light of the increasing frequency and Now that information and communications technology (ICT) has plans. The committee regularly monitors risks (twice a year) by funcseverity of wind and flood events in recent years. We will establish matured, companies must respond swiftly and appropriately to pretion at the head office, business division, and group company levels detailed rules for the entire Company and will work to minimize dampare for leaks of confidential or personal information, cyber threats, and age to the Company and quickly restore social infrastructure and hold other information security risks in their company. Shimizu reviews its customers recover from damage. response and makes the necessary corrections every year, has estabSHIMIZU’S FUTURE Diagram of Risk Management Structure (According to the Rules on Risk Management) lished an electronic information security system, and manages risks, Board of Directors Company-wide Drill Conducted Based on a Disaster Occurring based on the Electronic Information Security Guidelines. Supervises Reports During a State of Emergency Declared for COVID-19 We have appointed a Chief Information Officer (CIO) in charge of Risk Management Committee (Chair: President) On September 7, 2020, Shimizu conducted a company-wide drill based information management measures, including measures at Group comInstructs Provides information on risks on the scenario of an earthquake occurring directly beneath the Greater panies, and are strengthening the IT strategy and information security [Meets regularly] Meetings and committees by function Tokyo area during a State of Emergency declared for COVID-19. function in the Shimizu Group as a whole through the Digital Strategy President · Makes decisions on the key points of risk management · Monitors the status of risk management (Safety Committee, Technical Quality Committee, Corporate Ethics Committee, IT Management Committee, SDGs and ESG Promotion Committee, etc.) This drill confirmed that it was possible to mount a response at Promotion Division. We have also formed a (Administrative Office) [Meet regularly, and as needed] the same level as during a normal disaster by making active use of ICT, CSIRT (Computer Security Incident Response Debate and decide on how to handle individual restricting the number of essential personnel in the Crisis Response Team) to respond to urgent issues in comSHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Risk Management Administrative Office risks when they emerge, how to prevent recurrence, etc. Headquarters to one-fifth the normal number, and having other essenputer security. Shimizu is a member of the Reports Collaborate tial personnel respond from their own desks on each floor to avoid Instructs Provides information on risks Nippon CSIRT Association. We not only operHeadquarters: Divisions and Departments that Supervise Risk Management by Function crowded conditions and close contact. ate our own CSIRT, we work together with the Audits Recovery from disasters is a big social mission of the construcCSIRTs at other companies to resolve many Audit Dept. Provides When a risk emerges, each division responds swiftly and appropriately through Instructs information its line of command, reports to the supervisory division in headquarters, tion industry that does not change even in the midst of the COVID-19 kinds of security issues. on risks and receives instructions. pandemic. We will use the knowledge we have gained from this drill in Information Security Handbook Audits Business divisions and Group companies responding swiftly to disasters when they occur. Intellectual Property Management Patents and other types of intellectual property are one source of susTeaming up with Local Communities in Pursuing Disaster tainable growth in Shimizu’s business activities. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Prevention Activities Securing rights on outstanding ideas prevents other companies In Chuo-ku, Tokyo, where Shimizu’s head office is located, there is confrom implementing them and makes it possible to differentiate our Safety Initiatives Overseas cern that around 300,000 people could be stranded and unable to business. It is also extremely important to respect and comply with the We have seen heightened geopolitical risk in many regions and counsystem for offices and job sites as needed. We issue alerts and restricreturn home if a major earthquake occurred, depending on the timing rights of other companies. This requires swift, appropriate risk mantries around the world in recent years. tions on overseas travels, and take other steps to ensure the safety of of the earthquake. agement because it could inflict a substantial blow (damages, loss of Shimizu has prepared an organizational structure and crisis employees stationed overseas or traveling overseas on business. At the request of Chuo-ku, Shimizu provides space in its head trust, etc.) to the Company, depending on the response. At Shimizu, we response manual for emergency conditions overseas. We specify preoffice as a local emergency evacuation center to provide temporary encourage inventions in the technology development area to heighten ventive measures during normal times and our policy and the method of shelter for people who are stranded. The Company has established an awareness and create an “intellectual property mindset” in every response during an emergency, and implement these measures. employee. We educate employees who work at job sites on the risks of The status of the latest safety measures is listed on the Overseas infringing on intellectual property rights, provide basic training to new DATA COLLECTION Safety Measures website for employees. Shimizu strengthens security employees and training for new officers, and implement other educational activities according to the nature of the business and job position as a matter of course, and provide an intellectual property e-learning course for all employees as part of our efforts to exercise thorough Drill for receiving stranded people while ensuring Disaster drill based on a scenario of an intellectual property management. social distancing earthquake disaster that has occurred during a State of Emergency declared for COVID-19 *See pp. 14-15 for COVID-19 response measures. *See pp. 52-53 for long-term climate change risk response measures. 66 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 67 Data Collection ABOUT SHIMIZU Ten-Year Highlights (Consolidated) Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2011 through 2020 Millions of Yen Thousands of (unless otherwise U.S. Dollars (unless indicated) otherwise indicated) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2020 SHIMZ VISION 2030 For the year: Construction orders awarded ¥1,217,238 ¥1,242,347 ¥1,254,950 ¥1,474,084 ¥1,581,494 ¥1,477,049 ¥1,565,928 ¥1,608,266 ¥1,816,023 ¥1,318,739 $12,198,129 Net sales 1,303,755 1,336,194 1,416,044 1,497,578 1,567,843 1,664,933 1,567,427 1,519,435 1,664,960 1,698,292 15,708,932 Operating income 20,175 17,566 13,101 26,054 50,032 94,668 128,835 121,373 129,724 133,894 1,238,503 Ordinary income 18,815 16,159 17,330 29,277 56,246 95,501 131,197 124,130 133,957 137,986 1,276,349 Net income attributable to shareholders of 10,848 1,430 5,901 14,191 33,397 59,322 98,946 84,978 99,668 98,977 915,526 the Corporation SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Net income per share of common stock ¥13.83 ¥1.82 ¥7.52 ¥18.09 ¥42.56 ¥75.61 ¥126.11 ¥108.31 ¥127.04 ¥128.31 $1.19 (yen and U.S. dollars) Cash dividends per share of common stock ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥8.00 ¥16.00 ¥26.00 ¥26.00 ¥36.00 ¥38.00 $0.35 (yen and U.S. dollars) Ordinary dividends (yen and U.S. dollars) ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥7.00 ¥8.00 ¥10.00 ¥10.00 ¥14.00 ¥14.00 ¥20.00 $0.18 Special dividends (yen and U.S. dollars) — — — — — ¥6.00 ¥16.00 ¥12.00 ¥22.00 ¥18.00 $0.17 Dividends payout ratio (%) 50.6 384.6 93.1 38.7 18.8 21.2 20.6 24.0 28.3 29.6 29.6 SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS ROE (%) 3.6 0.5 1.8 3.9 7.9 12.4 18.8 13.9 14.4 13.6 13.6 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 101,639 10,518 46,364 17,395 56,105 38,335 143,668 82,879 (14,933) 170,557 1,577,627 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (17,605) (21,566) (29,744) (27,977) (17,644) (14,051) (34,654) (30,938) (52,652) (115,745) (1,070,630) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (54,990) (23,942) (14,045) (28,592) 14,305 9,199 (65,375) (26,124) (42,404) 68,732 635,760 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 246,251 209,773 216,634 183,440 242,482 274,167 315,803 341,158 229,978 352,722 3,262,626 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At year-end: Net assets ¥296,461 ¥307,002 ¥358,094 ¥376,048 ¥481,896 ¥485,655 ¥576,879 ¥656,330 ¥735,242 ¥736,412 $6,811,697 Total assets 1,423,613 1,410,975 1,456,441 1,512,686 1,703,399 1,722,936 1,688,197 1,780,943 1,860,794 1,904,934 17,620,334 Net assets per share of common stock ¥373.99 ¥387.74 ¥452.79 ¥474.43 ¥607.82 ¥612.70 ¥728.78 ¥829.58 ¥929.72 ¥957.56 $8.86 (yen and U.S. dollars) Interest-bearing debt 393,503 375,330 367,097 344,222 375,580 392,482 340,010 338,264 319,400 441,315 4,082,097 Equity ratio (%) 20.6 21.6 24.4 24.6 28.0 27.9 33.9 36.5 39.2 38.3 38.3 DATA COLLECTION Debt to equity ratio (%) 1.3 1.2 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.6 Notes: 1. Yen amounts have been rounded down to the nearest million. 2. U.S. dollar amounts have been translated at the exchange rate of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. 3. The Group has applied the “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) and relevant Guidances effective from the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019. Accordingly, Total assets and Equity ratio for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 has reflected the application of the aforementioned standard, etc. 68 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 69 Data Collection ESG Important Management Indicators ESG Social Challenges ESG Important Management Indicators Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 (Target) ABOUT SHIMIZU A sustainable society Energy conservation, CO2 emissions reductions vs. FY1990 Green construction 51.1% 53.0% 54.9% 50.7% 58.0% 58.0% Renewable energy renewable energy Energy-saving construction 42.5% 45.0% 44.1% 46.1% 47.0% 48.0% Preventing global warming Countering global warming Conserving energy at the office 48.1% 47.0% 48.7% 46.0% 49.0% 50.0% Preserving biodiversity Biodiversity Final disposal rate of construction by-products 2.8% 3.7% 3.5% 3.5% 3.0% 3.8% or less Resource depletion Waste reduction, recycling, pollution prevention Total construction by-products generated per square meter 13.0kg /m 2 13.0kg /m 2 14.9kg /m 2 15.6kg /m 2 or less 16.3kg /m 2 or less 15.7kg /m 2 or less SHIMZ VISION 2030 Water-related issues E Number of serious environmental defects 0 0 0 0 0 0 (Environment) [Other assessment indicators] Average CASBEE score *design and construction 1.60 1.51 2.25 1.51 2.24 1.5 (rank A) or higher Number of LEED-certified projects *design and construction 3 4 6 7 7 _ Power generated from renewable energy *our business 18,073 MWh 19,480 MWh 19,650 MWh 20,692 MWh 24,048 MWh 26,221 MWh Offsets using carbon credits 30,000 t-CO 2 27,700 t-CO 2 27,181 t-CO 2 28,253 t-CO 2 21,212 t-CO 2 _ CDP performance score A B A– B A– A Support for disaster Safety and security for R&D investments 8.5 billion yen 10.1 billion yen 11.1 billion yen 12.5 billion yen 13.2 billion yen 15.1 billion yen SHIMIZU’S FUTURE affected areas construction and the social Number of patents applied for 309 322 325 312 338 300 Reducing disaster risks infrastructure Number of staff obtaining new professional qualifications (cumulative) Professional 3 (170) 3 (164) 8 (175) 7 (173) 3 (170) 4 Lengthening the lifespan Optimal quality, customer of infrastructure satisfaction Certificates 61 (744) 30 (748) 51 (773) 17 (753) 33 (752) 39 Customer satisfaction Health and safety in Class I Architect 50 (2,178) 48 (2,163) 71 (2,094) 80 (2,127) 94 (2,096) 85 construction processes Class I Construction Stock management 114 (2,997) 89 (3,024) 49 (3,026) 38 (3,031) 40 (2,986) 40 Diversity Management Engineer certificates Community vitalization Work-life balance Class I Civil Engineering Construction Diversity Management Engineer 48 (1,524) 20 (1,515) 27 (1,484) 32 (1,484) 34 (1,472) 45 Human resource development Aging society with fewer children Accident frequency rate (FY total) 0.59% 0.53% 0.47% 0.64% 0.64% 0.57% Securing a workforce for the future SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Coexistence with local communities Contributing to Society Number of women in management positions 49 68 84 105 118 50% higher than 2018 Corporate citizenship S Support for athletics Percentage of employees with disabilities 2.18% 2.16% 2.23% 2.37% 2.33% 2.30% (Social) Percentage taking paid annual vacation 33.8% 42.6% 47.5% 49.9% 51.2% 60% or higher by 2022 Expenditures on social contribution activities as a percentage of ordinary income 0.83% 0.84% 0.95% 0.77% 0.86% 1% [Other assessment indicators] Number of structures subject to comprehensive disaster prevention diagnostics 155 163 188 220 241 260 2 3 1 1 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Number of major awards won BCS 2 BELCA 1 1 1 1 0 _ Japan Society of Civil Engineers 3 2 3 4 6 4 Number of media reports (technological development) 30 32 22 36 36 30 Percentage of female employees taking childcare leave 100% 100% 98% 98% 100% 100% 60% higher than Number of female engineers 257 303 406 476 571 FY2018 by FY2023 Corporate governance Corporate governance Number of serious information security incidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of serious violations of laws, regulations, Human rights/Poverty eradication Risk management 0 0 1 0 0 0 and notices Preventing corruption, collusion Compliance DATA COLLECTION [Other assessment indicators] G Fair marketing Percentage of employees undergoing information Information security security training 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (Governance) Participation rate in BCP drills 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Percentage of employees undergoing compliance training 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Corporate Ethics Helpline Office response rate 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 70 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 71 Technology and Hearts That Form a Bridge to the Next Generation Shimizu’s Social Contribution Activities Relocation and Rebuilding of Former Shibusawa Home, the Only Building by Kisuke Shimizu II That Still Exists ■ Basic Principles on Social Contributions ABOUT SHIMIZU We are currently working on the construction plans for the Innovation Center, which will have 20,000 m2 in total floor space and will be built on land that Shimizu acquired in Shiomi, Koto-ku in Tokyo. Together with these plans, we Shimizu actively contributes to society and local communities as a corporate citizen. will also relocate, rebuild, and preserve the former Shibusawa home, which By doing so, we help preserve the abundance of the earth was built by Kisuke Shimizu II, the second head of our company, and previously and create a future society in which all people on it can live with happiness. relocated to the town of Rokunohe in Aomori Prefecture. The former Shibusawa Our activities are rooted in The Analects and the Abacus (Ethics and Economics), SHIMZ VISION 2030 home is a wooden building completed in 1878 (Meiji 11) as the home of Eiichi Shibusawa, who served as an advisor to the Company in the Meiji Era. It is the which contains the basic principles for managing our business; only building constructed by Kisuke Shimizu II that still exists. We will preserve our corporate slogan, Today’s Work, Tomorrow’s Heritage. and use it as a cultural heritage site that will communicate the DNA of Shimizu to future generations. Former Shibusawa home that was located in Rokunohe, Aomori Prefecture Based on the basic philosophy described above, Shimizu has four areas for key Invitation to Middle School Students in Chuo-ku to Attend a Private (now dismantled) (Photo provided by: Naruphoto) initiatives aimed at contributing to society: 1) Earth and the environment, 2) Viewing of Kabuki Theater Education, 3) Culture and Arts, and 4) Social Inclusion. We are actively engaging In October 2019, we booked and held a private viewing of Kabuki at the Kabukiza Working with Kanekikai to Link Technology to the Next Generation in activities that contribute to local communities in these four areas. Theatre Shimizu built in Chuo-ku, Tokyo. We invited around 450 students from We also agree with the intent of the Japan Business Federation’s Onefour local middle schools. It was a perfect opportunity to encourage young peoSHIMIZU’S FUTURE The new Shimizu Takumi Training Center for skilled construction workers in Percent Club and are aiming to use 1% of our ordinary income in voluntary ple who will be responsible for the next generation to take an interest in the Funabashi City, Chiba Prefecture was established and began operating in July social contribution activities. The percentage of ordinary income spent on social traditional culture of Japan. 2020. This facility was opened as one part of the measures implemented to contribution activities in fiscal 2019 was 0.86% (¥1.05 billion/¥122.6 billion in secure and train skilled workers, who are essential to construction sites. Shimizu ordinary income (non-consolidated)). is operating the center together with the Kanekikai, an organization of Shimizu’s * Activities of the Shimizu Foundation, Housing Research Foundation JUSOKEN, and Shimizu Scholarship suppliers and subcontractors. Course participants will mainly be recruited from Foundation, organizations that are closely connected to our Company, are included among these expenditures. Kanekikai member companies and the training center will provide an education and training curriculum according to work experience and skill level. In addition Shimizu Volunteer Academy Extends the Circle of Volunteers Wider to training for currently employed skilled workers, Shimizu also plans to use It was first offered in 2015 to contribute by training volunteers who have a the training center for high school students who want to enter the construction broad knowledge of people with disabilities and para sports. The academy uses SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS industry as well as their guardians and teachers. Providing facility tours and both desk learning and hands-on practice to equip volunteers with the basic a venue for hands-on learning for candidates that might perform the work in knowledge they will need. A course was held in February 2020 that was sponthe future will enable Shimizu to showcase the attractions of the construction sored by National Sports Festival Mie Prefecture and National Sports Festival Mie industry and actively develop human resources, which will lead to an increase Prefecture Preparation Committee, Mie University, and Shimizu Corporation, as Kabuki viewing Exterior view of the Shimizu Takumi Training Center in new employees. an industry-government-academic partnership. A total of 180 students and local residents gathered at Mie University to participate. Wood Educational Activities at Tokyo Mokkoujou Arts and Crafts Furnishings At Tokyo Mokkoujou Arts and Crafts Furnishings, we are holding woodworking workshops in various communities out of the desire to acquaint children with the New Certification System Established for COLUMN warmth of wood and the delight in craftmanship. In Oyaji no Deban! Sponsored Traditional Technique Master Instructors Passing on Shimizu’s DNA to the Next Generation is Our Mission by the Chuo-ku Community Homeschooling Promotion Association, children and — Passing on Traditional Construction Techniques Cultivated CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Receiving the traditional technique master instructor certification is a their fathers, who are usually busy with work, engaged in woodworking together. Since Shimizu Was Founded To the Next Generation — great honor. It is also encouraging. I meet many people with outstanding A young employee from Tokyo Mokkoujou Arts and Crafts Furnishings taught Shimizu has established a new system to certify highly skilled employees who techniques and skills in the field of traditional architecture. I can carry the class. are contributing to passing on traditional construction techniques and develon a dialog with my predecessors through my work and give the young oping successors as “traditional technique master instructors.” These master people who will perform the work in the future the feeling that they want instructors possess advanced skills in the preservation and restoration of tradito perform work they are proud of. I want to share that view and launched tional architecture and building design and construction management. This sysa “company temple construction and tem is intended to ensure that the traditional construction techniques cultivated historical structure information netsince the Company was founded are passed on. work” within the Company. Five years Shimizu awarded the first certifications in the system in March 2020 to four have passed since then and I am people in total: two in construction management, one in architectural design, gradually beginning to feel the results. DATA COLLECTION one in structural design. Establishment of this system expanded the stage for I will continue to appeal to othprofessional activities in traditional construction techniques, and this will result ers by telling them how wonderful in the steady passing on of technology. the field of traditional architecture is, Jin Kanakubo developing people, and sharing hisCorporate Temple and Residential tory. This will link the DNA of Shimizu Construction Division Traditional Technique Master to the next generation. Instructor certification recipient Advice on practical techniques from an instructor in a wheelchair Children receiving an explanation on how to make something 72 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 73 List of External Awards Received Independent Opinion 60th BCS Awards ABOUT SHIMIZU Keisuke Takegahara Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Research Officer, Chief Manager of Sustainability Management Office, Corporate Planning & Coordination Department Development Bank of Japan, Inc. Shimizu Corporation entered a new stage with SHIMZ VISION 2030, the long-term vision formulated by your Thank you for your opinion. SHIMZ VISION 2030 Toyama Prefectural Museum of Art & Design (Construction: Shimizu Corp.; Design & supervision: company last fiscal year. Your report this year has succeeded in communicating that message even more clearly. We worked to compile this report in a manner Naito Architect & Associates) The first thing I noticed was how well-rounded the Top message is in both content and quality. The views of manthat will enable many stakeholders to underagement who created the long-term vision are clearly articulated. It uses the outline from last fiscal year, which stand Shimizu’s initiatives in innovation aimed at Fiscal 2019 JSCE Award talks about medium and long-term growth and sustainability of the business model from the dual perspectives achieving SHIMZ VISION 2030, based on the recOutstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award, Group I of mining and evolving the construction business, the company’s main business, and achieving innovation in ommendations from Mr. Takegahara concerning the previous report. the business portfolio. Digital strategy is also made a focal point as the driver of innovation. The report skillfully In the next Corporate Report, we plan to weaves in the response to changes in the environment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and emphasizes the report on digital transformation and initiatives importance Shimizu places on R&D as the foundation for growth and on human resources as an intangible asset. in ESG management that we were not able to The report next explains the concept of being a Smart Innovation Company, which is the vision targeted in include in this report, in addition to actions we SHIMZ VISION 2030, while linking this to the value Shimizu provides and the revenue structure. It clearly delinare taking on human resources and in response SHIMIZU’S FUTURE eates relationship between innovation by Shimizu and the positive impact the company has on society by providto climate change. We will take care to integrate ing value. Such innovation is achieved by fusing innovations in the three areas of business structure, technology, the information provided separately in the longand talent to provide value in the form of resilience, inclusiveness, and sustainability. The special contents introterm vision and the Mid-Term Management Plan, as Mr. Takegahara recommended, and take a duced in Achieving SDGs with Shimizu incorporate concrete projects that create the value that Shimizu provides more reader-oriented perspective to produce a and deepen the understanding gained from the Top message. As the person who requested a fuller description of World’s first spiral excavation of a tunnel using the H&V shield Construction of shield tunnel with a large cross-section in an urban area report that resonates with readers. construction method with steep inclines, sharp curves, and little ground covering the innovation at the core of Shimizu’s long-term vision presented on this page last year, I appreciate the earnest (construction of Tachiaigawa main rainwater drainage tunnel) (Baba entrance/exit on the Yokohama Expressway North Route) response to an outside request. What impressed me most this time was the non-financial KPIs presented in the Financial and Non-Financial List of Other Awards Received Highlights. I think the three target indicators for percentage improvement in productivity, percentage reduction Name of Award Project Receiving the Award in CO2 emissions, and job satisfaction are easy to understand at a glance and mutually interrelated. This makes SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS · Yamba Dam construction —High-speed construction of a dam with a dike volume of 1 million m3 and a reservoir for about 75 million m3 of them highly effective as indicators for gauging Shimizu’s strategy of emphasizing innovation. It is extremely Fiscal 2019 JSCE Awards Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award, Typhoon 19 (Hagibis) floodwater— difficult to set KPIs for non-financial value in the general construction industry and Shimizu has also considered Group I · Construction of Kanogawa Dam spillway tunnel —Construction of a shaft and large tunnel underwater spillway tunnel— many indicators in the past. The company’s tactic in this report of agilely visualizing non-financial value based * See p. 25 “SDGs Initiatives Created with Shimizu” in Special Contents for further details on the two projects above. on correlated data on productivity, environmental impact, and engaging the human resources who are the fun· Construction of Jakarta Mass Rapid Transit Project, Phase 1 (first overseas railway project completed that included all Fiscal 2019 JSCE Awards Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award, services formulation of a master plan, to human resource development, with all services provided by Japanese damental drivers for achieving these is ground-breaking and can be called a promising response based on many Group II companies) · Decontamination of radioactive materials emitted from the TEPCO Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident years of preparation. Fiscal 2019 JSCE Awards Innovative Technique Award Development of automatic dam concrete pouring system Moreover, the company’s stance on placing importance on human resources as its greatest management The Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning and Sanitary Engineers of Japan (SHASE) Development of CLEANCOMPO Dual Air® Operating Room Air Conditioning System, which maintains a comfortable resource is clearly conveyed by new responses in addition to the above KPI for job satisfaction, such as the system 58th Academic Paper Award, R&D temperature for physicians, attending staff, and patients. of recognizing seniors as the people who will pass on traditional techniques and the establishment of the HR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHASE 57th Technology Award, Construction Equipment Division Environmental and equipment plans for Akita City Hall JRC Nihon Musen Kawagoe Plant Innovation Department to develop future generations. This is reinforced by concrete initiatives such as workstyle Kitami Red Cross Hospital reform in response to COVID-19. SHASE 33nd Promotion Awards, Technology Promotion Awards Planning, design, and construction of THE HYAKUGO BANK, LTD. Iwata head office building, equipped with eco and BCP functions Similarly, Shimizu is providing fuller disclosure concerning mitigation of negative environmental impacts, Shimizu Corporation Shikoku Branch —ZEB initiative for a medium-sized office building— based on the TCFD Recommendations, providing good reinforcement for the KPIs mentioned above. The recogniDevelopment of KAMIWAZA, which uses paper materials for construction materials to contribute to achieve the tion of the risks and opportunities presented by the two scenarios of migratory (1.5°C) and physical (4°C) impacts 49th Japan Industrial Technology Award, screening committee special prize Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a good start, and I look forward to further enhancements in the future. Fiscal 2019 Japan Construction Machinery and Construction Grand Prize, Excellence Award Development of automated dam concrete pouring system Fiscal 2018 Japan Prestressed Concrete Institute Award, Outstanding Structure I hope that the next report will see further enhancements along the same lines as the characteristics Onahama Marine Bridge Award, Civil Engineering Division of this report, namely the stronger interrelatedness of contents and clearer message. The first would be to Fiscal 2018 Japan Prestressed Concrete Institute Award, Outstanding Structure Mie Kotsu Group Sports no Mori Ise Athletics Stadium make Shimizu’s value creation model even clearer so that it can be visualized at a glance. The value creation Award, Architectural Construction Division 2019 Japan Concrete Institute Award, Outstanding Structure Award Onahama Marine Bridge/ASAHI KOGYOSHA CO., LTD. head office building model surfaces throughout the entire report structure. However, not everyone reads the entire report so I think it would be meaningful to integrate the information presented separately in the explanation of the long-term DATA COLLECTION 11th ENAA Engineering Commendation Award, Special Award Seabed hydrothermal ore deposit mining and pumping pilot test project team 39th ENAA Engineering Worker Award Setouchi Kirei Mega Solar Power Plan Construction Project Team vision (pp. 16-17), the basic policies in the Mid-Term Management Plan (pp. 28), and elsewhere. I also think it 2019 Architectural Institute of Japan Prize (Building Engineering Division) Development of crack prevention technology using ultra-low shrinkage concrete would be valuable to compile the contents on the new focus on digital strategy, which are dispersed throughout 7th Platinum Vision Award, Award for Excellence, prize for creating a society in which Activities aimed at promoting widespread use of voice navigation system to realize an inclusive society the report, including the many initiatives implemented thus far, integrate them, and bring digital strategy to all can participate Fiscal 2019 (9th) Building seismic retrofitting excellence award and contributor’s award the forefront as one of Shimizu’s strengths. I look forward to continued steady progress in Shimizu’s Corporate Meidi-Ya Kyobashi Building MLIT Minister’s Award, Building seismic retrofitting excellence award Report in the future. 41st 2020 Japan BtoB Advertising Award DAM PASHA! Futatabi Website (Special Site) Division, Gold Award 74 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 75 Global Network (as of July 1, 2020) Corporate Information/Investor Information (as of March 31, 2020) ABOUT SHIMIZU Corporate Information Domestic Corporate Name SHIMIZU CORPORATION Date of Establishment 1804 Capital ¥74,365 million Main Branches 14 Main Branches Hokkaido (Sapporo city) Nagoya (Nagoya city) Total Employees (consolidated) 16,297 Tohoku (Sendai city) Kansai (Osaka city) Construction, civil engineering, and other contracted projects, including machine installation; research, planning, SHIMZ VISION 2030 geological surveys, land surveys, design, and administration of construction projects; sales, purchases, leasing, Hokuriku (Kanazawa city) Kobe (Kobe city) Main Business brokering, management, and appraisal of real estate properties; building, selling, leasing, and managing cities Kanto (Saitama city) Shikoku (Takamatsu city) residential buildings and other properties; development and sales of vacant land Tokyo (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Hiroshima (Hiroshima city) Net Sales (consolidated) ¥1,698.2 billion (FY2019) Yokohama (Yokohama city) Kyushu (Fukuoka city) 72 Offices Chiba (Chiba city) Tokyo Civil Engineering (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Investor Information cities Total Number of Shares Authorized 1,500,000,000 SHIMIZU’S FUTURE Total Number of Shares Issued 788,514,613 Head Office: Tokyo Tokyo Stock Exchange Part 1 1803 Exchanges Listed on Nagoya Stock Exchange Part 1 1803 Number of Shareholders 51,373 Transfer Agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Major Shareholders SHIIMIZU’S BUSINESS Shareholder Shares Held (thousands) Percentage of Total (%) 26 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 65,012 8.51 The Shimizu group SHIMIZU & CO., LTD. 62,030 8.12 Overseas has established Social Welfare Corporation Shimizu Foundation 38,595 5.05 regular offices in cities Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account)* 33,352 4.36 Housing Research Foundation JYUSO-KEN 17,420 2.28 Shimizu Employee’s Stock Ownership Plan 16,090 2.11 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7)* 15,208 1.99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5)* 12,978 1.70 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 4)* 12,541 1.64 London Wroclaw Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 10,697 1.40 Prague Note : “Percentage of total” is calculated excluding 24,319,328 shares of treasury stock. Tashkent Dalian New York * Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. merged with JTC Holdings and Trust & Custody Services Bank on July 27, 2020, and the company name was changed to Custody Bank of Japan, Ltd. Istanbul Shanghai Atlanta Gurgaon Guangzhou Dhaka Hanoi Taipei Queretaro Shareholders Ratio (Percentage of owned shares) Dubai Hong Kong Yangon Bangalore Manila Bangkok Ho Chi Minh City Financial institutions 33.97% Kuala Lumpur Singapore Securities firms 1.49% DATA COLLECTION Jakarta Other corporations 23.12% Lusaka Foreign corporations and others 20.59% Individuals and others 17.75% Shares held in own name 3.08% 76 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 77 Financial Section 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet 82 Consolidated Statement of Income 83 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets 85 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 86 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 113 Independent Auditor’s Report Supplemental Information 116 Nonconsolidated Balance Sheet 118 Nonconsolidated Statement of Income 119 Orders, Sales and Backlog (Nonconsolidated) 78 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 79 Financial Section Consolidated Balance Sheet Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries As at March 31, 2020 Thousands of Thousands of U.S. Dollars U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 2) Millions of Yen (Note 2) 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 ASSETS LIABILITIES Current Liabilities: Current Assets: Notes and accounts payable−trade (Note 10.2)) ¥354,466 ¥319,164 $2,952,221 Cash (Notes 9 and 10.2)) ¥150,978 ¥351,722 $3,253,376 Short-term borrowings (Notes 10.2) and 20) 121,179 112,774 1,043,146 Current portion of non-recourse borrowings (Notes 5.3), 10.2) and 20) 7,432 6,957 64,352 Notes and accounts receivable−trade (Note 10.2)) 641,061 546,148 5,051,784 Commercial papers (Note 10.2) and 20) − 80,000 739,987 Marketable securities (Notes 9, 10.2) and 11) 79,000 1,020 9,434 Current portion of bonds payable (Notes 10.2) and 19) 20,000 10,000 92,498 Current portion of convertible bond-type bonds with subscription Real estate for sale (Note 4.2)) 24,722 2,836 26,234 rights to shares (Notes 10.2), 18.1) and 19) − 30,016 277,645 Costs on uncompleted construction contracts (Notes 4.2) and 5.3)) 79,069 77,949 721,023 Current portion of non-recourse bonds payable (Notes 5.3), 10.2) and 19) 879 2,764 25,574 Income taxes payable 31,609 25,637 237,143 Costs on uncompleted real estate development projects (Note 4.2)) 20,577 16,472 152,367 Advances received on uncompleted construction contracts 145,533 101,390 937,846 PFI projects and other inventories (Notes 4.2) and 5.3)) 53,750 47,883 442,911 Deposits received 114,044 124,325 1,149,987 Warranty reserve 3,209 3,932 36,373 Other current assets 97,801 102,651 949,509 Reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process 8,175 6,071 56,164 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,060) (775) (7,168) Reserve for directors' bonuses 267 289 2,673 Reserve for loss on anti-monopoly act (Note 4.8)) 1,820 1,820 16,834 Total current assets 1,145,901 1,145,908 10,599,472 Other current liabilities 29,250 46,409 429,278 Total current liabilities 837,868 871,553 8,061,729 Non-Current Liabilities: Bonds payable (Notes 10.2) and 19) 40,000 60,000 554,990 Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares (Notes 10.2), 18.1) and 19) 30,046 − − Non-recourse bonds payable (Notes 5.3), 10.2) and 19) 13,180 23,235 214,920 Non-Current Assets: Long-term borrowings (Notes 5.2), 10.2) and 20) 49,520 70,360 650,821 Non-recourse borrowings (Notes 5.3), 10.2) and 20) 37,161 45,207 418,159 Tangible fixed assets: Deferred tax liabilities (Note 14) 24,781 94 869 Buildings and structures (Note 4.16) and 5.2)) 184,009 256,177 2,369,599 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation reserve for land (Note 5.1)) 17,659 17,659 163,345 Net defined benefit liability (Note 13) 55,873 57,293 529,953 Machinery, vehicles, tools, furniture and fixtures 66,721 73,105 676,215 Other non-current liabilities 19,459 23,119 213,847 Land (Note 5.1), 5.2)) 165,454 207,472 1,919,086 Total non-current liabilities 287,683 296,968 2,746,907 Total liabilities 1,125,551 1,168,521 10,808,637 Construction in progress (Note 5.2)) 34,532 31,645 292,715 Less: Accumulated depreciation (150,869) (159,960) (1,479,607) NET ASSETS Shareholders’ Equity: Total tangible fixed assets 299,847 408,440 3,778,009 Common stock, no par value Intangible fixed assets 7,948 12,091 111,844 Authorized: 1,500,000 thousand shares Issued: 788,514 thousand shares as at March 31, 2019 and 2020 74,365 74,365 687,867 Investments and other assets: Additional paid-in capital 43,116 43,116 398,821 Retained earnings 443,802 510,873 4,725,498 Investment securities (Notes 5.2), 5.3), 10.2) and 11) 387,746 319,598 2,956,231 Less: Treasury stock, at cost 25,658 thousand shares as at March 31, 2020 − (21,613) (199,921) Deferred tax assets (Note 14) 2,563 2,730 25,256 Less: Treasury stock, at cost 3,964 thousand shares as at March 31, 2019 (1,609) − − Total shareholders’ equity 559,674 606,741 5,612,265 Other investments (Note 5.2)) 18,769 18,121 167,625 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,983) (1,957) (18,104) Net unrealized gain (loss) on other securities, net of taxes (Note 11) 150,079 104,898 970,292 Total investments and other assets 407,095 338,493 3,131,008 Deferred gain (loss) on hedging, net of taxes (Note 12) (54) (169) (1,564) Revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes (Note 5.1)) 25,864 25,864 239,242 Total non-current assets 714,892 759,025 7,020,862 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,955) (1,985) (18,362) Total assets ¥1,860,794 ¥1,904,934 $17,620,334 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (4,193) (4,870) (45,052) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Total accumulated other comprehensive income 169,741 123,737 1,144,555 Non-controlling Interests 5,826 5,932 54,877 Total net assets 735,242 736,412 6,811,697 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,860,794 ¥1,904,934 $17,620,334 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 80 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 81 Financial Section Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries For the year ended March 31, 2020 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of Thousands of U.S. Dollars U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen (Note 2) Millions of Yen (Note 2) 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Net Sales: Net Income ¥100,105 ¥99,119 $916,834 Construction contracts (Notes 4.11), 4.19) and 6.1)) ¥1,504,636 ¥1,517,883 $14,040,178 Other Comprehensive Income: Real estate development and other 160,324 180,409 1,668,754 Net unrealized gain (loss) on other securities, net of taxes 819 (45,185) (417,958) 1,664,960 1,698,292 15,708,932 Deferred gain (loss) on hedging, net of taxes 180 (210) (1,942) Cost of Sales: Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,073) 4 42 Construction contracts (Notes 4.11), 4.19) and 6.2)) 1,307,825 1,319,118 12,201,633 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 1,640 (713) (6,597) Real estate development and other (Note 6.3)) 140,489 153,504 1,419,887 Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using equity method 60 185 1,719 1,448,315 1,472,622 13,621,521 Total other comprehensive income 1,627 (45,918) (424,736) Gross profit: Comprehensive Income ¥101,732 ¥53,200 $492,098 Construction contracts 196,811 198,765 1,838,545 Comprehensive income attributable to: Real estate development and other 19,834 26,904 248,866 Shareholders of the Corporation ¥101,357 ¥52,974 $490,003 216,645 225,670 2,087,411 Non-controlling interests 374 226 2,094 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (Note 6.4)) 86,921 91,775 848,907 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. Operating income 129,724 133,894 1,238,503 Non-Operating Income (Expenses): Interest and dividend income 6,556 7,518 69,544 Interest expenses (2,418) (2,244) (20,762) Foreign exchange gain (loss) 11 (1,713) (15,852) Other, net 84 531 4,915 Ordinary income 133,957 137,986 1,276,349 Special Gains (Losses): Gain on sales of fixed assets (Note 6.6)) 9,342 7,581 70,125 Loss on sales of fixed assets (Note 6.7)) (78) (508) (4,701) Loss on devaluation of investment securities (2) (794) (7,344) Impairment loss on fixed assets (Note 6.8)) − (2,915) (26,964) Income before income taxes 143,219 141,349 1,307,464 Provision for Income Taxes (Note 14): Current 47,429 48,931 452,611 Deferred (4,315) (6,700) (61,982) 43,113 42,230 390,629 Net Income 100,105 99,119 916,834 Net Income attributable to non-controlling interests 436 141 1,308 Net Income attributable to shareholders of the Corporation ¥99,668 ¥98,977 $915,526 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 82 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 83 Financial Section Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries For the year ended March 31, 2020 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen Millions of Yen (Note 2) Shareholders’ Equity Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 2019 2020 2020 Net unrealized gain (loss) Deferred Revaluation Foreign RemeasureCash Flows from Operating Activities: Additional on other gain (loss) reserve currency ments of NonCommon paid-in Retained Treasury securities, on hedging, for land, translation defined controlling Total net Income before income taxes ¥143,219 ¥141,349 $1,307,464 stock capital earnings stock net of taxes net of taxes net of taxes adjustments benefit plans interests assets Adjustments for: Balance as at April 1, 2018 ¥74,365 ¥43,116 ¥366,805 ¥(1,606) ¥149,282 ¥(264) ¥25,984 ¥(937) ¥(5,893) ¥5,478 ¥656,330 Depreciation and amortization 13,304 13,633 126,112 Cash dividends paid Impairment loss on fixed assets – 2,915 26,964 (¥29.00 per share) – – (22,790) – – – – – – – (22,790) Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts 115 (313) (2,899) Net income attributable to Increase (decrease) in reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process (3,199) (2,102) (19,444) shareholders of the Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 867 592 5,476 Corporation for the year – – 99,668 – – – – – – – 99,668 Loss (gain) on sales of fixed assets 65 (62) (580) Reversal of revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes – – 119 – – – – – – – 119 Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 2 794 7,344 Purchase and disposal of Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (9,329) (7,010) (64,843) treasury stock, at cost – 0 – (3) – – – – – – (3) Interest and dividend income (6,556) (7,518) (69,544) Changes other than Interest expenses 2,418 2,244 20,762 shareholders’ equity – – – – 797 209 (119) (1,017) 1,699 348 1,918 (Increase) decrease in notes and accounts receivable—trade (137,952) 94,665 875,644 Balance as at April 1, 2019 ¥74,365 ¥43,116 ¥443,802 ¥(1,609) ¥150,079 ¥(54) ¥25,864 ¥(1,955) ¥(4,193) ¥5,826 ¥735,242 (Increase) decrease in real estate for sale 6,206 22,306 206,335 Cash dividends paid (Increase) decrease in costs on uncompleted construction contracts (1,335) 1,067 9,872 (¥41.00 per share) – – (31,906) – – – – – – – (31,906) (Increase) decrease in uncompleted real estate development projects 5,924 4,105 37,972 Net income attributable to (Increase) decrease in PFI projects and other inventories (5,781) 5,867 54,271 shareholders of the Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable—trade (22,559) (35,504) (328,413) Corporation for the year – – 98,977 – – – – – – – 98,977 Increase (decrease) in advances received on uncompleted construction contracts 32,792 (43,983) (406,841) Reversal of revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes – – – – – – – – – – – Other, net (797) 26,135 241,748 Purchase and disposal of Subtotal 17,405 219,182 2,027,401 treasury stock, at cost – 0 – (20,003) – – – – – – (20,003) Interest and dividends received 7,196 8,168 75,561 Changes other than Interest paid (2,430) (2,170) (20,075) shareholders’ equity – – – – (45,181) (114) – (29) (677) 106 (45,897) Income taxes paid (37,104) (54,623) (505,259) Balance as at March 31, 2020 ¥74,365 ¥43,116 ¥510,873 ¥(21,613) ¥104,898 ¥(169) ¥25,864 ¥(1,985) ¥(4,870) ¥5,932 ¥736,412 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (14,933) 170,557 1,577,627 Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Acquisition of tangible fixed assets (58,719) (123,904) (1,146,096) Proceeds from sales of tangible fixed assets 184 144 1,333 Acquisition of marketable securities and investment securities (4,686) (6,173) (57,101) Proceeds from sales of marketable securities and investment securities 14,868 17,301 160,039 Thousands of U.S. Dollars(Note 2) Acquisition of investments in securities of subsidiaries and Shareholders’ Equity Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income affiliates resulting in change in scope of consolidation – (1,105) (10,230) Net unrealized Other, net (4,298) (2,008) (18,575) gain (loss) Deferred Revaluation Foreign RemeasureAdditional on other gain (loss) reserve currency ments of NonNet cash provided by (used in) investing activities (52,652) (115,745) (1,070,630) Common paid-in Retained Treasury securities, on hedging, for land, translation defined controlling Total net stock capital earnings stock net of taxes net of taxes net of taxes adjustments benefit plans interests assets Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Balance as at April 1, 2019 $687,867 $398,820 $4,105,101 $(14,888) $1,388,213 $(501) $239,242 $(18,089) $(38,787) $53,895 $6,800,874 Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (6,282) (9,116) (84,324) Cash dividends paid Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers – 80,000 739,987 (¥41.00 per share) – – (295,129) – – – – – – – (295,129) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 16,500 39,450 364,906 Net income attributable to Repayments of long-term borrowings (22,035) (18,793) (173,832) shareholders of the Proceeds from non-recourse borrowings 9,871 15,963 147,658 Corporation for the year – – 915,526 – – – – – – – 915,526 Repayments of non-recourse borrowings (6,472) (8,392) (77,631) Reversal of revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes – – – – – – – – – – – Proceeds from issuance of bonds – 30,000 277,495 Redemption of bonds (10,000) (20,000) (184,996) Purchase and disposal of treasury stock, at cost – 0 – (185,033) – – – – – – (185,033) Proceeds from issuance of non-recourse bonds – 26,000 240,495 Changes other than Redemption of non-recourse bonds (879) (14,060) (130,055) shareholders’ equity – – – – (417,921) (1,063) – (273) (6,265) 981 (424,541) Purchase of treasury stock (3) (20,003) (185,033) Balance as at March 31, 2020 $687,867 $398,821 $4,725,498 $(199,921) $970,292 $(1,564) $239,242 $(18,362) $(45,052) $54,877 $6,811,697 Dividends (22,790) (31,906) (295,129) Other, net (312) (408) (3,778) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. The Corporation Law of Japan provides that an amount equal to 10% of the amount to be disbursed as distribution of capital surplus (other than the capital reserve) and Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (42,404) 68,732 635,760 retained earnings (other than the legal reserve) be transferred to the capital reserve and legal reserve, respectively, until the sum of the capital reserve and the legal reserve Effect of exchange rate changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (1,190) (799) (7,392) equals 25% of the capital stock account. Such distributions can be made at any time by resolution of the shareholders, or by the Board of Directors if certain conditions are met. Net increase (decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (111,180) 122,744 1,135,363 Cash and Cash Equivalents at beginning of year 341,158 229,978 2,127,262 Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of year ¥229,978 ¥352,722 $3,262,626 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 84 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 85 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Shimizu Corporation and its subsidiaries 1. Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Statements 2) Valuation of Inventories Real estate for sale: At cost on an individual basis (The carrying value of inventories on the balance The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on the accounts sheet is presented at book value after write-down for decline in earnings.) maintained by Shimizu Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) Costs on uncompleted construction contracts: At cost on an individual basis prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, which are differCosts on uncompleted real estate development projects: At cost on an individual basis (The carryent in certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial ing value of inventories on the balance sheet is presented at book value after write-down for deReporting Standards, and are compiled from the consolidated financial statements prepared by the cline in earnings.) Corporation as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. PFI projects and other inventories: At cost on an individual basis or at cost, cost being determined by the moving average method (The carrying value of inventories on the balance sheet is presented 2. U.S. Dollar Amounts at book value after write-down for decline in earnings.) The accounts of consolidated financial statements presented herein are expressed in Japanese yen 3) Depreciation Method of Tangible Fixed Assets by rounding down to the nearest million. The U.S. dollar amounts shown in the accompanying conDepreciation of buildings and structures is principally computed by the straight-line method. Desolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been translated from the original Japanese preciation of other tangible fixed assets is principally computed by the declining balance method. yen into U.S. dollars on the basis of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the rate of exchange prevailing at March 31, 4) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 2020, and have been then rounded down to the nearest thousand. These U.S. dollar amounts are For receivables classified as “normal,” the allowance for doubtful accounts is provided based on not intended to imply that the Japanese yen amounts have been or could be converted, realized or a historical default ratio. For receivables classified as “doubtful” or “bankrupt,” the allowance for settled in U.S. dollars at this or any other rate. doubtful accounts is provided based on individual assessment on the probability of collection. 3. Principles of Consolidation 5) Warranty Reserve An allowance to cover the costs of repairs for damages related to completed construction work for 1) Scope of Consolidation which the Group is responsible is provided based on previous warranty experience. The Corporation had 70 subsidiaries as at March 31, 2020. The consolidated financial statements 6) Reserve for Expected Losses on Construction Contracts in Process for the year ended March 31, 2020 include the accounts of the Corporation and all subsidiaries. An allowance is provided for estimated future losses related to the construction contracts in process. The Corporation had 16 affiliates as at March 31, 2020. As at March 31, 2020, the equity method was applied to all affiliates. 7) Reserve for Directors’ Bonuses An allowance is provided for bonus payment to directors based on payment estimates. 2) Financial Statements of Subsidiaries The financial year-end for 20 subsidiaries is December 31, the financial year-end for one subsidiary 8) Reserve for Loss on Anti-Monopoly Act is February 29 and the financial year-end for one subsidiary is March 26. An allowance is provided for an estimated amount of payment of penalties under the Anti-monopoly Act. Consolidation of these subsidiaries is therefore performed by using their financial statements 9) Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits as at December 31, February 29 and March 26, respectively, and certain adjustments are made to Net defined benefit liability has been recorded mainly at the amount calculated based on the proreflect any significant transactions during the period from year-end balance sheet dates for these jected benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets as at the balance sheet date. subsidiaries to March 31. Method of attributing the projected benefit obligations to periods of service: Benefit formula basis 3) Amortization of Goodwill Method used for amortization of actuarial gain or loss: Straight-line method (10 years amortized Goodwill is principally amortized on a straight-line basis from the year of acquisition over its estifrom the following financial year) mated useful life but not exceeding 20 years. Method used for amortization of prior service cost: Straight-line method (10 years) Adoption of simplified methods in the Group: Some consolidated subsidiaries apply a simplified 4) Elimination of Unrealized Intercompany Profits method to compute their net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit expenses. All significant unrealized intercompany profits included in assets such as “Costs on uncompleted construction contracts” among the Group has been eliminated on consolidation and the portion 10) Accounting for Hedging thereof attributable to non-controlling interests is reported as “Non-controlling Interests.” Hedging instruments are valued at fair value and accounted by using the deferral method of acIn connection with the elimination of unrealized intercompany profits, the depreciation expense counting. With regard to some interest rate swaps which meet certain requirements, the Group is also adjusted to eliminate any profit from the cost of assets purchased through intercompany uses the special treatment, based on the short-cut method, assuming that there is no ineffectivetransactions. ness in the hedging relationship between hedged items and hedging instruments. Hedging instruments: Derivative transactions (interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts) 4. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Hedged items: Assets and liabilities which are exposed to interest and foreign exchange market fluctuation risks 1) Valuation of Securities Hedging policy: Derivative transactions are used solely for hedging the risks associated with The Group classifies securities into two different categories, held-to-maturity debt securities and existing or future assets and liabilities. other securities. The Group holds no trading securities. Held-to-maturity debt securities are valued Derivative transactions are never entered into for the purpose of trading or at amortized cost. Other securities with market quotations are valued at the prevailing market price speculation. as at the balance sheet date. Other securities without market quotations are stated at cost, cost 11) Recognizing Revenues and Costs of Construction Contracts being determined by the moving average method. Net unrealized gains on other securities with Revenues and costs of construction contracts, of which the percentage of completion can be market quotations are reported net of taxes as a separated component of “Net Assets” and the reliably estimated, are recognized by the percentage-of-completion method. The percentage of cost of sales is determined by the moving average method. completion is calculated based on the cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost. The completed-contract method is applied to all other construction contracts. 86 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 87 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 12) Consumption Taxes 18) Change in Presentation Consumption taxes payable or receivable are excluded from each account in the consolidated (Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) statements of income. In the previous fiscal year, “Purchase of treasury stock” was included in “Other, net” under “Financing Activities”. 13) Foreign Currency Translation Beginning with the current fiscal year, the “Purchase of treasury stock” is separately presented The balance sheet of overseas subsidiaries is translated into Japanese yen at the exchange rates due to its increased materiality. prevailing at the balance sheet date except for shareholders’ equity which is translated at historical Consequently, in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the previous fiscal year, “Other, rates. The revenues and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Japanese yen at the net” in the ¥(315)million under “Financing Activities” was reclassified as “Purchase of treasury stock” exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. of ¥(3)million and “Other, net” of ¥(312)million. Differences arising from such translations are shown as “Foreign currency translation adjustments” and are included in “Net Assets.” 19) Additional information In response to the state of emergency declaration issued in April 2020 by the Japanese govern14) Cash Flows ment in regard to the spread of COVID-19, the Corporation, in principle, closed its job sites loCash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows consist of cash on hand, cated in 13 prefectures put on special alert under the declaration until May 6, 2020, in consultabank deposits payable on demand, time deposits, negotiable certificate of deposits, etc., which are tion with the relevant parties. The Corporation has considered the impact of the closure when readily convertible into cash and subject to minor risks of fluctuations in value. estimating costs of construction contracts, upon applying the percentage-of-completion method. 15) Income Taxes Although it remains difficult to predict when the outbreak of COVID-19 will end, accounting Income taxes of the Corporation and its domestic subsidiaries consist of corporate income taxes, estimates (the percentage-of-completion method, the impairment loss on fixed assets, etc.) have local inhabitants’ taxes and enterprise taxes. been made on the assumption that the Corporation will proceed with its construction work in The Corporation and its domestic subsidiaries account for deferred taxes in accordance with order to secure employment and maintain economic activity in the construction industry. the regulations for preparation of consolidated financial statements in Japan. Deferred income However, in the future, if the business environment changes significantly due to the further extaxes are determined using the asset and liability approach, whereby deferred tax assets and lipansion or prolongation of COVID-19, the consolidated financial position, financial performance abilities are recognized in respect of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and and cash flows of the Group for the following fiscal year may be affected. liabilities and those as reported in the financial statements. In addition, the consolidated overseas subsidiaries provide for deferred income taxes relating 5. Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheet to temporary differences between reporting for tax and accounting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the relevant countries. 1) Revaluation Reserve for Land According to the Land Revaluation Law enacted on March 31, 1998, land used for business and 16) Changes in accounting policies that are difficult to distinguish from changes in accounting estimates owned by the Corporation was revalued on March 31, 2002 and an unrealized gain from the revalu(Change in method of depreciation of buildings and structures) ation of land was reported as “Revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes” as a separate component Effective from the fiscal year ended March 31,2020, the Corporation and some of its subsidiaries of “Net Assets” and the relevant deferred tax liabilities were reported as “Deferred tax liabilities for have altered the method of depreciation of buildings and structures from the declining balance revaluation reserve for land” as a separate component of “Non-Current Liabilities.” method to the straight-line method. Such revaluation was allowed only at one specific time under the Law and cannot be undertaken In the Group’s long-term vision “SHIMZ VISION 2030” and “Mid-Term Management Plan (2019– at each financial year-end. 2023)” announced in May 2019, it is described that the Group will invest ¥500 billion in real esAccording to the enforcement ordinance of the Law, there are several methods allowed to detertate development business over the next five years until the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024 in mine the revalued amount of land. The Corporation adopted a method of using the assessed value order to achieve stable earnings. Accordingly, buildings and structures for leasing business, which for property taxes with appropriate adjustments. will operate stably over the long term are expected to increase. Therefore, the method of depreciation has been altered to the straight-line method which evenly distributes acquisition costs 2) Assets Pledged as Collateral over the estimated useful life. The following assets are pledged as collateral for Long-term borrowings. Thousands of As a result, operating income, ordinary income and income before income taxes increased reMillions of Yen U.S. Dollars spectively by ¥1,836 million ($16,990 thousand) in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 17) Accounting Standards issued but not yet effective Assets pledged as collateral: Construction in progress ¥– ¥470 $4,353 (1) Summary Secured Liabilities: Long-term borrowings ¥– ¥1,600 $14,799 On March 31, 2020, the Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) revised “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Statement No.29) and “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No.30). The accounting standard provides a comprehensive framework for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. The following assets are pledged as collateral for borrowings at affiliated companies and others. (2) Scheduled effective date Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars The Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries expect to apply the accounting standard from the As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2021. (3) The effects of applying accounting standard Buildings and structures ¥– ¥57 $533 At present, the Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries are in the process of measuring the efLand – 43 400 fects of applying the accounting standard. Investment securities 140 140 1,294 Other investments 61 52 487 Total ¥201 ¥293 $2,717 88 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 89 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 3) Other Notes to Consolidated Balance Sheet +6. Notes to Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 1) Revenue recognized using the percentage-of-completion method were as follows: As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Contingent liabilities from guaranteeing For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 indebtedness of others Revenue recognized using the PT. WINDAS DEVELOPMENT (Note) ¥801 ¥1,721 $15,920 percentage-of-completion method ¥1,320,912 ¥1,335,882 $12,356,696 Employees (housing loans) 53 32 302 2) Provision of reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process included in cost of Total ¥855 ¥1,753 $16,222 sales were as follows: Note: PT. WINDAS DEVELOPMENT is a company that the Corporation’s affiliated company invests in. Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Provision of reserve for expected losses on construction Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars contracts in process included in cost of sales ¥4,737 ¥4,678 $43,274 As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 3) Inventory write-down due to reduced profitability included in cost of sales were as follows: The total amount of business assets pledged as Thousands of collateral for “Non-recourse borrowings” by Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars subsidiaries engaged in PFI business ¥50,444 ¥66,624 $616,263 For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Inventory write-down due to reduced profitability included in cost of sales ¥680 ¥178 $1,649 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 4) The major components of “Selling, General and Administrative Expenses” were as follows: As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars The total amount of business assets of subsidiaries engaged in the real estate development business For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 corresponding to “Non-recourse bonds payable” ¥21,386 ¥28,203 $260,873 Salaries and allowances to employees ¥27,736 ¥28,522 $263,826 Retirement benefit expenses for employees 1,700 1,583 14,651 Research and development costs 8,724 10,296 95,243 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 5) Research and development costs (included in construction costs and general and administrative As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 expenses) were as follows: Thousands of Amount of “Costs on uncompleted construction Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars contracts,” for which a construction loss is For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 anticipated, matching with “Reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process.” ¥186 ¥– $– Research and development costs ¥12,574 ¥13,222 $122,306 Note: “Costs on uncompleted construction contracts” for which a construction loss is anticipated and “Reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process” are presented without being offset. 6) Gain on sales of fixed assets were as follows: Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Thousands of For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Investment securities ¥9,332 ¥7,517 $69,534 As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 Others 10 63 590 Breakdown of PFI projects and other inventories Merchandise ¥566 ¥653 $6,046 7) Loss on sales of fixed assets were as follows: Thousands of Materials and supplies 467 639 5,911 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 PFI and other projects 52,717 46,590 430,953 Investment securities ¥2 ¥507 $4,691 Others 75 1 10 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 8) Impairment loss on fixed assets were as follows: As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of Purpose Type Location Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Investment securities Assets to be disposed Land Tokyo ¥2,915 $26,964 Investments in affiliates ¥26,835 ¥31,722 $293,424 Note: The Group groups its assets primarily into units whose income and expenditure are continuously monitored. Assets to be disposed are individually grouped. Of the fixed assets held by the Corporation, the book value of the asset to be disposed was adjusted downward to amount deemed recoverable, and an impairment loss was posted as a special loss. The recoverable value of the asset is estimated from the net sale value, based on the expected disposal price. 90 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 91 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Notes to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 8. Notes to Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Reclassification adjustments and tax effects related to other comprehensive income were as follows: 1) Type and number of outstanding shares For the year ended March 31, 2019 Number of shares (Thousands) Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Balance at Increase in shares Decrease in shares Balance at Type of shares beginning of year during the year during the year end of year For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Issued stock: Net unrealized gain (loss) on other securities, net of taxes Common stock 788,514 – – 788,514 Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥9,852 ¥(57,521) $(532,065) Treasury stock: Reclassification adjustments (8,114) (5,916) (54,726) Common stock 3,961 3 0 3,964 Total before tax effect 1,738 (63,438) (586,791) Notes: 1. The increase in 3 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the purchase of shares in quantities less than the minimum trading unit of shares. Tax effect (919) 18,252 168,832 2.The decrease in 0 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the sale of shares in quantities less than the minimum trading unit of shares. Net unrealized gain (loss) on other securities, net of taxes 819 (45,185) (417,958) For the year ended March 31, 2020 Number of shares (Thousands) Balance at Increase in shares Decrease in shares Balance at Deferred gain (loss) on hedging, net of taxes Type of shares beginning of year during the year during the year end of year Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥169 ¥(251) $(2,324) Issued stock: Reclassification adjustments 90 (50) (470) Common stock 788,514 – – 788,514 Total before tax effect 259 (302) (2,795) Treasury stock: Common stock 3,964 21,694 0 25,658 Tax effect (79) 92 852 Deferred gain (loss) on hedging, net of taxes 180 (210) (1,942) Notes: 1.The increase in 21,694 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the purchases of 21,690 thousand shares in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors made on June 24, 2019, to purchase the Corporation’s own shares, and the purchases of 3 thousand shares in quantities less than the minimum trading unit of shares. Foreign currency translation adjustments 2.The decrease in 0 thousand shares of treasury stock is due to the sale of shares in quantities less than the minimum trading unit of shares. Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥(1,073) ¥4 $42 Reclassification adjustments − − 2) Dividends Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,073) 4 42 (1) Dividends paid to shareholders For the year ended March 31, 2019 Amount Amount Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, Type of (Millions per share Shareholders’ Effective net of taxes Resolution approved by shares of Yen) (Yen) cut-off date date Annual general meeting of Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥588 ¥(1,995) $(18,458) shareholders Common (Note1) March 31, June 29, Reclassification adjustments 1,786 1,193 11,037 (June 28, 2018) stock ¥12,574 ¥16.00 2018 2018 Total before tax effect 2,375 (802) (7,420) Board of directors Common (Note2) September 30, December 3, Tax effect (734) 89 823 (November 5, 2018) stock ¥10,216 ¥13.00 2018 2018 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, Note1: Amount of dividend per share ¥16.00 includes a special dividend of ¥9.00. net of taxes 1,640 (713) (6,597) 2: Amount of dividend per share ¥13.00 includes a special dividend of ¥6.00. For the year ended March 31, 2020 Share of other comprehensive income of Amount Amount Amount Amount associates accounted for using equity method Type of (Millions (Thousands of per share per share Shareholders’ Effective Resolution approved by shares of Yen) U.S. Dollars) (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) cut-off date date Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥(0) ¥49 $461 Annual general meeting of Reclassification adjustments 60 136 1,258 shareholders Common (Note1) March 31, June 28, Share of other comprehensive income of (June 27, 2019) stock ¥18,075 $167,195 ¥23.00 $0.21 2019 2019 associates accounted for using equity method 60 185 1,719 Board of directors Common (Note2) September 30, December 2, Total other comprehensive income ¥1,627 ¥(45,918) $(424,736) (November 12, 2019) stock ¥13,831 $127,934 ¥18.00 $0.17 2019 2019 Note1: Amount of dividend per share ¥23.00 includes a special dividend of ¥16.00. 2: Amount of dividend per share ¥18.00 includes a special dividend of ¥8.00. 92 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 93 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Dividends with a shareholders’ cut-off date during the current fiscal year but an effective date (3) Supplementary explanation on fair value of financial instruments subsequent to the current fiscal year The fair value of financial instruments is based on market value or reasonable estimate if there is no market value. Since certain assumptions are used for estimating values, values could be different For the year ended March 31, 2019 Amount Amount if different assumptions are applied. In addition, the derivative contract amounts described in “DeType of (Millions per share Shareholders’ Effective rivatives” (Note 12) are not indicative of the actual market risk involved in derivative transactions. Resolution approved by shares Paid from of Yen) (Yen) cut-off date date Annual general meeting 2) Estimated fair value of financial instruments of shareholders Common Retained March 31, June 28, The carrying value of the financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, (June 27, 2019) stock earnings ¥18,075 ¥23.00 2019 2019 2019 and 2020, and estimated fair value are shown below. The following table does not include financial instruments for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value. Note: Amount of dividend per share ¥23.00 includes a special dividend of ¥16.00. Millions of Yen For the year ended March 31, 2020 As at March 31, 2019 Carrying value Fair value Difference Amount Amount Amount Amount Type of (Millions (Thousands of per share per share Shareholders’ Effective Assets Resolution approved by shares Paid from of Yen) U.S. Dollars) (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) cut-off date date (1) Cash ¥150,978 ¥150,978 ¥– Annual general meeting (2) Notes and accounts receivable—trade 641,061 641,061 – of shareholders Common Retained March 31, June 29, (June 26, 2020) stock earnings ¥15,283 $141,373 ¥20.00 $0.19 2020 2020 (3) Marketable securities 79,000 79,000 – (4) Investment securities 338,257 338,257 – Note: Amount of dividend per share ¥20.00 includes a special dividend of ¥10.00. Liabilities (5) Notes and accounts payable—trade 354,466 354,466 – 9. Notes to Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (6) Short-term borrowings 121,179 121,179 – (7) Commercial papers – – – The reconciliation between cash and cash equivalents reported in the consolidated statement of (8) Bonds payable and current portion of bonds cash flows and amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheet is as follows: payable 60,000 60,349 349 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars (9) Convertible bond-type bonds with As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 subscription rights to shares and current portion of convertible bond-type bonds with subscription Cash (as per consolidated balance sheet) ¥150,978 ¥351,722 $3,253,376 rights to shares 30,046 30,030 (16) Marketable securities (10) Non-recourse bonds payable and current portion (Negotiable certificate of deposit) 79,000 1,000 9,249 of non-recourse bonds payable 14,060 14,060 – (11) Long-term borrowings 49,520 49,761 240 Cash and cash equivalents ¥229,978 ¥352,722 $3,262,626 (12) Non-recourse borrowings and current portion of non-recourse borrowings 44,593 45,009 415 Derivative transactions(*) 10. Financial Instruments (13) Derivative transactions 1) Overview Hedge accounting applied 59 59 – (1) Policy for financial instruments The Group raises operating funds primarily through bank borrowings and bond issues. Temporary fund surpluses are managed principally through short-term deposits with little risk. Under the Group’s policy, the Group uses derivatives only for the purpose of reducing risks by hedge, and not for speculative purposes. (2) Types of financial instruments, risk and risk management Regarding credit risk associated with customer’s operating receivables such as notes receivable and accounts receivable from construction contracts, the Group appropriately reduces such risk in response to the payment conditions and customer’s credit situation. The Group holds investment securities primarily for the purpose of maintaining business relationships. Every year the Group reviews individual stocks while considering comprehensively costs and risks associated with stockholding and economic rationale, such as the benefit from a business perspective. Then, the Board of Directors verifies the adequacy of the stockholding. Regarding volatility risk of foreign exchange rates and interest rates, the Group conducts market risk management in line with its risk management rules for volatility in financial markets. The Group manages liquidity risk associated with raising funds by appropriately planning fund raising based on a three-month cash flow projection prepared monthly and the fiscal year’s cash flow projection. 94 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 95 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes: 1. Method to determine the estimated fair value of financial instruments Millions of Yen (1) Cash, (3) Marketable securities, (5) Notes and accounts payable—trade, (6) Short-term borrowings, (7) Commercial papers As at March 31, 2020 Carrying value Fair value Difference The Corporation uses carrying value for these amounts because they will be settled in the short term, meaning that carrying value approximate fair value. Assets (2) Notes and accounts receivable—trade By receivables with separate fixed terms, the fair value is calculated by applying a discount rate determined taking into account (1) Cash ¥351,722 ¥351,722 ¥– the term of collection and the credit risk. (4) Investment securities (2) Notes and accounts receivable—trade 546,148 546,148 – The fair value of stocks is determined based on the stock market price and the fair value of bonds is determined based on the (3) Marketable securities 1,020 1,020 – stock market price or prices quoted by financial institutions. Among “Investment securities,” non-listed shares, etc. (¥55,129 million ($509,937 thousand) in the consolidated balance sheets as at March 31, 2020 (¥49,488 million as at March 31, 2019) ) (4) Investment securities 264,468 264,468 – are not included in the above because determining the fair value for them is extremely difficult. (8) Bonds payable and current portion of bonds payable, (9) Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares Liabilities and current portion of convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares The fair value of the bonds issued by the Corporation is based on the prevailing market price. (5) Notes and accounts payable—trade 319,164 319,164 – (10) Non-recourse bonds payable and current portion of non-recourse bonds payable (6) Short-term borrowings 112,774 112,774 – Carrying value is used as fair value as there is a variable interest rate and the value is reviewed on a short term basis to reflect the market interest rate, meaning that carrying value approximate fair value. (7) Commercial papers 80,000 80,000 – (11) Long-term borrowings, (12) Non-recourse borrowings and current portion of non-recourse borrowings The fair value of long-term borrowings and non-recourse borrowings are estimated by applying a discount rate to be applied to (8) Bonds payable and current portion of bonds the total of principal and interest if a similar new borrowings agreement would be entered into. Some long-term borrowings payable 70,000 69,756 (244) and non-recourse borrowings are subject to special treatment of interest rate swap, and these are calculated by applying a discount rate to be applied to the total principal and interest with the consideration of the underlying interest rate swap if a (9) Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription similar new borrowings agreement would be entered into. rights to shares and current portion of convertible (13) Derivative transactions The fair value of derivative transactions is valued from prices quoted by financial institutions. bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares 30,016 29,814 (202) (10) Non-recourse bonds payable and current portion of non-recourse bonds payable 26,000 26,000 – 2.Anticipated redemption amount after balance sheet date for monetary assets and securities with maturities. (11) Long-term borrowings 70,360 70,819 459 Millions of Yen (12) Non-recourse borrowings and current portion of Over 1 year As at March 31, 2019 Less than 1 year less than 5 years Over 5 years non-recourse borrowings 52,164 53,371 1,207 Cash ¥150,978 ¥– ¥– Derivative transactions(*) Notes and accounts receivable—trade 610,866 30,194 – (13) Derivative transactions Hedge accounting applied (242) (242) – Marketable securities and investment securities Other marketable securities with maturities Bonds (corporate bonds) – 20 – Thousands of U.S. Dollars Other (negotiable certificate of deposit) 79,000 – – As at March 31, 2020 Carrying value Fair value Difference Total ¥840,845 ¥30,214 ¥– Assets (1) Cash $3,253,376 $3,253,376 $– (2) Notes and accounts receivable—trade 5,051,784 5,051,784 – (3) Marketable securities 9,434 9,434 – Millions of Yen (4) Investment securities 2,446,294 2,446,294 – Over 1 year Liabilities As at March 31, 2020 Less than 1 year less than 5 years Over 5 years (5) Notes and accounts payable—trade 2,952,221 2,952,221 – Cash ¥351,722 ¥– ¥– (6) Short-term borrowings 1,043,146 1,043,146 – Notes and accounts receivable—trade 529,714 16,433 – (7) Commercial papers 739,987 739,987 Marketable securities and investment securities (8) Bonds payable and current portion of bonds Other marketable securities with maturities payable 647,488 645,231 (2,256) Bonds (corporate bonds) 20 – – (9) Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares and current portion of convertible Other (negotiable certificate of deposit) 1,000 – – bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares 277,645 275,774 (1,870) Total ¥882,457 ¥16,433 ¥– (10) Non-recourse bonds payable and current portion of non-recourse bonds payable 240,495 240,495 – (11) Long-term borrowings 650,821 655,067 4,246 (12) Non-recourse borrowings and current portion of non-recourse borrowings 482,512 493,677 11,165 Derivative transactions(*) (13) Derivative transactions Hedge accounting applied (2,247) (2,247) – (*)Assets and liabilities that arise from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis. When the total amount becomes a net liability, the amount is indicated in parenthesis. 96 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 97 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. Dollars Thousands of U.S. Dollars Over 1 year Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years As at March 31, 2020 Less than 1 year less than 5 years Over 5 years Less than less than less than less than less than As at March 31, 2020 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Over 5 years Cash $3,253,376 $– $– Short-term borrowings $1,043,146 $– $– $– $– $– Notes and accounts receivable—trade 4,899,775 152,008 – Commercial papers 739,987 – – – – – Marketable securities and investment securities Bonds payable 92,498 92,498 – – 184,996 277,495 Other marketable securities with maturities Convertible bond-type Bonds (corporate bonds) 184 – – bonds with subscription Other (negotiable certificate of deposit) 9,249 – – rights to shares 277,495 – – – – – Total $8,162,586 $152,008 $– Non-recourse bonds payable 25,574 11,702 127,295 75,922 – – Long-term borrowings – 138,010 116,792 94,694 77,640 223,683  epayment schedule for short-term borrowings, bonds payable, convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares, 3. R Non-recourse borrowings 64,352 60,558 56,768 53,078 48,746 199,008 non-recourse bonds payable, long-term borrowings and non-recourse borrowings after each fiscal year end. Total $2,243,054 $302,769 $300,856 $223,695 $311,383 $700,186 Millions of Yen Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years Less than less than less than less than less than As at March 31, 2019 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Over 5 years 11. Securities Short-term borrowings ¥121,179 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– Commercial papers – – – – – – 1) Other securities (with market value) Bonds payable 20,000 10,000 10,000 – – 20,000 Convertible bond-type Millions of Yen bonds with subscription As at March 31, 2019 Book value Acquisition cost Difference rights to shares – 30,000 – – – – Non-recourse bonds Securities with unrealized gains payable 14,060 – – – – – Stocks ¥329,748 ¥115,515 ¥214,232 Long-term borrowings – 14,621 11,073 8,087 5,632 10,106 Sub total 329,748 115,515 214,232 Non-recourse borrowings 7,432 6,446 6,030 5,615 5,210 13,857 Securities with unrealized losses Total ¥162,672 ¥61,068 ¥27,103 ¥13,702 ¥10,842 ¥43,964 Stocks 8,509 10,156 (1,646) Other 79,000 79,000 – Sub total 87,509 89,156 (1,646) Millions of Yen Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years Total ¥417,257 ¥204,671 ¥212,585 Less than less than less than less than less than As at March 31, 2020 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Over 5 years Millions of Yen Short-term borrowings ¥112,774 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– As at March 31, 2020 Book value Acquisition cost Difference Commercial papers 80,000 – – – – – Securities with unrealized gains Bonds payable 10,000 10,000 – – 20,000 30,000 Stocks ¥237,588 ¥81,869 ¥155,719 Convertible bond-type Sub total 237,588 81,869 155,719 bonds with subscription Securities with unrealized losses rights to shares 30,000 – – – – – Stocks 26,880 33,451 (6,571) Non-recourse bonds Other 1,000 1,000 – payable 2,764 1,265 13,761 8,208 – – Sub total 27,880 34,451 (6,571) Long-term borrowings – 14,920 12,626 10,237 8,393 24,182 Total ¥265,468 ¥116,320 ¥149,147 Non-recourse borrowings 6,957 6,546 6,137 5,738 5,269 21,514 Total ¥242,496 ¥32,732 ¥32,525 ¥24,183 ¥33,663 ¥75,697 98 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 99 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. Dollars As at March 31, 2020 Book value Acquisition cost Difference As at March 31, 2020 Millions of Yen Contract Contract Securities with unrealized gains Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value Stocks $2,197,657 $757,282 $1,440,375 Deferred hedge Foreign exchange Forecasted foreign Sub total 2,197,657 757,282 1,440,375 method forward contract currency transactions Securities with unrealized losses Buy U.S. dollar/ Stocks 248,636 309,418 (60,782) Sell Yen ¥2,716 ¥2,139 $35 Other 9,249 9,249 – Sell U.S. dollar/ Buy Singapore dollar 8,821 8,821 (278) Sub total 257,885 318,667 (60,782) Total $2,455,543 $1,075,950 $1,379,593 Thousands of As at March 31, 2020 U.S. Dollars 2) Other securities sold Contract Contract Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value Millions of Yen For the year ended March 31, 2019 Sales amount Total gain on sales Total loss on sales Deferred hedge Foreign exchange Forecasted foreign method forward contract currency transactions Shares ¥14,696 ¥9,246 ¥2 Buy U.S. dollar/ Millions of Yen Sell Yen $25,130 $19,785 $332 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Sales amount Total gain on sales Total loss on sales Sell U.S. dollar/ Shares ¥17,301 ¥7,517 ¥507 Buy Singapore dollar 81,600 81,600 (2,579) Note: The fair value of derivative transactions is determined based on prices quoted by financial institutions. Thousands of U.S. Dollars For the year ended March 31, 2020 Sales amount Total gain on sales Total loss on sales Shares $160,039 $69,534 $4,691 (2) Interest-related transactions As at March 31, 2019 Millions of Yen Contract Contract Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value 12. Derivatives Special treatment Interest rate swap Non-recourse of interest rate transaction borrowings 1) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is not applied swap Payment fixed/ (1) Currency-related transactions receiving variable ¥2,250 ¥1,350 (Note) Note: Since special treatment of interest rate swaps is made together with hedged non-recourse borrowings, its fair value of As at March 31, 2019 and 2020 interest rate swaps has been included in that of the relevant non-recourse borrowings. This item is omitted because of its immateriality. As at March 31, 2020 Millions of Yen 2) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied Contract Contract (1) Currency-related transactions Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value As at March 31, 2019 Millions of Yen Special treatment Interest rate swap Non-recourse Contract Contract of interest rate transaction borrowings Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value swap Payment fixed/ Deferred hedge Foreign exchange Forecasted foreign receiving variable ¥1,350 ¥450 (Note) method forward contract currency transactions Buy U.S. dollar/ Sell Yen ¥2,758 ¥2,087 ¥59 Thousands of As at March 31, 2020 U.S. Dollars Note: The fair value of derivative transactions is determined based on prices quoted by financial institutions. Contract Contract Hedging method Transaction type Main hedged item amount over 1 year Fair value Special treatment Interest rate swap Non-recourse of interest rate transaction borrowings swap Payment fixed/ receiving variable $12,487 $4,162 (Note) Note: Since special treatment of interest rate swaps is made together with hedged non-recourse borrowings, its fair value of interest rate swaps has been included in that of the relevant non-recourse borrowings. 100 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 101 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 13. Retirement Benefits (3) Reconciliation of Projected Benefit Obligations and Plan Assets and Net liability for retirement benefit in the consolidated balance sheet 1) Summary of Employees’ Retirement Benefit Plans Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars The Corporation and certain consolidated subsidiaries have lump-sum retirement payment plans 2019 2020 2020 and defined benefit pension plans. Funded projected benefit obligation ¥101,762 ¥103,496 $957,329 As at March 31, 2019, the Corporation and 21 consolidated subsidiaries offered lump-sum retirement payment plans and the Corporation and 5 consolidated subsidiaries also offered a defined Plan assets (98,035) (94,291) (872,180) benefit pension plan. 3,727 9,205 85,148 As at March 31, 2020, the Corporation and 21 consolidated subsidiaries offered lump-sum retireUnfunded projected benefit obligation 52,146 48,087 444,804 ment payment plans and the Corporation and 5 consolidated subsidiaries also offered a defined Net liability for projected benefit in the benefit pension plan. consolidated balance sheet 55,873 57,293 529,953 2) Defined benefit pension plan (1) Reconciliation of Projected Benefit Obligations Thousands of Net defined benefit liability 55,873 57,293 529,953 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Net liability for projected benefit in the 2019 2020 2020 Projected benefit obligations as at April 1 ¥157,785 ¥153,909 $1,423,636 consolidated balance sheet ¥55,873 ¥57,293 $529,953 Service cost 7,012 7,106 65,732 Interest cost 5 2 22 (4) Retirement Benefit Expenses Actuarial gain or loss 90 463 4,282 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Retirement benefits paid (11,734) (10,952) (101,310) 2019 2020 2020 Prior service cost – 266 2,461 Service cost ¥7,012 ¥7,106 $65,732 Other 749 790 7,309 Interest cost 5 2 22 Projected benefit obligations as at March 31 ¥153,909 ¥151,584 $1,402,134 Expected return on plan assets (781) (760) (7,035) Note: Some consolidated subsidiaries used a simplified method to compute their projected benefit obligations. Amortization of actuarial gain or loss 1,805 1,185 10,968 Amortization of prior service cost (19) 7 69 (2) Reconciliation of Plan assets Other 701 739 6,844 Retirement benefit expenses ¥8,725 ¥8,281 $76,600 Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2019 2020 2020 (5) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans included in other comprehensive income Plan assets as at April 1 ¥100,399 ¥98,035 $906,813 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (before tax effect) were as follows: Thousands of Expected return on plan assets 781 760 7,035 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Actuarial gain or loss 678 (1,266) (11,713) 2019 2020 2020 Contributions by the Corporation 4,314 4,302 39,794 Prior service cost ¥19 ¥258 $2,392 Retirement benefits paid (8,186) (7,590) (70,214) Actuarial gain or loss (2,394) 543 5,028 Other 48 50 465 Total ¥(2,375) ¥802 $7,420 Plan assets as at March 31 ¥98,035 ¥94,291 $872,180 (6) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans included in accumulated other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (before tax effect) were as follows: Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2019 2020 2020 Unrecognized prior service cost ¥(28) ¥229 $2,127 Unrecognized actuarial gain or loss 6,055 6,599 61,044 Total ¥6,027 ¥6,829 $63,171 102 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 103 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (7) Plan assets 15. Investment and Rental Properties (a) Major components of plan assets were as follows: 2019 2020 The Corporation and certain consolidated subsidiaries own office buildings, residential units and Stocks 13% 12% other real estate properties for lease, mainly in Tokyo and other major urban cities in Japan. Bonds 12% 12% For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, the carrying values, changes during the year, and General account 73% 73% fair values of those properties were as follows: Other 2% 3% Thousands of Total 100% 100% Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 (b) Method for estimation of expected return on plan assets Carrying value The expected return on plan assets has been estimated based on the anticipated allocation to Balance at beginning of year ¥138,667 ¥162,626 $1,504,272 each asset class and the expected long-term returns on assets held in each category. Changes during the year 23,958 54,286 502,138 Balance at end of year 162,626 216,913 2,006,410 (8) Assumptions for actuarial calculations Fair value at end of year 265,197 369,280 3,415,784 Major components of the basis for actuarial calculations (figures are weighted averages) Notes: 1. The carrying value is the amount after deducting accumulated depreciation from acquisition cost. 2. The changes during the year primarily consist of real estate acquisitions (increase: ¥34,483 million) and depreciation (decrease: 2019 2020 ¥3,541 million) for the year ended March 31, 2019. Discount rates 0.0% 0.0% 3. The changes during the year primarily consist of real estate acquisitions (increase: ¥59,042 million ($546,129 thousand)) and depreciation (decrease: ¥4,093 million ($37,860 thousand)) for the year ended March 31, 2020. Expected rates of return on plan assets 0.8% 0.8% 4. The fair value is mainly calculated by the Corporation based on real estate appraisal standards, or based on the appraisal report prepared by external certified appraisers. For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, incomes from rental business were as follows: 14. Deferred Tax Accounting Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 1) As at March 31, 2019 and 2020, the significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 were as follows: Thousands of Net sales on rental business ¥18,148 ¥19,609 $181,387 Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Cost of sales on rental business 11,454 13,061 120,817 As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 Gross profit on rental business 6,694 6,548 60,569 Deferred tax assets Other profit 80 163 1,509 Net defined benefit liability ¥15,925 ¥16,344 $151,184 Non-deductible portion of reserves and allowances 9,335 9,189 85,000 Losses on write-down of assets 7,895 7,349 67,985 Excess depreciation of fixed assets 5,330 6,262 57,930 Tax losses carried forward 2,518 2,245 20,769 Other 20,572 25,323 234,241 Sub total 61,579 66,715 617,111 Less: valuation allowance (15,937) (14,378) (132,994) Total deferred tax assets 45,642 52,337 484,116 Deferred tax liabilities Net unrealized gains on other securities (62,487) (44,234) (409,163) Other (5,373) (5,466) (50,566) Total deferred tax liabilities (67,860) (49,701) (459,729) Net deferred tax assets(liabilities) ¥(22,218) ¥2,636 $24,386 2) As at March 31, 2019 and 2020, the reconciliations of the statutory tax rate to the effective income tax rate were as follows: Reconciliations as at March 31, 2019 and 2020 are omitted because the differences are not more than 5% of the statutory tax rate. 104 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 105 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 16. Segment Information 2) Related information For the year ended March 31, 2019 1) Segment Information (1) Product and Service Information (1) Overview of Reportable Segment Net sales from external customers in the Construction business including architectural construcThe Group is engaged in construction, real estate development and other related businesses. Contion, civil engineering and other related business totaled ¥1,504,636 million. struction business and real estate business both operated by the Corporation are the main busi(2) Geographical Segments nesses of the Group. (a) Net sales Construction business of the Corporation is operated by branches, etc. located in various reThis item is omitted because net sales to customers in Japan represented over 90% of the net sales gions. Real estate business of the Corporation, which involves development, rental and sales, is opof the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. erated by the Investment and Development Division. The Board of Directors regularly reviews the (b) Tangible fixed assets management and operating results. This item is omitted because tangible assets located in Japan represented over 90% of the tangible Therefore, based on the aggregate criteria and the quantitative criteria, “Construction business of fixed assets on the consolidated balance sheet. the Corporation,” which consists of branches of the Corporation, and “Real estate business of the (3) Information by main customers Corporation,” conducted by the Investment and Development Division, are deemed to be the two This item is omitted because net sales to no single customer represented 10% or more of total net reportable segments of the Group. sales of the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. (2) Detail of the method used to calculate net sales, profit or loss, assets and liabilities by reportable segment The accounting policies of the reportable segments are mostly the same as those in “4. Summary For the year ended March 31, 2020 of Significant Accounting Policies.” However, segment profit does not include provision and reversal (1) Product and Service Information amounts of reserves and allowances which are included in the consolidated financial statements. Net sales from external customers in the Construction business including architectural construction, Intersegment transactions are based on arm’s length price. civil engineering and other related business totaled ¥1,517,883 million ($14,040,178 thousand). (3) Net sales, profit or loss, assets and liabilities by reportable segment were as follows: (2) Geographical Segments Millions of Yen (a) Net sales Construction Real estate This item is omitted because net sales to customers in Japan represented over 90% of the net sales For the year ended Other Adjustment business of the business of the March 31, 2019 Corporation Corporation (Note 2) Total (Note 3) Consolidated of the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. (b) Tangible fixed assets Net sales This item is omitted because tangible assets located in Japan represented over 90% of the tangible Customers ¥1,335,184 ¥25,193 ¥304,582 ¥1,664,960 ¥– ¥1,664,960 fixed assets on the consolidated balance sheet. Intersegment or transfer 44,195 116 200,845 245,158 (245,158) – (3) Information by main customers Total ¥1,379,380 ¥25,310 ¥505,428 ¥1,910,119 ¥(245,158) ¥1,664,960 This item is omitted because net sales to no single customer represented 10% or more of total net Segment profit (Note 1) ¥133,901 ¥8,757 ¥20,086 ¥162,745 ¥(33,021) ¥129,724 sales of the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. Notes: 1. Segment profits are adjusted to the operating income of the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. 2. “Other” segment is composed of business segments not included in the reportable segments, and includes Engineering and 3) Impairment loss on fixed assets by reportable segment LCV(Life Cycle Valuation) business operated by the Corporation and other businesses operated by subsidiaries. For the years ended March 31, 2019 3. The adjustment of ¥33,021 million in segment profit was intersegment eliminations, etc. 4. The amounts of business segment assets have not been presented because they were not allocated to business segments. Not applicable. Millions of Yen For the years ended March 31, 2020 Construction Real estate For the year ended business of the business of the Other Adjustment Impairment loss in amount of ¥2,915 million ($26,964 thousand) is related to a fixed asset to be March 31, 2020 Corporation Corporation (Note 2) Total (Note 3) Consolidated disposed by the Corporation which is not allocated to a business segment. Net sales 4) Amortization of goodwill and unamortized balance by reportable segment Customers ¥1,348,316 ¥26,232 ¥323,743 ¥1,698,292 ¥– ¥1,698,292 For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Intersegment or transfer 59,757 7,615 196,441 263,815 (263,815) – This item is omitted in accordance with Article 15-2 Paragraph 4 of the Regulations for ConsolidatTotal ¥1,408,074 ¥33,848 ¥520,185 ¥1,962,108 ¥(263,815) ¥1,698,292 ed Financial Statements. Segment profit (Note 1) ¥145,130 ¥10,312 ¥22,355 ¥177,798 ¥(43,904) ¥133,894 5) Gain on negative goodwill by reportable segment Not applicable. Thousands of U.S. Dollars Construction Real estate For the year ended Other Adjustment business of the business of the March 31, 2020 Corporation Corporation (Note 2) Total (Note 3) Consolidated Net sales 17. Related Party Transactions Customers $12,471,711 $242,647 $2,994,573 $15,708,932 $– $15,708,932 For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Intersegment or transfer 552,749 70,445 1,817,055 2,440,250 (2,440,250) – Not applicable. Total $13,024,461 $313,092 $4,811,628 $18,149,183 $(2,440,250) $15,708,932 Segment profit (Note 1) $1,342,434 $95,390 $206,786 $1,644,611 $(406,107) $1,238,503 Notes: 1. Segment profits are adjusted to the operating income of the Corporation’s consolidated statement of income. 2.“Other” segment is composed of business segments not included in the reportable segments, and includes Engineering and LCV(Life Cycle Valuation) business operated by the Corporation and other businesses operated by subsidiaries. 3. The adjustment of ¥43,904 million ($406,107 thousand) in segment profit was intersegment eliminations, etc. 4. The amounts of business segment assets have not been presented because they were not allocated to business segments. 106 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 107 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 18. Amounts per Share For the year ended March 31,2020 Euro/Yen Zero Coupon Convertible Bonds due 2020 Yen U.S. Dollars Total amount of Class and For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 face value of Number of number of shares Total amount of Bonds Subscription underlying Exercise period Net assets per share of common stock ¥929.72 ¥957.56 $8.86 face value of Bonds (Thousands of rights to shares subscription Conversion value Conversion value of subscription Basic net income per share of common stock ¥127.04 ¥128.31 $1.19 (Millions of Yen) U.S. Dollars) (Shares) rights to shares (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) rights to shares Diluted net income per share of common stock ¥127.04 ¥128.30 $1.19 ¥30,000 $277,495 3,000 Common stock ¥1,252.9 $11.59 From October 30, 1) Basis of net income per share of common stock and diluted net income per share of common stock Total amount of 2015 (1) Net income per share of common stock face value of To Thousands of Bonds divided by October 2, Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars conversion value 2020 For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Net income attributed to shareholders of the Corporation ¥99,668 ¥98,977 $915,526 Subscription rights to shares issued by 1 equity-method affiliate Net income not attributed to common shareholders – – – Class and number of shares underlying subscription rights to shares Net income attributed to shareholders of Common stock Corporation available for distribution to shareholders of common shares 99,668 98,977 915,526 4,000 thousand shares Average number of common shares issued and 784,551 771,417 771,417 thousand thousand thousand outstanding during the period shares shares shares 2) Basis of net assets per share of common stock (2) Diluted net income per share of common stock Thousands of Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars As at March 31 2019 2020 2020 For the year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 Net assets ¥735,242 ¥736,412 $6,811,697 Adjustment in net income attributed to Amounts deducted from net assets 5,826 5,932 54,877 shareholders of the Corporation ¥(2) ¥(1) $(12) Non-controlling interests 5,826 5,932 54,877 (Stock subscription rights of affiliated companies decrease the equity investment earnings when Net assets applicable to common stock 729,415 730,479 6,756,820 they are exercised) Number of shares of common stock 784,550 762,856 762,856 thousand thousand thousand Number of common stock increased by share warrants – – – at end of year shares shares shares (3) Summary of diluted stock not included in the calculation of diluted net income per share due to absence of dilution effect For the year ended March 31,2019 Euro/Yen Zero Coupon Convertible Bonds due 2020 Class and Number of number of shares Total amount of Subscription underlying Exercise period face value of Bonds rights to shares subscription Conversion value of subscription (Millions of Yen) (Shares) rights to shares (Yen) rights to shares ¥30,000 3,000 Common stock ¥1,297.0 From October 30, Total amount of 2015 face value of To Bonds divided by October 2, conversion value 2020 108 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 109 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 19. Bonds Payable Class of shares to be issued Common stock Balance at Balance at Issue price for subscription rights to April 1, March 31, 2020 2019 (Note 1) shares (yen and U.S. dollars) ¥– $– Issue Millions of Yen Millions Thousands of Interest Exercise price per share (yen and U.S. dollars) 1,252.9 11.59 Issued by Issue type date of Yen U.S. Dollars Rate(%) Collateral Maturity Remarks Total issue amount (millions of yen and Corporation 19th unsecured Jun. 21 Jun. 21, thousands of U.S. dollars) 30,000 277,495 straight bond 2012 ¥10,000 ¥– $– 0.817 None 2019 (*1) Total amount of shares issued by exercising Corporation 20th unsecured Mar. 8, Mar. 6, subscription rights to shares (millions of yen straight bond 2013 10,000 ¥– $– 0.599 None 2020 (*1) and thousands of U.S. dollars) – – Corporation 21th unsecured Dec. 4, Dec. 3, Percentage of shares subscription rights to shares (%) 100 straight bond 2014 10,000 10,000 92,498 0.390 None 2021 (*1) From Oct. 30, 2015 Corporation 22th unsecured Mar. 6, 10,000 92,498 Mar. 5, to Oct. 2, 2020 Exercise period of subscription rights to shares straight bond 2015 10,000 (10,000) (92,498) 0.337 None 2021 (*1) Upon the exercise of each of the subscription rights to shares, the Bonds attached with the subscription rights to shares shall be conCorporation 23th unsecured Aug. 4, Aug. 2, tributed and the value for such Bonds shall be equal to the face value of the Bonds straight bond 2017 10,000 10,000 92,498 0.250 None 2024 (*1) 3. Non-recourse bonds 4. At floating rates and the most recent rates Corporation 24th unsecured Nov. 30, Nov. 30, 5. Aggregate annual maturities of bonds payable, convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares and non-recourse bonds due within five years from the balance sheet date are as follows: straight bond 2017 10,000 10,000 92,498 0.365 None 2027 (*1) Corporation 25th unsecured Sep. 3, Sep. 3, Thousands of straight bond 2019 ¥– 20,000 184,996 0.270 None 2029 (*1) Bonds payable Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Corporation 26th unsecured Dec. 12, Dec. 12, Less than 1 year ¥10,000 $92,498 straight bond 2019 ¥– 10,000 92,498 0.110 None 2024 (*1) Over 1 year less than 2 years 10,000 92,498 Corporation Euro/Yen Zero Over 2 years less than 3 years – – Coupon Over 3 years less than 4 years – – Convertible Over 4 years less than 5 years 20,000 184,996 Bonds due 2020 Oct.16, 30,016 277,645 Oct. 16, (Note 2) 2015 30,046 (30,016) (277,645) – None 2020 MM21-46 2nd general Convertible bond-type bonds with Thousands of SPC secured specified subscription rights to shares Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars corporate bond Mar. 31, 0.179 Mar. 31, Less than 1 year ¥30,000 $277,495 (Note 3) 2017 14,060 ¥– $– (Note 4) Yes 2020 (*2) MM21-46 3nd general Thousands of SPC secured specified Non-recourse bonds Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars corporate bond Mar. 31, 10,800 99,898 0.260 Apr. 28, Less than 1 year ¥2,764 $25,574 (Note 3) 2020 ¥– (864) (7,991) (Note 4) Yes 2023 (*2) Over 1 year less than 2 years 1,265 11,702 Momiji 1st A general Over 2 years less than 3 years 13,761 127,295 Property secured specified Over 3 years less than 4 years 8,208 75,922 SPC corporate bond Aug. 30, 13,600 125,797 0.269 Aug. 31, (Note 3) 2019 ¥– (300) (2,783) (Note 4) Yes 2022 (*2) Momiji 1st B general Property secured specified SPC corporate bond Aug. 30, 1,600 14,799 0.269 Aug. 31, (Note 3) 2019 ¥– (1,600) (14,799) (Note 4) Yes 2020 (*2) Total – – ¥104,106 ¥126,016 $1,165,629 – – – – (42,781) (395,718) Notes: (*1) With limited inter-bond pari passu clause (*2) Limited to qualified institutional investors 1. Bracketed figures are due within one year from the balance sheet date. 2. Items mentioned convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares were as follows: 110 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 111 Financial Section Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 20. Borrowings The Board of Directors Shimizu Corporation Balance at Balance at April 1, 2019 March 31, 2020 Average Millions Millions Thousands of interest Repayment Opinion Item of Yen of Yen U.S. Dollars rate (%) term We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Shimizu Corporation and its consolidated Short-term borrowings ¥102,528 ¥94,305 $872,314 0.56 – subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, 2020, and the consolidated Current portion of long-term statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes borrowings 18,651 18,468 170,831 0.85 – to the consolidated financial statements. Current portion of non-recourse borrowings 7,432 6,957 64,352 1.34 – In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated Current portion of lease financial position of the Group as at March 31, 2020, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash obligations 230 243 2,253 – – flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Long-term borrowings (Excluding current portion) 49,520 70,360 650,821 0.77 2021–2037 Basis for Opinion Non-recourse borrowings (Excluding current portion) 37,161 45,207 418,159 1.17 2021–2034 We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Our responsibilities under Lease obligations those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements (Excluding current portion) 514 587 5,431 – 2021–2030 section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to Commercial papers – 80,000 739,987 0.00 – our audit of the consolidated financial statements in Japan, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Total ¥216,038 ¥316,130 $2,924,152 – – accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Notes: 1. The “average interest rate” is the weighted average interest rate for the average balance of borrowings during the fiscal year. provide a basis for our opinion. 2. The average interest rate on lease obligations is not presented because lease obligations carried on the consolidated balance sheet represent the amount before deducting interest equivalents. 3. Aggregate annual repayment of long-term borrowings, non-recourse borrowings and lease obligations, excluding the current portion, due to be repaid within five years from the balance sheet date are as follows: Responsibilities of Management, the Corporate Auditor and the Board of Corporate Auditors for the Consolidated Thousands of Long-term borrowings (Excluding current portion) Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Financial Statements Over 1 year less than 2 years ¥14,920 $138,010 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in Over 2 years less than 3 years 12,626 116,792 accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for such internal control as management Over 3 years less than 4 years 10,237 94,694 determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material Over 4 years less than 5 years 8,393 77,640 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Thousands of In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to Non-recourse borrowings (Excluding current portion) Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars continue as a going concern and disclosing, as required by accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, matters Over 1 year less than 2 years ¥6,546 $60,558 related to going concern. Over 2 years less than 3 years 6,137 56,768 Over 3 years less than 4 years 5,738 53,078 The Corporate Auditor and the Board of Corporate Auditors are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial Over 4 years less than 5 years 5,269 48,746 reporting process. Thousands of Lease obligations (Excluding current portion) Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Over 1 year less than 2 years ¥188 $1,744 Over 2 years less than 3 years 141 1,310 Over 3 years less than 4 years 88 816 Over 4 years less than 5 years 67 619 21. Asset Retirement Obligations In accordance with Article 92, Paragraph 2 of “Regulation for Consolidated Financial Statements” the amount of asset retirement obligations as at April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020 has not been presented because it represented less than 1% of total liabilities and net assets on the consolidated balance sheets. 112 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 113 Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Interest Required to Be Disclosed by the Certified Public Accountants Act of Japan Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free Our firm and its designated engagement partners do not have any interest in the Group which is required to be disclosed from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. pursuant to the provisions of the Certified Public Accountants Act of Japan. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial Convenience Translation statements. The U.S. dollar amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements with respect to the year ended March 31, 2020 are presented solely for convenience. Our audit also included the translation of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar As part of an audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan, we exercise professional judgment amounts and, in our opinion, such translation has been made on the basis described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: statements. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. • Consider internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for our risk assessments, while the purpose of the audit of the consolidated financial statements is not Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. Tokyo, Japan June 26, 2020 • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such Yuji Suzuki disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the Designated Engagement Partner date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going Certified Public Accountant concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within Masato Nakagawa the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, Designated Engagement Partner supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Certified Public Accountant We communicate with the Corporate Auditor and the Board of Corporate Auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Corporate Auditor and the Board of Corporate Auditors with a statement that we have complied with the ethical requirements regarding independence that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Japan, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 114 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 115 Supplemental Information Financial Section Nonconsolidated Balance Sheet Shimizu Corporation As at March 31, 2020 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 ASSETS LIABILITIES Current Liabilities: Current Assets: Notes payable ¥60,691 ¥58,408 $540,270 Cash ¥88,750 ¥269,962 $2,497,109 Accounts payable for construction contracts 239,395 210,661 1,948,583 Notes receivable 45,845 22,555 208,631 Short-term borrowings 95,491 93,373 863,688 Accounts receivable from completed construction contracts 556,329 481,275 4,451,719 Commercial papers – 80,000 739,987 Marketable securities 79,100 1,000 9,249 Current portion of bonds payable 20,000 10,000 92,498 Current portion of convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares – 30,016 277,645 Real estate for sale 3,981 0 0 Lease obligations 900 1,160 10,738 Costs on uncompleted construction contracts 72,949 73,805 682,690 Accounts payable—other 3,991 18,222 168,554 Costs on uncompleted real estate development projects 3,324 5,885 54,440 Accrued expenses 16,663 17,465 161,554 Materials and supplies 107 178 1,646 Income taxes payable 28,133 22,669 209,688 Advances received on uncompleted construction contracts 127,845 90,943 841,213 Prepaid expenses 93 152 1,410 Deposits received 144,421 142,792 1,320,810 Other current assets 89,352 96,148 889,358 Warranty reserve 3,100 3,806 35,208 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (973) (713) (6,600) Reserve for expected losses on construction contracts in process 7,934 5,729 52,996 Total current assets 938,861 950,249 8,789,656 Reserve for directors’ bonuses 267 289 2,673 Reserve for loss on anti-monopoly act 1,820 1,820 16,834 Non-Current Assets: Asset retirement obligations 134 80 746 Other current liabilities 286 298 2,757 Tangible fixed assets: Total current liabilities 751,078 787,738 7,286,452 Buildings 70,053 118,973 1,100,485 Non-Current Liabilities: Structures 1,466 4,369 40,420 Bonds payable 40,000 60,000 554,990 Machinery and equipment 2,766 3,679 34,038 Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to shares 30,046 – – Vehicles 464 422 3,904 Long-term borrowings 43,722 53,436 494,282 Tools, furniture and fixtures 3,986 4,783 44,245 Lease obligations 1,333 1,623 15,020 Deferred tax liabilities 24,965 – – Land 130,193 152,820 1,413,561 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation reserve for land 17,659 17,659 163,345 Construction in progress 33,475 23,199 214,594 Reserve for employees’ retirement benefits 44,279 44,476 411,399 Total tangible fixed assets 242,406 308,248 2,851,251 Asset retirement obligations 3 3 34 Other non-current liabilities 16,476 19,347 178,962 Intangible fixed assets: Total non-current liabilities 218,486 196,547 1,818,035 Leasehold 1,515 1,501 13,889 Total liabilities 969,565 984,286 9,104,487 Software 3,683 3,788 35,038 NET ASSETS Other intangible fixed assets 554 1,278 11,824 Shareholders’ Equity: Total intangible fixed assets 5,753 6,567 60,752 Common stock, no par value Authorized: 1,500,000 thousand shares Investments and other assets: Issued: 788,514 thousand shares as at March 31, 2019 and 2020 74,365 74,365 687,867 Additional paid-in capital: Investment securities 354,447 281,690 2,605,593 Capital reserve 43,143 43,143 399,070 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 37,294 41,987 388,377 Other additional paid-in capital 1 1 13 Investments in other securities of subsidiaries and affiliates 6,920 3,850 35,611 Retained earnings: Investments in capital 250 393 3,640 Legal reserve 18,394 18,394 170,149 Contingent Reserve 229,800 295,200 2,730,552 Long-term loans 15 12 114 Other retained earnings 88,662 80,721 746,664 Long-term loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 3,892 3,299 30,515 Less: Treasury stock, at cost Claims in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings 17 16 157 24,319 thousand shares as at March 31, 2020 – (21,191) (196,014) Long-term prepaid expenses 636 609 5,640 2,625 thousand shares as at March 31, 2019 (1,187) – – Deferred tax assets – 72 669 Total shareholders’ equity 453,180 490,635 4,538,301 Other investments 9,120 9,506 87,931 Valuation and Translation Adjustments: Net unrealized gain (loss) on other securities, net of taxes 148,823 103,811 960,241 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,138) (2,075) (19,201) Deferred gain (loss) on hedging, net of taxes 41 (168) (1,561) Total investments and other assets 410,454 339,362 3,139,051 Revaluation reserve for land, net of taxes 25,864 25,864 239,242 Total non-current assets 658,614 654,179 6,051,055 Total valuation and translation adjustments 174,729 129,507 1,197,922 Total assets ¥1,597,475 ¥1,604,429 $14,840,711 Total net assets 627,910 620,143 5,736,224 Notes: (1) Yen amounts have been rounded down to the nearest million. Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,597,475 ¥1,604,429 $14,840,711 (2) U.S. dollar amounts have been translated at the exchange rate of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. Notes: (1) Yen amounts have been rounded down to the nearest million. (2) U.S. dollar amounts have been translated at the exchange rate of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. 116 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 117 Supplemental Information Financial Section Nonconsolidated Statement of Income Orders, Sales and Backlog (Nonconsolidated) Shimizu Corporation Shimizu Corporation For the year ended March 31, 2020 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of (1) Construction orders awarded and contracts Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Construction business (orders) Net Sales: Architectural Construction Construction contracts ¥1,348,122 ¥1,356,715 $12,549,394 Domestic Operations ¥1,307,180 ¥854,645 $7,905,329 Real estate development and other 58,607 60,889 563,219 Overseas Operations 34,891 53,154 491,673 1,406,730 1,417,604 13,112,613 Subtotal 1,342,071 907,799 8,397,002 Civil Engineering Cost of Sales: Domestic Operations 246,677 187,548 1,734,792 Construction contracts 1,176,155 1,180,549 10,919,891 Overseas Operations 39,462 99,433 919,742 Real estate development and other 47,442 47,798 442,132 Subtotal 286,140 286,981 2,654,534 1,223,597 1,228,348 11,362,023 Total construction business 1,628,211 1,194,781 11,051,537 Gross profit: Real estate development and other (contracts) 97,245 79,622 736,494 Total ¥1,725,456 ¥1,274,404 $11,788,031 Construction contracts 171,966 176,165 1,629,503 Real estate development and other 11,165 13,090 121,086 (2) Net sales Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars 183,132 189,256 1,750,589 2019 2020 2020 Construction business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 69,565 73,974 684,252 Architectural Construction Operating income 113,567 115,281 1,066,337 Domestic Operations ¥1,006,349 ¥1,022,470 $9,457,683 Non-Operating Income (Expenses): Overseas Operations 41,614 50,993 471,680 Interest and dividend income 10,249 10,930 101,108 Subtotal 1,047,964 1,073,463 9,929,363 Interest expenses (1,866) (1,508) (13,952) Civil Engineering Domestic Operations 286,218 262,310 2,426,326 Foreign exchange gain(loss) 5 (1,632) (15,096) Overseas Operations 13,939 20,941 193,705 Other, net (212) (386) (3,571) Subtotal 300,157 283,251 2,620,031 Ordinary income 121,742 122,686 1,134,825 Total construction business 1,348,122 1,356,715 12,549,394 Special Gains (Losses): Real estate development and other (contracts) 58,607 60,889 563,219 Total ¥1,406,730 ¥1,417,604 $13,112,613 Gain on sales of fixed assets 9,348 7,538 69,730 Loss on sales of fixed assets (78) (507) (4,693) (3) Backlog Thousands of Millions of Yen U.S. Dollars Loss on devaluation of investment securities (2) (792) (7,326) 2019 2020 2020 Construction business Loss on devaluation of shares of subsidiaries and affiliates (548) – – Architectural Construction Impairment loss on fixed assets – (2,915) (26,964) Domestic Operations ¥1,477,726 ¥1,309,901 $12,116,376 Income before income taxes 130,462 126,009 1,165,571 Overseas Operations 103,803 105,965 980,160 Provision for Income Taxes: Subtotal 1,581,530 1,415,866 13,096,537 Civil Engineering Current 41,611 43,407 401,507 Domestic Operations 428,428 353,666 3,271,356 Deferred (3,882) (6,762) (62,553) Overseas Operations 50,595 129,087 1,194,038 37,728 36,644 338,953 Subtotal 479,023 482,753 4,465,395 Net Income ¥92,733 ¥89,365 $826,617 Total construction business 2,060,553 1,898,620 17,561,933 Notes: (1) Yen amounts have been rounded down to the nearest million. Real estate development and other 77,918 96,651 894,011 (2) U.S. dollar amounts have been translated at the exchange rate of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. Total ¥2,138,472 ¥1,995,272 $18,455,944 Notes: (1) Yen amounts have been rounded down to the nearest million. (2) U.S. dollar amounts have been translated at the exchange rate of ¥108.11 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. 118 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 Shimizu Corporate Report 2020 119 This document is printed on FSC® accredited paper using 100% Printed on paper made with wood from forest thinning vegetable oil based “Vegetable oil ink” and waterless printing methods “Morino Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association) —supporting sound forest management. Printed in Japan 2101010 TOP
