Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki Group Mission Statement Contents CSR Management Editorial Policy Purpose of the ESG Data Book Kawasaki formulated the Kawasaki Group Mission Statement as a compass directing the activities of CSR Framework p.2 The Kawasaki Group has published the ESG Data Book annually since fiscal 2018. The ESG Data Book primarily provides disclosure of detailed non-financial information related to the the Kawasaki Group. The statement incorporates the Group’s social mission and, to increase the Stakeholder Engagement p.4 Kawasaki Group’s environmental (E), social (S) and governance (G) initiatives. The Kawasaki Group posiKawasaki brand value, shared values, the underlying principles of management activities, and Material Issues p.8 tions the ESG Data Book as a tool for providing information and communicating with stakeholders. Note that, while the ESG Data Book contains environmental data, more detailed information about ­guidelines for the daily conduct of each and every member of the organization. the Kawasaki Group’s environmental initiatives is available in the Kawasaki Environmental Report. Governance Corporate Governance M p.11 The Kawasaki Group’s Information Disclosure Compliance M p.23 Information on how the Kawasaki Group creates value and achieves sustainable growth Risk Management p.34 Research and Development p.45 Group Mission Kawasaki Report Environment Kawasaki, working as one Environmental Management M p.51 Publication of detailed information and the latest information Corporate Website https://global.kawasaki.com/en/ Society Mobility Energy Industrial Equipment Leisure Corporate Info for the good of the planet Working with Suppliers M p.60 Information for various stakeholders Product Liability M p.64 Customer Relationship  p.67 Management •W  e are the Kawasaki Group, a global technology leader Human Resource Management p.69 Securities Report Corporate Kawasaki Kawasaki Kawasaki ESG (Japanese only) Governance Technical Environmental Data Book with diverse integrated strengths. Diversityp.72 Report Review Report (Japanese only) • We create new value—for a better environment and Human Resource Development p.79 Financial information Non-financial information a brighter future for generations to come. Securing and Retaining  p.84 Human Resources M Kawasaki Report Occupational Safety and Health p.91 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/report/index.html Kawasaki Value Business and Human Rights M p.100 Kawasaki ESG Data Book https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/esgdatabook.html  We respond to our customers’ requirements Social Contribution Activities p.107  We constantly achieve new heights in technology Kawasaki Environmental Report https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/report/index.html  We pursue originality and innovation Third-party Evaluations p.111 Securities Report and quarterly reports (Japanese language only) M : Sections marked with this icon include https://www.khi.co.jp/ir/library/financial.html The Kawasaki Group Management Principles i­nformation about the Kawasaki Group’s Corporate Governance Report (Japanese language only) ­material issues. https://www.khi.co.jp/ir/library/governance.html 1T  rust As an integrated technology leader, the Kawasaki Group is committed to providing high-performance products and services of superior safety Kawasaki Technical Review and quality. By doing so, we will win the trust of our customers and https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/rd/magazine/index.html the community. 2H  armonious coexistence The importance of corporate social responsibiliScope of Reports ty (CSR) permeates all aspects of our business. This stance reflects the As a general rule, the reports cover the Kawasaki Group (Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. and consolidatKawasaki Group’s corporate ideal of harmonious coexistence with the ed subsidiaries). Some parts of the reports may cover only Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. (non-­ environment, society as a whole, local communities and individuals. consolidated) or another specific scope, in which case the specific scope of the report is stated explicitly. 3P  eople The Kawasaki Group’s corporate culture is built on integrity, Reporting Period ­vitality, organizational strength and mutual respect for people through The report primarily includes information on activities carried out during fiscal 2019 (April 1, 2019 all ­levels of the Group. We nurture a global team for a global era. to March 31, 2020). It also includes information on past activities and activities carried out on or 4S  trategy Enhance corporate value based on the guiding principles of after April 1, 2020, as well as activities planned for the future. “selective focusing of resources,” “emphasis on quality over quantity,” and Third-Party Verification “risk management.” Third-party verification of greenhouse gas emissions data was provided by SGS Japan Inc. The Kawasaki Group Action Guidelines Within Material Balance of Business Activities: Third-Party Verification https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/accounting.html 1. A  lways look at the bigger picture. Think and act from a long-term, global perspective. Guidelines Referenced 2. Meet difficult challenges head-on. Aim high and never be afraid to try  Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) something new.  International Integrated Reporting Framework, International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) 3. Be driven by your aspirations and goals. Work toward success by always  Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 Edition), Ministry of the Environment dedicating yourself to your tasks.  UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, United Nations  Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogue for Collaborative 4. Earn the trust of the community through high ethical standards and the example you set for others. Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 5. Keep striving for self-improvement. Act on your own initiative as GRI Standards Comparison Table a ­confident professional. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/library/gri.html 6. Be a part of Team Kawasaki. Share your pride and sense of fulfillment in a job well done. Contact Us Please make inquiries through the inquiry form on our website https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/profile/contact/https://www.khi.co.jp/corporate/contacts/ Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 1 CSR Management CSR Management  Responsible Officers CSR Framework Basic Policy on CSR Chair of Corporate CSR Committee: Yasuhiko Hashimoto, Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer We believe the Kawasaki Group’s highest CSR priority is realizing the Group Mission, “Kawasaki, workKatsuya Yamamoto, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer (in charge of CSR) ing as one for the good of the planet.” Accordingly, we actively identify global social issues and aim to solve them by providing products and services driven by innovation and the pursuit of synergies within the Group. In addition, to earn and maintain the trust of society, we have made it the Kawasaki CSR Education and Awareness Building throughout the Company Group’s basic policy on CSR activities to promote constructive dialogue with stakeholders and reinforce initiatives in such areas as ensuring fair business practices, preventing corruption, and promoting conUtilizing a variety of tools, such as educational seminars and its Company intranet, the Kawasaki Group sideration of the environment and human rights. carries out education and awareness-building programs related to CSR and compliance for its officers Based on this policy, we have identified material issues that define the scope of our CSR activities, and employees. informing Group-wide CSR management. We will continue CSR-related efforts based on stakeholder CSR and compliance education and awareness building are provided through grade-specific seminars expectations and demands and thereby reinforce our foundation for value creation. and training for such groups as new employees; newly appointed assistant managers, managerial staff, associate officers and executive officers; persons in charge of overseas businesses; and mid-career hires. In addition, to ensure that all Group employees are fully informed with regard to CSR, we reguMedium-term CSR Policy, Targets, and Performance larly provide CSRand compliance-related information via our Japanese-language Group newsletter Kawasaki and our Group-wide Englishand Chinese-language newsletter Kawasaki On The Move! In fiscal 2017, management defined CSR-related material issues for the Kawasaki Group to address and reviewed the CSR activity framework, positioning material issues related to the creation of social value through business as top priorities to be achieved over the long term and all other material issues as Participation in Third-Party Initiatives and Organizations CSR issues that underpin the management foundation. Under the new framework, we have clarified the divisions and individuals responsible for as well as our ideals and key performance indicators for key Participation in Third-Party Organizations items related to the creation of social value through business and environmental, societal and goverThe following is a list of organizations and advisory institutions in Japan where Kawasaki representanance (ESG) issues. We monitor accomplishments related to these key items every year. We implement tives hold official positions (as of September 1, 2020). a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle while working to enhance our CSR activities. Shipbuilders’ Association of Japan, vice-chairman and chairman of Technical Affairs Committee Society of Japanese Aerospace Companies, chairperson For details, please refer to Material Issues (page 8). Japan Aircraft Development Corporation, chairman (representative director) and councilor Japan Robot Association, director Japan Association of Rolling Stock Industries, chairman and director CSR Promotion System Japan Overseas Railway System Association, chairman and director Japan Machinery Federation, general director The Corporate CSR Committee is charged with deliberating and determining Group-wide CSR policy and Japan Coal Energy Center, vice-chairperson material issues concerning CSR and compliance. With the president of Kawasaki as the chair, the comJapan Association for Trade with Russia & NIS, president mittee is composed of directors, internal company presidents, Director in charge of CSR and Head New Industry Research Organization, chairman and president Office division heads. The attendance of Outside Directors is requested so that the committee can Kansai Economic Federation, councilor glean the benefits of their external expertise and opinions, and reflect them in its decision-making Kawasaki representatives also hold membership positions in the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren), ­process. Also, Audit & Supervisory Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association and Japan Electrical Manufacturers Association. auditing of the execution of business. The Corporate CSR Committee meets at least twice a year in principle. In fiscal 2019, it met three times. Participation in International Initiatives  United Nations Global Compact CSR Promotion System Kawasaki has signed the United Nations Global Compact and participated in related activities since January 2020. In addition, we take part in the Global Compact Formulation, reporting and approval of plans Network Japan, the local network in Japan.  As a signatory company to the United Nations Global Compact, Kawasaki Corporate CSR Committee ­supports the Compact’s 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, An organization for deliberating and determining environment and anti-corruption and is advancing initiatives accordingly. the policy and material issues of CSR.  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures In September 2019, Kawasaki officially endorsed the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateDirector related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). in charge of CSR  Going forward, we will strive to communicate our initiatives aimed at realizing a sustainable society to stakeholders while further enhancing disclosure. Sustainable CSR Planning Working Group WEB Participation in International Initiatives Development Division An organization gives support and corporation https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/initiatives.html CSR Department for the promotion of CSR activities. United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles Promotion and Internal companies and business divisions implementation of plans (Including consolidated subsidiaries) Global Compact Network Japan (Japanese language only) https://www.ungcjn.org/ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/ 2 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 3 CSR Management CSR Management In addition, to support customers’ enjoyment of motorcycling, the Motorcycle & Engine Company Stakeholder State of Stakeholder Engagement operates the motorcycle user social group Motorcycle KAZE, regularly organizes new product Engagement announcements and social events, and holds safe riding classes in various regions as part of its The Kawasaki Group Stakeholders ­contribution to traffic accident reduction efforts. The Kawasaki Group actively acknowledges the expectations and requests of stakeholders and aims to Expectations and Creation of products and services that meet customer expectations and address issues create social value by meeting those expectations and requests through its business activities while Demands for the they face; response to customer complaints and inquiries; appropriate disclosure of working to raise enterprise value. Through stakeholder dialogue, we strive to enhance information Kawasaki Group product and service information ­disclosure and deepen communication and thus strengthen bonds of mutual trust. Response to Expectations and For details, please refer to Customer Relationship Management (page 67). Demands Global environment Communication with Shareholders and Investors The Kawasaki Group works to ensure fair, timely and appropriate disclosure based on its Disclosure Direct stakeholders Policy (published on the corporate website) and actively communicates with shareholders and ­investors through a broad range of IR activities in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, through proactive communication with shareholders and investors, we aim to foster Government understanding of the Group’s principles, corporate policy, business strategy, and ESG initiatives to Stronger industrial secure greater trust. foundation Cooperation and P Fiscal 2019 Communication Activities collaborative creation Employees IR meetings with institutional investors: 213 Customers Attractive workplaces, work environments that P Participants in Factory Tours for Shareholders Providing value to customers foster value creation November 2019 (Gifu Works): 126 Expectations and Timely and appropriate information disclosure; reflection of shareholder and investor The Kawasaki Demands for the perspectives in management Group Kawasaki Group Shareholders/Investors NGO/NPO Collaborating to Improving enterprise value over medium to Response to So that requests received at IR meetings and the General Meeting of Shareholders tackle challenges long term Expectations and are reflected in management, we pass them on in the form of feedback to the Demands ­relevant divisions. WEB Investors Suppliers Local Communities International https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/ir/index.html Next generation/ Mutual understanding Pursuit of win-win society Disclosure Policy Future and coexistence benefits https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/ir/policies/disclosure_policy.html Communication with Suppliers Kawasaki’s purchasing departments communicate with suppliers in the course of day-to-day procurement. In addition, to ensure adequate communications outside of procurement activities, we organize training programs, liaison meetings and other events with suppliers in Japan. Since fiscal 2016 we have been implementing CSR procurement questionnaire survey of our suppliers in and outside Japan as part of CSR procurement efforts implemented together with our suppliers. Communication with Stakeholders Expectations and The Kawasaki Group works to gain a good understanding of and make improvements to issues by Solid partnerships with our suppliers based on relationships of mutual trust; enhanceDemands for the ­communicating with stakeholders through a variety of means in its daily business activities. Further­ ment of supply chain risk management and enterprise value through CSR procurement Kawasaki Group more, in addition to day-to-day dialogues, we promote communication with experts and ­international institutions—positioning the views that these individuals and entities offer as representative of Response to ­society at large—and reflect these exchanges in our activities. Expectations and For details, please refer to Working with Suppliers (page 60). Communication with Customers Demands Through our day-to-day sales activities, we carry out ongoing communication with our customers regarding their demands and desires. We have also set up customer inquiry contact points for different Communication with Employees product types and sales formats, and we conduct annual customer satisfaction surveys. The Kawasaki Group issues the monthly Group newsletter Kawasaki in Japanese and the English and Through sales companies in and outside Japan, the Motorcycle & Engine Company conducts surveys Chinese language Group newsletter Kawasaki On The Move! to provide information on our corporate of customers who have bought new Kawasaki motorcycles regarding their opinions of their vehicles. activities and performance in an easy to understand format. We also provide a broad range of inforIt has also set up customer contact points to respond to inquiries about products. In the event of mation and updates via our Company intranet. Furthermore, we hold grade-specific training programs a ­vehicle recall, the relevant information is quickly posted on the company’s website. where participants learn about our corporate systems and setup, management policy, business strategy, and other knowledge necessary to complete their duties. 4 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 5 CSR Management CSR Management With regard to employee career advancement, we help employees create future career roadmaps Communication with the Government through dialogue with their supervisors that are held every six months to provide feedback regarding The Kawasaki Group makes policy proposals to the government through its participation in business their performance. and industry organizations. To ensure that employee input is appropriately reflected in how the Company functions, we hold In addition, we communicate with the government through active participation in industry/government/ ­regular talks with the labor union, which represents employees and with which we have signed a labor academia projects via open innovation efforts, such as joint research. agreement. In addition, we have set up a suggestion box on the Company intranet through which Expectations and employees can directly request improvements to operations. We regularly post examples of improveCompliance with laws and regulations; policy proposals; participation in industry/ Demands for the ments based on requests received through the suggestion box on the Company intranet for employees government/academia projects Kawasaki Group to review. We also conduct periodic employee satisfaction surveys to gauge employee satisfaction and better understand and respond to their needs. In fiscal 2014 and 2018, we conducted employee satisfaction Response to For more information about open innovation please refer to Research and surveys of all employees and temporary staff of the domestic Group. In fiscal 2016, we carried out Expectations and Development (page 45). Demands ­satisfaction surveys of certain executives and managers at Group companies outside Japan. Expectations and Employee-friendly workplaces; effective use of human resources; appropriate Demands for the Working with Stakeholders ­treatment of human resources; promotion of occupational safety and health Kawasaki Group Since 2014, Kawasaki’s Fukuoka Office has worked with the Fukuoka City NPO/Volunteer Center ‘Asumin,’ mainly to hold annual handicraft and experiment courses for children in Fukuoka City. Response to Kawasaki supports the activities of this organization, which promotes citizen-led community building, For details, please refer to Diversity (page 72), Securing and Retaining Human and is working with it to contribute to the development of young people in the area. Expectations and Resources (page 84), and Occupational Safety and Health (page 91). Demands WEB Fukuoka City NPO/Volunteer Center ‘Asumin’ (Japanese language only) https://www.fnvc.jp/ Communication with NGOs and NPOs In addition to disclosing information, we engage in dialogue as needed when being assessed or surveyed by international environmental, social, and governance (ESG) assessment organizations or international non-government organizations (NGOs), such as Transparency International. Based on the results of Creation and Distribution of Value for Stakeholders (Billions of yen) such assessments and surveys, we work to improve disclosure and revise initiatives. Furthermore, we work with local non-profit organizations (NPOs) as part of our social contribution activities. Value Created and Distribution of Value to Stakeholders Expectations and Incorporation of a broad range of social opinions; contribution to society through Demands for the not-for-profit activities. Business partners ¥1,358.4 Kawasaki Group Business costs (excluding costs for employees, society and government) Response to Employees ¥249.3 Expectations and For details, please refer to Social Contribution Activities (page 107), and Value delivered Salaries, bonuses, etc. Third-party Evaluations (page 111). Demands (net sales) ¥1,641.3 Society ¥0.7 Communication with Local Communities Social contribution expenses Personnel at our business sites and the Head Office communicate with local residents in the course of business operations. In addition to pursuing thorough noise and waste management, we strive to raise Government ¥10.5 awareness among employees to prevent rude or inappropriate behavior and quickly respond to any Income taxes–current complaints received from residents. We also organize events and activities that help maintain and develop local communities, seeking to ensure harmonious coexistence with them. Amount after payments to business partners, Value created ¥22.2 employees, society and government Expectations and Demands for the Fulfillment of our responsibilities as a corporate citizen; participation in communities Kawasaki Group Creditors ¥3.6 Shareholders ¥5.8 Internal, etc. ¥12.8 Interest expense Dividends paid Increase in retained earnings during period Response to Expectations and (Fiscal 2019 figures) For details, please refer to Social Contribution Activities (page 107). Demands 6 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 7 CSR Management CSR Management Process for Identifying Materiality Material Issues M Material Issues Given diversifying stakeholder expectations and requests and a changing business environment, ­management took a fresh look at Group activities that impact society and then identified material The Kawasaki Group evaluated the relations between social issues and our business activities, and the issues—that is, materiality. importance (impact) to our stakeholders, and identified material issues—that is, materiality. Based on the identified materiality, we defined key CSR issues and the framework of our CSR activities for Business, Identify and narrow down CSR issues Governance (G), Environment (E) and Society (S), which we then apply in our CSR management. Step We analyzed industryand Kawasaki Group-specific survey criteria applied by international ESG 1 assessment organizations, including Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, FTSE, MSCI and Sustainalytics, as well as content required under reporting guidelines set by SASB,1 GRI Standards2 and other stanMateriality Matrix of Items Identified dards organizations. We also drew on the opinions of external advisors and then identified and narrowed down CSR issues. High Evaluate impact of issues and assign priorities Material issues Social value created through our businesses Step We made an internal evaluation of each CSR issue narrowed down through Step 1, from the perP  roviding safe and secure, clean, and com2 spective of importance to society and stakeholders as well as importance to Kawasaki, and created fortable movement of a provisional order of importance. people and goods We also put responses to social issues of global scale that were identified under MTBP 20163 in The foundation of our business activities C  reating clean energy L ow-carbon a category—the social value we create—with our Group Mission “Kawasaki, working as one for the  Product liability/safety society  Improving social infrastructure, especially in good of the planet” and placed this category as top priorities.  Corporate governance (product Compliance emerging countries based Interview outside experts and decide on material issues (materiality)  Anti-corruption measures  Supply chain management contributions) R  esponding to the needs of an aging society and Step To verify the appropriateness of priority placement determined in-house, we invited comments Importance to from outside experts through an interview process. Based on these comments, we reviewed the society and  Employee recruitment shortage of labor through automation 3 and retention impact of CSR issues on society and stakeholders and made revisions. (Please refer to the materiality stakeholders L  ow-carbon society (business activities) matrix on page 8.)  Business and human rights  Stakeholder engagement  Customer relationship management Formulate the plan and conduct a review  Risk management  Health and safety Step We will comply with the management approach defined under GRI Standards, establish concrete  Crisis management  Diversity  Political involvement  Human resource development 4 numerical targets, and through the steady implementation of strategies and follow-up measures,  Research and development  Recycling-oriented society move CSR programs toward realization of stated goals. In addition, the Corporate CSR Committee  Export control  Society coexisting with nature will periodically review material issues and other topics to ensure that CSR activities are in sync  Information security  Environmental management with changes in the business environment and evolving social expectations.   eightened awareness as an environH mentally friendly brand 1. SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  Social contribution activities 2. GRI Standards: Global Reporting Initiative Standards Low Importance to Kawasaki Group High 3. MTBP 2016: Kawasaki’s Medium-Term Business Plan 2016 Framework of Our CSR Activities Business P  roviding safe and secure,  Improving social infrastructure, especially in emerging Solving Social Issues through Business clean, and comfortable countries ­movement of people and goods  Responding to the needs of an aging society and short Creating clean energy age of labor through automation Initiatives to Achieve the SDGs Governance (G)  Corporate governance  Risk management  Political involvement In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), comprising 17 goals  Compliance  Crisis management  Research and development for 2030 related to such issues as reducing and eliminating poverty, inequality and injustice and  Anti-corruption measures  Export control addressing climate change. The SDGs constitute a specific action plan, requiring the partnership of  Product liability/safety  Information security ­corporations, governments and communities around the world, to achieve the well-being of humanity Environment (E) L  ow-carbon society R  ecycling-oriented  Environmental management (product-based contributions) society  Heightened awareness as an and the planet. Companies are asked to contribute by helping solve social issues throughout their  Low-carbon society  Society coexisting environmentally friendly brand ­business activities. (business activities) with nature We believe the Kawasaki Group Mission—“Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet”—is Society (S)  Customer relationship management  Health and safety extremely compatible with the SDGs. Furthermore, we believe that our efforts to provide solutions to  Business and human rights  Diversity social issues through our business activities will contribute significantly to the achievement of the SDGs.  Supply chain management  Human resource development  Employee recruitment and retention  Social contribution activities In fiscal 2017, in the process of identifying material issues, the Kawasaki Group clarified the social issues that it is called to address and designated maximizing four ways of creating social value through KPIs for Material Issues its businesses as its greatest priorities over the long term. These are providing safe and secure, clean Social value P  roviding safe and secure, clean, S  ocial Value Created through Our Businesses, comfortable movement of people and goods by land, sea and air; creating clean energy; improving created through and comfortable movement of peopage 10 social infrastructure, especially in emerging countries; and responding to the needs of an aging society our businesses ple and goods and shortage of labor through automation. We determined how we would contribute to the successful  Creating clean energy  Improving social infrastructure, attainment of the SDGs through careful internal examination of the relationships between the social especially in emerging countries value we create and the 17 goals and 169 targets of the universal agenda laid out by the SDGs as well  Responding to the needs of an aging as through discussion within the Corporate CSR Committee and the Management Committee, which are society and shortage of labor through automation both chaired by the president. We set non-financial targets to achieve by 2030 for each type of created social value, and will regularly disclose the status of progress toward these targets. Governance  P  roduct liability/safety Product Liability, page 64  Corporate governance Corporate Governance, page 11 Kawasaki’s Approach to the SDGs  Compliance Compliance, page 23 WEB https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/overview/sdgs.html  Anti-corruption measures Anti-Corruption under Compliance, page 28 Social Value Created through Our Businesses Environment  Low-carbon society Environmental Management, page 51 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/solving/index.html Society  Supply chain management Working with Suppliers, page 60  Employee recruitment and retention Securing and Retaining Human Resources, page 84  Business and human rights Business and Human Rights, page 100 8 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 9 CSR Management Governance Social Value Created through Our Businesses M Corporate Governance Policy Corporate Guided by the Group Mission, “Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet,” the Kawasaki Social Value Division 2030 Target/KPI Fiscal 2019 Results Relevant SDGs L  NG-fueled ships/large hydrogen-­  December 2019: Developed LNG Governance M Group’s basic stance on corporate governance is to raise enterprise value through effective and sound fueled liquefied hydrogen carriers dual-fuel system for medium-sized built annually: 1 tankers and for a tanker built by management while forming solid relationships with all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers,  Orders received for fuel gas supply another company using this system Management employees and communities, through highly transparent management practices. The Kawasaki Group is Ship & Offshore systems annually: Multiple received approval in principle (AiP)  December 2019: Launched a small Approach striving to further strengthen and enhance corporate governance systems as appropriate for its Structure Company liquefied hydrogen carrier ­businesses and scale.  March 2020: Installed a liquefied hydrogen storage tank for marine transport on the small liquefied hydrogen carrier Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets R  olling stock units delivered: 1,000  Rolling stock units delivered: 528 The Kawasaki Group continues its various efforts to establish a corporate governance system ­suitable  Improve efficiency and reduce C  onducted tests with railway comfor the Kawasaki Group. Specifically, we identify issues that need to be addressed to further strengthneed for specialized skills in panies aimed at launching sales of ­maintenance, maintain and components that leverage sensing en the corporate governance system based on annual Board of Directors efficacy evaluations and the Rolling Stock Company improve safe, reliable transport, and image analysis technologies and contribute to the enhancement  Developed products and services advice of external experts. After sharing these issues and measures to address them among all the of services and added value aimed at expanding into peripheral Directors, we implement said measures. ­provided by railway operators rolling stock businesses, including maintenance P Goal for the Medium-Term Business Plan, MTBP 2019 (FY2019-2021) P  rovide environmentally friendly  Components for Boeing 787: 167 P Constantly assess governance systems using such sources as Board of Directors efficacy evaluations aircraft, helicopters and engines to units sold the market and expand the scope  Sales of BK117 units: One finished currently being carried out and the insights of external experts. Providing safe and Aerospace Systems of participation in the development unit and 83 components secure, clean, Company of these products  Produced components for Trent comfortable 1000, Trent XWB and PW1100GProgress, Results and Challenges movement of JM low fuel consumption engines people and goods Aiming to further enhance the Board of Directors’ discussions of management strategy and other matP  rovide motorcycles with  Implemented smartphone connecby land, sea, and air ters, accelerate management decision making, and reinforce the oversight function of the Board of advanced rider-support features, tivity for the Ninja 1000SX, Z900, such as Cooperative Intelligent Ninja 650, and Z650 in 2020, Directors, Kawasaki transitioned to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee as of June 25, Transport Systems (C-ITS), as well expanding the lineup of models as motorcycles powered by clean with this f­ eature to seven. 2020. This transition has helped to make progress with regard to refining the topics that the Board of energy, including electric motorcy“RIDEOLOGY THE APP,” an official cles and hybrid motorcycles smartphone application, enables Directors should discuss and, in turn, advancing delegation from the Board to executives, as well as users to set their riding mode and improving the system of reporting to the Board. By steadily implementing initiatives in these areas confirm the status of their motorcycle using their smartphone, going forward, we will work to further reinforce the oversight function of the Board of Directors. thereby improving riding comfort and convenience. P Goal for Fiscal 2019 Motorcycle & Engine  Achieved an average increase in P Continue shifting authority from the Board of Directors to executive divisions, continue considerCompany WMTC* fuel economy of 1.4% across the seven models that ing ways to reduce the time spent by the Board of Directors on resolutions related to business began production in fiscal 2019 (the Z H2, Ninja 1000SX, Z900, execution. W800, Ninja 650 and Z650, and KLX230) P Fiscal 2019 Results  Launched the Z H2 with a superP The Board of Directors approved the decision to move forward with preparations to transition charged engine for large motorcycles achieving high power and high from a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Supervisory fuel economy Committee in order to further separate management oversight from business execution and *W MTC: Worldwide-harmonized Motorcycle Test Cycle reduce the time spent by the Board of Directors on resolutions related to business execution. C  O2 reduction through use of L  aunched a small liquefied hydrogen P Began preparations for the transition, to take effect upon the June 2020 General Meeting hydrogen energy: 3 million tons carrier, built a liquefied hydrogen  Hydrogen transport volume: receiving terminal in Kobe, and built of Shareholders. 225,000 tons per year liquefaction and loading facilities in Australia, aiming to implement P Goals for Fiscal 2020 Corporate Technology ­supply chain demonstration P Receive approval to transition to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee at the June Creating clean energy  Began demonstration testing Division 2020 General Meeting of Shareholders. aimed at increasing the efficiency and convenience of heat and P More actively discuss such topics as management strategy and future vision at the Board of Directors. power supply from the mixed combustion of natural gas and the P Formulate and disclose Corporate Governance Guidelines. combustion of pure hydrogen in urban areas of Kobe E  xpand share of distributed power  Deliveries of standard power Structure generation market with the indusg ­ eneration facilities to overseas Following approval at the 197th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 25, 2020, Kawasaki try’s most efficient, environmencustomers: 14 units Energy System & Plant tally friendly devices  Deliveries of gas-to-gasoline (GTG) transitioned to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. Kawasaki’s main deliberative  Constantly provide highly efficient, plants: 1 unit Improving social Engineering Company energy-saving, clean energy power ­bodies, their composition and roles are as follows. infrastructure, generation facilities and devices, especially in infrastructure-related facilities, P Board of Directors emerging countries and environment-related facilities The Board of Directors comprises 13 Directors (of whom, five serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee H  ydraulic machinery production H  ydraulic machinery production Members), with the chairman serving as the presiding officer by resolution of the Board. Six Directors Precision Machinery and delivery volume: 1.4 million and delivery volume: 700,000 Business Division units units are Outside Directors (of whom, three serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) and independent of business execution. By avoiding having Directors serve concurrently as officers responsible for Responding to needs  Robots delivered: 100,000  Robots delivered: 20,000 of an aging society Robot Business specific businesses (the internal company presidents), the Company seeks to enhance the separation of and shortage of labor Division management oversight and business execution and thereby further reinforce the Board of Director’s through automation oversight functions. WEB Kawasaki’s Approach to the SDGs https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/overview/sdgs.html Social Value Created through Our Businesses https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/solving/index.html 10 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 11 Governance Governance Furthermore, the Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee have been The Kawasaki Group’s Governance Structure (As of July 1, 2020) established as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors in an effort to reinforce the transparency and objectivity of its deliberations. A majority of the members of both committees are Outside Directors, as are the presiding officers of each. The Nomination Advisory Committee discusses such matters as poliGeneral Meeting of Shareholders cies regarding the appointment of Directors and other officers and the appropriateness of candidates Resolution on Resolution on Statement of Resolution on for such positions. The Compensation Advisory Committee discusses such matters as Director compenappointment appointment opinion appointment sation policy and the appropriateness of the Director compensation system. These committees provide Audit/ Directors Supervision reports and advice to the Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory Committee Independent auditor (Board of Directors) P Audit & Supervisory Committee Nomination Consultation/ Assistance The Audit & Supervisory Committee comprises five Directors, including three Outside Directors. To Advice Advisory Supervision Appointment Audit/ secure effective oversight, the two Internal Directors have been appointed as full-time Audit & Office of Audit & Instruction Committee Report Supervisory Audit Supervisory Committee Members. Furthermore, to ensure the reliability of financial reporting, the Company appoints Audit & Supervisory Committee Members who have considerable knowledge of Compensation Consultation/ Supervision Committee Advice finance and accounting. Advisory Committee Report Mutual P Business Execution Framework cooperation Kawasaki has adopted an executive officer system in order to facilitate response to rapid changes in the business environment. A great deal of authority over business execution decisions is delegated to Instruction President Auditing Department the executive Directors and executive officers, who are appointed by the Board of Directors, thereby realizing more agile decision making. Report Instruction Report Kawasaki maintains a Management Committee, comprising mainly executive Directors and internal Key Internal Committees Discussion company presidents, as an advisory body to the president. The Management Committee discusses Management Committee ­matters that are important to Group management, including management policy, strategy and challenges. Report Business operation Audit Furthermore, the Company maintains an Executive Officers Committee, comprising all executive officers. execution divisions This committee issues business execution policy based on management policy and plans determined (Head Office, internal companies) mainly by the Board of Directors and Management Committee. It also discusses management issues, Major Project Committee striving to build unified consensus in Group management. Audit Affiliated companies Instruction Executive Officers Committee Corporate CSR Committee Discussion Corporate Risk Management Committee CSR Committees, Inspection Risk Management Committees (Head Office, internal companies) WEB Corporate Governance Report (Japanese language only) https://www.khi.co.jp/ir/library/governance.html 12 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 13 Governance Governance Corporate Corporate Officers1 Corporate Governance Functions (organizations, committees, etc.) Governance M Diversity Board of Audit & Organization Pertaining to Nomination and Appointment Years Nomination Compensation Performance Data Name Position Executive Outside Indeof Advisory Advisory Non-Japanese Directors Supervisory Nomination Advisory Committee (Age) pendent Woman Meetings Board Meetings Service 2 Committee Committee National Attended 3 Attended 3 Role An advisory body on policy and standards for the appointment and dismissal of corporate Representative officers and such appointment and dismissal Yoshinori Directors not Serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members Director Members Two Directors and three Outside Directors, the latter of which includes one Audit & Kanehana ✓ 8 17/17 — Chairman of (66) Supervisory Committee Member (an Outside Director serves as presiding officer) the Board Yasuhiko Meeting frequency Roughly ten times a year (11 times in fiscal 2019) Representative Hashimoto ✓ 2 ✓ ✓ 17/17 — Director (63) Sukeyuki Organization Pertaining to Compensation Representative Namiki ✓ 2 17/17 — Compensation Advisory Committee Director (65) Role An advisory body on the policy for and systems of corporate officer compensation as well as Katsuya Representative individual compensation Yamamoto ✓ 3 ✓ ✓ 17/17 — Director (62) Members Two Directors and three Outside Directors, the latter of which includes one Audit & Hiroshi Supervisory Committee Member (an Outside Director serves as presiding officer) Newly Nakatani Director ✓ — — appointed Meeting frequency Six times in fiscal 2019 (60) Yoshiaki ✓ ✓ Tamura Outside Director ✓ ✓ 2 (Presiding (Presiding 17/17 — (65) officer) officer) Organization Pertaining to Management Strategy Jenifer Management Committee Rogers Outside Director ✓ ✓ 2 ✓ ✓ 16/17 — Role Assists the president as an advisory body with regard to Group management (57) Discusses important Group management policy, management strategy and management issues Hideo Newly Member Includes executive Directors and internal company presidents. Also, the full-time Audit & Tsujimura Outside Director ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ — — appointed Supervisory Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their auditing of (66) Director the execution of business. Katsuyoshi Audit & Meeting frequency Roughly three times a month (33 times in fiscal 2019) Directors Serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members Fukuma Supervisory 4 17/17 17/17 (62) Committee Member Organization Pertaining to Business Execution Director Akio Audit & Executive Officers Committee Nekoshima Supervisory 2 17/17 17/17 Role Conveys business execution policy based on management policy and management plans (61) Committee determined mainly by the Board of Directors and the Management Committee Serves as Member a venue for communicating necessary and important information regarding business Outside Director ­execution and exchanging opinions Satoru Audit & Kohdera Supervisory ✓ ✓ 3 17/17 17/17 Member Comprises all executive officers appointed by the Board of Directors. (61) Committee Meeting frequency Twice a year (twice in fiscal 2019) Member Outside Director Atsuko Audit & Organization Pertaining to Sustainability Ishii Supervisory ✓ ✓ 3 ✓ 17/17 17/17 (62) Committee Corporate CSR Committee Member Role Discusses and decides on basic policy and important matters related to CSR for the Group Outside Director as a whole and monitors implementation Ryoichi Audit & Saito Supervisory ✓ ✓ 1 ✓ ✓ 14/14 13/13 Member With the president as the chair, the committee is composed of Directors, internal company (70) Committee presidents, Director in charge of CSR and Head Office division heads. The attendance of Member Outside Directors is requested so that the committee can glean the benefits of their exterPersons 5 6 6 2 1 nal expertise and opinions and reflect them in its decision-making process. Also, Audit & Total % of total 38.5% 46.2% 46.2% 15.4% 7.7% Supervisory Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their auditing of the execution of business. 1. As of September 1, 2020. 2. Years of service figures for Audit & Supervisory Committee Members include years of service as Audit & Supervisory Board Members Meeting frequency At least twice a year (three times in fiscal 2019) when Kawasaki was a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. 3. Figures for fiscal 2019. P Presiding Officer of the Board of Directors The Chairman of the Board of Directors serves as the presiding officer of the Board of Directors. WEB Executives https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/profile/executives/index.html 14 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 15 Governance Governance Organizations Pertaining to Risk Management (2) The average compensation that the Outside Director (or legal entity if set up as a legal entity) Corporate Risk Management Committee receives directly from the Kawasaki Group in their capacity as a specialist or consultant of legal, Role Discusses and identifies important issues pertaining to risk management for the Group as accounting, or tax matters (excluding compensation as an officer of Kawasaki) over the last five a whole and monitors implementation ­fiscal years exceeds 10 million yen. Member Headed by the president with members comprising Directors (excluding Outside Directors), (3) The average amount of donations and other contributions over the last five fiscal years to an NPO internal company presidents, the executive officer in charge of risk management, Head at which said Outside Director serves as an executive officer exceeds 10 million yen and exceeds Office division heads and other persons designated by the president. Also, the full-time 2% of total revenues or the current account balance of said organization. Audit & Supervisory Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their (4) Said Outside Director’s former employer is a major shareholder of Kawasaki, holding 10% or more auditing of the execution of business. of the issued shares. Meeting frequency At least twice a year (twice in fiscal 2019) (5) Said Outside Director has a first-degree or second-degree relative to which bulleted item (4) applies, or is an executive Director, executive officer, manager or other key employee at the Kawasaki Group. Major Project Committee Role Assesses risk and considers appropriate responses before the acceptance of major projects Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors Member Headed by the general manager of the Corporate Planning Division, and convening representatives of relevant Head Office divisions and internal companies. Yoshiaki Tamura Meeting frequency Held as needed Mr. Tamura has served as Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. (now AGC Inc.), Deputy Leader of Overall Business Management, General Manager of Technology General Division, Deputy Leader of AGC Group Improvement Activities, and Executive Vice President, President of Glass Company, and in other important positions. Since 2018, as an Outside Director of the Company, he has provided helpful opinions Director Appointment and advice on important management decisions based on his abundant management experience and deep insight into manufacturing cultivated in those positions from a standpoint independent from the Company’s business execution. In consideration of these points, the Company has determined that he is suitable as an Director Appointment Process Outside Director. Director candidates are decided by resolution of the Board of Directors based on the qualities required Furthermore, the Company has appointed him an independent officer, as it judges that he meets the Tokyo Stock of a Director as defined by the Board of Directors through a comprehensive assessment of the knowlExchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. edge, experience and capabilities that are needed to appropriately carry out the responsibilities required of the positions as well as the performance of the Company and the individual. The profesJenifer Rogers sional history and reasons for the nomination of each Director are disclosed in such documents as the Ms. Rogers has served as an in-house lawyer and counsel at a technology services company and financial instinotice of general meeting of shareholders. The Director appointment policy and nomination proposals tutions in Japan and overseas for many years. Since 2018, as an Outside Director of the Company, she has are decided by resolution of the Board of Directors after receiving the results of deliberations by the ­provided helpful opinions and advice on important management decisions based on her extensive international Nomination Advisory Committee. Furthermore, Audit & Supervisory Committee Member nomination experience and deep insights into legal affairs, compliance, and risk management cultivated in those positions proposals must be approved by the Audit & Supervisory Committee before resolution by the Board from a standpoint independent from the Company’s business execution. In consideration of these points, the of Directors. Company has determined that she is suitable as an Outside Director. Furthermore, the Company has appointed her an independent officer, as it judges that she meets the Tokyo Stock P Director Appointment Criteria Exchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. Qualities Required of a Director 1. Possessing an in-depth understanding of and support for the Kawasaki Group’s corporate philosophy Hideo Tsujimura and visions. Mr. Tsujimura has served as Senior Managing Director, in charge of Intellectual Property Department and R&D 2. Being able to make positive contributions towards sustainable growth and improving mediumand Division of Suntory Holdings Limited, Representative Director, President & Chief Executive Officer of Suntory long-term enterprise value. Business Expert Limited, Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, MONOZUKURI Division, and 3. Having a Company-wide perspective and a wealth and breadth of experience, resourcefulness and Senior General Manager, Research & Development Department of Suntory Beverage & Food Limited, and in other specialized expertise to this end. important positions. In addition to extensive management experience, he possesses deep insights into product 4. Being able to oversee corporate management and business execution from an independent and development and intellectual property. In consideration of these points, the Company has determined that he objective position as a member of the Board of Directors. will be able to fully perform his roles as an Outside Director in supervising the execution of business of the 5. Being able to execute their authority in a proactive and positive manner, and appropriately voice Company and increasing its enterprise value. Furthermore, the Company has appointed him an independent officer, as it judges that he meets the Tokyo Stock opinions at Board of Directors meetings or to top management. Exchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. * To ensure the effectiveness of audits, Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members must be highly knowledgeable about the Company’s business or have deep insight and expertise in corporate management, legal affairs, finance and accounting, government or other fields. At least one Director serving as an Audit Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors Serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members & Supervisory Committee Member must have substantial knowledge of finance and accounting. Satoru Kohdera Independence Criteria for Outside Directors Mr. Kohdera has served as President of the Hyogo-ken Bar Association, Vice President of the Japan Federation An Outside Director is deemed to be independent if none of the following apply: of Bar Associations, and in other important positions. Since 2017, as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board (1) The Outside Director is currently employed by the Company as an executive Director, executive Member of the Company, he has made significant contributions to ensuring the soundness of the Company’s officer, manager or other key employee, or if any company at which said Director was employed management and enhancing its enterprise value based on his abundant experience as an attorney and deep over the past ten years (including key subsidiaries as defined by said company) (hereafter the “forinsight into legal affairs. In consideration of these points, the Company has determined that he is suitable as an mer employer”) has had business dealings with the Kawasaki Group, and the average transaction Outside Director serving as an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member. amount over the last five fiscal years exceeds 2% of the average sales amount of the Kawasaki Furthermore, the Company has appointed him an independent officer, as it judges that he meets the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. Group and that of the former employer over the last five fiscal years. 16 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 17 Governance Governance  The survey comprised questions mainly about the overall operation of the Board of Directors and Atsuko Ishii its discussions, designed with regard to the Company’s particular characteristics. Ms. Ishii has served in important positions at the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, including as DirectorP Evaluation Results and Response General of the Osaka Labour Bureau, Deputy Director-General, Director-General of the Equal Employment, Child The Board of Directors’ discussion found that the Board’s effectiveness was appropriately ensured, and Family Policy Bureau, Director-General for General Policy and Evaluation, and Director-General of Social Welfare and War Victims’ Relief Bureau. Since 2017, as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the based on such factors as its resolutions having been reached after active discussion among both the Company, Ms. Ishii has made significant contributions to ensuring the soundness of the Company’s management internal and outside members. and enhancing its enterprise value based on her abundant experience in and deep insight into Japan’s labor  Issues raised included clarifying the division of roles between the Board of Directors and administration. In consideration of these points, the Company has determined that she is suitable as an Outside Management Committee and quickly reporting information about risks to the Board of Directors. Director serving as an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member. However, the June 2020 transition to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee has helped Furthermore, the Company has appointed her an independent officer, as it judges that she meets the Tokyo Stock to make progress with regard to refining the topics that the Board of Directors should discuss and, in Exchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. turn, advancing delegation from the Board to executives, as well as improving the system of reporting to the Board. By steadily implementing initiatives in these areas going forward, we will work to Ryoichi Saito further reinforce the oversight function of the Board of Directors. Mr. Saito has served in important positions at NSK Ltd., including Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate  Furthermore, the Directors shared information about other tasks the Board needs to undertake, Planning Division HQ, Director, Representative, Executive Vice President, Head of Corporate Strategy Division such as further enhancing succession planning, determining Director compensation, and reinforcing HQ, and Crisis Management Committee Chairperson and possesses abundant management experience and deep coordination with the committees run by executives. The Board will continue to engage in discussion insights into business planning, finance and accounting, and risk management. Since 2019, as an Outside Audit & and considerations from various viewpoints, working to increase its effectiveness. Supervisory Board Member of the Company, he has made significant contributions to ensuring the soundness of the Company’s management and enhancing its enterprise value. In consideration of these points, the Company P Initiatives to Address Issues Identified in Previous Years has determined that he is suitable as an Outside Director serving as an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member. The main initiatives we have implemented to address issues identified by previous evaluations of Furthermore, the Company has appointed him an independent officer, as it judges that he meets the Tokyo Stock a Board of Directors’ effectiveness are as follows. Exchange’s standards of independence and is not at risk of having a conflict of interest with general shareholders. P Aiming to further enhance discussions of management strategy and other matters at the Board of Directors, accelerate management decision making and reinforce the oversight function of the Board of Directors, Kawasaki transitioned to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee in June 2020, thereby enabling significant delegation of authority from the Board of Directors to The Effectiveness of the Board of Directors executives. In addition, we revised the composition of the Board of Directors to avoid having directors serve concurrently as officers responsible for specific businesses (the internal company Board of Directors Meeting Attendance Rates (Includes Extraordinary Meetings) presidents) and thereby better separate management oversight and business execution while (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 increasing the proportion of Outside Directors. By doing so, we clarified that oversight is the Board meetings held Number of times 16 14 15 17 17 ­primary role of the Board of Directors. Attendance rate of all Directors % 96.9 99.4 99.4 99.0 99.0 P We set up a system in which items that could significantly affect management plans or manageAttendance rate of Outside Directors % 96.7 100 100 100 96.1 ment performance are reported to the Board of Directors following their discussion at monthly Attendance rate of all Audit & % 98.4 100 98.6 100 100 meetings of the Management Committee to ensure that the Board maintains a broad-ranging and Supervisory Board Members Attendance rate of all Outside Audit & up-to-date grasp of risks and signs of change in the business environment. Through such efforts, % 100 100 97.7 100 100 Supervisory Board Members we continue working to reinforce the Board of Directors’ monitoring functions. Note: On June 25 2020, Kawasaki transitioned from a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. Attendance Rate at Audit & Supervisory Board Meetings for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors’ Terms of Office/Restrictions Directors not serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 1 year Directors’ terms of office Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 2 years (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Directors not serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 2.4 years Audit & Supervisory Board Number of Average years in office 17 17 17 17 17 meetings held times Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 2.6 years* Audit & Supervisory Board If a Kawasaki Director is to concurrently serve as an officer at other % 100 100 100 100 100 Criteria regarding restrictions on Members’ attendance rates listed c ­ ompanies, the number of companies at which the officer may concurrent service as Director Outside Audit & Supervisory concurrently serve in addition to Kawasaki is restricted to three. % 100 100 100 100 100 Board Members’ attendance rate * Years in office for Audit & Supervisory Committee Members include years in office as Audit & Supervisory Board Members when Note: O n June 25 2020, Kawasaki transitioned from a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Kawasaki was a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. Supervisory Committee. Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness The Board of Directors strives to ensure that its members, including independent Outside Directors, Audit Status engage in free, vigorous discussion based on their insights and experience at meetings of Kawasaki’s Board of Directors and reach appropriate management decisions. As part of these efforts, since fiscal Internal Audits 2015, the Board of Directors annually evaluates and analyzes its effectiveness. The Auditing Department, which is an internal audit division and consists of 15 persons, works to P Evaluation Method improve the internal control function by, for example, conducting regular audits to confirm that the To carry out the fiscal 2019 effectiveness evaluation, as in previous years, an anonymous survey Group’s execution of general business activities is properly conducted in accordance with laws and was made of all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members based on advice from outside internal rules. Furthermore, the Audit & Supervisory Committee and the Auditing Department exchange experts. The survey results were then aggregated and analyzed by outside experts, and the results information regarding their respective audit results and findings. were discussed at a Board of Directors meeting. 18 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 19 Governance Governance Audits Conducted by the Audit & Supervisory Committee In accordance with the basic audit policy, audit system, and division of duties decided by the Audit & Corporate Officer Compensation Supervisory Committee, the Audit & Supervisory Committee Members carry out mainly the following activities. Corporate Officer Compensation Policy P Meet with Directors and executive officers (all Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) The compensation system for Kawasaki Directors is designed to promote sustained improvement in P Attend meetings of the Board of Directors (all Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) corporate performance and enterprise value, align the interests of Directors with those of shareholdP Attend meetings of the Management Committee and other important meetings (full-time Audit & ers, secure outstanding human resources, and ensure a level of compensation commensurate with the Supervisory Committee Members and, as needed, Outside Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory duties of the individual officer. Committee Members) P Coordinate with Outside Directors not serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members (all Compensation for Directors (Excluding Directors Serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) Compensation for Directors (excluding Outside Directors and Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory P Conduct operational audits of the Head Office and operating divisions and survey subsidiaries (all Committee Members) consists of basic compensation, performance-based compensation and stock Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) ­purchase funds. P Coordinate with the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Group companies (all Audit & Compensation for Outside Directors (excluding Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee Members) Members) is set at a fixed level not tied to corporate performance to ensure professional independence. P Coordinate with internal audit divisions (all Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) Compensation for Directors (excluding Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) P Coordinate with the independent auditor (all Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) is set within the maximum total compensation for Directors (¥800 million per year), as resolved at the P Inspect important documents (full-time Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) 197th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (held on June 25, 2020). After receiving the results of deliberations by the Compensation Advisory Committee, the Representative Director, President and The full-time Audit & Supervisory Committee Members attend important meetings, such as those of Chief Executive Officer, as delegated by the Board of Directors, decides Director compensation in line the Board of Directors and Management Committee, voicing their opinions as needed. Through the with the Company’s internal rules. A majority of the members and the presiding officer of the above activities, they work to maintain the auditing environment, gather information within the Compensation Advisory Committee are Outside Directors. Company, and build and regularly monitor the operation of internal control systems. The full-time members also share the information they collect internally with the Outside Directors serving as Audit P Composition of Director Compensation (Excluding Outside Directors) & Supervisory Committee Members on a regular basis. Basic compensation Based on position and responsibilities. Compensation Composition The Outside Directors serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members attend meetings of the (assuming 8% Before-tax ROIC) Linked mainly to net income attributable to Board of Directors and, when necessary, other important meetings, such as those of the Management Performance-based ­owners of the parent (“net income”), consolidated compensation Stock purchase Committee, voicing their opinions as needed based on their respective expert knowledge. They strive ROIC and the ROIC of internal companies. funds to obtain the information necessary for auditing through the above activities and to maintain the Each month, a fixed monthly amount is paid to the 10% auditing environment in cooperation with the other Audit & Supervisory Committee Members. They Directors for contribution to a stock ownership plan for the purpose of aligning Directors’ interests also share information with the full-time Audit & Supervisory Committee Members by such means as Stock purchase with those of shareholders and incentivizing 25% Basic attending meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. funds Directors to enhance mediumto long-term entercompensation prise value. This entire amount is contributed to the officers’ stock ownership plan in order to purchase 65% Independent Audits shares of the Company on a continuous basis. With regard to independent auditing, we undergo audits of our financial statements by the indepenPerformance-based dent auditor KPMG AZSA LLC. The Audit & Supervisory Committee receives an outline of the audit plan compensation and a report on important audit items from the independent auditor, and the Audit & Supervisory Committee explains its auditing plan to the independent auditor. The Audit & Supervisory Committee periodically receives reports on the results of audits by the independent auditor, and conversely, the Performance-Based Compensation Indicators independent auditor receives reports on the results of audits by Audit & Supervisory Committee, which Indicator Reason for Selection strives to keep lines of communication open with the independent auditor by also exchanging informaNet income Net income, which funds dividends, was selected as an indicator to incentivize Directors tion and opinions. When necessary, Audit & Supervisory Committee Members take part in the audits to increase shareholder value. performed by the independent auditor, and may also receive reports from the independent auditor Consolidated ROIC Consolidated ROIC was selected as an indicator because Kawasaki has made ROIC manconcerning audits when appropriate. agement a part of its basic management policy and aims to achieve ROIC of 8% or above. Internal Company ROIC Internal company ROIC was selected as an indicator because Kawasaki aims to achieve ROIC of 8% or above at each internal company. P Independent Auditor Compensation (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: The above ROIC figures are before-tax ROIC. Before-tax ROIC = EBIT (Income before income taxes + interest expense) /Invested capital Compensation based on (Interest-bearing debt + Shareholders’ equity) Millions of yen 226 232 231 238 239 audit certification services Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. Millions of yen 180 186 185 190 190 Compensation of Directors Serving as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members Consolidated subsidiaries Millions of yen 46 46 46 47 48 The compensation of Audit & Supervisory Committee Members is set at a fixed level notified to corpoCompensation based on Millions of yen 9 9 8 74 306 rate performance to ensure professional independence. This compensation is determined by the Audit non-audit services & Supervisory Committee. The total maximum compensation for Audit & Supervisory Committee Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. Millions of yen 9 9 5 71 303 Consolidated subsidiaries Millions of yen 0 0 2 2 2 Members is ¥120 million per year (as resolved at the 197th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2020). 20 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 21 Governance Governance Activities of the Board of Directors and Compensation Advisory Committee Material Issues and Our Approach Policy and systems related to the compensation of Directors (excluding Directors serving as Audit & Compliance M The Kawasaki Group Management Principles, part of the Kawasaki Group Mission Statement, extol the Supervisory Committee Members) are decided by resolution of the Board of Directors based on the corporate virtue of recognizing social responsibility and coexisting harmoniously with the environment, deliberations of the Compensation Advisory Committee. A majority of the members and the presiding society as a whole, local communities and individuals, and in the Kawasaki Group Action Guidelines, Management officer of the Compensation Advisory Committee are Outside Directors. The Compensation Advisory we ask each and every member of the Group to “earn the trust of the community through high ethical Approach Committee met six times in fiscal 2019. In addition the matters described above, the committee standards and the example you set for others.” ­discussed the form of the corporate officer compensation system going forward. We have established the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct and set ethical standards to be the basis of decisions. Fiscal 2019 Compensation Breakdown In accordance with the Code, the Kawasaki Group is committed to further strengthening its corporate Applicable PerformanceStock culture of not tolerating compliance violations. Basic persons Total compensation based purchase Furthermore, because a large portion of our business comes from the sale of made-to-order products (Persons) 1 compensation funds for such customers as national governments, municipalities, government ministries and publicly run Total amount of compensation 19 Millions of yen 678 533 85 58 corporations, we put great emphasis on preventing corruption and maintaining fair business practices. (outside officer) 7 Millions of yen 76 76 — — Directors2 13 Millions of yen 570 425 85 58 Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets Directors 10 Millions of yen 530 385 85 58 Our aim is to establish a state where the risks of compliance violations are checked as accurately as Outside Directors 3 Millions of yen 39 39 — — possible, and where comprehensive and effective compliance structures for addressing applicable risks Audit & Supervisory Board Members 3 6 Millions of yen 108 108 — — have been put in place, are implemented on an ongoing basis and are regularly updated. Audit & Supervisory Board Members 2 Millions of yen 70 70 — — Furthermore, we aim to establish a state where all officers and employees have an in-depth underOutside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 4 Millions of yen 37 37 — — standing of the corruption issue and the need for its prevention. A sufficiently effective structure for keeping the Group from becoming involved in corruption in its business activities has also been Notes: 1. On June 25 2020, Kawasaki transitioned from a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. ­established and is being updated regularly. 2. Performance-based compensation paid in fiscal 2019 is based on fiscal 2018 performance. P Goals for the MTBP 2019 1. The number of officers includes two Directors and one Audit & Supervisory Board Member who retired upon the conclusion of the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2019. P Zero serious violations and incidents. 2. The maximum amount of compensation of Directors is ¥1,200 million per year (as resolved at the 189th Ordinary General Meeting of P Expand the use of internal reporting systems at overseas subsidiaries. Shareholders held on June 27, 2012). P Carry out employee compliance awareness survey (in and outside Japan). 3. The maximum amount of compensation of Audit & Supervisory Board Members is ¥120 million per year (as resolved at the 194th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2017). P Carry out e-learning on the Code of Conduct (in and outside Japan). Progress, Results and Challenges Stock Ownership by Top Management P Goals for Fiscal 2019 P Zero serious violations and incidents. Rules Regarding Company Stock Ownership by Top Management P Begin operating internal reporting systems at overseas subsidiaries. A portion of the compensation of Directors (excluding Outside Directors and Directors serving as Audit P Distribute Code of Conduct booklets (second version) and hold awareness-building activities & Supervisory Committee Members) is to be distributed in fixed amounts as stock purchase funds each in workplaces. month for the purpose of aligning the interests of Directors with those of shareholders and incentivizing P Hold compliance liaison meetings at overseas sites. Directors to enhance mediumto long-term enterprise value, with the entire amount to be contributed to P Fiscal 2019 Results the officers’ stock ownership plan in order to purchase shares of the Company on an ongoing basis. P Zero serious violations and incidents P Advanced preparations for operating internal reporting systems at overseas subsidiaries P Distributed Code of Conduct booklets (second version) in Japan and overseas in local languages P Held awareness-building activities on the Code of Conduct in workplaces (in Japan) P Held compliance liaison meetings at overseas sites P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Zero serious violations and incidents. P Begin operating internal reporting systems at overseas subsidiaries. P Amend the Compliance Guidebook. P Hold awareness-building activities on the Code of Conduct in workplaces (in Japan and overseas). P Hold compliance liaison meetings at overseas sites. P Implement the employee compliance awareness survey (parent company). 22 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 23 Governance Governance KPI Compliance Promotion Structure P Frequency of Serious Compliance Violations per Year P Target: Zero serious compliance violations President P Progress Kawasaki Group (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Corporate CSR Committee Compliance Reporting and Consultation System Compliance Policy Instructions Reports In July 2017, we established the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct as a set of ethical standards to CSR Department guide the decision making of Kawasaki Group officers and employees. The code was amended in (compliance) Reports Coordination January 2019, and a second version was established in April. In the statement by the president at the beginning of the Code, he implores all Group officers and employees to work as one and uphold the Code, stating, “the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct shall Reporting and consultation serve to help all Group officers and employees in each country and region come together in unity, with Heads of business divisions Feedback and follow-up a deep awareness that the Code will serve as the foundation for ensuring the highest standards of (company presidents, etc.) Business divisions ­conduct in our business activities at all times and that we shall maintain steadfast compliance, engage Instructions in dialogue with stakeholders and adhere to the Code in making decisions and taking action, even in Reports difficult circumstances.” Compliance departments P Scope of Policy Application All Kawasaki Group officers and employees Business segment CSR committees (headquarters, internal companies, etc.) WEB The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html Structure Instructions Reports Reporting and consultation, The Corporate CSR Committee is chaired by the Kawasaki president. The committee meets at least expressing opinions twice a year (three meetings in fiscal 2019). Its functions are to discuss and determine measures to Business divisions Officers / Employees ensure that the Kawasaki Group fulfills its corporate social responsibilities and maintains thorough (including affiliates) Guidance, education and compliance, and to monitor compliance efforts. To ensure that the objectives of the Corporate CSR awareness raising Committee extend to all corporate structures, business segment CSR committee meetings are held at the Head Office, internal companies and business divisions at least twice a year to promote compliance throughout the Group. P Responsible Officer Because of the diversity of the Group’s businesses, some of the compliance activities required in the Chair of Corporate CSR Committee: Yasuhiko Hashimoto, Representative Director, President and Chief business divisions are specific to their respective forms of business and may vary from those of other Executive Officer divisions. At the same time, many measures are best implemented across the entire Company in a ­unified manner. P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee For this reason, the Kawasaki Group formulates annual Group-wide compliance activity plans that, The Corporate CSR Committee is the executive organ responsible for compliance. With the president following the approval of the Corporate CSR Committee, it carries out. In addition, the internal of Kawasaki as the chair, the committee is composed of Directors, internal company presidents, ­companies and business divisions each formulate annual activity themes that they use to carry out Director in charge of CSR and Head Office division heads. The attendance of Outside Directors is ­compliance-related initiatives. requested so that the committee can glean the benefits of their external expertise and opinions and reflect them in its decision-making process. Also, Audit & Supervisory Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their auditing of the execution of business. P Audits and Third-Party Certification of the Compliance System by Third Parties The state of compliance is audited by Audit & Supervisory Committee Members and independent auditors. 24 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 25 Governance Governance Compliance M State of Affairs Regarding Compliance Whistle-Blowing System and Consultation Points Efforts to Promote Compliance Kawasaki and Domestic Consolidated Subsidiaries Performance Data P President’s Declaration of Compliance We have established the Compliance Reporting and Consultation System, with an outside lawyer acting Soon after taking office, each of our presidents announces the Presidents Declaration of Compliance as the contact, so that officers and employees (including contract employees and temporary staff) of to Group employees. the Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries can report or seek consultation regarding P Declaration to Observe Laws and Regulations ­suspected violations of compliance practices relating to their operations. The system has been easier Each officer and managerial staff of the Company, at his or her appointment, is required to prepare to use since October 2019, when the capability to accept anonymous reports and consultations was and submit to the Company a completely handwritten Declaration to Observe Laws and Regulations added with the aim of fostering a corporate culture and mechanisms that effectively self-correct. to reconfirm the awareness that he or she will never commit a violation and will cause other Under the Compliance Reporting and Consultation System, employees report to or consult with an employees to ensure compliance. This Declaration includes the representation that they understand outside lawyer directly. For anonymous reports, as the lawyer cannot follow up with the individual, that they may be subject to a penalty or punishment if they commit a violation. responses are determined based solely on the content of the reports themselves. The lawyer investigates to determine whether or not there is in fact a compliance problem, and if a problem is found, P Compliance Guidebook advises the Company on how to remedy it. During investigations based on reports that are not made The Compliance Guidebook provides information that is necessary and useful for ensuring thorough anonymously, the employee’s name is not disclosed to the Company without his or her permission. compliance within the Company in an easy-to-understand way. The guidebook is distributed to all The lawyer contacts the person who made the report or sought consultation directly to explain the officers, employees and temporary staff at all Group companies in Japan. The Compliance Guidebook results of the investigation. For anonymous reports, summaries of the reported issues and progress in outlines the Group’s compliance system and activities as well as the Compliance Reporting and addressing them are posted on the Company intranet. Consultation System, which serves as the Group’s internal whistle-blower system. The guidebook The Group works to ensure that employees know how to use this system by providing information uses illustrations to present easy-to-understand examples of important compliance-related matters. on it via such means as the Company intranet, leaflet inserts in Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct pamIt is divided into 20 sub-sections within six sections: “Securing the Trust of Customers and Business phlets, Compliance guidebooks and Group newsletters. Partners,” “Matters to Be Observed as a Corporate Citizen,” “Data Protection,” “Handling Financial To enhance the efficacy and reliability of this system, we revise it as needed, working to make it Transactions,” “The Workplace” and “Responsibilities of Managers.” The guidebook also contains an easier for employees to use. index of the corresponding sections of the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct and serves as a text for increasing compliance awareness. The Compliance Guidebook is used in internal compliance training Overseas Consolidated Subsidiaries and educational activities. Since the first edition was issued in 2003, its content has been constantly Beginning in 2020, we are advancing preparations to introduce a Global Internal Reporting System for updated in light of evolving compliance requirements around the world. some overseas consolidated subsidiaries. Under the Global Internal Reporting System, external law WEB The President’s Statement on Compliance firms and internal administrative offices will function jointly as contact points, accepting both anonymous https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/bcg_eng_202008.pdf and non-anonymous reports. Compliance Reporting and Consultation System Flow Chart (domestic) P Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct In fiscal 2019, we revised the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct and took steps to ensure awareness Superior/ of the Code and increase compliance awareness. Specifically, we held group readings and discussions relevant department of the Code within departments for domestic Group employees and temporary staff. During the period of these activities, 97.3% of targeted employees took part. Basic route Consultation Employee Awareness Surveys Person reporting/ Contact point The Kawasaki Group implements periodic employee awareness surveys to monitor internal compliance seeking advice (outside lawyer) Report of investigation results violation risks. Surveys aimed at measuring compliance awareness among employees were implementReport of investigation results Notification ed in fiscal 2011, 2014 and 2018. Survey results are analyzed and reflected in subsequent initiatives. In fiscal 2016, we carried out compliance awareness surveys of certain executives and managers at Administration office Investigate content of report Group companies outside Japan and made the results available to employees, including those in Japan. (Sustainable Development Division and consultation These results will also be reflected in subsequent initiatives. CSR Department) Report P Compliance Awareness Survey Results (consolidated domestic) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Corporate CSR Committee Survey response rate % — — — 93.8 — The percentage of respondents who replied that their company was being managed in % — — — 78.6 — a compliant manner 26 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 27 Governance Governance P Number of Reports or Consultations (Domestic Kawasaki Group) P Scope of Policy Application (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 All Kawasaki Group officers and employees Number of reports or consultations* 19 20 27 29 47 The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct WEB Abuse of authority 8 5 7 13 12 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html The Kawasaki Group Anti-Bribery Policy Labor issues 6 4 10 5 14 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/anti-bribery.pdf Financial fraud — 2 1 4 — Sexual harassment 1 2 3 1 1 Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets Threats and harassment — — 1 3 — P Goals for the MTBP 2019 Bribery and corruption — — — — — P Zero bribery violations. Others 4 7 5 3 20 P Revise internal rules on entertainment and gifts (Group-wide reinforcement). * The numbers of cases listed above refer to reports and consultations received, not those identified as actual compliance violations. P Implement ongoing overseas bribery prevention training (group training and e-learning). Handling Reports Made outside the Whistle-Blowing System Progress, Results and Challenges When reports are delivered in writing, by email or by other means to persons or offices other than the P Goals for Fiscal 2019 Compliance Reporting and Consultation System contact points, if a compliance violation is suspected, P Zero bribery violations. the matter is investigated and corrective measures taken as needed. P Revise internal rules on entertainment and gifts. P Implement overseas bribery prevention training (group training and e-learning). Number of Compliance Violations, Details of Violations and Actions Taken P Fiscal 2019 Results Over the most recent five years, there have been no cases of corporate misconduct that were subject P Zero bribery violations. to administrative disciplinary action or sanction. P Advanced considerations of proposed revisions to internal rules on entertainment and gifts. P Implemented overseas bribery prevention training (group training for 178 participants and e-learning for 303 employees stationed overseas). Anti-Corruption M P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Zero bribery violations. To prevent corruption, the Kawasaki Group maintains compliance systems, conducts business activities P Establish internal rules on entertainment and gifts as internal regulations at the Head Office and in line with related policies and provides education for employees. domestic subsidiaries. In fiscal 2019, the Corporate CSR Committee invited an outside attorney as a guest speaker to give P Implement overseas bribery prevention training (group training and e-learning). a lecture to corporate officers about the nature of the compliance required of global companies, with a focus on anti-corruption. The chairman of the committee (the President), as well as all the Directors Anti-Bribery Training for Employees and internal company presidents, attended this lecture, engaging in a question and answer session We provide overseas bribery prevention training for employees involved in overseas businesses every with the lecturer and deepening their understanding of the compliance risks faced by global companies year in Japan. In fiscal 2019, 178 employees took part in overseas bribery prevention training, and and the challenges associated with addressing such risks. 303 took part in e-learning for employees stationed overseas. We conduct surveys of participants in this training and e-learning to gauge their understanding of the material. Furthermore, compliance Bribery Prevention training with a focus on bribery prevention is included in training programs for employees in charge of Bribery Prevention Policy overseas businesses. The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct defines “Actions to Be Taken by Individuals” to ensure that each individual officer and employee acts correctly to prevent bribery. Number of Anti-Bribery Violations, Details of Violations, and Actions Taken Taking an even tougher stand against bribery, we established the Bribery Prevention Regulations in Over the most recent five years, there have been no cases of bribery that were subject to administraAugust 2013, the basic policy of which states that the Kawasaki Group will uphold laws in the execution tive disciplinary action or sanction. of business activities and that bribes to public officials in Japan or overseas will not be tolerated. In May 2020, to further reinforce anti-bribery initiatives, we revised our internal regulations as follows. Expenditures to External Organizations P Newly Established Rules on Entertainment and Gifts to Public Officials in Japan Political Contributions In line with Japan’s laws and regulations concerning public official ethics (including the National (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Public Service Ethics Act and the National Public Service Ethics Code), these rules establish Total political contributions Millions of yen 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 ­application procedures, approval guidelines, and record keeping for entertainment and gifts. P Newly Established Rules on Preventing Bribery of Foreign Public Officials Expenditures to Industry Organizations These rules establish check list items for the application procedures for entertainment, gifts and (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 other expenses, the approval guidelines and the record keeping as well as for the selection and maintenance of intermediaries, such as retail outlets and consultants. Total expenditures to Millions of yen 50 50 50 50 50 industry organizations In fiscal 2020, we established and published the Kawasaki Group Anti-Bribery Policy, which lays out the Group’s systems and initiatives to prevent bribery. Other Expenditures for Donations, Support Funding, etc. (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total expenditures for Millions of yen 211 255 208 173 145 donation support funding, etc. 28 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 29 Governance Governance Compliance with Antimonopoly (Competition) Laws Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets Policy Regarding Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act P Goal for the MTBP 2019 The Kawasaki Group is focusing efforts on compliance with the Antimonopoly Act. Since 2006, the Consider implementing export management systems aimed at improving the quality of classification,* Board of Directors has adopted a resolution to comply with the Antimonopoly Act and strive to mainmaking transaction screening more efficient, and better maintaining export control information and tain and improve the Company’s enterprise value in society at the first Board of Directors meeting making it more accessible. held immediately following each year’s general meeting of shareholders. The Kawasaki Group Code of * Classification refers to the process of determining or confirming whether a particular cargo or technology is Conduct also states that the Group will not obstruct free and fair competition and will work to maintain a specified important cargo requiring export approval. a healthy market. Progress, Results and Challenges P Scope of Policy Application P Goals for Fiscal 2019 All Kawasaki Group officers and employees P Zero serious legal violations. WEB The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct P Provide training: https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html Executive training, Group-wide training, level-specific education (newly appointed managerial staff and assistant managers), practical training (key departments, key departments of internal companies, staff), training for employees working in overseas businesses and e-learning for managerial staff Employee Training on Compliance with Antimonopoly (Competition) Laws and others The Company publishes a variety of guidebooks on the Antimonopoly Act for employees to ensure P Fiscal 2019 Results a broader awareness of situations at the Kawasaki Group that could become problematic and conducts P Zero serious legal violations. regular training on the Antimonopoly Act. In fiscal 2019, 85 employees took part in Antimonopoly Act P Provided training: compliance training. Furthermore, regarding overseas antimonopoly (competition) laws, in addition to Executive training (on August 6), Group-wide training (500 participants), level-specific education overseas bribery prevention training, we carry out overseas antimonopoly (competition) law training, (newly appointed managerial staff and assistant managers; 553 participants), practical training which 178 employees took part in fiscal 2019. (601 participants, including those at internal companies), training for employees working in overseas businesses (16 participants), e-learning (6,030 participants), and support for obtaining CISTEC Number of Violations Relating to the Antimonopoly Act, Details of Violations, and Actions Taken certification (83 successfully certificated) Since 2010, there have been no serious violations that were subject to administrative disciplinary action by the Fair Trade Commission. Since 2006, there have been no serious violations that were P Goals for Fiscal 2020 ­subject to criminal penalties. P Zero serious legal violations. P Provide training: Executive training, Group-wide training, level-specific education (newly appointed managerial staff Tax Compliance and assistant managers), practical training (key departments, key departments of internal companies, staff), training for employees working in overseas businesses, and e-learning Tax Policy The Kawasaki Group has established the Kawasaki Group Policy on Tax Affairs and works to promote Structure awareness of the policy internally as part of efforts to manage tax risk related to business globalization. To ensure Group-wide compliance with export control laws and regulations, we have formulated a set of corporate export control regulations for goods and technologies relevant to security maintenance P Scope of Policy Application and have put in place an export control system in which a Representative Director acts as Chief Export The Kawasaki Group Control Officer. Kawasaki Group Policy on Tax Affairs As a first measure, we set up the Export Control Laws and Regulations Compliance Screening WEB https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/tax.pdf Committee (“Screening Committee”), chaired by the Chief Export Control Officer, at the Head Office. The Screening Committee undertakes the final assessment of export transactions across the Group to confirm compliance with export control laws and regulations and provides guidance and supervision regarding the export control systems of the internal companies and business divisions. In addition, the Export Control Trade Compliance Department was set up within the Head Office Sustainable Development Division to provide secretariat services to the Screening Committee and to coordinate export control at the GroupExport Control Policy wide level. In addition, we have established the Working Level Committee, comprising the departments In fiscal 2020, we established and published the Kawasaki Group Policy on Export Control, laying out responsible for export control of the internal companies and business divisions, under the control of basic principles of conduct regarding export control. the Screening Committee. The Working Level Committee undertakes preliminary screening ahead of The Kawasaki Group recognizes that compliance with laws and regulations on export control is an final assessments by the Screening Committee, discusses matters delegated to it by the Screening integral part of its corporate social responsibilities (CSR) and essential to maintaining peace and security Committee, reports to the Screening Committee and undertakes the horizontal rollout of export in the international community and supporting humanity’s harmonious coexistence with the global ­control-related information. environment. In line with this recognition, the Group shall establish and maintain a strict export control Next, each internal company and business division operates an export control committee that system and implement appropriate security trade control so as to ensure that its products and services screens all the export transactions of the company or division and refers the screening results to the are not provided for transactions aimed at such purposes as the development of weapons of mass Screening Committee for discussion. destruction or the excessive accumulation of conventional arms. Furthermore, to promote legal compliance, we have set up export control systems at consolidated To ensure legal compliance, we carry out export control with consideration given not only to Japan’s subsidiaries in and outside Japan that engage in exporting through their respective overseeing internal Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, but, because our businesses have significant ties with the companies or business divisions. United States, also to U.S. reexport regulations and economic sanctions. By doing so, we work to reduce the risks of violations of these laws and of government sanctions. WEB Kawasaki Group Policy on Export Control https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/export.pdf 30 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 31 Governance Governance Export Control Structure Other Important Compliance Risks President Prevention of Insider Trading For the purpose of preventing insider trading, Kawasaki has established company regulations titled the Representative Director Responsible Insider Trading Control Rules that it uses to implement and regulate related actions. In addition, to furfor Export Control ther ensure the prevention of insider trading, the Company established a new system in fiscal 2013 Export Control Laws and Regulations that obligates Company officers and employees who intend to trade Company shares to notify the Compliance Screening Committee Company by a prescribed date (the Treasury Stock Trading Prior Notification System). Also, the Group-wide export control Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct forbids insider trading. management division P Number of Violations, Details of Violations and Actions Taken Working Level Committee Sustainable Development Division Since 1989, when the amended Securities and Exchange Act which regulates insider trading was (preliminary screening) Trade Compliance Department enacted, there have been no serious violations by the Group or Group employees that were subject to penalties or administrative monetary penalties. Energy WEB The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct Ship & Precision https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html Aerospace System & Motorcycle & Offshore Rolling Stock Machinery & Systems Plant Engine Corporate Structure Company Robot Company Engineering Company Technology Company Export Control Company Export Control Company Export Control Division Export Control Committee Export Control Elimination of Antisocial Forces Committee Export Control Committee Committee Committee Committee The Company resolutely rejects inappropriate requests from antisocial forces and undertakes various Guidance and measures to break off any relationship with such forces. advice Specifically, in addition to what is described in the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct and the Compliance Guidebook, we publish the Manual of Responses to Antisocial Forces and strive to promote Consolidated subsidiaries (Japan & Overseas) awareness and full compliance with established internal practices and systems as well as with prescribed procedures of response. In addition, we have established a unit at the Head Office to supervise responses associated with the elimination of antisocial forces. This unit works closely with the police P Responsible Officer and other external specialist organizations to establish an internal structure to systematically deal with Sukeyuki Namiki, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer inappropriate requests from antisocial forces. P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee P Number of Violations, Details of Violations and Actions Taken The Export Control Laws and Regulations Compliance Screening Committee undertakes the final According to our survey of the period from 1997 to present, all inappropriate requests and requests assessment of export management matters across the Group. The Export Control Laws and for meeting appointments from antisocial forces and other similar organizations have been denied Regulations Compliance Screening Committee meets once a month, in principle. and eliminated during this period, and there have been no violations. Export Control Training and Guidance The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct WEB We provide export control training tailored to different personnel and objectives for the entire Group, https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html including consolidated subsidiaries. To build awareness of export control compliance, we organize Group-Wide Export Control Training Meetings each year at the Akashi Works and other Group locations, with external lecturers invited from the Center for Information on Security Trade Control (CISTEC). In Measures to Prevent Money Handling Risks at Small-Scale Operating Sites addition, to enhance the coverage and efficiency of export control, we began using e-learning in this Certain situations are unique to small-scale operating sites, such as regional offices and satellite area in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, 6,030 employees took part in such e-learning. Concurrently, each branches. These organizations may be ill-equipped to perform sufficient checks or may have particular internal company and business division offers export control training as part of its grade-specific trainindividuals within the organization who have become fixed to a particular position due to difficulties ing to impart the knowledge required by managers and other personnel to execute their operations. in implementing personnel rotation. Based on such circumstances, the Company has carried out Furthermore, practical training on classification and transaction screening is provided for export control reviews, improved the manuals for checking procedures and enhanced audits in order to reduce risks, administrators and persons in charge of export control at each internal company and business division. particularly as they relate to the handling of money. With regard to export control audits, the Auditing Department and the Trade Compliance Department P Number of Violations, Details of Violations and Actions Taken work together to perform individual audits of and provide guidance to all the internal companies, Over the five years in the immediate past, there have been no cases of corporate misconduct that ­business divisions and major consolidated subsidiaries in Japan once a year. were subject to administrative disciplinary action or sanction. Moreover, overseas consolidated subsidiaries are subject to an annual questionnaire-based survey of their export control systems, export records and related matters. Based on the survey results, the Trade Compliance Department works with the relevant internal company or business division to ­provide appropriate guidance and support on export control. 32 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 33 Governance Governance Material Issues and Our Approach (2) Performing duties essential to the fulfillment of our social responsibilities (requests from cusRisk Management As a Group that operates global business across a wide range of fields, Kawasaki regards the managetomers, suppliers and government offices, and maintenance and restoration of critical systems, ment of serious risks that could impede its business activities as important and conducts integrated such as public infrastructure and civil defense) Management risk management. (3) Normalizing the business operations of the Kawasaki Group Approach (4) Fulfilling responsibilities and contributing to local communities Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets Kawasaki’s corporate risk management system entails the integrated execution of business Structure ­segment-level risk management and Group-wide risk management. Based on the results of the The Kawasaki Group has established a Corporate Risk Management System to ensure a uniform level of ­business segments’ risk monitoring (activities to identify, evaluate and reduce risks and assessments of risk management across the Group. Through this system, we identify and respond to major risks with such activities), every year, we identify major risks that may have a serious impact on operations the potential for serious impact on operations and work to enhance risk management as outlined in (Group-level risks), monitor how these risks are being addressed by the Head Office and, from among the Kawasaki Group Management Principles. such risks, identify three to five items that particularly require Group-wide countermeasures (risks Through the Corporate Risk Management System, we carry out continuous risk management initiarequiring Group-wide action). The results of risk reduction activities are then reported to and discussed tives. Specifically, in this system, the president is designated the Chief Executive of Risk Management, by top management. and an executive officer is designated the Chief Risk Officer, responsible for the overall control of risk With regard to the risks associated with the execution of individual businesses, the relevant divisions management operations. Under their leadership, a Corporate Risk Management Committee, charged carry out assessments and analyses and sufficiently examine countermeasures in advance in accordance with deliberating important matters related to risk management and monitoring implementation, with Kawasaki’s Board of Directors Regulations, Management Meeting Regulations, Approval Regulations works to reinforce the risk management system. and other related rules. The Company practices even more thorough risk management for major projIn addition, a secretariat within the Risk Control Department of the Head Office Sustainable ects with significant impact on operations in accordance with such company regulations as the Major Development Division promotes and supports Group-wide risk management based on cooperation Project Risk Management Regulations. This includes management at the time of bidding and concluding between the Head Office divisions and ensures that each internal company and business division operagreements for such projects as well as regular follow-up by the Head Office, internal ­companies and ates a similar system, for which the general managers of business divisions are responsible. These business divisions as needed after a project begins. measures are designed to reinforce Group-wide risk management. P Goal for the MTBP 2019 We have also created a system that incorporates domestic Group companies and implement risk P Detect risks globally and manage risks appropriately through avoidance, reduction, and transfer. management activities at key overseas consolidated subsidiaries (model companies). Progress, Results and Challenges Corporate Risk Management System P Goal for Fiscal 2019 Chief Executive of Risk Management Internal Companies, Business Divisions P Set up a globally integrated risk management system to accurately understand material risks that (President) and Head Office could impact operations and implement rational controls. (Risk Identification and Response) P Fiscal 2019 Results P Carried out risk-reduction activities for risks related to product quality, human resources, safety Chief Risk Officer Risk Manager and health, project management and country risk, which are specified as risks requiring ­Group-wide action P Goal for Fiscal 2020 Corporate Risk Management Risk Management Committee Committee P Enhance the globally integrated risk management system to accurately understand material risks that could impact operations and implement rational controls. Determines corporate risk management guidelines, and confirms action status Risk Management Risk Management Policy Department In accordance with the Companies Act, the Kawasaki Board of Directors has adopted a basic policy for Corporate Risk Management Unit internal control systems. The policy makes it clear that risk management should be addressed in accor(Sustainable Development Division dance with the Risk Management Regulations by seeking to anticipate and avoid loss caused by risks, Risk Control Department) and to minimize risks through appropriate preparation and operation of the risk management system. Departments Departments Departments Promotes corporate risk management, In addition, to achieve the sustained improvement of profitability and enterprise value, the Kawasaki and manages and classifies risk Group Mission Statement identifies risk management as a guiding theme of the Kawasaki Group ­information Management Principles. Consolidated subsidiaries Based on the aforementioned, the Risk Management Regulations lay down the following basic policy for the Kawasaki Group in the field of risk management. P Basic Policy 1. Aiming to realize its Group Mission, “Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet,” P Responsible Officers Kawasaki and the Kawasaki Group will facilitate global and sustained business execution by Chief Executive of Risk Management: Yasuhiko Hashimoto, Representative Director, President and ­continuously implementing risk management. Chief Executive Officer 2. Each individual corporate officer and employee will engage actively with risk management and Chief Risk Officer: Atsuko Kakihara, Executive Officer will work to maintain the risk management system and improve the response capabilities of P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee risk management. Corporate Risk Management Committee 3.In the event that a risk materializes, Kawasaki and the Kawasaki Group will implement a response P Independence of Risk Management Functions and the Involvement of the Board of Directors focused on the following perspectives, working to minimize loss to customers, employees, local The Corporate Risk Management Committee comprises Directors (excluding Outside Directors), intercommunities and other stakeholders and to prevent recurrence. nal company presidents, the executive officer in charge of risk management, Head Office division (1) Protecting the lives and property of employees and their families (including non-employees heads and other persons designated by the president. Also, the full-time Audit & Supervisory working on site and visitors) Committee Members participate in the committee as part of their auditing of the execution of business. 34 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 35 Governance Governance Corporate Risk Management Programs Risk Management Risk Assessment Status of major risks 4 Progress on measures relatPerformance Data Risks Covered and Risk Assessment Methods ed to risks requiring action Monitoring The Kawasaki Group defines risks as “factors or phenomena that hinder the execution of business operations or the achievement of organizational goals” and works to manage all risks classified as Implementation states of corporate risk management either external risks or internal risks (with the latter further classified as strategic risk or business risk), while giving due consideration to the potential beneficial effects associated with strategic and 3 other risks. Formulate risk Examples of major risks The Company’s risk management process consists of a version of the COSO framework customized response measures Formulate (example) for the Company’s environment and circumstances. corporate risk management plans Implement risk Group-level risks P Risk Factors Currently Covered in the Scope of Risk Management response measures Name of Division responsible risk for monitoring Within Risk Management: List of Risks Covered Human Resources WEB Human risk Planning Department https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/mgmt/management.html 1 Procurement risk Procurement Division C Screen and evaluate risks Foreign exchange Finance Department/ Corporate Planning risk Department Responding to Significant Risks (Internal Under the Corporate Risk Management System, major risks that could have a potentially serious impact PDCA cycle for companies D A corporate risk and business Risks specific to business divisions on Group-wide operations are identified on an annual basis using uniform metrics and managed using management divisions) Name of Division responsible methods that are deemed efficient and optimal from a Group-wide perspective. programs risk for monitoring In concrete terms, this means that management of major risks at the Group-wide level is carried out 2 Affiliated Risk Management company risk Department by applying the following Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle in Group-wide risk management: P Identify major risks 1. Screening and evaluation of risks 2. Identification of major risks and specification of risks requiring action (Groupwide data 3. Formulation and implementation of risk response measures Improvements in corporate collation) risk management 4. Monitoring Risks requiring action (example) 2 Risks requiring Group-wide action Specify risks requiring action Name of Division responsible risk for action (Group-wide) Large-scale (Internal companies Risk Control Department disaster risk and business divisions) Information IT Strategy Planning leakage risk Center Self-evaluation Risks requiring business division action Name of Division responsible risk for action Internal companies Quality assurance and business divisions/ risk relevant division 1 Screening and Evaluation of Risks Risk reviews are undertaken every fiscal year by each division and major risks are then pinpointed by the risk management committees of the internal companies and business divisions. 2 Identification of Major Risks and Specification of Risks Requiring Action Identification of Major Risks Major risks identified by the internal companies and business divisions are compiled and examined by the Corporate Risk Management Committee, which identifies around 13 categories of risk that could significantly affect Group operations (Group-level risks). Risk factors other than Group-level risks are categorized as risks specific to the internal company or business division and to be monitored and addressed by said company or division. For Group-level risks, a division at the Head Office responsible for monitoring risk is assigned to regularly monitor risks. Specification of Risks Requiring Action Among the Group-level risks, those deemed to be inadequately addressed and urgently requiring Group-wide action are specified as risks requiring Group-wide action. At the same time, each internal company and business division specifies risk factors that require a response at the company or ­division level (risks requiring business segment action). 36 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 37 Governance Governance 3 Formulation and Implementation of Risk Response Measures to the maintenance and operation of public infrastructure, such as airplanes and rolling stock, causFor risks requiring Group-wide action, a division at the Head Office responsible for risk response foring a loss of social trust, or to dramatic declines in our performance and share prices. Ultimately, we mulates response measures and, following discussion and approval by the Corporate Risk Management may be rendered unable to fulfill our social responsibilities. Committee, implements them. Similarly, for risks requiring business segment action, the internal P Risk Mitigation Measures ­companies and business divisions formulate and execute risk response measures. In preparation for crisis events, we have improved the crisis management system and laterally ­integrated the system in the overall Group structure. The president is the Chief Crisis Management 4 Monitoring Officer. The heads of operating sites or organizational divisions function as Crisis Management Monitoring Major Risks Officers who oversee the setting up of their crisis management offices. In the event of an accident or At the end of each fiscal year, the risk management department of each internal company and business natural disaster, all necessary information is sent to where it is needed through predefined reporting division undertakes a review of major risks for the following fiscal year. This process includes monitorroutes that have been set up for use in times of emergency. These routes are made known clearly to ing each risk factors with regard to significance, level of action required and urgency. Of note, with employees and officers through the Crisis Management Organization, which in normal circumstances regard to Group-level risks, the division at the Head Office responsible for risk monitoring checks at underpins the Group’s crisis management structure. the beginning of each fiscal year to see if the measures and structures introduced to reduce relevant risks affecting internal company and business divisions are functioning effectively, from a Group-wide Long-term Risk 2 perspective, based on the monitoring results compiled by each business segment. Information Leakage Risks Monitoring of Risks Requiring Action P Potential Impact on Operations Risks requiring action—both Group-level risks and business segment risks—are subject to a twice yearly Information safety-related risks, such as system problems, blocking by or attacks from external perpeself-evaluation by the division responsible for executing relevant measures, at the end of the first trators, and accidents caused by intentional or negligent insider actions or omissions can have a direct half and at the end of the second half of the fiscal year. Results of these assessments are tracked by or indirect impact on our business activities and result in situations such as those described below. the Risk Management Office and risk management department of each internal company and 1. The leak of customer information or important internal information due to the infection of ­business division. ­systems with malware Reporting Monitoring Results to Risk Management Committees 2. The theft and illicit use of technical information or illicit interference in the Group’s finances or The results of the monitoring of major risks and risks requiring action carried out by the internal business transactions due to unauthorized access from outside ­companies and business divisions are reported to their respective risk management committees. The 3. The improper removal or abuse of information due to intentional or negligent actions results of the monitoring of Group-level risks and risks requiring Group-wide action are reported to the If such circumstances arise and escalate, they may lead to a loss of confidence, damage liabilities, Corporate Risk Management Committee. a loss of business opportunities or damage to the Group’s technological competitiveness. P Risk Mitigation Measures Group-level Risks We have established a risk management system to handle information security management for the In fiscal 2020, data on major risks identified by the internal companies and business divisions were Group. We promote a management cycle (with an emphasis on rules, training, and technology meacollated, and the Corporate Risk Management Committee then identified 13 categories of major risks sures) to address rapidly changing information security risks, and we systematically implement, that could have a serious impact on operations. These risks are subject to monitoring in March of maintain and enhance information security measures. every year by the Head Office division responsible for monitoring. The risk categories are reviewed every year. Risk Culture Risks Requiring Group-wide Action In fiscal 2020, within Group-level risks, we specified three items as risks requiring Group-wide action Risk Management Training and Awareness Building (large-scale disaster risk, cyberattack risk, and environment and climate change risk). To deal with Kawasaki explains the importance of risk management in its grade-specific training programs for these risks, each division at the Head Office responsible for action is designated to take the main role employees. In addition, our commitment to improving our enterprise value based on the guiding prinin formulating and implementing response measures in their area of responsibility. ciples of “selective focusing of resources,” “emphasis on quality over quantity,” and “risk management” is clearly stated in the Kawasaki Group Management Principles, part of the Kawasaki Group Mission WEB Within Risk Management: Risks Identified as Group-Level Risk for Fiscal 2020 Statement. We also post the Mission Statement at work areas and distribute Mission Statement cards Within Risk Management: Risks Specified as Risk Requiring Group-wide Action for Fiscal 2020 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/mgmt/management.html to employees to build awareness of these principles. HR Evaluation and Financial Incentives The practicing of Group Management Principles, including risk management, is examined as part of the Long-term Risks performance evaluation of managerial staff. Long-term Risk 1 Checking and Reporting of Potential Risks Caused by Employees Large-scale disaster risks: Risks from large-scale disasters, including earthquakes, floods and pandemics, We have established and operate the Compliance Reporting and Consultation System for the domestic that can cause long-term impediments to corporate activities. Kawasaki Group to identify any potential risks that may exist at the employee level. P Potential Impact on Operations Internal Feedback Process on Potential Risks Our business operations can be severely affected by natural disasters, which can threaten the safety The incidents reported under the compliance reporting and consultation system are regularly compiled of our employees or destroy our works and facilities, as well as pandemics, which can have a long-term and reported to management. Risk assessment is performed based on these reports. impact on business activities. These risks can cause harm to our human resources, facilities, offices, works and facilities, and data, as well as delays in the provision of products and services, posing a serious threat to business continuity. This could lead to the inability to provide products necessary 38 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 39 Governance Governance Progress, Results and Challenges Crisis Management P Goal for Fiscal 2019 P Drill and revise response procedures and systems based on case studies and quickly handle The Kawasaki Group’s Risk Management Regulations contain crisis management provisions set out in ­emergencies and restore business activities through the Countermeasures Command Center. readiness for the emergence of a risk. These regulations set forth behavioral guidelines and response P Fiscal 2019 Results systems that serve to protect lives and preserve assets, minimize damage and loss, and expedite the P Conducted drills according to business continuity plans (BCPs) in preparation for major earthquakes resumption of business activities in the event of unplanned interruption. at major business sites P In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, provided the business segments with response policy and Basic Policy communicated concrete guidelines and other information to ensure thorough awareness of infection Paragraph 3 of the basic policy of the Risk Management Regulations lays out the Kawasaki Group’s prevention measures ­policy for responding to crises. P Goal for Fiscal 2020 In addition to, of course, putting human lives first, the policy also clearly lays out the Company’s Drill and revise response procedures and systems based on case studies and quickly handle emergencies ­priority of fulfilling its social responsibility as a company involved in infrastructure-related industries. and restore business activities through the Countermeasures Command Center. Specifically, in the event of a major earthquake, we will help operate equipment used for disaster relief (such as aircraft and ships), work to quickly restore and maintain the operation of infrastructure (such Business Continuity Plans as rolling stock, power generation facilities and waste processing facilities) and support our customers A business continuity plan (BCP) is itself a management strategy. In addition to typical measures related and suppliers. to response immediately after a disaster, such as setting up disaster-prevention supplies and running For details on the basic policy, please refer to Risk Management Policy (page 34). evacuation drills, a BCP requires consideration of measures to maintain business with minimal ­interruption and fulfill the corporate mission. P Crisis Management Structure (at Times of Crisis and Non-Crisis) Based on the basic policy of the Risk Management Regulations, the Kawasaki Group has formulated In readiness for risks, including large-scale disasters, we maintain a Group-wide horizontally BCPs for major earthquakes, including earthquakes directly striking Tokyo or the Nankai Trough, and ­integrated Crisis Management Organization at all times. pandemics, such as the outbreak of a new strain of influenza.  The president is the Group’s Chief Crisis Management Officer, while the head of each operating site P Business Continuity Plan Review or organizational unit acts as its crisis management officer. Crisis management offices are set up The lessons learned in the Great Hanshin Earthquake, which hit the Kobe area in January 1995, under the crisis management officers to assist them and are charged with the practical work of putformed the basis of the Group’s disaster-prevention measures. In light of the Great East Japan ting in place and maintaining a first response system for mobilization in the event of an emergency. Earthquake of March 2011, the Group significantly revised its BCP for large-scale earthquakes. In Meanwhile, the heads of the various Head Office divisions and other staff members whom they response to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, we have revised our pandemic response BCP to include, ­designate form a dedicated support team for the crisis management offices. for example, remote working and other new workstyles. Furthermore, we regularly implement drills P In Times of Disaster or Accident and use the results to revise BCPs on an ongoing basis. The disaster management system sets out in advance emergency reporting routes and organizations 1. Basic Policy charged with responding when emergencies occur. Complementary to the emergency reporting Based on basic policy, determine course of action to be taken by the Kawasaki Group in the event of routes, we have set up contact networks covering each internal company, business division and natural disasters. operating site to ensure quick internal reporting and information promulgation. 2. Head Office and Internal Company Priorities With the basic policy in mind, designate functions to be maintained at the Head Office, internal In Times of Disaster or Accident companies and business divisions in the event of disaster. Type of  We have identified priorities for the Head Office, internal companies and business divisions in Key Role Location Command Center line with our basic policy and have designated certain functions that must be maintained even in the Office that has not sustained any event of disaster with due consideration given to the different business content of each internal Set up in the event of a crisis that requires a Group-wide damage Corporate response; determines measures to be implemented In principle, either the Kobe company and business divisions and the features inherent in products and services. Command Center throughout the Group and basic policy on action plans Head Office or the Tokyo Head 3. Response in Time of Disaster and Preparation during Normal Time Office Consider responses appropriate in the wake of disaster and prepare for the eventuality of such Integrated Plant Determines issues that affect the works as a whole; coordiWorks that belong to several events during normal times. Command Center nates with internal companies operating in the same works internal companies  Many disaster scenarios indicate the possibility of a massive earthquake centered directly under Provides an internal company support in areas devastated Company Appropriate location at each Tokyo as well as a cascadelike triple megaquake event along the Tokai–Tonankai–Nankai segment by disaster; determines response to affected suppliers and Command Center internal company customers of the Pacific Ocean coastline. Bearing these potential events in mind, we considered the responses Local Command Determines measures, according to business segment and necessary should such catastrophes occur and activities that could be undertaken during normal Office that sustained damage Center business office times to prepare for such eventualities.  We formulated a plan that designated specific divisions with a specific task, and outlined preparations necessary to achieve the desired objectives. Preparations are moving ahead in line with Emergency Communication System this plan. The Kawasaki Group has introduced an emergency communication system for the entire domestic Group to rapidly confirm the safety of employees when a disaster occurs. Tests are conducted every 4. Drills and Revisions year to ensure that employees are familiar with the system and know how to use it. Drills are undertaken regularly and content is revised based on results.  We are constantly running BCP drills and revising BCP content based on how the drills Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets were ­performed. P Goal for the MTBP 2019 Create appropriate Company-wide crisis management procedures and maintain a crisis management system to facilitate rapid response to and recovery from emergencies that could affect management. 40 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 41 Governance Governance Structure Information Security The Corporate Technology Division’s IT Strategy Planning Center serves as the Group’s coordinating department for information security. The center promotes the implementation of security measures Information Security Management Policy throughout the Group, including at the Head Office, and provides guidance regarding information The Kawasaki Group provides products to a diverse range of customers, from general consumers and ­system operationand management-related security measures implemented by the internal companies the public sector to the Self-Defense Forces, and constantly works towards maintaining and improving and business divisions. Each internal company and business division also has an information system its information security to protect information relating to our customers and suppliers as well as department that implements security measures based on Company policy. ­information on their businesses to suit the requirements of each customer sector. We have established a dedicated framework under the corporate risk management structure to h ­ andle The necessary information security management practices have been established as corporate reguinformation security management for the Group. We adhere to a management cycle with an emphasis on lations to ensure compliance with prevailing domestic and international laws and in respect of contracrules, training and technology measures to address constantly changing information security risks while tual promises to clients and to protect our businesses from external risks. These corporate regulations systematically implementing, maintaining and enhancing information security measures. comprise Rules for Information Management, as the underlying policy, along with various standards for In addition, the Group’s data center has acquired ISO 27001 certification, an international standard establishing administrative management guidelines, including the development, implementation and for information security management, and strives to uphold a high level of operational reliability. use of information systems. We have implemented systems to prevent unauthorized access to data from outside as well as ­information leaks from inside and to stop the spread of computer viruses as well as systems to check Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets for illicit activity. P Goal for the MTBP 2019 P Have in place a digital information platform that can handle cyber security issues. Information Security Management System P Build a usage platform that balances the utility of evolving cloud services with information security. Information security trends Kawasaki information security management Online crime Progress, Results and Challenges Global standard P Goal for Fiscal 2019 Information Security Unauthorized • System standards (ISO 27001) P Implement information security and cyber security measures at overseas sites. Measures access Execute responses from P Conduct periodic educational activities at sites in Japan. Systems administrative, personnelP Provide information security training to 9,200 individuals. International related and technological • Systems in various Actions perspectives Consider responses, Computer P Fiscal 2019 Results countries Collect information viruses P Overseas sites Government-related • Systems Administrative (1) Presented explanations of China’s Cyber Security Law (CS Law) at IT liaison meetings for sites • Guidance Administer company improve as necessary in China and made preparations for assessments at each site • Enforcement ­regulations and manageAnalyze collected information (2) Prepared for the provision of asset management support (introduced asset management tools) ment structures Fraud Examples as a first step toward supporting individual sites Training program/ Incidents (3) Established a new Security Center within KHI (Dalian) Computer Technology Co., Ltd. (KDC) on • Details of incidents Employee training • Social confidence Enhancing employee skills April 1, 2020, to provide security support to sites in China • Impact on business Threat (4) Began discussions with Kawasaki Motors Corp., USA (KMC), a potential key site for establishing Information system Criminal trends a support center in North America • Technologies for gaining technology measures unauthorized access Key objectives: Prevent P Could not conduct periodic educational activities at sites in Japan, but will continue to conduct • Greater accessibility/ unauthorized access, such essential activities where possible ensure surveillance, Spam Actions, internationalization P Provided information security training to 9,866 individuals anti-virus programs Security technologies for PCs P Goals for Fiscal 2020 Security products/ P Adopt Tanium endpoint security systems throughout the domestic Group. services Kawasaki Group P Conduct assessments aimed at responding to China’s CS Law at Kawasaki Precision Machinery • Firewalls, encryption, IT assets Spoofing countermeasure improvement malware countermeaTrading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (KPM Shanghai) and Kawasaki Robotics (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. (KRCT). sures P Begin discussions with Kawasaki Motors Europe N.V. (KME), a potential key site for establishing • Monitoring for unauthoa support center in Europe, and continue discussions with KMC regarding the establishment of rized access Other illegal • Authentication, VPNs online activities a support center in North America. • Other new technologies P Introduce asset management tools at sites in China (beginning with KDC, KPM Shanghai and KRCT) and commence asset management support through KDC. P Provide information security training to 10,000 individuals. Information Security Education and Training P Progress We conduct education and training specifically focused on information security for Kawasaki Group (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employees. Information security training participants — — — 8,394 9,866 This instruction covers laws and social customs as well as corporate rules and examples of incidents, and course content is tailored by position, with content for newly hired employees, general employees and managerial staff. Training uses simulations, conducted on a regular basis, that help employees learn how to avoid damaging situations, such as cyberattacks and online crime, which can occur in the course of daily business operations. 42 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 43 Governance Governance Information Security Violations and Actions Taken Material Issues and Our Approach Over the most recent five years, there have been no cases of corporate misconduct that were subject Research and To ensure sustainable improvement in the enterprise value of the Kawasaki Group, the internal compato administrative disciplinary action or sanction. Development nies, business divisions and Corporate Technology Division work as a cohesive unit, concentrating technologies available within the Group and utilizing technological synergies to develop new products Management and new businesses with a competitive edge. Personal Information Protection Approach We also strive for balanced R&D through new product and new business development as well as activities geared toward such development in the future in each internal company in addition to nurturing Kawasaki abides by its Privacy Policy, a basic policy for protecting personal information. This policy is and reinforcing the basic technologies needed to realize these new products and new businesses. publicly disclosed. Engineers from the internal companies and business divisions and specialists in the Corporate Further, we control personal information and anonymously processed information by such means as Technology Division, who have expertise in various fields, form project teams to share issues and work appointing a personal information administrator, establishing company regulations titled Personal together to develop new products and new businesses, seeking always to achieve the overall optimizaInformation Protection Rules and issuing the Personal Information Protection Manual, which explains tion of management resources. The Corporate Technology Division acts as an intermediary, facilitating the rules clearly for employees. In 2017, in response to the revision of the Act on the Protection of access to the technological core competences of each internal company so that they can be applied to Personal Information of Japan, we revised related company regulations, the Privacy Policy and the products in other internal companies. This promotes the multifaceted expansion of technology and Personal Information Protection Manual, and implemented internal training and explanatory meetings realizes major synergistic effects. for affiliates several times. Furthermore, in 2020 we established the Kawasaki Group Policy on the By thus combining the core technologies of the internal companies and business divisions and the Protection of Personal Information, laying out Group-wide rules for the proper handling of personal basic technologies of the Corporate Technology Division, we will utilize matrix-based operations to information. create technological synergies throughout the Kawasaki Group and further raise enterprise value. For the control of personal information, such measures are taken as constructing the security control systems for the personal information possessed by each division and preparing and regularly updating Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets the personal data handling ledger in which the handling status of such personal information can P Goals for the MTBP 2019 be checked. P Reinforce the competitiveness of existing products and businesses. With regard to personal information in the Company’s possession, we have put in place a structure PB  uild a platform that will support groundbreaking innovation that creates new value in response that ensures a prompt response to requests from individuals related to their own personal information, to rapid changes in society. such as requests for disclosure or discontinuance of utilization. P Achieve process reforms by such means as strengthening system design and monozukuri ­manufacturing capabilities. Response to the General Data Protection Regulation P Establish intellectual property action plans as part of business strategy and build a framework to Kawasaki has established internal regulations regarding compliance with the European Union’s General allocate IP rights where needed or keep such property confidential in the form of internal expertise. Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), laying out rules for the proper handling of personal information P Build a framework for carrying out IP rights infringement prevention checks through design covered by the GDPR. reviews and other precautions taken at specific development stages. WEB Privacy Policy Progress, Results and Challenges https://global.kawasaki.com/en/privacy_policy/index.html P Goals for Fiscal 2019 Kawasaki Group Policy on the Protection of Personal Information https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/personal_information.pdf P ¥60.0 billion in R&D expenses P Work to create new products and business that leverage digital innovation. In particular, focus efforts on service businesses that utilize ICT/IoT. P Work to build a supply chain for hydrogen, a form of clean energy. P Work toward process innovation using digital technologies. P Acquire strategic intellectual property, mainly in robotics. P Before commencing R&D, carry out comprehensive examinations of preceding patents to avoid infringement. P Fiscal 2019 Results Research and Development P ¥52.6 billion in R&D expenses P Formed operational tie-up aimed at quickly developing AI and IoT services in the Precision Machinery & Robot segment P Carried out development aimed at demonstrations of the hydrogen supply chain, including that of the world’s first liquefied hydrogen carrier P Completed design aimed at introducing operational applications to increase the efficiency of ­airplane design and manufacturing processes Intellectual Property P Conducted the following strategic initiatives in coordination with management and business strategy (1) Carried out comprehensive IP landscape analyses, covering IP and markets, for the hydrogen project, hybrid motorcycles, Rexpeller1 condition monitoring system and U-KACC2 on-site power generation 1. Rexpeller: Kawasaki’s azimuth thruster 2. U-KACC: Kawasaki’s U-KACC Boiler (short for Upgraded Kawasaki Advanced Clean Combustion) 44 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 45 Governance Governance (2) G  rasped key points related to differentiation and development by participating in Robot Business Division development meetings Research and R&D Expenditures (consolidated global) P Focused efforts on the hydrogen and industrial robot fields Development (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 P Goals for Fiscal 2020 Total Billion Performance Data 43.6 43.6 45.4 48.7 52.6 Research and Development yen P ¥53.5 billion in R&D expenses Breakdown Ship & Offshore Structure 0.8 0.8 0.8 1.1 0.9 P Work to create new products and businesses with an eye to business style transformation by, for by segment Rolling Stock 1.2 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 example, creating defacto standards via market development and reinforcing service businesses. Aerospace Systems 4.3 3.8 4.0 6.1 6.9 P Conduct pilot demonstrations of a Japan-Australia supply chain aimed at quickly realizing Gas Turbine & Machinery 4.1 3.9 3.8 — — a ­hydrogen-powered society. Energy System & P Work to increase process sophistication through digital transformation while coordinating with 1.1 1.3 1.4 3.9 4.1 Plant Engineering total quality management (TQM) promotion activities. Motorcycle & Engine 13.3 14.3 15.8 15.6 16.0 Intellectual Property Precision Machinery & Robot 6.1 5.3 5.4 6.2 5.9 P Advance IP landscape analyses, mainly for the hydrogen project, as part of efforts to form Head Office, other 12.4 13.0 13.0 14.6 17.8 a ­patent portfolio. Percentage P Before commencing R&D, carry out comprehensive examinations of preceding patents to % 2.8 2.9 2.9 3.1 3.2 of sales avoid infringement. Number of employees engaged in R&D Persons 1,791 1,868 1,888 1,941 1,916 P Focus efforts on the hydrogen, industrial robot and precision machinery fields. Note: In April 2018, the former Aerospace Company and the jet engine business of the former Gas Turbine & Machinery Company were integrated into the newly established Aerospace Systems Company. The former Plant & Infrastructure Company and the energy and KPI marine-related businesses of the former Gas Turbine & Machinery Company were integrated into the newly established Energy P Progress System & Plant Engineering Company. In addition, the former Precision Machinery Company was renamed to the Precision Machinery & Robot Company. (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 R&D expenditures Billion yen 43.6 43.6 45.4 48.7 52.6 Open Innovation Structure The internal companies carry out R&D in areas specific to their businesses, while the Corporate Open Innovation Policy Technology Division handles forward-looking R&D on a Company-wide basis. In addition, the internal In addition to leveraging the technological synergies that come from bringing our technologies togethcompanies and Corporate Technology Division work together closely on projects. er, we also work with outsourcers to introduce state-of-the-art technologies in an efficient manner. By The Corporate Technology Division comprises the Corporate Technology Planning Center, Technical making use of outside resources, not simply sticking to in-house innovation, we are able to provide Institute, System Technology Development Center, Hydrogen Project Development Center, Manufacturing solutions to social issues as well as create value that we would not be able to offer singlehandedly or Improvement Center, IT Strategy Planning Center, Administration Department and TQM Department. All at least not without overly large expenditures of cost and time. of these collaborate to advance R&D. P Responsible Officer Initiative in Open Innovation Hiroshi Nakatani, Managing Executive Officer, General Manager of Corporate Technology Division Partnership with U.S.-Based Artificial Intelligence (AI) Startup Kawasaki formed a partnership with OSARO Inc., a U.S.-based startup boasting excellent AI software P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee development technologies. By actively promoting open innovation to gain access to superior knowlThe internal companies and the Corporate Technology Division meet regularly to share information edge, we are accelerating product and service development in the rapidly developing field of about the market environment and business strategy and form consensus regarding development themes. AI ­technology.  They also regularly take steps to concentrate technologies from across the Company to plan and San Francisco-based OSARO was founded in 2015 with a focus on the development and sale of follow up on important Company-wide R&D, facilitate the horizontal exchange and sharing of techautonomous control software for industrial robots. The company has particularly robust expertise in nologies, and promote synergy. the area of AI applications for image recognition and motion control. Kawasaki previously engaged in joint proof-of-concept testing with OSARO to explore the possibilities of applying OSARO-developed AI to Kawasaki robots. Under the new partnership, we will ramp up joint development. At the same time, Kawasaki hopes to build expertise in AI applications for environmental recognition, operation and movement path planning, and operation determination technologies in order to advance the automation and autonomization of a wide range of Kawasaki products, such as those in the transport system and energy fields. As Japan faces increasing labor shortages due to demographic graying and declining birth rates and communications technology continues to develop, demand for products and services utilizing AI, ICT and IoT is growing. To address these needs, Kawasaki has been proactively developing many new products and services, such as operational support systems for waste-to-energy plants utilizing AI. Moving forward, Kawasaki will reinforce its development framework by further promoting open innovation in order to continue providing new value to society. WEB Kawasaki Becomes a Preferred Partner of US AI Startup (October 7, 2019 Kawasaki press release) https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/newsroom/news/detail/?f=20191007_3958 46 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 47 Governance Governance New Product and Business Development Environmental Innovation Key new products and businesses that were in development or for which development was completed in fiscal 2019 are as follows. At Kawasaki, we have defined a set of in-house criteria to improve the environmental performance of our products through energy and resource conservation and to reduce our environmental footprint by P Aerospace Systems reducing the amount of industrial waste produced and chemical substances used in our production P Fan Drive Gear System for the PW1500G* ­processes. Products that meet these criteria are registered as Kawasaki-brand Green Products. * PW1500G: A jet engine for the French company Airbus’s A220 regional aircraft Kawasaki-brand Green Products are marked with an environmental label that shows the product’s environmental advantages as one way to communicate our efforts in this area to our customers and other stakeholders. In 2019, eight products were newly registered, and the registrations of products Fan Drive Gear System for which the three-year registration limit expired were renewed, bringing the total number of registered P Energy System & Plant Engineering Kawasaki-brand Green Products to 54. P World’s largest gas-to-gasoline (GTG) plant P New type of hydrogen liquefier Effects of Environmental Innovation (non-consolidated) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CO2 emission reduction through kt-CO2 750 900 22,920 29,130 23,140 product-based contributions *T he calculation method was revised in fiscal 2017 to one which uses a flow-based method where the expected life of a product launched during this fiscal year is used as the evaluation period for calculating the difference in CO2 emissions between our products and standard grade products in the industry over this period of usage. Gas-to-gasoline (GTG) plant Liquefaction system using the new type WEB Kawasaki-brand Green Products of hydrogen liquefier https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/green_products/index.html P Precision Machinery & Robot P Successor®-G remotely-operated robotic system for grinding, deburring and surface finishing Intellectual Property Management Principles of Intellectual Property Management To survive amid intense global competition, we must raise enterprise value by developing business pursuits that leverage our core competence. Toward this end, we rely on intellectual property, which is a vital management resource, and the key to securing and successfully applying this corporate asset is Grinding operations using the Successor®-G to undertake activities from a three-point perspective that adds intellectual property to business and R&D as a third component of our core competence. P Transportation P Liquefied hydrogen carrier Structure P Z900 Supernaked To promote strategic intellectual property activities, we maintain a structure whereby the Intellectual P TERYX KRX 1000 Trail Adventure Side x Side Property Department in the Corporate Technology Planning Center of the Corporate Technology Division drafts and implements corporate measures and works with the intellectual property management departments of the internal companies to provide support in line with each segment’s business activities. Installation of liquefied hydrogen Z900 Supernaked TERYX KRX 1000 Trail tank for marine transport Adventure Side x Side Process Innovation Kawasaki uses a proprietary production system, the Kawasaki Production System (KPS) for its mass-produced products. The KPS was developed by Kawasaki based on the production system of Toyota Motor Corporation, known as the Toyota Production System (TPS). The system is aimed at ­thoroughly eliminating waste in production processes. Effects of Process Innovation Using IT to provide detailed instructions for the work of each individual and analyze accumulated ­performance data, Kawasaki is expanding the scope of the KPS to include custom order products, as well. We are leveraging digital innovation to innovate development and design processes in an effort to enhance design and production efficiency. 48 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 49 Governance Environment Intellectual Property Activities Structure Material Issues and Our Approach Environmental Around the world, risks created by climate change (such as the occurrence of major typhoons and hurHead Office Business Segment Management ricanes, forest collapse or flooding) are growing. Japan’s Annual Report on the Environment, the Sound Material-Cycle Society and Biodiversity 2020 (published by the Ministry of the Environment, June Management 2020) addresses increasingly frequent natural disasters, using the expression “climate crisis” for the Ship & Offshore Structure Intellectual Property Corporate Technology Division Company Management Department Approach first time. Going forward, needs related to realizing a sustainable society are only expected to grow. The Kawasaki Group has been engaged in transport, energy, environmental and other industrial Intellectual Property machinery-related businesses for more than 120 years, and I believe that its accumulated technologies Corporate Technology Rolling Stock Company Planning Center Management Department can contribute greatly to meeting these needs. The Group implements environmental management, the combination of business management and Intellectual Property environmental conservation, including efforts to prevent global warming, take action against climate Intellectual Property Aerospace Systems Company Management Department change, reduce environmental impact and conserve biodiversity. Department Technical Institute Energy System & Plant Intellectual Property Long-term Targets Engineering Company Management Department System Technology P Kawasaki Global Environmental Vision 2050 Development Center In 2017, the Kawasaki Group drew up the Kawasaki Global Environmental Vision 2050, a long-term Hydrogen Project Motorcycle & Engine Intellectual Property environmental vision formulated as a roadmap for drafting specific measures to address the immediDevelopment Center Company Management Department ate as well as the mediumand long-term issues the Group faces. This long-term vision designated Manufacturing Improvement Center the three goals of being “CO2 FREE,” “Waste FREE” and “Harm FREE.” Precision Machinery & Robot Intellectual Property IT Strategy Planning Center Company Management Department WEB Kawasaki Global Environmental Vision 2050 Administration Department https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/vision.html TQM Department Focus Activities, Medium-term Targets, and Progress P Responsible Officer P Three-year Environmental Management Plans Sukeyuki Namiki, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer Working to achieve the Kawasaki Global Environmental Vision 2050, we formulate three-year P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee ­medium-term environmental management plans to address concrete issues and implement initiatives The Intellectual Property Committee formulates operating and basic policies regarding Company-wide accordingly. Under the 10th Environmental Management Activities Plan (fiscal 2019–2021), we have intellectual property activities. established the following goals and key strategies. Strategic Intellectual Property Activities Goals and Strategies of the 10th Environmental Management Activities Plan and Fiscal 2019 Results By taking part in business planning from the earliest stages, providing information useful for developing CO2 FREE (Realization of a Low-Carbon Society) a business strategy that leverages IP information, making suggestions regarding strategy, and developP Target ing an IP strategy that will strengthen the business strategy, we strive to implement IP activities in Reduce fiscal 2021 CO2 emissions per unit of net sales by 20% from the fiscal 2013 level coordination with management and the business strategy. (non-consolidated). Countermeasures to the Improper Use of Kawasaki Group Brands P Key Strategies We have in place appropriate countermeasures based on trademark and other rights for dealing with P Proactive use of onsite power generation facilities commercial activities that make unauthorized use of Kawasaki Group brands, the manufacture and sale P Utilize renewable energy of counterfeit products, the use and application for registration of trademarks similar to those of the P Energy-saving activities Kawasaki Group and related issues. By further developing such activities, we will protect and further P Expand the CO2-reducing effects of Kawasaki-brand Green Products and other products enhance market confidence in our brands. P Fiscal 2019 Results P 228t-CO2/billion yen (down 21.6% from the fiscal 2013 level) Invention Reward System P Began working group activities at the Gifu, Kobe and Akashi plants, where onsite power generaBased on the Patent Law regulation pertaining to inventions by employees, Kawasaki has established tion are in use (identify current problems and issues and considered ways to improve existing a provision in its internal rules regarding inventions by employees to reward employees at specific facilities in terms of system configuration, economic efficiency, and CO2 reduction) milestones, such as the filing of a patent application (application reward), patent registration P Established guidelines to promote the adoption of renewable energy (to enter effect from fiscal 2020) (­registration reward) and practical application (performance-based reward). P Established guidelines to promote energy saving (to enter effect from fiscal 2020) The Company faithfully adheres to this provision. In addition, the same reward system is applied P Emission reduction effect on CO2 from product use of 23,140 kt-CO2 (products sold in fiscal 2019) even when the invention is not made public for strategic reasons. Of note, the performance-based reward is fairly awarded after duly taking into consideration how the Company has benefited from the Waste FREE (Realization of a Recycling-Oriented Society) invention, using an evaluation standard based on comparisons with other companies in the same P Target industry as well as trends in society. Maintain ratio of direct-to-landfill waste to total waste generation at less than 1% (non-consolidated). P Key Strategies Employee Training P Further enforce waste sorting and recycling Intellectual property is an important management resource for increasing our business competitiveness. P Precisely understand water uses and usage volumes As such, Kawasaki’s basic policy is to secure and effectively utilize its own intellectual property while respecting the valid intellectual property rights of third parties. In line with this policy, we carry out grade-specific activities to foster correct awareness of intellectual property. 50 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 51 Environment Environment P Fiscal 2019 Results (5) In seeking solutions to global environmental issues, we will develop and provide new technoloP Landfill disposal rate of 0.2% (target achieved) gies and new products that effectively contribute to environmental protection and reduced P Gathered, organized, and shared on-site confirmation information on legally designated waste ­consumption of energy and natural resources. ­processing contractors (6) Going beyond environment-related laws, regulations, conventions and self-established action P Carried out detailed surveys of water uses and usage volumes (Company-wide average data plans in related industries, we will implement our own environmental control standards, as ­availability: 15%) appropriate, and strive to improve environmental management. (7) Through environmental training and public relations activities, we will strive to elicit greater Harm FREE (Realization of a society coexisting with nature) awareness of global environmental issues among all employees and will encourage employees P Target to perform a self-improvement review and participate in social contribution activities. Reduce environmental risk while operating factories with respect for biodiversity (8) We will implement an environmental management system for environmental protection activities, hold regular conferences on environmental protection activities, undertake reviews and P Key Strategies strive to achieve continual improvement in our environmental protection activities. P Properly manage harmful chemical substances and consider alternatives (reduce Group-wide ­environmental risk) Environmental Charter “Environmental Philosophy and Conduct Guidelines” WEB P Identify the types of trees on factory grounds and, where appropriate, replace with native species https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/vision.html while continuing Company-wide forest conservation activities P Fiscal 2019 Results P Operated factories as planned, with no new environmental risks arising Environmental Management Promotion Structure P Maintained proper management of dichloromethane, hexavalent chromium, and major VOCs (usage The Chief Environmental Officer (Director responsible for environmental issues) coordinates Companyvolumes were unchanged or almost unchanged year on year; so far no prospect of using alternatives wide environmental management activities and assumes full responsibility and authority for environto discontinue use) mental issues. In accordance with Japan’s Energy Saving Law, the Chief Environmental Officer also P Continued proper management of green spaces at plants assumes the position of energy management officer and coordinates energy management. Environmental P Carried out forest conversation activities in Taka, Hyogo Prefecture, and Niyodogawa, Kochi and energy management are carried out mainly through the environmental management departments Prefecture,* to make up for shortcomings as measured against the Company’s voluntary indicator of the business segments. for green space land area (did not reach the indicator) Energy Management System Operational System * Not included in Company-wide activities WEB 10th Environmental Management Activities Plan https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/plan.html President Management Committee Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020 Summary of Business Activities in Fiscal 2019 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf Head Office Chief Environmental Environmental Officer Management (Director responsible for Division Corporate Environment Committee Environmental Basic Policy (Chair: Chief Environmental Officer) environmental issues) (Environmental The Kawasaki Group’s Environmental Charter lays out environmental management values and principles Affairs Department) to be shared across the Group along with action guidelines to steer each individual in their daily work. This committee deliberates and decides on threeyear environmental management activity plans P Environmental Charter (established 1999, revised 2010) Internal Companies and the operation of annual priority initiatives for PE  nvironmental Philosophy environmental management activities. The Kawasaki Group pursues business activities globally in key industries related to land, sea and air, guided by the desire to contribute to the development of society through monozukuri manufacEnvironmental Management Officer (President or vice president) turing. In this effort, as a group, we emphasize the “realization of a low-carbon society,” “realization of a recycling-oriented society” and “realization of a society coexisting with nature” to help solve global environmental issues, and we strive to help build a sustainable society through environBusiness Segments Committees mentally harmonious business activities and environmentally conscious Kawasaki-brand products (Chair: Senior Manager, and services. Environmental Affairs Environmental Protection Officer Department) PC  onduct Guidelines (Vice president, business division general (1) Global environmental problems are serious issues shared by people around the world and, manager, factory general manager, making it a management priority to ensure that business activities are conducted in harmony site senior manager with the environment, we will strive willingly and vigorously toward this goal. or headquarters’ senior manager) (2) We will endeavor to conserve resources, save energy, recycle and reduce industrial waste in Senior manager responsible for (Business Segments) production stages, and we will promote efforts to limit the impact of our operations on the environmental protection environment. (Division senior manager or a person in Environmental Management Committee (3) We will carefully consider environmental impact during product planning, R&D and design stagequivalent role) (Chair: Environmental Protection Officer) es to limit as much as possible any environmental impact caused during procurement, producManager responsible for tion, distribution, utilization and disposal stages of the products we make and market. This committee formulates three-year environmenenvironmental protection (4) We will strive to minimize the impact our business activities have on ecosystems and engage tal management activity plans for each internal (Section manager or a person in company and tracks the results achieved through proactively in efforts to protect these ecosystems. equivalent role) internal-company -specific activities. 52 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 53 Environment Environment Energy Management System Environmental CO2 FREE (Realization of a Low-Carbon Society) M Management President 10th Plan Target Performance Data Reduce fiscal 2021 CO2 emissions per unit of net sales by 20% from the fiscal 2013 level (non-consolidated). Energy Management Officer (Director responsible for Reducing CO2 Emissions from Production Activities environmental issues) In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions per unit of net sales came to 228 t-CO2/billion yen, down 21.6% from the fiscal 2013 level and on-pace to meet our target for fiscal 2021. P CO2 Emissions from Production Activities (non-consolidated) Internal Companies Head Office (kt-CO2) (t-CO2/billion yen) 800 400 Energy Management Division 291 290 280 600 274 270 300 Energy Management Officer (Environmental Affairs Department) 252 228 233 (Vice president, division general manager, 400 200 294 319 325 321 328 301 factory general manager or site senior manager 285 Corporate Energy Management or a person in equivalent role) 200 100 Committee The function of this committee is 0 0 ­primarily to discuss and draft Company 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2021 (FY) Alternate Energy Management Officer -wide yearly energy-saving policies and  CO2 emissions (left scale) (Division senior manager or a person action plans along with mediumto P CO2 per unit of net sales (right scale) in equivalent role) long-term energy-saving action plans. P Target CO2 per unit of net sales (right scale) Notes: 1. Per unit of net sales figures are obtained by dividing CO2 emissions by net sales. Energy Manager/ 2. The fuel and heat CO2 emission factors used are values published by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy. Energy Management Committee 3. The electricity CO2 emission factors used are values published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment for each power provider in each fiscal year. Energy Management Promoter Estimating Supply Chain CO2 Emissions (Section manager or a person in equivalent role) P Energy Consumption in Production Activities (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total TJ 9,140 8,990 9,320 9,200 9,340 Kawasaki Heavy Industries TJ 6,210 6,130 6,400 6,290 6,410 P Responsible Officer Domestic subsidiaries TJ 770 740 710 720 700 Director Responsible for Environmental Issues (Chief Environmental Officer, energy management Overseas subsidiaries TJ 2,160 2,120 2,210 2,190 2,230 officer, presiding officer of the Corporate Environment Committee): Sukeyuki Namiki, Representative Director, Vice President, and Senior Executive Officer P CO2 Emissions from Production Activities (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Environmental Management System Total kt-CO2 500 492 502 474 458 P The Kawasaki Group Environmental Management Promotion Structure Kawasaki Heavy Industries kt-CO2 325 321 328 301 285 To promote environmental management throughout the Group, Kawasaki and its subsidiaries are Domestic subsidiaries kt-CO2 41 38 36 36 35 building an environmental management system. Kawasaki’s production sites and domestic and overOverseas subsidiaries kt-CO2 134 133 138 137 138 seas subsidiaries have completed the acquisition of ISO 14001 certification or simplified EMS certificaThird-party verified Yes Yes Yes tion, or they have established EMS through self-declaration within the scope stipulated by Kawasaki. Yes Yes (Domestic Group, including (21/24 (21/24 (25/24 the parent company/ (41/24 sites) (42/24 sites) WEB Establishment of Environmental Management Systems Overseas Group) companies) companies) companies) https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/base.html Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020 Establishment of Environmental Management Systems Notes:1. T  he CO2 emission factors are the figures published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment for each power provider in each https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf ­fiscal year. 2. For overseas sites, the CO2 emission factors are the figures published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For details on the scope of the domestic consolidated subsidiaries and overseas consolidated subsidiaries covered, please refer to Scope of Environmental Data (page 59). 54 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 55 Environment Environment P The Kawasaki Group’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 Calculation Results (kt-CO2/year) (FY) Reduction of CO2 Emissions in Logistics Processes Category Calculation Targets 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 P CO2 Emissions from Logistics Processes and CO2 Emissions Per Unit of Net Sales (non-consolidated) Scope 1 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Direct emissions Direct emissions through use CO2 emissions kt-CO2 3.77 4.22 4.03 4.23 4.08 of fuel at Kawasaki and asso176 179 176 162 169 CO2 per unit of net sales t-CO2 ⁄ ciated i­ndustrial processes 3.25 3.60 3.32 3.54 3.26 billion yen Scope 2 Notes:1 Per unit of net sales figures are obtained by dividing CO2 emissions by net sales. Indirect emissions from Indirect emissions accompa2. The CO2 emissions factors used are values published by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy. the generation of nying use of electricity and 326 313 326 311 290 ­purchased energy heat p­ urchased by Kawasaki P Energy Consumption in Logistics Processes (non-consolidated) Third-party verified Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Domestic Group, includ(41 /24 (42 /24 (21/24 (21/24 (25/24 ing the parent company/ Energy consumption TJ 55.4 62.1 59.2 62.4 60.4 sites) sites) companies) companies) companies) Overseas Group) For details on the scope of the domestic consolidated subsidiaries and overseas consolidated subsidiaries covered, please refer to Scope of Environmental Data (page 59). Utilizing Renewable Energy P Photovoltaic Output (Including Power Sold via FIT; Total of Figures for Kawasaki Heavy Industries, P Kawasaki’s Scope 3 Calculation Results (kt-CO2/year) (FY) Kawasaki Trading and Kawasaki Thermal Engineering) Category Calculation Targets 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 3 (Other indirect emissions): Upstream Photovoltaic output MWh 5,007 5,019 5,236 4,749 4,883 (including power sold via FIT) 1. P  urchased Emissions associated with activities up to 5,432 5,566 6,033 6,049 1,940 goods and production of raw materials, parts, pur(10.0%) (9.6%) (6.5%) (4.5%) (1.6%) services chased goods and sales-­related materials 2. Capital goods Emissions from construction and production 254 223 276 293 238 Reducing CO2 Emissions through Product-Based Contributions of Kawasaki’s c ­ apital goods (0.5%) (0.4%) (0.3%) (0.2%) (0.2%) P CO2 Emission Reduction through Product-Based Contributions (non-consolidated) 3. F  ueland Emissions associated with procurement of (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 energy-related fuel from other providers and procurement 36 38 39 37 37 CO2 emission reduction activities of fuel required to generate power, such as through product-based kt-CO2 750 900 22,920 29,130 23,140 not included electricity and heat (0.1%) (0.1%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) contributions under Scope 1 or Scope 2 Notes:1. K  awasaki uses CO2 emissions factors provided in the list of calculation methods and emissions actors published by Japan’s 4. U  pstream Emissions associated with logistics of raw Ministry of the Environment. transportation materials, parts, purchased goods and 7 8 8 8 8 2. The CO2 emission reduction effect through product-based contributions achieved through the higher energy efficiency of and distribution sales-related materials up to delivery (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) ­products is based on a comparison using industry standard products. to Kawasaki 3. The application of waste heat, waste and renewable energy is counted toward the CO₂emissions reduction effect through ­product-based contributions. 5. W  aste generated Emissions associated with transportation and 7 7 19 12 12 in operations processing of waste ­generated by Kawasaki (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) WEB Realization of a Low-Carbon Society 6. Business travel Emissions associated with business travel 15 14 14 15 13 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/low_carbon.html by employees (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020 CO2 FREE 7. E  mployee Emissions associated with transportation of https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf 6 6 6 7 7 commuting employees between their homes and (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) their worksites 8. U  pstream leased Emissions associated with operation of Included Included Included Included assets assets leased by Kawasaki (excluding those in Scope 1 in Scope 1 in Scope 1 in Scope 1 0 included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 calculations) and Scope 2 and Scope 2 and Scope 2 and Scope 2 (0.0%) Waste FREE (Realization of a Recycling-Oriented Society) calculations calculations calculations calculations Scope 3 (Other indirect emissions): Downstream 10th Plan Target 9. D  ownstream Emissions associated with transportation, 0 0 0 0 0 Maintain ratio of direct-to-landfill waste to total waste generation at less than 1% (non-consolidated) ­transportation storage, cargo handling and retail sales (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) (0.0%) and distribution of products 10. P  rocessing of Emissions associated with processing of Waste Sorting and Recycling Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 sold products intermediate products by companies P Reduction of Total Waste Generation 11. U  se of sold Emissions associated with use of products 48,390 52,088 86,796 126,823 118,550 In fiscal 2019, the landfill disposal rate was 0.2%, achieving the target of 1% or less. ­products by consumers and companies (89.1%) (89.6%) (93.0%) (95.1%) (98.0%) P Waste Generated and Landfill Disposal Rate (non-consolidated) 12.End-of-life Emissions associated with transportation ­treatment of and treatment of products upon disposal Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 Excluded1 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 sold products by consumers and companies Waste generated kt 51.4 51.1 51.5 52.5 50.2 13. D  ownstream Emissions associated with operation of Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 Landfill disposal rate % 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.2 leased assets assets leased to other companies 14. Franchises Emissions by franchisees Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 Excluded2 15. Investments Emissions related to operation 176 171 174 173 173 Water Resource Conservation of investments (0.3%) (0.3%) (0.2%) (0.1%) (0.1%) P Water Consumption (non-consolidated) Third-party verified Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Categories 1. And 11.) Tap water 10 m3 3 636 574 654 703 584 1. Excluded from calculation target because Kawasaki is unable to confirm reference data at this time. 2. Excluded from calculation target because it is outside of the scope of our business. Industrial water 103m3 1,182 1,374 951 1,255 1,190 Groundwater 103m3 4,082 4,152 4,555 4,541 4,209 56 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 57 Environment Environment P Total Energy (Heat Conversion) and CO2 Emissions from Energy Sources (non-consolidated) WEB Realization of a Recycling-Oriented Society https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/recycling.html (kt-CO2) (TJ) Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020 Waste FREE 400 8,000 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf 325 328 6,400 6,348 6,003 321 6,085 301 6,291 300 285 6,000 200 4,000 100 2,000 Harm FREE (Realization of a Society Coexisting with Nature) 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 10th Plan Target  CO2 emissions (left scale)  Energy (heat conversion) (right scale) Reduce environmental risk while operating factories with respect for biodiversity Harmful Chemical Substance Reduction P Waste Generation and Recycling Rate (non-consolidated) P Emissions and Handling Volume of Managed Chemical Substances (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (kt) (%) 97 98 98 98 98 Dichloromethane t 39 47 32 29 24 60 100 Emissions and handling Hazardous heavy metals t 13 13 12 14 13 45 75 volume of managed Major VOCs (toluene, 30 50 chemical substances kg/ xylene and ethylbenzene) 785 729 700 617 560 51 51 51 52 50 billion yen per unit of net sales 15 25 Notes:1. Major VOCs per unit of net sales figures are obtained by dividing VOC emissions by net sales. 0 0 2. Figures for hazardous heavy metals represent the combined amounts of hexavalent chromium compounds. Reduction activities 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) are undertaken separately for each substance.  Waste generation (left scale) P Recycling rate (right scale) WEB Realization of a Society Coexisting with Nature https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/symbiotically.html Environmental data by business site and for Group companies is disclosed on Kawasaki’s website and Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020 Harm FREE in the Kawasaki Environmental Report. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf WEB Environmental Data (Environmental Data for Kawasaki/Environmental Data by Business Site/Environmental Data of Subsidiaries) https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/data.html Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020—Environmental Data https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf Other Environmental Data Fiscal 2019 Environmental Data (non-consolidated) CompanyComparison Disclosure in Line with the TCFD Recommendations Unit with Fiscal wide 2018 In September 2019, Kawasaki officially endorsed the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateTotal energy (heat conversion) TJ 6,348 +1% related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Going forward, we will further enhance disclosure to stakeholders, Purchased electricity MWh 407,548 ±0% including disclosure of the risks and opportunities related to climate change in Kawasaki’s businesses. Fuel TJ 2,346 +1% Kawasaki’s analysis of its risks and opportunities related to climate change is as disclosed in INPUT Renewable energy MWh 1,526 -2% Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020. Main materials (steel) kt 110 ±0% WEB Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020—Risks and Opportunities Related to Climate Change Water 103 m3 5,983 -8% https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf CO2 emissions from energy t 285,123 -5% sources Air SOx t 4 +78% NOx t 129 -23% Scope of Environmental Data Soot and dust t 6 -7% Wastewater 103 m3 4,497 -2% The scope of domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries covered by Kawasaki’s environmental OUTPUT COD t 7 +24% management is as disclosed in Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020. Water Nitrogen t 24 +12% WEB Kawasaki Environmental Report 2020—The Kawasaki Group Environmental Management Promotion Structure Phosphorus t Under 1 +1% https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/20_houkokusyo.pdf Total emitted t 50,181 -4% Waste Recycled t 48,933 -5% Others (incinerated/landfill) t 1,247 +4% Others CO2 emissions during transport t 4,081 -4% Note: For more details about financial information, including the net sales figures used to calculate per-unit information, please refer to the Kawasaki Report, Kawasaki’s integrated report, which combines financial and non-financial information. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/ir/library/annual_report.html 58 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 59 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Consideration for Human Rights, Labor and Occupational Safety and Health Working with Suppliers are valuable business partners of the Kawasaki Group in its business activities. It is essential We will advance procurement activities with consideration for human rights, the work environment Suppliers M that our procurement activities are conducted in line with our stance toward CSR, which includes conand occupational safety and health. sideration for compliance, human rights, labor issues, occupational safety and health, and the global Harmony with the Global Environment through Green Procurement Management environment. To this end, we must work in cooperation with not only the entire Group but also our We will advance procurement with consideration for the global environment with respect to the Approach suppliers to actively promote CSR activities throughout the supply chain. materials used in products. Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets In addition, our Basic Policies for Material Procurement and the Policy Regarding Procurement of We are committed to recognizing CSR risks throughout our supply chains and responding to the Conflict Minerals are disclosed on our website to inform business partners of our basic stance toward demands of our customers and society by working with our suppliers to advance our CSR activities. material procurement. P Goal for the MTBP 2019 P Scope of Policy Application P Carry out CSR procurement surveys of major suppliers in and outside Japan and increase their The Kawasaki Group and our suppliers concern regarding CSR. WEB Kawasaki Group Policies for Material Procurement https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/basic_policies.pdf Progress, Results and Challenges Policy Regarding Procurement of Conflict Minerals P Goal for Fiscal 2019 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/index.html P Building on the revised CSR Procurement Guidelines and briefings held thus far, conduct a CSR procurement survey of major suppliers in Japan to understand their current CSR activities while working to raise awareness of Kawasaki Group CSR activities and CSR in general among suppliers. Structure P Fiscal 2019 Results Procurement activities in our daily operations are carried out under the responsibility and authority of P Carried out a CSR procurement survey of major suppliers in Japan and secured responses from each internal company or business division. 480 companies Once a year, the Procurement Division holds a cross-company Procurement Department Managers P Sent out a document titled “Toward the Further Promotion of CSR Activities Involving the Entire Meeting that Director in charge of procurement attends. At this meeting, participants follow up on the Supply Chain” to suppliers along with the following three documents to encourage them to engage results for the previous year’s procurement-related KPIs set by each internal company or business in CSR initiatives division, share their activity plans for that fiscal year and decide on common Group-wide procurement 1. Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct ­measures and policies, including those related to CSR procurement. 2. CSR Procurement Guidelines 3. Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy P Held a briefing for suppliers of the Aerospace Systems Company’s Aerospace Division under the theme “CSR Activities to Be Undertaken in Tandem with Suppliers” Note: Briefings for suppliers of other internal companies were conducted in fiscal 2018. P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Conduct a CSR procurement survey of major overseas suppliers like that conducted in fiscal 2018 to ascertain said suppliers’ current CSR activities while working to raise awareness of Kawasaki Group CSR activities and CSR in general among suppliers. P Promote CSR procurement on a Group-wide basis by establishing various policies (e.g. material procurement policies and CSR procurement guidelines) that apply to the entire Kawasaki Group Basic Policies for Material Procurement P Kawasaki Group Policies for Material Procurement [Basic Policies] The Kawasaki Group conducts procurement activities based on the Kawasaki Group Mission Statement, the encapsulation of the Group’s management principles. Fair and Impartial Procurement We will provide broad and impartial opportunities for our business partners and will make selections with integrity and in good faith after conducting comprehensive and fair evaluations of quality, price, delivery schedule, technological development capabilities and other such factors. Relationships with Business Partners The Kawasaki Group will take a long-term perspective as it strives to build relationships of trust with business partners based on mutual respect for one another’s vision and position with the aim of mutual enhancement of competitiveness and prosperity. Compliance We will observe related statutes and regulations as well as social norms. We will place information gained through procurements under appropriate controls and will take thoroughgoing measures to protect confidential information and prevent leaks. 60 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 61 Society Society Working with CSR Procurement Thorough Compliance in Materials Procurement Suppliers M CSR Procurement Initiatives Each year, Kawasaki holds group workshops for Group procurement divisions to ensure compliance Performance Data The Kawasaki Group CSR Procurement Guidelines, which outline the Group’s approach to CSR procurewith procurement-related laws and regulations, particularly the Act against Delay in Payment of ment and expectations for its suppliers, were prepared in 2020 as an upgrade of the Company’s former Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors (the Subcontractors’ Act) and the Construction Industry CSR Procurement Guidelines established in 2012, and are published on the Company website. Additionally, Law. Of note, we maintain proactive measures not limited to procurement divisions to promote in fiscal 2016, we conducted a survey of our domestic suppliers to assess their compliance with these ­awareness and knowledge of the Subcontractors’ Act, as outlined below. guidelines. About 1,400 suppliers responded to the survey. Based on the results of the survey, we will P In October 2009, we published a collection of examples of Subcontractors’ Act violations, citing actual execute measures to strengthen CSR efforts throughout our entire supply chain. In fiscal 2018, we cases in which other companies had contravened this law. ­carried out a similar survey of 65 major overseas suppliers and, in fiscal 2019, another of 480 major P In April 2013, we posted a checklist for compliance self-auditing pursuant to the Subcontractors’ Act suppliers in Japan. on the Company intranet. This checklist functions as a tool for checking and correcting administrative Moreover, from fiscal 2018, we are providing briefings to directly explain our approach to CSR to activities prone to violations of the Subcontractors’ Act. suppliers. At these briefings, we explain human rights, environmental, and other important issues in P Since fiscal 2011, we have held training sessions, mainly for design and manufacturing divisions supply chain management and request that suppliers strengthen their CSR initiatives. From fiscal 2018 at works and major affiliated companies. In fiscal 2019, these training sessions attracted 953 through fiscal 2019, we held 10 such CSR-themed supplier briefings attended by a total of 1,000 ­participants. To date, 6,889 people have attended the sessions. ­people from 700 companies. Also, in fiscal 2019 we sent out a document titled “Toward the Further Promotion of CSR Activities Involving the Entire Supply Chain” to suppliers in Japan, aiming to ­facilitate collaborative CSR initiatives. Conflict Minerals The basic agreements that Kawasaki forms with its suppliers include provisions recognizing the importance of corporate social responsibility on the part of both parties and stating that they will In December 2013, the Kawasaki Group posted its Policy Regarding Procurement of Conflict Minerals independently and proactively engage in business and social activities with due consideration given to on its website. This policy states that the Group has no intention whatsoever of being party to conflicts the sustainable development of the environment and society. In fiscal 2020, we revised the aforemenor inhumane acts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries through the protioned basic agreements to include clear provisions mandating that suppliers strive to comply with our curement or use of the tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold—so called conflict minerals—that are produced CSR Procurement Guidelines. As a result, our collaboration with suppliers in terms of practicing CSR in these countries. procurement is moving to a new level. We also ask our suppliers to take similar efforts in the CSR Procurement Guidelines. In addition, we hold lectures about CSR procurement as part of internal training for employees and Policy Regarding Procurement of Conflict Minerals are working to increase the CSR awareness of employees in relevant positions. Also, domestic and WEB https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/index.html overseas Group companies that engage in material procurement disclose their CSR procurement poliKawasaki Group CSR Procurement Guidelines cies on their websites in manners suitable to their specific businesses. Through such efforts, we pursue https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/csr_tyoutatsu_guideline.pdf CSR procurement on a global and Group-wide basis. Going forward, the Kawasaki Group will continue to promote CSR initiatives throughout the supply chain in cooperation with its suppliers. WEB Kawasaki Group CSR Procurement Guidelines https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/csr_tyoutatsu_guideline.pdf Human Rights Efforts in the Supply Chain Efforts to Improve the Practices of Suppliers Kawasaki has created the CSR Procurement Guidelines, which outline its expectations for its suppliers, Supply Chain Risk Assessment with the aim of promoting CSR, including human rights considerations and the prohibition of forced labor and child labor, throughout the supply chain. These guidelines are published on Kawasaki’s webIn fiscal 2016, Kawasaki conducted a survey of domestic suppliers to assess their compliance with our site and distributed to suppliers. In fiscal 2020, we revised the basic agreements we form with our CSR Procurement Guidelines and received responses from roughly 1,400 suppliers. In fiscal 2018, we suppliers to include clear provisions mandating that they strive to comply with our CSR Procurement carried out a survey of major overseas suppliers (65 companies) to ascertain their current CSR activiGuidelines. As such, we are asking our suppliers to step up their CSR initiatives, including those advoties. In fiscal 2019, we conducted a similar survey of major suppliers (480 companies) in Japan. cating for human rights, by conducting surveys of suppliers, hosting CSR-themed briefings, and updating Moving forward, we will implement measures to strengthen CSR efforts throughout the supply chain the provisions of the basic agreements. based on the results of these surveys. WEB Kawasaki Group CSR Procurement Guidelines https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/csr_tyoutatsu_guideline.pdf Capacity Building and Incentives for Suppliers The Kawasaki Group’s six internal companies procure materials across a wide range of fields. Each internal company and business division provides training and implements recognition systems as needed to improve suppliers’ quality and delivery performance. 62 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 63 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Product As the Kawasaki Group’s businesses involve the provision of many infrastructure products, ensuring Product Quality and Safety Management Liability M that customers can use our products and services with confidence is a key management issue. The Liability M Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct includes a section titled “Quality and Safety of Products and Services” The internal companies and business divisions are reassessing their internal product safety rules to Management and states that we must provide high-performance, high-quality, safe products and services. Performance Data ensure that their product safety processes are compliant with the international standard ISO 12100. Approach Doing so will better enable design divisions to carry out risk assessments and implement risk Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets ­reduction measures appropriate to the magnitude of risks identified from the design stage. P Goals for the MTBP 2019 P Basic Safety Standards: Basic concepts applied to all types of machinery P Create quality assurance and product safety systems Group-wide. P ISO 12100 Safety of machinery—General principles for design—Risk assessment and risk reduction P Zero product safety law violations. P Generic Safety Standards: Applied across a wide range of machinery P ISO 13849-1 Safety of machinery—Safety-related parts of control systems—Part 1: General principles Progress, Results and Challenges for design Goals for Fiscal 2019 P IEC 62061 Safety of machinery—Functional safety of electrical, electronic and programmable P Survey the internal companies and business divisions. ­electronic control systems P Establish a Kawasaki Group quality assurance policy. P IEC 60204-1 Safety of machinery—Electrical equipment of machines—Part 1: General requirements P Build a Group-wide system for thorough quality management. P IEC 61000-6-4 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)—Part 6-4: Generic standards—Emission P Fiscal 2019 Results ­standard for industrial environments P Surveyed quality assurance structures in place at each internal company and business division using P IEC 61000-6-2 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)—Part 6-2: Generic standards—Immunity for the Total Quality Management (TQM) method and assessed the actual level of quality assurance industrial environments P Initiated discussions to establish a Kawasaki Group quality assurance policy P Machine Safety Standards: Detailed safety requirements for a particular machine or group of machines P Held a Company-wide quality meeting to ensure information sharing throughout the Group and P ISO 10218-1 Robots and robotic devices—Safety requirements for industrial robots—Part 1: Robots facilitated quality assurance activities PR  ecorded zero product safety law violations Quality and Safety Education and Awareness Raising P Goals for Fiscal 2020 We hold information meetings on machinery safety and risk assessment seminars for technical diviP Continue using the TQM method to conduct surveys to determine actual levels of quality assurance. sions of the internal companies and business divisions, which are at the frontlines of realizing machine P Establish a Kawasaki Group quality assurance policy. safety, to ensure that the idea and practice of machine safety reaches all affected employees. P Periodically hold Company-wide quality meetings to facilitate information sharing and quality assurance activities while developing a robust Company-wide structure for quality management Quality and Safety Violations and Actions Taken education. We monitor the status of qualityand safety-related incidents throughout the Company, including those involving violations of laws and regulations, while regularly confirming whether necessary Product Quality and Safety Policy countermeasures are being implemented. Findings gleaned from these activities are utilized to update The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct includes a section titled “Quality and Safety of Products and our quality management structure. Services” and states that “we must provide high-performance, high-quality, safe products and services.” P Scope of Policy Application The Kawasaki Group ISO 9001 Certification Status The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct WEB Kawasaki acquires ISO 9001 certification at the internal company level. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html P Ship & Offshore Structure Company: Certified (general merchant ship, offshore structures and AUV business) Structure P Rolling Stock Company: Certified We have established TQM Department within the Corporate Technology Division to advance quality P Aerospace Systems Company: Certified (JIS Q 9100 for aerospace and jet engine business) control assurance at the Group-wide level. We have also established divisions responsible for quality P Energy System & Plant Engineering Company: Certified (plant, energy and marine business) control within the internal companies and business divisions to advance quality assurance activities P Motorcycle & Engine Company: Certified (small engine business) within the internal companies. P Precision Machinery & Robot Company: Certified (also certified under the automotive industry ­standard IATF 16949 for the gas valve business) P Responsible Officer Sukeyuki Namiki, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer (in charge of TQM) In addition, 14 of the 19 overseas production sites are certified under the ISO 9001 quality manageP Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee ment standard. We are formulating policies and plans for building and reinforcing a Group-wide TQM system that will include regular quality assurance activities. WEB ISO 9001 Certification Status of Kawasaki Group’s Overseas Production Sites https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/ISO9001_survey.pdf 64 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 65 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Customer Policy on Defense-related Businesses The Kawasaki Group offers a vast variety of products to a wide range of domestic and international Relationship customers. The Group’s products range from transportation equipment, such as ships, rolling stock and Management Initiatives to Prevent Human Rights Infringements in Defense-related Businesses aircraft, to industrial machinery, such as gas turbines, engines, robots and industrial plants, and also Aware of the CSR obligations attendant to involvement in national security-related businesses, we forinclude leisure products, such as motorcycles. A critical aspect of our business is to reflect our customers’ mulated corporate ethics-based in-house rules regarding the provision of products and services. In Management demands in our products as quickly as possible. addition to ensuring compliance with laws and regulations associated with security trade and export Approach The Kawasaki Group’s six internal companies form a unique customer relationship management control, these corporate ethics-based rules are designed to help employees judge the propriety of how (CRM) structure, wherein they share information in order to reflect in product designs and after-sales purchasers put our products and technologies to actual use and thereby prevent such products and services as needed. technologies from being used in unintended manners. Furthermore, the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct states that “We do not provide products and techFocus Activities and Medium-term Targets nologies for unethical purposes of use” and requires that Group members be aware of the ethical Because our lineup of products is highly diverse, and because of the differences between our B-to-B responsibilities associated with the provision of Group products and technologies. and B-to-C businesses, we base our business activities and goal setting for winning the confidence of our customers on the specific characteristics of each business. Key Group-wide activities are aimed at The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct WEB establishing and improving feedback systems. The Marketing Division reaches out to the internal comhttps://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html panies and business divisions to gather feedback from customers and follow up on measures intended to enhance customer satisfaction. In the course of doing so, it also shares information and seeks to boost awareness of customer relationship management. Net Sales by Defense-related Businesses (consolidated global) P Goal for the MTBP 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 P Further enhance each internal company and business division’s awareness of customer engagement. Net sales (Millions of yen) 227,333 236,861 237,737 216,989 256,839 Percentage of (%) 14.8 15.5 15.1 13.6 15.6 Progress, Results and Challenges total net sales We have set up a contact page on our website that customers and other stakeholders can use to ­communicate their views to the Company. Since fiscal 2013, the Marketing Division follows up with business divisions on the status of web surveys, questionnaires, and interviews associated with customer satisfaction on a yearly basis (in principle). P Goal for Fiscal 2019 P Roll out customer satisfaction improvement initiatives at all internal companies (once every three years after fiscal 2020). P Fiscal 2019 Results P Strove to enhance customer engagement via the sharing of CRM-related priority issues, which need to be addressed from the ESG perspective, between the Motorcycle & Engine Company and the Precision Machinery Business Division P Goal for Fiscal 2020 P Roll out customer satisfaction improvement initiatives at Energy System & Plant Engineering and Rolling Stock companies. 66 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 67 Society Society Our Basic Stance Customer Human Resource Customer Satisfaction Our employees constitute the fundamental component supporting the Kawasaki Group’s product Relationship Management ­technologies and the success of the projects it undertakes. Management Customer Satisfaction Survey Therefore, Kawasaki sees employees as its most important asset for achieving its Group Mission— The Kawasaki Group’s six internal companies supply products to customers across a wide range of “Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet”—and business targets. Performance Data fields. Since customer characteristics and business practices vary widely from business to business and With this in mind, our Mission Statement enshrines the Kawasaki Group Management Principles, product to product, each internal company or business division works to understand their customers’ which state that “The Kawasaki Group’s corporate culture is built on integrity, vitality, organizational level of satisfaction using methodologies that best suit their businesses. strength and mutual respect for people through all levels of the Group. We nurture a global team for Business units with many regular or ongoing customers conduct customer satisfaction surveys over a global era.” Specifically, in line with the core principle of respect for the life and health of human time to monitor changes in satisfaction and use these findings to make necessary improvements. The beings, we strive to create environments where diverse human resources are able to energetically Motorcycle & Engine Company’s customers include consumers. As such, in addition to direct interview-style work with a sense of pride, safety and security. questionnaires, the company uses online surveys to measure the satisfaction of large numbers of ­customers around the world. Structure P Personnel-related Structures Company-wide policies on human resource development and utilization with significant potential Responding to Customer Feedback and Complaints impact on corporate management are discussed and reviewed at the Company-wide HR Committee. With the president as its presiding officer, the Company-wide HR Committee comprises primarily Because customer characteristics and business practices vary widely from business to business and internal company presidents. The committee discusses and reviews matters regarding 1) cultivating product to product, each internal company and business division responds to customer feedback and corporate ­managers, 2) the application of human resources in key strategies and 3) the assignment complaints in ways that best suit their businesses. For example, the Motorcycle & Engine Company of human resources to new business and new product operations. handles feedback and complaints from customers in Japan at a customer consultation office, centrally  In addition, the Head Office Human Resources Division maintains various meetings and committees manages the information gleaned from such offices and uses it to inform product development. The in which division managers in charge of human resources and labor at the internal companies and company has a similar system in place overseas. business divisions convene to gather views and opinions on the drafting of detailed of human resource initiatives and communicate Company-wide policies. Customer Information Management P Human Resource Committees and Meetings Meeting Body Purpose Attendees Because customer characteristics and business practices vary widely from business to business and frequency product to product, each internal company and business division manages customer information in •P  resident, Vice President, and Internal ways that best suit their businesses. Company President To discuss and consider Company• General Manager of the Corporate wide policies on human resource Company-wide Technology Division development and related matters As needed HR Committee • General Manager of the Corporate with the potential to significantly Online Strategy Planning Division impact ­corporate management • General Manager of the Head Office Human Resources Division Because customer characteristics and commercial practices vary widely from business to business and •T  he Head Office Human Resources product to product, each internal company and business division provides services in ways that best Operation Department (host) suit their businesses. At the Group-wide level, we are using social media to provide information about Meeting of managers To share information on policy and • Managers of personnel & labor adminisin charge of personnel tration sections of internal companies Four times the Group. operations related to personnel & & labor administration and business divisions, and offices a year The Motorcycle & Engine Company is working to increase customer satisfaction using services labor administration sections* • Managers of personnel & labor adminis­provided through “RIDEOLOGY THE APP”, an official smartphone application that links to supported tration section of Group companies • Related departments motorcycle models. • The Head Office Human Resources As needed Meeting of To exchange views about and discuss Department (host) (approxi­managers in the operations of human resource • Managers of personnel & labor adminismately charge of human Corporate Promotion departments tration sections of internal companies twice resources and business divisions, and offices a year) Responsible Corporate Promotion •T  he Head Office Human Capital Development Department (host) The Kawasaki Group seeks to accurately communicate the content of its business activities, which are Meeting of • Managers in charge of human capital based on its corporate philosophy, to stakeholders. To this end, we carefully check information prior to ­managers in To exchange views about and discuss development of internal companies and Twice charge of human the operation of human capital disclosure from various stakeholder perspectives, including checks for factualness and potential legal business divisions, and personnel & labor a year capital development departments administration section of offices issues. Furthermore, we endeavor to avoid using specialized terminology or expressions likely to be ­development •Managers of human capital development misunderstood. We utilize such media as press releases, Group websites, social media, corporate prosections of the Group companies motional publications and advertisements, selecting the form to use with due regard to how it impacts • The Head Office Labor Administration Meeting of society. We engage in corporate promotion with a constant awareness of not only of increasing the To exchange views about and discuss Department (host) ­managers in Twice public awareness of the Group, but also the need to communicate the Group’s contributions to solving the operation of labor administration • Managers of personnel & labor adminischarge of labor a year departments tration sections of internal companies social issues through its businesses and products. administration and business divisions, and offices Meeting of •T  he Head Office Safety & Health To exchange views about and discuss Advertisement Violations and Actions Taken managers in charge Management Department (host) Four times the operation of safety & health There were no violations of laws pertaining to advertising in fiscal 2019. of safety & health • Managers of the safety & health managea year management departments management ment section of each business location *M eetings of managers serve as venues for discussion, while the Company-wide Meeting of the Head Office Human Resources Division serves as a venue for sharing information and communicating policy. 68 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 69 Society Society P Responsible Officers Structure Kouzou Tomiyama, Executive Officer, General Manager, Human Resources Division We have formed an Implementation Secretariat for K-Win Activities, primarily comprising the Human Company-wide HR Committee: Yasuhiko Hashimoto, Representative Director, President and Chief Resources Division’s Kawasaki Workstyle Innovation Project Department. Two teams operate under the Executive Officer Implementation Secretariat: a mindset transformation team and an operational transformation team. Other various HR meeting bodies: Managers from the Head Office Human Resources Division These teams are responsible for the following activities: P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee P Mindset transformation team: Promoting awareness of the Group Vision 2030, fostering exchange Company-wide HR Committee in and outside the Company to promote the diversity of knowledge, nurturing a culture of encouraging taking on challenges and acknowledging and learning from failure, and building an open organizational and corporate culture Vision for Our People and Organization under the MTBP 2019 P Operational transformation team: Realizing new workstyles for the “new normal,” the world with In line with the MTBP 2019, we have identified a vision for our people and organization as described COVID-19, increasing productivity (promoting effective work methods in terms of maximizing results below. This vision is aimed at making effective use of human resources with an eye to total business and judicious task selection, and promoting efficient work methods in terms of minimizing required portfolio optimization, maximizing results by improving productivity and realizing value creation by inputs) bringing together diverse insights. Additionally, implementation secretariats have been established at the internal companies and works PR  espond to changes in the environment by proactively changing and continuously taking on to promote workstyle reforms across the Company. The Head Office K-Win Implementation Secretariat new challenges and the implementation secretariats at internal companies and works hold the Company-wide K-Win P Implement effective ways of working to maximize results Implementation Secretariat Conference to share information and promote workstyle reform implementation. PR  ealize self-directed, strong individuals and dynamic, cohesive organizations K-Win Implementation Structure To achieve this vision, we will rally wide-ranging efforts, including human resource strategies, to transform the Company organization and culture in addition to implementing K-Win Activities (short for Corporate Planning Human Resources Kawasaki Workstyle Innovation Activities) and promoting diversity. Division Division For the detail of K-Win Activities, please refer to Work-Life Balance (page 89) under the section titled Mindset Corporate Communication Kawasaki Workstyle Securing and Retaining Human Resources. transformation team Department Innovation Project Department Human Resource-Related Priority Issues to Be Addressed in K-Win Activities K-Win internal P Organizational Transformation: Reconstruct cross-organizational functions and management company implementation ­systems for total optimization secretariats P Develop succession plans for the next generation of management leaders For more details, please refer to Human Resource Development (page 79). Corporate Operational Technology Division P Mindset Transformation: Establish a culture to face evolving challenges transformation team DX Promotion P Promote diversity to foster open communication incorporating diverse insights and human Department Coordination resources from in and outside the Company P Establish personnel systems to emphasize speed and positive, ambitious change [Example Initiatives] P Enabling greater Company-wide mobility of human resources and the mingling of insight from in and outside the Company P Responsible Officer P Checking organizational soundness using surveys and promoting intra-workplace communication Takaaki Kitabayashi, Manager, Kawasaki Workstyle Innovation Project Department, Human Resources using organizational development methods Division P Building relationships of trust between managers and subordinates through one-on-one meetings P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee and promoting appropriate career formation K-Win Activities Implementation Secretariat P Developing a corporate culture that promotes taking on challenges and learning from failure WEB Kawasaki Report 2019Human Resource Strategies and Transforming the Company Organization and Culture/K-Win Activities For more details, please refer to Diversity (page 72) and Securing and Retaining Human Resources (page 84). https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/report/environmental/pdf/19_houkokusyo_19.pdf Kawasaki Report 2020Special Features Human Resources Strategies P Operational Transformation: Make structures leaner through effective, efficient business operations https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/report/2020/pdf/20_houkokusyo_13.pdf Standardize and concentrate operations to increase quality and speed [Example Initiatives] P Workstyle reforms and initiatives to analyze and improve work processes P Digitize and streamline administrative work, such as accounting and personnel functions P Improving workplace environments by introducing remote work systems P Improving efficiency of email and meetings For more details, please refer to Securing and Retaining Human Resources (page 84). 70 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 71 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Our Basic Stance on Diversity Diversity Today, developed countries, including Japan, are facing a looming sense of anxiety arising from the In order for the Kawasaki Group to achieve the sustainable improvement of its enterprise value, it is lack of labor force due to an ongoing decline in population. In addition, a growing number of businesscritical that all of the roughly 36,000 human resources who participate in its businesses around the Management es seek to expand globally as they confront increasingly intensive international competition. Moreover, world are empowered to take full advantage of their unique personalities, realize their full potential Approach people’s views regarding careers and working styles have become more diverse than ever before. and vigorously engage in their daily operations, regardless of their nationality, gender, age, religion or Against this backdrop, helping employees fully realize their diverse competencies will be crucial to the disability. Accordingly, we will foster a corporate culture in which all employees respect one another Kawasaki Group’s efforts to sustainably improve its enterprise value. We must also create an organizabased on a common understanding that others have different value systems and attributes. Doing so tion designed to maximize our human resource capabilities. Based on this recognition, we are will facilitate the creation of unconventional ideas and new value, with the aim of accommodating ­proactively implementing various initiatives to promote diversity. increasingly diverse customer requests. In addition, the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct makes it clear that we will strive to create a workplace Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets environment that respects diversity among employees and empowers everyone to work energetically. Our diversity initiatives center on “allowing employees to embrace diverse working styles to help The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct them strike an optimal work-life balance,” “promoting the active participation of women,” “facilitating WEB https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html the employment of people with disabilities,” “extending support for the next generation and those engaging in nursing care” and “promoting the active participation of non-Japanese nationals.” Furthermore, in an effort to expand the scope of these initiatives, we aim to create an LGBT-friendly Structure work environment and, to this end, are focusing on pushing ahead with various measures and employee Within the Head Office Human Resources Division, we have in place the Diversity Promotion Section, awareness campaigns. Proactively undertaking diversity initiatives, we are thus fostering an inclusive which is tasked with various activities aimed at promoting diversity. corporate culture that respects diversity and empowers all employees to work energetically. We expect For details on our internal committees and relevant governance structures, please refer to Human Resource Management (page 69). that these initiatives will, in turn, help us enhance our corporate competitiveness. P Goals for the MTBP 2019 PD  ecrease the voluntary turnover rate for female employees in administrative and technical ­positions to 1.4% (fiscal 2016–2018 average: 2.8%). P Increase options designed for LGBT employees. P Hold presentations for senior managers and section managers on timely, diversity-related topics. Progress, Results and Challenges PG  oals for Fiscal 2019 P Implement measures to promote the retention and success of women, non-Japanese nationals, people with disabilities and other minorities within the Group. PFoster LGBT-friendly work environments and revise internal systems to allow employees to make choices that align with their gender identity. P Enhance education for managers to foster workplaces where all employees can work with enthusiasm and pride. P Fiscal 2019 Results P Held seminars for female and non-Japanese national employees P Reviewed the content of training sessions for senior managers and managers, increasing the focus on diversity & inclusion with the aim of creating a work environment in which everyone can work with confidence P Established a policy on ensuring equality for LGBT individuals and launched fresh efforts to create an even more inclusive work environment for these individuals P Number of female managers: 57 (+8) (April 2020) P Percentage of management positions held by women: 1.38% (+0.16 percentage points) (April 2020) P Percentage of employees with disabilities: 2.52% (+0.07 percentage points) (March 2020) Note: Figures in parentheses represent year-on-year changes. P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Establish a Company-wide policy on diversity. P Implement measures to curb the number of voluntary resignations among women, non-Japanese nationals, people with disabilities, young employees and mid-career hires along with initiatives aimed at supporting their career success. P Hold seminars, study sessions and other events to create an LGBT-friendly work environment. P Practice organizational development activities at multiple workplaces to establish organizational development methods that are best suited to Kawasaki. 72 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 73 Society Society (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Diversity Employee Breakdown By Senior Persons 776 820 869 917 987 position manager Male Persons 770 813 862 910 979 Performance Data Number of Employees (non-consolidated)¹ equivalent4 % 99.2 99.1 99.2 99.2 99.2 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Female Persons 6 7 7 7 8 Number of employees Persons 15,911 16,162 16,423 16,899 17,218 % 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 Male Persons 14,964 15,159 15,303 15,533 15,748 Manager Persons 2,402 2,402 2,456 2,461 2,470 % 94.0 93.8 93.2 91.9 91.5 equivalent Male Persons 2,389 2,385 2,435 2,427 2,431 Female Persons 947 1,003 1,120 1,366 1,470 % 99.5 99.3 99.1 98.6 98.4 % 6.0 6.2 6.8 8.1 8.5 Female Persons 13 17 21 34 39 Managerial staff Persons — 3,386 3,473 3,593 3,681 % 0.5 0.7 0.9 1.4 1.6 Male Persons — 3,362 3,445 3,549 3,630 Assistant Persons 1,823 1,795 1,873 2,147 2,074 Female Persons — 24 28 44 51 manager Male Persons 1,745 1,708 1,769 2,034 1,952 General Persons — 12,776 12,950 13,306 13,537 equivalent employees % 95.7 95.2 94.4 94.7 94.1 Male Persons — 11,797 11,858 11,984 12,118 Female Persons 78 87 104 113 122 Female Persons — 979 1,092 1,322 1,419 % 4.3 4.8 5.6 5.3 5.9 Average age Years old 38.3 38.1 38.4 39.3 39.4 1. Number of employees as of the fiscal year-end (includes temporary employees). Male Years old 38.0 38.0 38.3 39.2 39.3 2. Percentage figures will not necessarily add up to 100% as they are rounded up to the first decimal point. Female Years old 39.9 39.9 39.9 40.9 40.9 3. On June 25 2020, Kawasaki transitioned from a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. By age2 29 and younger Persons 3,775 3,867 3,870 3,826 3,703 4. Senior Manager equivalents include positions up to associate officer. % 23.7 23.9 23.6 22.6 21.5 Male Persons 3,592 3,674 3,655 3,595 3,451 Number of Employees (consolidated global) * Female Persons 183 193 215 231 252 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 30 to 39 Persons 4,512 4,718 4,960 5,225 5,437 Total employees Persons 34,605 35,127 35,805 35,691 36,332 % 28.4 29.2 30.2 30.9 31.6 Domestic Persons 25,897 26,348 26,747 26,171 26,616 Male Persons 4,264 4,449 4,645 4,849 5,027 group % 74.8 75.0 74.7 73.3 73.3 Female Persons 248 269 315 376 410 Overseas Persons 8,708 8,779 9,058 9,520 9,716 40 to 49 Persons 4,123 4,206 4,198 4,329 4,368 group % 25.1 25.0 25.3 26.7 26.7 % 25.9 26.0 25.6 25.6 25.4 By Japan Persons 25,897 26,348 26,747 26,171 26,616 Male Persons 3,790 3,855 3,814 3,849 3,887 region % 74.8 75.0 74.7 73.3 73.3 Female Persons 333 351 384 480 481 Europe Persons 685 681 704 750 734 50 to 59 Persons 2,062 2,142 2,452 2,812 3,123 % 2.0 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.0 % 13.0 13.3 14.9 16.6 18.1 Americas Persons 3,447 3,469 3,557 3,639 3,921 Male Persons 1,923 2,002 2,285 2,582 2,850 % 10.0 9.9 9.9 10.2 10.8 Female Persons 139 140 167 230 273 Asia Persons 4,576 4,629 4,758 5,092 5,023 60 and above Persons 1,439 1,229 943 707 587 % 13.2 13.2 13.3 14.3 13.8 % 9.0 7.6 5.7 4.2 3.4 Australia Persons Included in Asia 39 39 38 Male Persons 1,395 1,179 903 658 533 % 0.1 0.1 0.1 Female Persons 44 50 40 49 54 * Number of employees as of fiscal year-end. By Director, Audit Persons 16 17 17 17 16 position & Supervisory Male Persons 16 16 15 15 14 Board Member3 % 100 94.1 88.2 88.2 87.5 Promoting the Employment and Active Participation of Non-Japanese Nationals Female Persons 0 1 2 2 2 % 0 5.9 11.8 11.8 12.5 Kawasaki launched a regular hiring program for non-Japanese new graduates in fiscal 2012 and Executive Persons 23 27 24 24 25 officer and ­continues to recruit from countries around the globe, including Korea, China, Sweden and India. To Male Persons 23 27 24 24 25 above improve communication between non-Japanese employees and their supervisors and co-workers, as % 100 100 100 100 100 well as to enable supervisors and co-workers to better understand non-Japanese employees who have Female Persons 0 0 0 0 0 different educational, cultural and other backgrounds, Kawasaki creates and distributes guidebooks for % 0 0 0 0 0 workplaces that non-Japanese employees will be joining and organizes seminars on multicultural understanding for supervisors as well as training programs to help employees from other countries understand the Japanese business environment. Number of Foreign National Employees (non-consolidated) (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Number of foreign Persons 29 34 35 36 35 national employees* * As of April 1 of each fiscal year. Administrative and technical personnel only. 74 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 75 Society Society Employees with Disabilities1,2 and Percentage of Employees with Disabilities Promoting the Active Participation of Women (Kawasaki and Kawasaki Heartfelt Service Co., Ltd.) (Persons) (%) Kawasaki’s efforts to promote the active participation of women begin with proactive hiring. The 473.0 500 451.0 2.5 ­number of women employed and the number in managerial positions have been increasing year by 447.0 391.0 409.0 2.50 400 2.47 2.4 year. Particularly with respect to hiring, about 30 percent of new college graduates in administrative 2.40 300 2.3 positions are women. 200 2.26 2.2 To promote the retention and career success of women, we hold seminars for managers of workplaces 100 2.18 2.1 to which female employees are assigned for the first time to help them understand how to nurture such employees over the medium to long term. We also host joint seminars with other companies to 0 2.0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) incorporate insights from external role models on how to help women achieve personal growth.  Employees with disabilities (left scale) In recognition of these efforts, in 2016 Kawasaki received Eruboshi (2nd level) certification in recogP Percentage of employees with disabilities (right scale) nition of outstanding efforts in promoting the active participation of women in the workplace. The 1. As of June 1 of each fiscal year. Eruboshi system uses a three-level scale to evaluate companies’ achievements in five areas: 1) hiring, 2. People working short hours are accounted for at a factor of 0.5 persons. One person with a severe disability is counted as two persons. 2) continued employment, 3) working hours and other conditions, 4) ratio of female managers and 5) diverse career paths. Kawasaki has met the conditions for certification in areas 1), 2), 3) and 5). Employing Seniors WEB Kawasaki’s page in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s database of companies promoting the active participation of women (Japanese only) http://positive-ryouritsu.mhlw.go.jp/positivedb/detail?id=2392 Kawasaki extended its mandatory retirement age well before such changes were mandated by the amended Older Persons’ Employment Stabilization Law. We extended the retirement age of general employees from 60 to 63 in April 2006, and then to 65 in April 2019. In addition, we have adopted New Graduate Female Hires for Administrative and Technical Positions* and Percentage of Women a Pro-Senior System, under which interested employees in management positions can, in principle, be among All New Graduate Hires for Administrative and Technical Positions (non-consolidated) re-hired until the age of 65. These initiatives allow many veteran employees to remain involved in (Persons) (%) active operations where they can use their accumulated experience and pass down their skills. 50 48 48 25 41 Employees approaching age 55 are invited to participate in a Lifestyle Design Awareness Seminar, 40 38 20 where they can learn more about our programs for postponed retirement and reemployment and 30 28 15 ­consider their post-reemployment lifestyle options. 20 14.2 14.0 10 11.7 12.3 10 8.4 5 Number of Reemployed Persons (non-consolidated) 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  New graduate female hires for administrative and technical positions (left scale) Number of reemployed persons Persons 214 243 183 140 64 P Percentage of women among all new graduate hires for administrative and technical positions (right scale) * As of April 1 of each fiscal year. Remuneration Number of Women in Managerial Positions1,2 (non-consolidated) (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Average Annual Remuneration (non-consolidated) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of women in Persons 26 29 43 49 57 All employees Millions of yen — 7.4 7.1 7.1 7.2 managerial positions 1. As of April 1 of each fiscal year. Male Millions of yen — 7.5 7.2 7.2 7.3 2. Section head or above. Figures include staff on external postings and staff on leave. Female Millions of yen — 5.4 5.2 5.2 5.3 Average for managerial Millions of yen — 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.6 staff (basic pay only) Male Millions of yen — 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.6 Female Millions of yen — 7.3 7.2 7.0 7.1 Promoting Participation by People with Disabilities Average for managerial Millions of yen — 12.1 11.4 11.3 11.4 staff (basic pay plus Male Millions of yen — 12.1 11.4 11.4 11.4 We are committed to hiring more people with disabilities, and they participate in a wide range of bonuses, etc) Female Millions of yen — 11.7 10.7 10.2 10.5 workplaces. In September 2013, we established our special subsidiary Kawasaki Heartfelt Service Co., Average for general Millions of yen — 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.6 Ltd., which promotes the active Group-wide employment of people with disabilities in order to maintain employees (basic pay Male Millions of yen — 4.5 4.5 4.6 4.6 and improve their employment rates, and also works actively to create barrier-free workplaces. We are only) Female Millions of yen — 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.8 cultivating an environment where people with disabilities are able to develop their full potential. Kawasaki Heartfelt Service Co., Ltd. was recognized as the ninth Japanese company to receive the Certification of Company Fostering Active Participation of Persons with Disabilities on March 29, 2018 for promoting the active and ongoing employment of persons with disabilities, as well as its progressive efforts towards providing working environments that support their long-term employment. 76 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 77 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Other Initiatives Human Resource In order for the Kawasaki Group to achieve sustainable growth and development, all employees must Development efficiently, effectively and completely achieve specific targets assigned to them based on their respecDiversity Symbol tive positions in line with corporate policies and Company-wide actions. As the pace of change in the Kawasaki has adopted a diversity symbol. This symbol imagines Kawasaki as a tree, Management external environment is faster than ever, it is also essential that we nurture human resources capable made up of a great number of diverse individuals. For this tree to grow healthily, its Approach of proactively changing and continuously taking on new challenges. leaves and fruit becoming more colorful and rich, we who work at Kawasaki see value in expressing our diverse colors—our unique personalities and skills—and seek to do so Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets together within Kawasaki to grow as individuals and as a company. This is the message We aim to nurture individuals equipped with sophisticated expertise and wide-ranging experience. To The Kawasaki conveyed by the diversity symbol. diversity this end, we will systematically nurture future leaders, including executive candidates, while strengthening symbol project risk management and developing global human resources. Diversity Promotion Website We have set up a diversity promotion website on the Company intranet. This website offers an overP Goals for the MTBP 2019 view of diversity at the Kawasaki Group alongside workplace examples and information about systems P Build electrical skills training programs and create and implement new training. related to facilitating a healthy work-life balance. P Steadily implement succession plans aimed at systematically nurturing future executive candidates (job rotation, reinforcing training, etc.). Initiatives to Facilitate Employee Understanding of the LGBT Community P Implement early leader training and suitability reviews (utilize multifaceted observation surveys). Aiming to create an LGBT-friendly workplace, we are striving to raise employee awareP Introduce a training management system and shift from focusing on group training to optimized ness by sending out messages from the president, holding in-house seminars, issuing an learning modes, including e-learning, text-based study and group training. LGBT handbook to be used in employee education, distributing the “Kawasaki LGBT ALLY Mark” to help employees express their support of LGBT individuals and participatProgress, Results and Challenges Kawasaki LGBT ing in relevant external events. Moreover, we formulated the “Kawasaki Declaration of Ally mark PG  oals for Fiscal 2019 Action in Support of LGBT,” which provides employee conduct guidelines, clarifying P Foster human resources with electrical skills in line with business strategy. Kawasaki’s basic stance and action principles to be observed by all employees. P Implement systematic executive development. In addition, Kawasaki Heavy Industries introduced rules on the registration of same-sex partners in P Reinforce management. ­fiscal 2020. Based on these rules, employees who have same-sex partners and meet prescribed condiP Introduce operational reforms to training (utilizing IT). tions are now deemed legally married and treated as such. In this way, we are endeavoring to develop P Fiscal 2019 Results a structure to advocate for equal rights for LGBT individuals both at their workplaces and in their P Formulated electrical skill training programs for young employees (via temporary transfer to the ­private lives. Corporate Technology Division; launched in fiscal 2020) P Enhanced human resource development programs targeting manager equivalents to nurture execExternal Collaboration utive candidates via the launch of the “Globiz” online program (with seven individuals currently To accelerate social shifts related to diversity and work-life balance, we proactively look beyond the undergoing these programs) framework of the Company to encourage employees to participate in outside seminars and advance P Held new seminars themed on multifaceted observation and feedback for those in senior manager activities together with other organizations and companies. One example is a work-life balance and positions or higher (a total of 12 occasions) diversity promotion study project being jointly implemented by the Chuo University Graduate School P Completed the basic design of a training management system and initiated program development of Strategic Management and private companies. This project broadly promotes the concept of healthy work-life balance in society through surveys and research. Kawasaki has taken part in the project since P Goals for Fiscal 2020 2013, serving as a model company by implementing such internal measures as work-life balance training P Step up the development of human resources with electrical skills (e.g. strengthen training for for managers. We are also a member of the Diversity Western–Japan Study Group. In this group, diversimid-level engineers to help raise their technological capabilities). ty officers at companies in the Kansai region meet to share ideas and good examples of diversity in P Strengthen training for executive candidates (e.g. review the existing structure for nurturing action and advocate for diversity-related measures within their companies and to the government. ­executive candidates). P Strengthen management capabilities of organizational managers (e.g. review the former senior manager training). P Develop human resource development platforms (e.g. complete the development of a training management system and put the system into actual use. 78 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 79 Society Society Human Resource Development Policy In order for us to continue our business and grow in the 21st century as a global corporation, all of our Human Resource Human Resource Development Programs employees must efficiently, effectively and completely achieve specific targets in line with our corporate Development policies and Company-wide actions. Reinforce the Management and Business Execution Capabilities of Employees (Administrative and It is the “people” who use their minds and act to achieve specific goals, so the development and invigPerformance Data technical training) oration of human resources is the most critical factor for the growth and advancement of a company. In In the execution of routine duties, we utilize communication opportunities, especially the operational accordance with our basic recognition that human resources are the core of Kawasaki’s growth and that goal sharing program GMK—which takes its name from the Japanese gyomu mokuhyo kyoyuka (sharing they develop through their work, we abide by the following basic views regarding human resources: business targets)—and semiannual one-on-one meetings between supervisors and subordinates, to P We carry out human resource development to grow our corporate performance, and improve our ­foster skills development through the achievement of operating goals. employees’ capabilities as well as their purpose in life. During their first three years of employment, employees in administrative and technical positions P OJT (on-the-job training), self-development and rotation are the foundations of human resource receive a combination of structured OJT based on a mentoring program and a range of training content education. designed to help young employees develop their capabilities as quickly as possible. P Off-JT is provided to support these activities in ways where the results of Off-JT can be practically Furthermore, programs designed for training managerial candidates are provided, including the applied in the workplace. Kawasaki management seminars and Kawasaki executive coaching programs; seminars for managers P The line manager is responsible for human resource education. and section heads to enhance the capabilities of middle management; and multi-faceted observational P Human resource education is to be conducted on an individual basis in a planned manner and on surveys to build awareness of one’s strengths and areas that require improvement. Such initiatives an ongoing basis. serve to strengthen middle management and develop the skills of candidates for management positions. P Opportunities for developing one’s abilities are provided to all employees from the time they are newly employed up to the time of their retirement. P Performance of Major Grade-specific Training Programs Held by Head Office (consolidated domestic; exceptions apply) Desirable Employee Attributes (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 We provide consistent training and development programs for all different staff grades with the aim of New employee training Participants — 332 325 338 338 ­realizing the ideal six human resource attributes as defined in our Mission Statement. These attributes are: Total hours — 14,608 14,300 14,872 14,872 (1) actively involved around the world; Training for new Participants — 95 91 91 125 (2) solving issues for customers and the community; section managers Total hours — 7,600 7,280 5,533 7,843 (3) leading reforms and innovation; Training for new Participants — 40 44 50 48 (4) taking technology to new heights; division managers (5) demonstrating comprehensive capabilities; and Total hours — 2,240 2,464 2,464 2,700 (6) always maintaining a profitability perspective. Kawasaki executive Participants — 9 9 9 9 coaching program Total hours — 1,152 1,152 1,152 1,152 Structure Kawasaki management Participants — 34 51 23 —* We have in place the Human Capital Development Department within the Human Resources Division. seminars Total hours — 136 204 81 — Also, common Group-wide education and training, such as level-specific development for junior * Canceled in fiscal 2019 to prevent the spread of COVID-19 employees, top management or other levels and training to foster globally capable human resources, is planned and executed by the Head Office Human Resources Division. In addition, the internal companies Strengthening On-site Capabilities (Training for Production Specialists) and business divisions each plan and execute education and training related to the particular abilities In the area of production specialist training, we are promoting the transmission and enhancement of and skills required in their respective areas of business. front-line production skills through a variety of programs, including the Skills and Qualification Early For details on our internal committees and relevant governance structures, please refer to Human Resource Management (page 69). Acquisition Incentive Program for younger employees and the Grand Master System, in which production specialists with a high level of special expertise are recognized as grand masters and work to ­systematically pass down their skills to younger employees. In fiscal 2020, 6 new grand masters have been recognized, bringing the current total of active grand masters to 19. In addition, we also participate actively in outside skills competitions. At the Hyogo Monozukuri (production) Skill Competition held in October 2019, Kawasaki employees took second place in the welding category as well as first place in the lathe category in the younger workers’ skills division, while in the advanced skills division, one of our employees took second place in the lathe category. To reinforce the leadership of production site supervisors, we provide site manager training and team leader training. For young employees, we provide basic training programs on KPS* and quality control in which they learn about Kawasaki’s production systems. * KPS: The Kawasaki Production System, a proprietary production system developed by Kawasaki. P Other Initiatives to Strengthen On-site Capabilities P Technical Skill Contest In recent years, with Japan’s baby boomer generation retiring in great numbers, ensuring that their skills are passed down to the next generation has become a pressing issue, and Kawasaki is focusing efforts on education and developing the skills of young employees. Every year, young employees from production sites in and outside Japan gather at the Akashi Works for the Technical Skill Contest to compete against one another using skills they have honed at their work sites. In fiscal 80 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 81 Society Society 2019, young technicians from Japan and four other countries demonstrated their skills to the fullProject Manager Training est, competing with and learning from each other. Going forward, we will continue such efforts to In recent years, we have seen a rise in project-oriented businesses with contracts for entire systems, maintain and improve technical skills across the Group. including peripheral facilities, as opposed to standalone products. Accordingly, we introduced new P Creating Opportunities to Pass down Skills training programs in fiscal 2016 to secure project managers able to execute such projects. The entire Aggressively promoting the transfer of technical skills to enhance production capabilities, the bedGroup is working to enhance its project management capabilities, to this end holding Project Manager rock of our business activities, is essential. To this end, we opened Takumi Juku, a professional trade Seminars to which we invite individuals from inside and outside the company with previous experiskills training center at the Harima Works, in 2012, and Manabiya, a manufacturing skills creation ence in large-scale projects as lecturers to impart the know-how required to lead projects to success. In center at the Akashi Works, in 2014. Through synergies between existing skills training systems and addition we have implemented an internal study program involving the transfer of employees to other the creation of opportunities to pass down technical skills, these centers are delivering results in internal companies to acquire experience in large-scale projects. terms of not only transferring skills, but also of acquiring new skills, quickly developing skills and instructors, and enabling employees to teach and improve one another’s capabilities. Nurturing Management Successors We are nurturing human resources who can assume executive positions and contribute to the mediumDeveloping Global Human Resources to long-term enhancement of our enterprise value amid an increasingly harsh business environment. Since 2008, we have been implementing measures for global human resource development aimed at To this end, our pipeline of candidates encompasses an extensive scope of job ranks, ranging from supporting business expansion worldwide. Specifically, we provide global business talent seminars assistant managers to executive officers, while our training programs are designed to address differing designed to promote a readiness to engage in business from a global perspective while imparting issues in light of their staff grades. ­useful skills in addition to enhanced cross-cultural responsiveness training, which is designed to instill P Kawasaki Executive Coaching Program a practical and systematic understanding of differences in ever-diversifying value perceptions. We implement the Kawasaki Executive Coaching Program (spanning nine months per fiscal year) to Furthermore, we work to enhance global human resource development, for example, offering an overseas nurture executive candidates capable of embodying our corporate philosophy. Individuals undergoing internship system aimed at globalizing domestic human resources, an Asian business training program this program are selected from among senior manager equivalents. They participate in numerous and training support for local engineering employees at overseas sites. group discussions among themselves while engaging in deliberations involving external lecturers and In fiscal 2018, we formulated the Kawasaki Bilingual Program, an English training program designed corporate managers from outside the Kawasaki Group. In addition to instilling expertise on corporate to assist self-motivated study. This represents yet another example of our efforts to develop an envimanagement, the program is thus designed to help them fully develop a real-life picture of corporate ronment in which employees with career ambitions are supported by a diverse lineup of English training management duties at the Kawasaki Group, learn how overall optimization will contribute to resolving programs and empowered to pursue their goal of becoming global human resources. the management issues the Group is confronting and adopt a global business management viewpoint. P Our Structure for Nurturing Global Human Resources Amounts Invested in Human Resource Development Training programs aimed at expanding the pool of Nurture and promote local staff to global human resources key positions Education and Training Expenses (non-consolidated) Enhance ability to take on overseas assignments (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 New hires– third year Education and training expenses Yen/FTE* 38,000 33,000 33,000 35,000 34,000 per employee Nurture overseas Help local human resources improve Mid-level employbusiness leaders their ability to perform their duties Education and training hours Hours/FTE* 33 33 33 38 41 ees/assistant per employee managers Training for expatriates * FTE: Full-Time Equivalent Nurture overseas Help local human resources improve Senior staff management leaders their management capabilities officers or higher ROI from Human Resources (consolidated global) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales (a) Millions of yen 1,541,096 1,518,830 1,574,242 1,594,743 1,641,335 P Performance of Major Training Programs Associated with Global Human Resources Organized by Sales expenses (b) Millions of yen 1,445,099 1,472,869 1,518,317 1,530,720 1,579,272 Head Office (consolidated domestic; exceptions apply) Employee-related expenses (c)* Millions of yen 163,385 158,303 158,070 161,131 161,460 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ROI from human resources (a-(b-c)) /c % 1.59 1.29 1.35 1.40 1.38 Global business talent seminars Participants — 39 39 33 16 Total hours — 2,964 2,964 1,584 872 * Salaries, bonuses, and welfare expenses Cross-cultural training Participants — 90 61 20 38 Total hours — 720 488 160 304 English skill series 1 Participants — 40 30 15 17 Total hours — 864 648 324 368 English writing series 2 Participants — 36 32 39 37 Total hours — 576 512 624 956 Note: Language programs are also provided at each location. 1. English skills series: Meeting-based (Reading aloud and practical exercises), presentation and negotiation training 2. English writing series: Courses on technical writing and business writing 82 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 83 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Securing and The sustainable enhancement of the enterprise value of the Kawasaki Group requires initiatives aimed at Securing and Hiring Retaining Human continuously securing human resources capable of advancing the Group’s businesses as well as developRetaining Human Resources M ing and fully utilizing their abilities. Based on this understanding, we are implementing a variety of Resources M Administrative and technical positions are characterized by a prevalence of team-based operations. As ­measures to promote employee recruitment and retention, aiming to realize appealing workplaces that such, finding team players who can engage in friendly competition with their colleagues is a major Management employees will want to stay in. The K-Win activities, which began in fiscal 2016 as workstyle reform Performance Data focus in hiring. When recruiting human resources, rather than simply filling the gaps left by outgoing Approach ­initiatives, have expanded to encompass overall corporate innovation activities, becoming integrated with retirees, we seek to secure individuals with the necessary skills in the required numbers from a mediumGroup management. Through initiatives aimed at realizing highly productive workplaces where diverse to long-term perspective. Furthermore, to flexibly meet the need for more employees due to business employees can maintain a good work-life balance while creatively using their abilities to the fullest, we are expansion, we are actively recruiting not only new graduates but also individuals with career experiworking to create organizations that produce virtuous cycles of enterprise value enhancement. ence. To facilitate overseas business expansion and promote diversity, we hire new overseas college graduates and foreign national students in Japan. Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets For details on hiring foreign national students in Japan, please refer to Promoting the Employment and Active Participation of In terms of K-Win activities, we are advancing workstyle reforms for employees aimed at realizing Non-Japanese Nationals under Diversity (page 75). highly productive workplaces where employees can maintain a good work-life balance while creatively using their abilities to the fullest. Aiming to create a corporate culture and organizations that enable all employees to work with enthusiasm, fully exercising their individual abilities, we carry out periodic Number of Employees Hired (non-consolidated) employee satisfaction surveys and reflect the results in human resource measures and K-Win activities. (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 P Goal for the MTBP 2019 New graduates hired* Persons 577 538 538 562 555 P Further increase employee satisfaction as reported in the employee engagement survey. Male Persons 546 495 492 507 498 Female Persons 31 43 46 55 57 Progress, Results and Challenges Administrative and Persons 333 325 332 338 344 P Goals for Fiscal 2019 technical positions Male Persons 305 287 291 290 296 P Carry out measures related to improving corporate culture and business restructuring, which are Female Persons 28 38 41 48 48 pillars of K-Win Activities (specifically, provide support for the active utilization of one-on-one Production specialists Persons 244 213 206 224 211 meetings, follow up on the activities of internal companies, promote operational process Male Persons 241 208 201 217 202 ­streamlining, etc.). Female Persons 3 5 5 7 9 P Establish an external consultation point for harassmentand mental health-related issues. Mid-career hires and Persons 230 251 417 296 — P Formulate and carry out measures to flexibly activate human resources, such as personnel rotation. ratio of mid-career P Revise personnel and compensation systems. % 28.5 31.8 43.7 34.5 — hires to all new hires Male Persons 184 145 297 202 — P Fiscal 2019 Results Female Persons 46 106 120 94 — P Issued messages from top management, issued a guidebook (for applied practices), and carried out training for superiors to promote the uptake of one-on-one meetings Administrative and Persons 177 138 162 165 — technical positions P Established an external consultation point for harassmentand mental health-related issues in Male Persons 162 125 152 148 — May 2019 Female Persons 15 13 10 17 — P Amended the job challenge system and free agent (FA) system Production specialists Persons 20 19 148 60 — P While transfers via the FA system increased, job challenge system results were weak Male Persons 19 19 140 50 — P Outlined basic system structures with an eye to revising personnel and compensation systems Female Persons 1 0 8 10 — (employee compensation and evaluation systems) Partner Persons 33 94 107 71 — P Goals for Fiscal 2020 Male Persons 3 1 5 4 — P Continue activities aimed at organizational and corporate culture transformation and operational Female Persons 30 93 102 67 — transformation and, to measure the results of such activities and use the findings toward ongoing Average years of service Years 13.3 13.5 13.6 13.4 — improvement, commission a third party with a strong global track record to implement an engagement Male Years 13.5 13.5 13.7 13.7 — survey (replacing the existing employee satisfaction survey). Female Years 13.3 13.5 12.3 10.0 — P Continue examining and promoting measures to activate human resources, including more active use of employee rotation. Average hiring cost Thousands 900 — — — — per hire of yen P Advance necessary work toward the April 2021 revision of personnel and compensation systems. * Number of new graduates hired as of April 1 of each fiscal year. Structure Based on Kawasaki’s Company-wide basic policy on human management resources, the Head Office’s Human Resources Division and the human resource and labor departments of the internal companies and divisions coordinate to formulate and operate human resource systems, including those for securing, placing and activating human resources, as well as to implement human resource transfers within the Group and promote the hiring of diverse human resources. In addition, to further K-Win activities, which began in fiscal 2016 as workstyle reform initiatives, in fiscal 2020 we established the Kawasaki Workstyle Innovation Project Department within the Human Resources Division. The new department is advancing Company-wide workstyle reforms. For details on our internal committees and relevant governance structures, please refer to Human Resource Management (page 69). For details about the K-Win activity framework, please refer to Vision for Our People and Organization under the MTBP 2019 under Human Resource Management (page 70). 84 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 85 Society Society Employee Evaluations Resignations Our Approach to Human Resource Evaluation Number of People Resigning (non-consolidated) Kawasaki aims to realize a system of employee compensation and assignment that flexibly reflects (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employees’ capabilities and performance and is geared toward improving employee motivation, includNumber and Rate 1, 2 Persons 73 145 187 220 217 ing their drive to develop their own capabilities. To this end, we position our ability-based qualification % 0.5 0.9 1.2 1.3 1.3 system—based on the capabilities expected of each particular position—as the main pillar of employee Male Persons 66 129 166 200 186 treatment (assignments, salaries, bonuses, etc.) and employee development. Accordingly, we employ % 0.5 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.2 a uniform compensation system based on ability-based qualifications regardless of nationality, gender Female Persons 7 16 21 20 31 or other such attributes. % 0.8 1.7 2.0 1.6 2.1 The basis for implementing this ability-based qualification system is our employee review system. Employee review consists of evaluations of performance and capabilities. Evaluations of performance 29 and younger Persons 44 75 78 111 116 consider the difficulty of the employee’s assignments, the degree to which the employee has achieved % 1.1 2.7 2.3 2.9 3.1 their objectives and the way they approached their work. Evaluations of capabilities consider the Male Persons 40 68 68 101 104 employee’s ability to execute their work, focusing mainly on knowledge and skills. The evaluation % 1.0 2.6 2.1 2.8 3.0 ­criteria are disclosed to all employees. Female Persons 4 7 10 10 12 Additionally, supervisors must meet with their subordinates at least twice a year to help ensure that % 1.9 5.3 5.6 4.4 4.8 employees understand the reasoning behind target setting and evaluations. 30 to 39 Persons 17 43 75 76 77 To ensure fair and equitable evaluations, we have established fixed evaluation procedures. We also % 0.4 0.9 1.5 1.5 1.4 incorporate case studies and other training aimed at improving evaluation skills into the training Male Persons 14 39 67 70 64 of managers. For managerial staff, we implement multi-faceted observational surveys, which serve to aid individ% 0.4 0.8 1.4 1.5 1.3 uals in seeing themselves through the eyes of others in an objective, multi-perspective manner, helping Female Persons 3 4 8 6 13 to develop their self-awareness as part of their education. % 1.4 1.5 2.7 1.7 3.2 Moreover, once a year, the labor union is briefed on promotions and compensation to verify that 40 to 49 Persons 10 19 25 16 14 employees are being treated in an equitable and fair manner. % 0.3 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.3 Male Persons 10 16 22 13 11 P Percentage of Employees Assessed by Different Evaluation Methods (non-consolidated) % 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.3 0.3 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Female Persons 0 3 3 3 3 Evaluation based on target management 1 % — 100 100 100 100 % 0.0 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.6 Multifaceted performance evaluations 2 % — 21 21 21 21 50 and above Persons 2 8 9 17 10 Evaluations for ranking employees % 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.3 % — 100 100 100 100 within their category Male Persons 2 6 9 16 7 Others % — — — — — % 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.2 1. Evaluations based on targets and other criteria agreed to by the Line Manager. Female Persons 0 2 0 1 3 2. 360º evaluations, etc. % 0.0 0.9 0.0 0.4 1.1 1. Age of resigning employees is shown as of April 1 of each fiscal year. 2. Number of resigning people does not include retirees and executive transfers. Long-term Incentives Overview of Long-term Incentives for Employees Employee Satisfaction Kawasaki provides a retirement payment system where employees can receive payment in a lump sum or as a pension. Kawasaki offers defined contribution corporate pensions in addition to defined benefit Employee Satisfaction Surveys pensions which allow employees to choose their contribution amounts to suit their life plans and put Kawasaki conducts periodic employee satisfaction surveys to gauge employee perceptions of 1) compathem to good use in their long-term asset building plans. ny visions, 2) compliance, 3) personnel matters, 4) work-life balance and 5) loyalty to and satisfaction P Assessment Criteria with the Company. Years of service, age, work qualifications, work performance Employee responses are analyzed, with salient correlations taken into account, and the results are utilized P Period for Assessment in a wide range of measures. Survey results are also disclosed to employees on the Company intranet. Three years or more P Employee Satisfaction Survey Results P Scope of Policy Application (FY) 2015 20161 2017 20182 2019 All employees Response rate % — 80 — 93.8 — Satisfaction (Percentage of people who replied “I would like to % — — — 69.5 — continue to work here”) Male % — — — 68.4 — Female % — — — 70.4 — 1. Scope: Implemented for certain executives and managers at Group companies outside Japan 2. Scope: The Kawasaki Group (domestic) 86 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 87 Society Society Family Nursing care leave Employees may take leave up to three times for one person requiring Work-Life Balance Support (Nursing nursing care (three years at longest). care) Limits on out-of-hours work Employees may be exempted from out-of-hours work and work on days Supporting Employees Balancing Work with Childcare and Nursing Care and work on days off for off up to once a year. nursing care Kawasaki provides support in a number of ways to enable employees to continue working actively Special leave for Employees may take special leave of five days per family member while balancing work with childcare and nursing care. Many related systems go beyond national govfamily care requiring nursing care, regardless of the number of such family memernment standards, such as a system of childcare leave available until employees’ children reach age bers (Legally, companies are only required to provide five days per year three; a reduced working hours system available until employees’ children graduate from elementary for one family member or 10 days per year for two or more family members) school; nursing care leave available for up to three years; and a system that lets employees take time off in one-hour units as needed for childcare or family nursing care. In recognition of these systems, in Half-days off Employees may take as many half-days off as necessary, within available annual paid leave, to care for an ailing or elderly family member. 2010 Kawasaki was certified as a company supporting childcare and awarded the Kurumin Mark. Accumulated leave* Employees may use accumulated leave whenever necessary to care for Other initiatives include the Supplementary Work Day Nursery Service, which provides temporary an ailing or elderly family member. childcare services within the Company for employees working on days that they would normally have Use of flextime system Employees may work on a flextime basis as necessary when looking off; the Childcare Rescue System, offering Company-designated baby-sitter services that employees after an ailing or elderly family member. can use when their children are sick or recovering or when they are working overtime or on business Reduced working hours Employees may shorten their working hours for at longest two hours a trips; a concierge service to help employees find nursery schools; seminars to support employees taksystem for nursing care day (up to two times in three years). ing childcare leave who wish to return to work; and career seminars for dual-income married couples. Other Request for reemployment Employees who resign to care for a child or an ailing/elderly family We continue working to enhance such initiatives for employees with children. member may apply to be rehired when a change in their situation allows them to return to work. *A  ccumulated leave refers to an accumulation of unused annual paid vacation days that cannot be carried over to the next year but can P Usage of Work-Life Balance Programs (non-consolidated) be taken in special circumstances. (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employees using Persons 37 51 49 59 68 the childcare leave Male Persons 9 8 6 7 13 Work-Life Balance Female Persons 28 43 43 52 55 Employees using Persons 2 0 4 3 3 Work-life balance is the foundation for promoting diversity, allowing diverse employees to exercise the care leave their strengths. To sustainably increase enterprise value, creating highly productive workplaces where Male Persons 2 0 2 3 3 Female Persons 0 0 2 0 0 diverse employees can maintain a good work-life balance while creatively using their abilities to the fullest is crucial. Within the Kawasaki Group, it is therefore important to create environments in which Return rate after % 100 98 98 100 100 employees can do work that meets the expectations of the Company, those around them and themchildcare leave Retention rate after selves while leading healthy, fulfilling lives, so that, empowered by fulfillment, they can engage with % 100 100 98 98 —* childcare leave their work at a higher level. By providing diverse workstyle options that enable employees to balance * The retention rate after childcare leave represents the percentage of employees still working after one year of returning from childcare their professional and private lives, we will systematically improve work efficiency. leave. No statistics are currently available because this one year period has not elapsed as of fiscal 2019. Support Systems (non-consolidated) Enhancing organizational vitality Responding to the global market Parental Maternity/paternity leave Employees may take leave until a child reaches the age of three. There leave is no limit on the number of leaves taken. before and Nursery school enrollment Provides services to help employees taking childcare leave enroll their after birth concierge children in a nursery school. Culture of Leave to care for sick/ Employees may take five days each year for each child up to the commutual injured child pletion of elementary school, regardless of the number of such children. respect (Legally, companies are only required to provide a total of up to five days per year for one child or 10 days per year for two or more children) Diverse human Accumulated leave* Employees may use accumulated leave to care for a young child (up to resources completion of elementary school), care for a sick/injured child, or when Promoting Diverse morning sickness interferes with job duties. work-life skills and Use of flextime system Employees may work on a flextime basis as necessary when looking balance ideas after a young child (up to completion of elementary school) or when morning sickness interferes with job duties. Limits on out-of hours work Employees may be exempted from out-of-hours work and work on days and work on days off off until a child completes elementary school. Workstyle Reform (K-Win Activities) Reduced working hours Standard working hours can be reduced up to a maximum of three hours The Kawasaki Group launched K-Win activities, an effort to promote workstyle reform, in fiscal 2016 system to care for a day until a child completes elementary school. with the objectives of “promotion of work-life balance,” “increasing the productivity of administrative young child and technical personnel,” and “reducing long working hours.” Through these activities, we pursued three areas of transformation, namely, operational transformation, organizational and corporate culture transformation, and system transformation. In fiscal 2020, we established the Kawasaki Workstyle Innovation Project Department within the Human Resources Division, further integrating these activities with overall Company management while expanding their scope. K-Win activities are aimed not only at realizing workstyle reforms for employees, but at creating a virtuous cycle of enterprise value improvement that creates value for all stakeholders, including shareholders, customers and suppliers. 88 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 89 Society Society P K-Win Activities Material Issues and Our Approach To promote organizational and corporate culture transformation, we issued messages from top manOccupational Kawasaki believes that ensuring the safety and maintaining and improving the health of our employagement, held educational seminars for managerial staff and held one-on-one meetings. In system Safety and Health ees are key foundational components of corporate activities and will ensure the advance of our transformation, in fiscal 2017 we added productivity as one of our employee review criteria for ­enterprise value. administrative and technical personnel in order to recognize employees who carry out work quickly Management Kawasaki has defined its Philosophy, Declaration, and Basic Policy on Safety, Sanitation and Health, and efficiently, and in fiscal 2018 we introduced a remote working program (teleworking program) Approach based on which it has formulated its three-year Medium-term Safety and Health Management plans as for said employees. In terms of operational transformation, we have provided the Operational well as its Safety and Health Management Platform (a one-year plan) for occupational safety and Efficiency Improvement Start Book as well as useful information for operational transformation, health activities, including the prevention of work-related accidents and illnesses, as well as health including tools for various types of work. maintenance and improvement, and the development of comfortable workplaces. WEB Kawasaki Safety and Health Philosophy, Safety and Health Declaration and Basic Policy (in Japanese only) Under MTBP 2019, based on the three pillars of organizational transformation, mindset transformahttps://www.khi.co.jp/sustainability/social/employee/pdf/safety_idea.pdf tion and operational transformation, we are expanding the range of our activities beyond ­workstyle reforms to encompass overall corporate innovation. For details, please refer to Vision for Our People and Organization under the MTBP 2019 under Human Resource Management (page 70). Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets The Medium-term Safety and Health Management Plan 2019 (2019–2021) defines the following ­targets and focus activities: Encourages Employees to Take Their Annual Paid Leaves Kawasaki encourages our employees to take their annual paid leave to enable employees to mentally P Goals for the Medium-term Safety and Health Management Plan 2019 and physically refresh themselves and to draw a clear line between work and private life by taking P Top-priority Targets their leaves in a planned manner. To this end, Kawasaki implements two programs: the Two Consecutive 1. Zero serious occupational accidents Holidays and the Anniversary Holiday programs. Under these programs, employees designate a total of 2. Zero new cases of occupational illness three paid leave days at the beginning of the fiscal year and can take these days off without fail. P Safety Management Targets (2019 / 2020 / 2021) Additionally, based on a labor agreement, three annual paid leave days that the Company designates 1. Reduce the frequency of lost-worktime accidents by at least 9% (0.40 / 0.39 / 0.38) are taken at once generally by all employees in August. This midsummer break, which includes other 2. Reduce the total number of occupational accidents by at least 9% (46 /45 /43) Company holidays and a national holiday, adds up to nine consecutive vacation days. P Sanitation Management Targets (2019 / 2020 / 2021) Furthermore, the labor union and management have agreed to define one day per week as an 1. Reduce days lost to illness or injury resulting in four or more days of lost time by at least 5% on-time exit day since fiscal 2006. By defining this on-time exit day, employees are able to achieve (28,476 days / 27,993 days / 27,511 days) a well-controlled workstyle, which helps in improving their work-life balance. 2. Reduce the proportion of workplaces with overall health risk scores of 120 or above as determined P Annual Paid Leave Usage (non-consolidated) by group analyses of stress checks by at least 3 percentage points (4.8% / 3.8% / 2.8%) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 P Health Management Targets (2019 / 2020 / 2021) Number of used paid leaves* Days / person 15.0 15.2 15.4 15.8 15.9 1. Reduce the proportion of employees 40 years old or above with metabolic syndrome or Paid leave usage rate % 68.2 69.0 70.0 71.8 72.3 pre-metabolic syndrome at least 5 percentage points (25.9% / 24.2% / 22.6%) Total annual work hours Hours / person 2,070 2,075 2,065 2,047 2,035 2. Reduce the proportion of employees under 40 years old with high body fat by at least 5 ­percentage points (43.2% / 41.5% / 39.9%) Total annual overtime hours Hours / person 340.0 307.2 303.8 303.6 295.2 3. Prohibit smoking in all indoor spaces, in principle (comply with related laws and regulations * 22 days given per year. from April 2020) Notes: 1. The scope for all of the above is Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. (non-consolidated) 2. All the above targets are for 2021 (the final year of the plan); target changes are as compared with Topic 2018 results. P Focus Activities Enhancing On-site Nursery Facilities Safety Management A nursery opened at Kawasaki Motors Enterprise (Thailand) Co., Ltd. in April 2010. The nursery pro1. Continuous improvement in the occupational health and safety management system vides temporary care for employees’ children between the ages of one and four. As of March 2017, the 2. T  horough enforcement and strengthening of measures to prevent serious occupational accidents nursery cares for the children of about 30 employees on a daily basis. Several other children are also and similar accidents registered at the nursery, and utilize it as necessary. The nursery is generally open from 7:30 to 17:15 3. Disaster prevention for young and inexperienced workers to coincide with regular working hours, but if requested by more than a certain number of employees, 4. Disaster prevention measures at construction sites it is also made available during overtime or holidays. The opening of the nursery means that parents can continue working with complete peace of mind, Sanitation Management having left their children to be cared for nearby. From the employer’s viewpoint as well, the loss of 1. Preventive measures against occupational diseases skilled human resources due to childbirth or childcare is avoided, promoting a stable and committed 2. Mental health measures workforce. The opening of the nursery has thus proved to be a measure with mutual advantages. Health Management In Japan, meanwhile, we provide nursery facilities at the workplace on supplementary work days to 1. Lifestyle disease countermeasures offer childcare for limited periods. 2. Second-hand smoke preventive measures 3. Health maintenance and improvement measures The nursery of Kawasaki Motors Enterprise (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 90 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 91 Society Society Progress, Results and Challenges Policy on Occupational Safety and Health Safety Management P Basic Policy on Safety and Health 1. We have built safety and health management systems compliant with OSHMS standards and 1. Provide a safe and secure working environment carry out safety and health initiatives. P Identify and reduce risk elements that can lead to labor accidents or health issues before they occur. 2. We regularly review past occupational accidents, work to eliminate risks of danger or harm and P Establish a safety and health management structure and constantly improve its quality of implement education and training to prevent serious occupational accidents and similar accidents. ­management by implementing the PDCA cycle. 3. We are working to prevent accidents at construction sites through such measures as establishing P Promote the realization of comfortable workplaces where communication can freely flow and an overarching safety management system and implementing education and patrols. that are conducive to improving working methods and working environments. Sanitation Management 2. Implement health management measures with an emphasis on prevention 1. We are implementing working environment management, work management, health management P Thoroughly implement working environment management, work management and health and chemical substance countermeasures to prevent work-related illnesses. ­management to prevent work-related illnesses. 2. We are implementing mental health measures, including line-of-command care and self-care, P Promote mental healthcare and measures for reducing stress in the workplace to reduce the coordinating between the divisions to which employees belong, safety and health divisions, and number of employees with mental health issues. mental health medical specialists and are establishing a follow-up system. P Reduce the amount of overtime and holiday work, and provide physical checkups and healthcare Health Management guidance as a way to prevent health issues caused by overworking. 1. We are implementing lifestyle disease countermeasures through such means as health education P Basic Policy on Health and guidance for affected employees. 1. Activities for maintaining and building health 2. We are working to completely separate smoking and non-smoking areas in indoor spaces and P Provide a broad range of health initiatives to improve both mental and physical health. encouraging smokers to quit. P Support health building activities that individual employees personally engage in. 3. We are advancing collaborative health measures, such as implementing health measures with P Ensure a 100% physical checkup participation rate, and use results from these checkups for health insurance unions based on check-up data. ­disease prevention. P 2019 Results P Keep lifestyle diseases from becoming serious. P Total number of occupational accidents: 69 (+23) 2. Realizing a rich life PF requency of lost-worktime accidents: 0.35 (-0.05) P Realize a rich life where work, family and society are in a good balance by shortening work PD ays lost to illness or injury resulting in four or more days of lost time: 28,575 (+99) hours, promoting the use of paid leave and making use of various holiday and rest programs. PP ercentage of high-stress workplaces: 5.9% (+1.1 percentage points) P Scope of Policy Application PP ercentage of employees with metabolic syndrome (including pre-metabolic syndrome): 27.5% Officers, employees and staff seconded from partners under the management of Kawasaki (+1.6 percentage points) PP ercentage of employees under 40 years old with high body fat: 45.9% (+2.7 percentage points) WEB Safety and Health Declaration and Basic Policy (in Japanese only) https://www.khi.co.jp/sustainability/social/employee/pdf/safety_idea.pdf Notes: 1. The scope for all of the above is Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. (non-consolidated) 2. Figures in parenthesis indicate differences from targets. Structure KPI Kawasaki has defined a set of Safety and Health Management Rules under which it has established Company-wide frequency rate of lost-time injuries safety and health structures both Company-wide and at individual works. We actively implement meaP Goal for 2021 sures in a planned manner to ensure the safety and health of our employees and staff seconded from 9% lower than 2018 partners, improve their health and create comfortable working environments. Specifically, our safety P Progress and health activities are carried out at different works under the supervision and management of (Jan.-Dec.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Managers of Safety and Health based on Company-wide measures defined by the General Manager of Company-wide frequency rate of Safety and Health. When an accident occurs, it is reported to the General Manager of Safety and Health 0.33 0.30 0.29 0.42 0.35 lost-time injuries and the labor union, and legally required filings and other such procedures are handled in accordance with Company regulations and rules. KPI Company-wide total days of sick leave taken in instances of four days or longer P Goal for 2021 5% lower than 2018 P Progress (Jan.-Dec.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Company-wide total days of sick leave 26,996 27,962 27,027 28,959 28,575 taken in instances of four days or longer 92 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 93 Society Society Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Occupational Safety Management Safety and Health Head Office President Our Safety Management Activities Performance Data P Occupational Safety and Health Management Systems General Manager of Safety and Health Based on our occupational safety and health management systems, we implement systematic safety (General Manager of and health management activities as well as improvements through ongoing PDCA cycles and interHuman Resources Division) nal audits at workplaces. By doing so, we seek to create a virtuous cycle of improvement in these Industrial physicians systems, prevent occupational accidents and facilitate the creation of a comfortable work environment. In our risk assessment efforts, we constantly strive to enhance our ability to identify and reduce Senior Manager of the Safety Senior Manager of the Labor risks. Workplace risk assessments are regularly reviewed based on the business characteristics of & Health Management Administration Department the respective internal companies. We also review risks when operations or procedures are first Department introduced, when they are altered, and upon restart after a pause. The safety and health management systems at all of our business sites are at the level of Occupational Safety and Health Management Works and System (OSHMS) third-party certification (sites with third-party certification: Hyogo Works, Kobe business segments Committees and meetings Works shipyard, Sakaide Works shipyard). Business sites with third-party certification undergo Senior Managers of works Corporate Safety Commission ­regular inspections by third-party certification bodies. Uncertified sites undergo internal audits once and business segments Safety and Health Council a year in principle, administrated by the Head Office. Special Committee for Safety and Health Managers in charge Regional Safety and Health Committee P KSKY Campaign of safety & health management Collaborative Health Committee Kawasaki’s KSKY Campaign and awareness-building efforts are key aspects of its occupational acciCollaborative Health Secretariat Conference dent prevention efforts. The letters comprising this acronym stand for Japanese words that describe Health Management Implementation Staff Industrial physicians the different elements of the campaign: K (kihon), creating a disciplined workplace that observes the Liaison Meeting Other basic safety rules; S (shisa koshou), making sure to identify and call out to confirm breaks and other Managers in charge crucial points in each work operation; and KY (kiken yochi), working to further improve danger predicof personnel & labor administration tion abilities. The purpose of the campaign is to encourage employees to take a more active role in safety measures and thereby create a workplace in which all can openly caution one another about Line managers potential issues. Kawasaki Labor Kawasaki Health Employees P Safety Awards Union Insurance Union Company regulations provide for safety awards. Production divisions receive awards for amassing long accident-free records, while business sites receive awards for having accident-free years. In 2019, the Kakogawa Works achieved a full year of accident-free operations. PR  esponsible Officers Company-wide: Kouzou Tomiyama, Executive Officer, General Manager of Human Resources Division P Initiatives to Prevent Harm Caused by Radiation (General Manager of Safety and Health) Based on relevant laws, Kawasaki prevents harm caused by radiation by carefully controlling the Each works: Managers of Safety and Health use of radioactive isotopes; radiation-generating equipment and its handling during sales; and work in locations contaminated by the scattering of radioactive isotopes. In addition, to ensure operationP Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee al safety in operations that involve radiation, we have established regulations for preventing harm P Corporate consultative body: Corporate Safety Commission caused by radiation. Any occurrence of an accident resulting in harm caused by radiation is reported Attended by the General Manager of Safety and Health and Managers of Safety and Health, the to the General Manager of Safety and Health and the labor union, and legally required filings and commission meets every December to reflect on the year and discuss targets and other safety and disclosure to the public and media outlets are handled in accordance with specified procedures. health matters for the following year. P Consultative body with the labor union: Special Committee for Safety and Health, and Safety and P Education on and Awareness of Occupational Safety and Health Health Council Based on our Safety and Health Education Standards, in addition to education and training required The Special Committee for Safety and Health is attended by the Senior Manager of the Head Office’s by law, we carry out other necessary safety and health education programs, including grade-specific Safety & Health Management Department, staff responsible for safety and health, and members of training for different staff grades; operation-specific training given after a change in operational conthe management and safety executive committees of the labor union headquarters and branches. tent or for employees engaged in specific duties; general education, which includes health education The Safety and Health Council is attended by the General Manager of Safety and Health and the and hazard prediction training; and training for on-site employees seconded from partners working Managers of Safety and Health (for the Head Office and works) from the Company and the Central under Kawasaki Management on, for example, plant construction sites. Moreover, we also use the Executive Committee members (for the Headquarters and branches) from the labor union. corporate safety education facility, referred to as the “safety dojo,” to promote safety awareness, P Consultative body at works: Regional Safety and Health Committee impart knowledge, and refine risk sensitivity in order to further develop human resources who are Based on labor agreements, this committee is attended by the operating sites’ safety and health capable of acting safely. To prevent accidents caused by unsafe practices and to build safety awaremanagers and staff as well as management and safety executive committee members from the ness, we implement a range of safety and health education programs, including simulated scenarios labor union branches. to help employees experience hazards in the workplace first hand. For details on the functions of the Special Committee for Safety and Health, the Safety and Health Council, and the Regional Safety and P Safety Dojo Participants Health Committee, please refer to Labor Discussions (page 99). (FY) 20151 20161 20171 20182 20193 Safety Dojo participants Persons 663 3,687 2,778 2,668 1,581 1. Scope: Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. (non-consolidated) 2. Scope: The Kawasaki Group (domestic); exceptions apply 3. Scope: The Kawasaki Group (domestic) 94 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 95 Society Society Status of Labor Accidents and Work-related Illnesses and such factors as the number of overtime hours worked, employees are interviewed by an industrial (Jan.-Dec.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 physician and necessary measures put in place. Number of labor Number of P Mental Health Measures 52 42 57 90 104 accidents incidents Kawasaki implements the four types of mental health care outlined by the Ministry of Health, Labour Under Kawasaki’s Number of and Welfare. We offer level-specific mental health education by age group and when employees are 52 42 57 48 69 overall supervision incidents promoted at each business site to ensure that employees have regular access to such education. Each Domestic Group 1 Number of year, approximately 10% of all employees receive mental health education. We also conduct annual — — — 42 35 incidents stress checks and provide interview guidance and other follow-ups for those found to have high levNumber of fatalities Persons 0 0 0 0 1 in the course of duty els of stress. We then conduct group-level analyses of stress check data and use the analysis results Under Kawasaki’s Persons 0 0 0 0 0 in training at each business site. As needed, the results of group-level analyses are also used in overall supervision workplace and work environment improvement efforts for workplaces with high levels of health Employees Persons 0 0 0 0 0 risk. When an employee develops a mental health issue, we aim to intervene and respond quickly. Internal transfer Persons 0 0 0 0 0 Industrial physicians along with human resource and labor departments, industrial health staff, and Staff2 Domestic Group1 Persons — — — 0 1 the employee’s supervisor provide coordinated support when such an employee returns to work ­following a mental health-related absence. Furthermore, in May 2019, we established an external Frequency rate of Under Kawasaki’s 0.33 0.30 0.29 0.42 0.35 consultation hotline so that employees can easily seek advice related to mental health and other issues. lost-time injuries overall supervision (frequency rate) Employees 0.31 0.12 0.30 0.21 0.21 P Health Management of Employees on Overseas Assignment Internal transfer Kawasaki’s internal regulations lay out health management standards for employees on long-term 0.49 0.85 0.24 1.04 0.77 Staff2 overseas business travel or stationed overseas. For such employees, we carry out health checkups (Reference) before, during and after their return from overseas assignment, and their eligibility for overseas 1.61 1.63 1.66 1.83 1.80 Industry average assignment is decided based on the results of such checkups and interviews with industrial physi(Reference) Manufacturing 1.06 1.15 1.02 1.20 1.20 cians. To prevent employees on overseas assignment from contracting infectious diseases, Kawasaki industry average3 covers the cost of vaccinations as necessary for their specific destinations. 1. Kawasaki and key domestic consolidated subsidiaries  In addition, we provide support so that employees can seek necessary medical care with confidence 2. Internal transfer staff under overall supervision of Kawasaki (temporary staff, and contract staff in shipbuilding and construction) should they become unwell while overseas. 3. Data source: Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, Labor Accident Trend Survey 2019 Sanitation Management (non-consolidated) PF  requency Rate of Lost-time Injuries (non-consolidated) (Jan.-Dec.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Frequency rate) Sick leave rate (case basis) 1 4.9 6.2 5.1 5.6 5.7 2.0 1.83 1.80 Mental health-related sick leave frequency 2 1.66 0.23 0.25 0.22 0.22 0.35 1.61 1.63 (case basis) 1.5 Mental health 1.15 1.20 1.20 1.06 1.02 issues Cases 44 48 42 42 67 1.0 (Situational/Acute) Other psychological 0.42 0.35 Cases 1 1 1 3 5 0.5 0.33 0.30 0.29 disorders Absence rate Leave due to 0 (day basis) 3 mental health 2.1 2.1 2.4 2.3 3.8 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Jan.-Dec.) issues 4 P Under Kawasaki’s overall supervision P (Reference) Industry average P (Reference) Manufacturing industry average Overall sick leave 4.6 4.8 4.9 4.8 7.0 1. Calculated as the total number of cases of sick leave per year / total number of workers employed per year × 1,000. 2. In 2019, per an amendment to Company regulations, the period that an employee may be absent before being placed on leave was shortened by three months, causing the figure for 2019 to appear larger. Sanitation Management 3. The absence rate is calculated based on days missed. Specifically, it is the number of employees absent per 1,000 employees per work day, calculated as the total number of days of leave taken / total man-days of work × 1,000. 4. Included in total sick leave Our Sanitation Management Activities P Preventive Measures against Occupational Illnesses To prevent occupational illnesses, we carry out occupational health training when employees are Health Management hired, when they change operations, and when they are assigned to dangerous or hazardous work. Furthermore, in accordance with relevant laws, we carry out special health checkups and provide Our Health Management Activities thorough health guidance for those identified as having potential health problems while measuring Kawasaki sees the health of its employees as one of its key management resources. As such, Kawasaki work environments and advancing work environment improvements. In light of the growing use of IT provides extensive support to help individual employees live a healthy lifestyle in a self-directed manner, in the workplace and the increasing diversity of operations involving IT devices, we monitor the and aims to help employees enjoy healthy and rich lifestyles by promoting healthy activities. health of employees using such devices and provide guidance in accordance with guidelines set by the government. P Implementation of Physical Checkups and Lifestyle Disease Countermeasures To manage employee health, Kawasaki provides regular health checkups for all employees, including P Checkups for Employees Working Long Hours those on assignment overseas, aiming for 100% of employees to receive such checkups. After the To prevent health problems that can be caused by overworking, we have set stricter standards than checkups, we encourage employees flagged as having potential issues to undergo secondary those mandated by law, requiring employees who have worked 45 hours or longer of overtime in ­examinations and provide thorough health guidance. each of two consecutive months or 60 hours or longer in one month to undergo checkups for longhour workers as well as checks for cumulative fatigue. Based on the results of these examinations 96 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 97 Society Society  Furthermore, in coordination with the health insurance union, we proactively provide designated health guidance to employees with metabolic syndrome, with a Group-wide implementation rate of Labor Discussions over 60%. From 2019, as part of collaborative health promotion efforts with the health insurance union, we have begun compiling business site reports based on site-level health data gleaned from Status of Consultations between Management and Labor on Occupational Safety and Health Issues such sources as health checkup results and records of examinations received at medical institutions. (Status of the Safety and Health Committee, etc.) Using these reports, we are able to better understand the health issues faced by each site, and we Kawasaki has concluded a labor agreement with the labor union and holds a Safety and Health Council are now creating a system to formulate and implement educational and other health-related measures (at least once a year) to discuss the policies of safety and health activities, the focus initiatives, and based on these insights. Also, in terms of education, we hold an Eating Habit Improvement Seminar, activity planning; a Special Committee for Safety and Health (at least twice a year) for following up on an Exercise Seminar, and other events aimed at preventing lifestyle diseases in collaboration with and revising the status of actions being implemented; and a Regional Safety and Health Committee the health insurance union. (monthly) for deliberating on measures for preventing hazards and health impediments and discussing P Infectious Disease Prevention the causes and measures for preventing the recurrence of labor accidents at all offices in Japan. Kawasaki provides vaccinations to employees scheduled to travel or be stationed overseas as needed depending on their destination. We also provide influenza vaccines during work hours at little cost to the employees who elect to receive them.  In addition, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, we are conducting awareness raising with regard to such topics as hand washing, cough etiquette, ventilation, and avoiding close contact, enclosed spaces, and large groups. At the same time, in accordance with government policy, we have formulated guidelines for preventing contracting and spreading the virus and are working to ensure awareness among employees. P Second-hand Smoke Preventive Measures In response to the April 2020 amendment to the Health Promotion Act, Kawasaki is implementing measures to prevent second-hand smoke exposure, for example, eliminating indoor smoking areas and setting up dedicated smoking rooms based on the government’s guidelines for preventing ­second-hand smoke exposure in the workplace. In addition, to support employees who smoke and want to quit, we have set up a program to subsidize their efforts to do so. The smoking rate at Kawasaki (non-consolidated) has been falling; in 2018, it stood at 27%, down from 31% in 2013, the first year that we collected data. Together with second-hand smoke preventive measures, we will continue working to reduce the employee smoking rate. P Health Maintenance and Improvement Measures To promote the formation of self-directed healthy habits among domestic Group employees, every year domestic Group companies, the health insurance union, and the labor union collaborate to hold the Kawasaki Health Challenge, a health promotion event. Each year since its inauguration in fiscal 2012, the number of participants has grown, reaching approximately half of domestic Group employees in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, to further promote health activities, we introduced a health ­management app. P Health Education Classes As part of our Company-wide Total Health Promotion activities, we support employees in improving their mental and physical health by offering classes aimed at the prevention of lifestyle diseases. These include an Eating Habit Improvement Seminar, an Exercise Seminar and seminars for female employees. P Health Education Participants (non-consolidated) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mental health education Persons — — 1,323 2,048 2,206 Level-specific education Persons — — 1,051 906 765 (for new hires, etc.) Other health education (education for female Persons — — 622 2,352 1,728 employees, etc.) P Actions for Preventing Lifestyle Diseases (consolidated domestic; exceptions apply) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage taking % 96.3 95.6 92.8 96.2 96.7 designated checkups Percentage taking % 63.6 65.4 62.7 62.5 66.7 designated health guidance P Health Management KPI (non-consolidated) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage taking regular % 99.0 99.3 99.0 99.0 99.6 physical checkups 98 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 99 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Structure Business and As value chains expand on a global scale, ensuring respect for the human rights of employees, suppliThe Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy states that Director in charge of CSR and the CSR Department Human Rights M ers, and all the other people involved in our businesses has become a more important focus that, in are responsible for human rights-related management and issues. turn, increases the necessity of understanding and dealing with the human rights risks in Group-wide The CSR Department analyzes and monitors human rights risks, and the Corporate CSR Committee is Management business activities. responsible for deliberating on human rights related efforts and receiving reports on these activities. Approach The Kawasaki Group has enshrined respect for human rights in its business activities in the Kawasaki For more information about related structures, please refer to CSR Promotion System under CSR Framework (page 2). Group Code of Conduct. In fiscal 2019, we adopted the Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy. The Group supports and respects international rules and norms regarding human rights and labor, including the P Responsible Officer International Bill of Human Rights, International Labour Organization’s core labor standards, the United Katsuya Yamamoto, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer (in charge of CSR) Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Bill of Human Rights. P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee Corporate CSR Committee Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets P Board of Directors’ Involvement in Human Rights Matters (Reporting and Deliberating) Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Kawasaki Group Reports on training and activities associated with human rights are given as needed in Corporate is implementing initiatives to ensure respect for human rights in its business activities in the CSR Committee meetings. ­following processes. 1. Find and itemize human rights issues in the value chains of the Group’s businesses 2. Identify and determine the priority of human rights issues and determine priority areas and ­methods for initiatives going forward 3. Establish human rights policy 4. Formulate and implement risk reduction measures for key risks (For example, local surveys, improving labor environments, implementing human rights training, etc.) 5. Disclose information about human rights initiatives 6. Repeat 1 through 5 (in a PDCA cycle) P Goals for the MTBP 2019 P Implement fact-finding surveys regarding identified human rights risks (at subsidiaries and suppliers). P Increase human rights awareness among employees. Progress, Results and Challenges P Goals for Fiscal 2019 P Establish a Kawasaki Group human rights policy and disclose it publicly. P Carry out human rights training for employees. P Fiscal 2019 Results P Established the Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy and disclosed it externally. P Advanced the preparation of human rights training materials for employees (planned to carry out training in early fiscal 2020). P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Carry out human rights training for employees. P Implement fact-finding surveys within the Kawasaki Group regarding areas of high human rights risk. Human Rights Policy The Kawasaki Group has enshrined respect for the human rights of all people in its business activities in the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct and strives to ensure respect for the human rights of stakeholders affected by its business activities. Furthermore, in fiscal 2019, we established the Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy to complement the Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct. P Scope of Policy Application The Kawasaki Group WEB The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/employee/pdf/policy_e.pdf 100 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 101 Society Society Business and Prohibition of Discrimination Right to Organize and Right to Collective Bargaining Human Rights M The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct prohibits discrimination, as follows: Labor–Management Discussions Performance Data “As stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, human rights are ‘the inherent dignity and the Kawasaki is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, indicating its support of the Compact’s equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family.’ In order to respect the human rights of 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, each and every person, we must afford everyone equal dignity and respect, regardless of race, skin color, the Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy states that the Group shall respect employees’ freedom of gender, age, nationality, social origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, religion, association and right to collective bargaining. political belief, disability, health condition, or any other legally protected characteristics.” Kawasaki employs a union shop system, meaning that all general employees are members of the The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy also prohibits discrimination. The entire Kawasaki Group labor union. implements initiatives based on its understanding of discrimination as a human rights issue. The right to collective bargaining is recognized in our labor agreement, and two days’ notice must be Concrete anti-discrimination measures include training covering LGBT considerations and awarenessgiven before commencing collective bargaining with respect to such matters as corporate cost-cutting raising activities for employees of Kawasaki Heavy Industries. actions and significant changes in labor conditions. However, as both parties strive, in principle, to To provide work environments that are more welcoming to LGBT employees, in fiscal 2020, reach amicable resolutions by holding labor-management meetings (on an as-needed basis) in good Kawasaki Heavy Industries modified its human resources system to ensure that employees’ same-sex faith prior to commencing collective bargaining, Kawasaki has seen no labor dispute actions over the partners are treated the same as opposite-sex spouses for the purpose of employee benefits. past 40 years. In addition, Kawasaki has concluded a labor agreement with the labor union and actively exchanges views with the union via a range of regular meetings. These include meetings of the Corporate Prohibition of Child Labor and Forced Labor Management Council (at least twice a year Company-wide, and at least twice a year at internal companies) to explain our corporate management policies and state of management; the Safety and Health The Kawasaki Group clearly states in its Code of Conduct that it will not tolerate child labor or forced Council (at least once a year) to explain basic policies on safety and health; the Regional Safety and labor, which are global human rights and labor issues. In addition, Kawasaki is a signatory to the Health Council (at least once monthly) to deliberate on measures for preventing hazards and health United Nations Global Compact, indicating its support of the Compact’s 10 principles in the four areas impediments to employees; and the Company-wide Environmental Preservation Committee (once of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. a year) to explain Company measures related to environmental preservation. With respect to the global human rights and labor issues of child labor and forced labor, since fiscal P Labor Union Data (non-consolidated) 2014, we periodically confirm that no company under the Group umbrella is involved in such practices (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and declare that none will ever employ such practices. This style of confirmation and declaration, Number of union members Persons 12,414 12,541 12,823 12,949 13,294 acknowledged and supported by the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) secretariat, is prepared in Labor union makeup* % 75.6 75.8 76.9 79,2 79.2 line with the “Global Compact Labor Principles and Business Guidelines” and signed by the presidents Number of labor discussions with the union Number — — 26 31 23 of all Group companies, including those overseas. As the Kawasaki Group, we adopt CSR Procurement Guidelines, which cover respect for human rights, and call on business partners to work with us as *T  he number of labor union members and labor union makeup are current as of the end of the respective fiscal years. Labor union makeup percentage represents the percentage of union members versus all permanent employees, including officers. a team to uphold these guidelines. WEB The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy WEB The Kawasaki Group Code of Conduct https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/employee/pdf/policy_e.pdf https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/business-conduct-guideline.html Participation in International Initiatives The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/initiatives.html https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/employee/pdf/policy_e.pdf Participation in International Initiatives https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/initiatives.html Kawasaki Group CSR Procurement Guidelines https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/procurement/pdf/csr_tyoutatsu_guideline.pdf Human Rights Due Diligence Confirmation and Declaration of the Abolition of Forced Labor and Child Labor https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/overview/child_labor.pdf Human Rights Risk Assessments and Impact Assessments In fiscal 2018, the Kawasaki Group implemented human rights risk assessments and impact assessments of its main businesses in cooperation with the U.S.-based nonprofit Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). Harassment Prevention In implementing these risk assessments and impact assessments, Kawasaki referenced international rules and principles regarding human rights, namely, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Kawasaki has established the Harassment Prevention Regulations. To create a comfortable, harassILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the International Bill of Human Rights ment-free working environment, Kawasaki provides grade-specific training to provide proper guidance and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. and increase awareness. P Scope of Human Rights Risk Assessments and Impact Assessments In addition to the Compliance Reporting and Consultation System, which employees can use when (businesses, value chains, ­countries and regions, stakeholder groups) they have experienced or witnessed harassment, since fiscal 2014 we have maintained consultation Businesses covered: The Kawasaki Group’s main business (the six internal companies) points, operated by the Human Resources Division, that employees, including temporary staff, can use. Countries and regions covered: The countries and regions in which the Kawasaki Group does business As necessary, we also hold meetings with employees seeking advice or help through either system and (Japan, China, the United States, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Thailand, the Philippines, Singapore, respond fairly to incidents while remaining committed to respecting their privacy. Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, Russia) In addition, from fiscal 2019, we have begun operation of an external consultation point that employees Stakeholders covered: Customers, employees, employees in the supply chain, local residents, etc. of Kawasaki can access for consultation regarding issues related to harassment and mental health. P Assessment Results and Corrective Measures As a result of the risk assessments and impact assessments, we found that the following nine areas in particular present significant human rights risks. 102 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 103 Society Society PS  afety and health of employees Mechanisms for Addressing Outside Grievances (from suppliers, local communities, etc.) PS  afety and health at manufacturing sites We do not have a dedicated contact point for human-rights related grievances from outside the Group. PC  hild labor at manufacturing sites However, our website includes general contact forms. Inquiries received through the website are PF  orced labor at manufacturing sites directed to the relevant divisions and handled appropriately. PS  afety and health in supply chains PW  ages, benefits, and work hours in supply chains PC  hild labor in supply chains Engagement Regarding Human Rights PF  orced labor in supply chains PH  igh-risk customers Engagement with Stakeholders P Responses and Challenges Going Forward The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy, established in fiscal 2019, states that the Group will fulfill In light of the above results, the Kawasaki Group will formulate and implement risk reduction its responsibilities related to respecting the human rights of the stakeholders impacted by the Group’s ­measures for key risks within the Group. business activities. P Identifying Human Rights Risk in Cooperation with the NPO BSR Priority Human Rights Risks In fiscal 2018, we worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to identify stakeholders impacted by the Group’s business activities as well as areas of significant human rights risk.  Going forward, we will formulate and implement risk reduction measures for key risks within the Group. By implementing a PDCA cycle of initiatives to ensure respect for human rights, we are advancing efforts to address risks to the human rights of our stakeholders. For details, please refer to Human Rights Due Diligence (page 103). P In Response to the NGO SOMO’s Report In 2017, the Netherlands-based NGO SOMO published a report titled The Myanmar Dilemma, discussing human rights abuses in garment factories in Myanmar, including a factory reported to be a supplier to Kawasaki. In light of this report, we conducted an internal investigation and determined that a primary contractor commissioned by Kawasaki subsidiary Kawasaki Motors Corporation Japan to manufacture apparel products subcontracted the production of some of these products to the factory discussed in SOMO’s report. The manufacture of these products at said factory was temporary, and the products were not being produced there at the time of the internal investigation. The CSR Department provided explanations of potential human rights risks in the supply chain to related divisions and requested that they take steps to ensure awareness of and compliance with Kawasaki’s CSR Procurement Guidelines. We internally share the observations and opinions of NGOs and other stakeholders and strive to respond appropriately when there is an issue. WEB The Kawasaki Group Human Rights Policy https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/employee/pdf/policy_e.pdf Mechanism for Addressing Human Rights Related Grievances Mechanisms for Addressing Employee Grievances Under Kawasaki’s labor agreement, if a problem arises that cannot be resolved within the workplace, Addressing Modern Slavery Kawasaki sets up a grievance committee, with participation from the director responsible for personnel and the president of the labor union, to quickly, fairly, and peacefully resolve the problem. The grievance The United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act committee handles a wide variety of issues, including the health management and safety of union memOur UK-based subsidiary Kawasaki Precision Machinery (UK) Ltd. and the UK Branch Office of Kawasaki bers, incidents of abuse of authority or sexual harassment, and matters related to personnel transfers. Motors Europe N.V. issue statements in accordance with the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act. Kawasaki promises that no employee will suffer disadvantageous treatment for voicing a grievance. WEB Kawasaki Precision Machinery (UK) Ltd. “Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement” Cases Consultation Contents of report Contact Contact point/ https://www.kawasakihydraulics.com/app/uploads/2020/04/Modern-Slavery-Act-Statement-2019-.pdf (fiscal Scope system or consultation method Operating division Kawasaki Motors Europe N.V. (UK Branch) “Modern Slavery Act Statement” 2019) https://storage.kawasaki.eu/repository/Global%20Repository/pdf/modern_slavery_act_UK2019.pdf Workplace harassment, such Head Office Human Internal Kawasaki Heavy as sexual harassment, abuse Resources Division / consultation Email Industries, Ltd. of authority, and maternity­ Head Office Human point system (non-consolidated) related harassment 6 Resources Division External External institution / Kawasaki Heavy Harassment and Webpage, consultation Head Office Human Industries, Ltd. mental health phone point system Resources Division (non-consolidated) Compliance Reporting and Please refer to Whistle-Blowing System and Outside lawyer / Domestic Kawasaki Consultation Consultation Points on page 27. CSR Department Group System 104 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 105 Society Society Material Issues and Our Approach Topic Social As a company that engages in a broad range of businesses domestically and overseas, the Kawasaki Contribution Group believes that as a member of communities, we have a responsibility for making active contributions Consideration Given to Employees at KMI (Indonesia) Activities to the communities in which we operate. PT. Kawasaki Motor Indonesia (KMI) is a local manufacturing and marketing base for Kawasaki-brand Additionally, in the context of the SDGs adopted by the UN in 2015, expectations for corporations motorcycles in Indonesia. Management are high with respect to realizing sustainable societies. About 90% of the population of Indonesia is Muslim, and many of KMI’s employees are followers of Approach Based on our Group Mission, “Global Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet,” the Islam. Therefore, various considerations are extended to these employees. The company has set aside Kawasaki Group is committed to pushing forward with our social contribution activities that leverage an area on site for a mushola (prayer room). Female employees are allowed to wear a headscarf during our human resources, technologies and capital, and are highly synergistic with our business activities. working hours and, in the cafeteria, no dishes made with pork are served since dietary laws prohibit consumption of pork. Focus Activities and Medium-term Targets During the holy month of Ramadan, Muslims fast between sunrise and sunset, and through this P Goals for the MTBP 2019 month office hours for employees in administrative and marketing divisions start 30 minutes earlier P Promote activities based on the Policy on Social Contribution Activities. than usual. This change reflects the desire of many Muslims to have their evening meal with family at P Implement phase 2 of the handicraft and experiment courses. home during Ramadan. Also, after Lebaran (a celebration to mark the end of fasting), which follows P Continue events at Kawasaki Good Times World. Ramadan, KMI holds a halal bi halal event for Muslims. P Continue to run Kawasaki Robostage. But Islam is not the state religion of Indonesia. In fact, there are Christian and Hindu minorities, and P Run the Kawasaki Good Times Foundation with an emphasis on efficacy. since the constitution guarantees religious freedom, Christmas and Hindu celebrations are also P Continue forest conservation activities. observed as national holidays. KMI therefore extends considerations to employees of Christian and other faiths and holds events, such as Christmas celebrations. Progress, Results and Challenges This demonstrates KMI efforts to accommodate the local religions, cultures and customs of the land P Goals for Fiscal 2019 and execute business activities that respect human rights. P Promote activities based on the Policy on Social Contribution Activities. P Implement phase 2 of the handicraft and experiment courses. P Continue events at Kawasaki Good Times World. P Continue to run Kawasaki Robostage. P Run the Kawasaki Good Times Foundation with an emphasis on efficacy. P Continue forest conservation activities. P Fiscal 2019 Results P Carried out activities based on the Policy on Social Contribution Activities. 1. Social contribution activity spending: ¥712 million On site prayer room (mushola) Halal Bi Halal Female employees wearing headscarves 2. Kawasaki Good Times World guests: 198,000 3. Handicraft and experiment course participants: 463 P Held crane-building activities as part of phase 2 of the handicraft and experiment courses P Continued to run Kawasaki Good Times World, Kawasaki Robostage and the Kawasaki Good Times Foundation. P Carried out forest conservation activities. P Goals for Fiscal 2020 P Promote activities based on the Policy on Social Contribution Activities. P Implement phase 2 of the handicraft and experiment courses, looking at the Energy System & Plant Engineering businesses. P Continue events at Kawasaki Good Times World. P Continue to run Kawasaki Robostage. P Run the Kawasaki Good Times Foundation with an emphasis on efficacy. P Continue forest conservation activities. 106 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 107 Society Society Policy on Social Contribution Activities The Kawasaki Group implements social contribution activities in various fields based on the Group Social Key Areas in Our Social Contribution Activities Mission, “Kawasaki, working as one for the good of the planet.” We take advantage of our strengths Contribution and the capabilities of our employees for such activities. The key areas of our social contribution activiActivities Key Area 1 ties are as below. P Contribution to Local Communities (1) The Kawasaki Group, as a corporate citizen, constructs good relationships with local communities Performance Data P Overview (relevance to our business) and contributes to their development. We carry out activities for supporting sports and community exchange events, mostly in regions (2) The Kawasaki Group supports the next generation who lead the future technology. where we have offices or works. In Okinawa, many of our employees have taken part in coral reef (3) The Kawasaki Group preserves the environment and achieves the sustainable society. regeneration activities as volunteers. P Scope of Policy Application P Effects on Business The Kawasaki Group These activities help improve our presence in these communities. P Effects on Society WEB Policy on Social Contribution Activities Through these activities, we contribute to the sustenance and development of local communities. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/contribution/policy_on_social_contribution.html Key Area 2 P Support for the Next Generation Structure P Overview (relevance to our business) For information about related structures, please refer to CSR Promotion System under CSR Framework (page 2). As a company that specializes in technological development and its widespread application, employees of the Kawasaki Group develop science education programs and hold handicraft and P Responsible Officer experiment courses for elementary school students in different communities. Katsuya Yamamoto, Representative Director, Vice President and Senior Executive Officer (in charge P Effects on Business of CSR) These activities help improve employees’ communication abilities and motivation while improving P Responsible Executive Organ and/or Committee the Group’s brand reputation. Corporate CSR Committee P Effects on Society By carrying out these science education programs on a regular basis, we contribute to building WEB Within Contribution to local communities: Kawasaki Good Times Foundation—Operating Social Contribution Fund in U.S. https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/contribution/local_communities.html children’s interest in science. Support for the Next Generation https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/contribution/next_generation/support.html Key Area 3 Contribution to local communities P Realization of a Society Coexisting with Nature https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/contribution/local_communities.html P Overview (relevance to our business) Realization of a Society Coexisting with Nature The Kawasaki Group upholds its contributions to the global environment as a key element of its https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/environment/symbiotically.html Group Mission, and aims to create societies that coexist with nature. As part of these efforts, we Within Contribution to local communities: Conclusion of disaster prevention agreement with local communities https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/contribution/local_communities.html are engaged in forest conservation activities in two locations: Hyogo Prefecture and Kochi Kawasaki Good Times World Prefecture. This also helps to build environmental awareness among our employees and promote https://www.khi.co.jp/kawasakiworld/english/#wrapper personal exchange with our communities. Kawasaki Robostage P Effects on Business https://robotics.kawasaki.com/ja1/robostage/en.html These activities help to build environmental awareness among our employees, and also improve our reputation as an environmentally sensitive company. P Effects on Society We calculate and disclose the amount of CO2 absorbed through these forestation activities. Social Contribution Activities by Type (totals for Kawasaki and Kawasaki Good Times Foundation in the United States) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Donations and philanthropy % 40.78 42.18 47.34 34.86 36.29 Investments % 29.17 31.20 32.62 45.71 46.47 (ongoing partnerships with NGOs, etc.) Advertising and marketing % 30.06 26.61 20.03 19.42 17.24 (support funding, campaigns, etc.) Total % 100 100 100 100 100 Note: Because the above figures are rounded to the second decimal place, the percentage figures may not add up to exactly 100%. 108 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 109 Society Kawasaki proactively implements sustainability activities. These activities have been widely Social Contribution Activity Expenditure (totals for Kawasaki and Kawasaki Good Times Foundation in Third-party ­recognized and have been evaluated by various external organizations. For the latest information on the United States) Evaluations inclusion in ESG stock indices and evaluations of the Group’s sustainability initiatives, please refer to Kawasaki’s website. (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 WEB Evaluation by Society Total Millions of yen 605 697 670 653 712 https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/sustainability/mgmt/evaluation.html Breakdown Vitalization of industry and economy Millions of yen 64 95 100 178 205 by category Communities Millions of yen 258 300 266 154 198 Education Millions of yen 126 136 173 216 214 Culture, sports Millions of yen 121 121 73 59 59 Welfare and humanitarian aid Millions of yen 20 22 38 22 7 (including disaster relief) Others (including environmental Millions of yen 16 23 20 24 28 safety, and disaster prevention) Expenditure Provision of funds Millions of yen 194 238 191 155 146 type Provision of goods Millions of yen 220 239 234 236 238 Employee volunteer activities Millions of yen 191 220 245 262 328 Indirect management costs Millions of yen 0 0 0 0 0 Percentage of current earnings % 0.65 1.90 1.55 1.73 1.76 Note: It includes expenses for donations, support funding, in-kind contributions and requests for support from third-party organizations, and cost of labor of employees assigned to third-party organizations (including expenses incurred by Kawasaki). It does not include internal cost of labor of employees or expenses associated with the use of facilities. Measuring the Effects of Our Social Contribution Activities Effects of Our Social Contribution Activities (output, outcome, and impact) We quantify the performance of main activities in the key areas of our social contribution activities as KPI to make further improvements to the effectiveness of these activities. P KPI/Performance of Our Social Contribution Activities (consolidated domestic) (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Social contribution expenses Millions 258 300 266 154 198 for communities of yen Kawasaki Good Times World visitors Thousands 221 219 247 227 198 of people Handicraft experiment courses Participants 365 415 435 519 463 Events held 16 21 24 25 21 (Fiscal 2019) Forest conservation activities Taka, Niyodogawa, Hyogo prefecture Kochi prefecture Participants Persons 195 64 Activities per year Number of 3 1 activities Area ha 0.5 0.3 CO2 absorption amount t-CO2 0.97 15.0 Tree planting Trees 0 0 110 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 Kawasaki ESG Data Book 2020 111
