Leadership: Setting the Standard 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 INTRODUCTION 1 Our Vision and Mandate 2 Our Mining Partners 3 2019 Sustainability Highlights 4 Financial and Operational Highlights 5 Letter from the CEO 6 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD 8 ESG Timeline 8 Voluntary Commitments 12 Our Business: About Precious Metals Streaming 16 Our Approach to ESG: Material Topics 17 03 GOVERNANCE 21 Corporate Governance 21 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 22 Responsible Investments 24 Wheaton’s First Partner CSR Program Wheaton was the first streaming company 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 to begin supporting mining communities. Community Investment Program 31 In 2014, we launched the program by Human Rights 42 supporting a project in Argentina with Health and Safety 42 Barrick Gold focused on helping local Employee Relations 43 farmers increase yield and conserve water Diversity, Inclusion and Discrimination 44 through drip irrigation technology and 05 ENVIRONMENT 47 water conservation techniques. Addressing Climate Change 47 Tailings and Waste Management 51 Water Use and Management 51 Biodiversity, Land Use and Mine Closure Planning 52 06 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 53 07 GRI, SASB AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICES 54 References to “Wheaton Precious Metals”, “Wheaton”, “WPM”, or “the Company” in this Sustainability Report includes Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. and/or its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. Programs relating to Wheaton Precious Metals International Ltd. will be referenced as Wheaton International. All amounts in US$ unless otherwise noted. “At Wheaton, we are committed to promoting responsible mining practices and giving back to the communities where we live and operate. The sustainability of our business and the industry is dependent on it. It is the right thing to do.” Randy Smallwood, President and CEO Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. (“Wheaton”) is the world’s premier precious metals streaming company with the highest-quality portfolio of long-life, lowcost assets. Its business model offers investors commodity price leverage and exploration upside but with a much lower risk profile than a traditional mining company. Wheaton delivers amongst the highest cash operating margins in the mining industry, allowing it to pay a competitive dividend and continue to grow organically and through accretive acquisitions. As a result, Wheaton has consistently outperformed gold and silver, as well as other mining investments. Wheaton creates sustainable value through streaming. We believe that long-term value can only be achieved through sustainable business practices from an economic, social and environmental perspective. 01 INTRODUCTION OUR VISION To be the world’s premier precious metals investment vehicle. Photo credit: Graham Osborne OUR MANDATE To deliver value through streaming to all our stakeholders: To our shareholders By delivering low risk, high-quality, diversified exposure and growth optionality to precious metals To our partners By crystallizing value for precious metals yet to be produced To our neighbours By promoting responsible mining practices and supporting the communities in which we live and operate 2 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | INTRODUCTION 01 INTRODUCTION OUR MINING PARTNERS 21 20 22 18 23 1 2 TO 6 7-8 24 19 16 17 25 9 10 OPERATING MINES 11 1 777, Canada (Hudbay Minerals) Sudbury Mines, Canada (Vale) 2 Coleman 26 3 Copper Cliff 4 Creighton 5 Garson 6 Totten 12 15 Stillwater, USA (Sibanye-Stillwater) 13 27 14 7 Stillwater 8 East Boulder 9 San Dimas, Mexico (First Majestic Silver) 10 Peñasquito, Mexico (Newmont) 28 11 Los Filos, Mexico (Equinox Gold) 12 Antamina, Peru (Glencore) 13 Yauliyacu, Peru (Glencore) 29 14 Constancia, Peru (Hudbay Minerals) 15 Salobo, Brazil (Vale) 16 Aljustrel, Portugal (Almina) 17 Neves-Corvo, Portugal (Lundin Mining) 18 Zinkgruvan, Sweden (Lundin Mining) 19 Stratoni, Greece (Eldorado Gold) 20 Minto, Canada (Pembridge) DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS 21 Keno Hill, Canada (Alexco Resource) At Wheaton, we believe in responsible mining, and 22 Kutcho, Canada (Kutcho Copper) 23 Voisey's Bay, Canada (Vale) we endeavour to partner with third-party independent 24 Victor, Canada (Sudbury) (Vale) mining companies (“Mining Partners”) that share our 25 Rosemont, USA (Hudbay Minerals) values and beliefs. Our production profile is driven by 26 Toroparu, Guyana (Gold X Mining) a portfolio of low-cost, long-life assets. We currently 27 Cotabambas, Peru (Panoro Minerals) have streaming agreements on 20 operating mines 28 Pascua-Lama, Chile/Argentina (Barrick Gold) and 9 development stage projects. 29 Navidad, Argentina (Pan American Silver) INTRODUCTION | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 01 INTRODUCTION 2019 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS A ESG “A” rated by MSCI in the Materials-Metals & Mining sector #1 B #1 ranked by Sustainalytics (out of 27 B* score on CDP Climate companies) for Precious Metals Mining Change Questionnaire CO2 20 Carbon Neutral for the past five years 20 Partner CSR projects with seven Mining Partners to date $2.9M $21M Over $2.9 million in community Over $21M contributed to local charities investment programs in 2019 and mining communities since 2009 22% 0 22% female board members** No whistleblower reports * Wheaton received a B, which is higher than the North America regional average of C. **In 2020, with the increase to 10 directors, the percentage of female board members decreased to 20%. 4 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | INTRODUCTION 01 INTRODUCTION FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 2019 2018 2017 Ounces produced Gold 406,675 383,974 366,470 Silver 22,562 24,474 28,290 Palladium 21,993 14,686 Gold equivalent 2 707,195 700,446 714,654 Silver equivalent 2 57,460 56,911 58,066 Ounces sold Gold 389,086 349,168 337,205 Silver 17,703 21,733 24,644 Palladium 20,681 8,717 Gold equivalent 2 628,447 625,701 640,524 Silver equivalent 2 51,061 50,838 52,043 Per ounce metrics Sales price Gold $ 1,391 $ 1,264 $ 1,257 Silver $ 16.29 $ 15.81 $ 17.01 Palladium $ 1,542 $ 1,060 n.a. Cash costs 3 Gold 3 $ 421 $ 409 $ 395 Silver 3 $ 5.02 $ 4.67 $ 4.49 Palladium 3 $ 273 $ 190 n.a. Cash operating margin 4 Gold 4 $ 970 $ 855 $ 417 Silver 4 $ 11.27 $ 11.14 $ 4.94 Palladium 4 $ 1,269 $ 870 n.a. Total revenue $ 861,332 $ 794,012 $ 843,215 Gold revenue $ 541,045 $ 441,193 $ 423,941 Silver revenue $ 288,401 $ 343,579 $ 419,274 Palladium revenue $ 31,886 $ 9,240 n.a. Net earnings $ 86,138 $ 427,115 $ 57,703 Per share $ 0.19 $ 0.96 $ 0.13 Adjusted net earnings 5 $ 251,993 $ 213,782 $ 128,703 Per share 5 $ 0.56 $ 0.48 $ 0.63 Operating cash flows $ 501,620 $ 477,413 $ 538,809 Per share 6 $ 1.12 $ 1.08 $ 1.22 Dividends paid 7 $ 160,656 $ 159,619 $ 145,848 Per share $ 0.36 $ 0.36 $ 0.33 1) All amounts in thousands except gold and palladium ounces produced and sold, per ounce amounts and per share amounts. 2) Please refer to the tables on the bottom of pages 18, 19, 21 and 22 of the Q4 2019 MD&A for further information on the methodology of converting production and sales volumes to gold-equivalent ounces (“GEOs”) and silver-equivalent ounces (“SEOs”). 3) Refer to discussion on non-IFRS measure (iii) on page 47 of the Q4 2019 MD&A. 4) Refer to discussion on non-IFRS measure (iv) on page 48 of the Q4 2019 MD&A. 5) Refer to discussion on non-IFRS measure (i) on page 46 of the Q4 2019 MD&A. 6) Refer to discussion on non-IFRS measure (ii) on page 47 of the Q4 2019 MD&A. INTRODUCTION | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 7) Dividends declared in the referenced calendar quarter, relative to the financial results of the prior quarter. 01 INTRODUCTION LETTER FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholder, I would like to welcome you to the first annual Sustainability Report from Wheaton Precious Metals. From our earliest days, sustainability has been embedded in our culture. This report raises the bar for transparency in our disclosure on Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) performance, and sets benchmarks for future reports. Environmental stewardship and social responsibility are ingrained at Wheaton. The decision to invest in an asset begins with our due diligence process: we only select assets that meet or exceed our stringent quality criteria, which includes strict environmental and social requirements. We endeavour to work with Mining Partners that push for continuous improvement and strive to meet or exceed standards. We monitor each operation’s environmental and social performance— including regular visits to mine sites—and if any issues arise, we don’t hesitate to bring them forward. We feel that we owe it to ourselves, our partners, and our communities to be leaders in this industry. A mining operation offers the opportunity to have tremendous, positive social impacts on neighboring communities. Early on, we at Wheaton chose to take the initiative in creating partnerships that have established shared contributions to local communities. engagement and entrepreneurial opportunities in the We formalized these relationships in our Partner regions where they operate including Brazil, Peru and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Program, Mexico. When we support local communities, we help which launched in 2014 and has grown steadily since. our Mining Partners solidify their social license. It’s worth noting how unique this concept was at the time—for a streaming or royalty company to put money I will never forget a note of gratitude we received from back into mining communities—and, unfortunately, how a mother in Brazil who thanked us for our contributions rare it remains today. to the medical clinic where her child had received care. This kind of feedback reinforces that we are making a As a company that was founded by mining industry difference. I am proud of the fact that the majority of our professionals, Wheaton understands the importance CSR funding—fully two-thirds of our budget—goes to the of social license. In 2019, we significantly increased the regions from which we receive precious metals. budget we allocate to our Partner CSR Programs— doubling the percentage that is directed to our Mining As a company with Mining Partners in many countries, Partners' social and environmental initiatives. To date, we we have carefully structured policies and procedures have advanced 20 different projects with seven of our that ensure strong, ethical governance, within the Mining Partners focused on health, education, community company and in our partner relationships. We believe 6 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | INTRODUCTION strong governance practices sets the foundation for ESG Wheaton have been impacted, many of our neighbours performance. In recent months, we raised the profile of face far greater challenges. I am pleased that we are able sustainability both at the Board level and within to support the front lines that are fighting this pandemic, our management team. We redefined the responsibilities and we extend our deepest sympathies to everyone that of a Board committee to include ESG-specific has been impacted. responsibilities, and it is now called the Governance and Sustainability Committee. Looking forward, I want Wheaton to continue to be an agent of change—to raise the bar in social and environmental performance to ensure the future of mining. The COVID-19 pandemic has reinforced the need and Environmental stewardship and social urgency for our industry to be committed to protecting responsibility are ingrained at Wheaton. communities. I especially want to encourage the rest of our streaming and royalty peers to support mining The decision to invest in an asset begins with communities—it is the right thing to do. This sustainability our due diligence process: we only select report is the first of many, and in each one we expect to add depth and detail to metrics that we report on. assets that meet or exceed our stringent quality criteria. In closing, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our stakeholders including shareholders, employees and the communities where we operate for their continued support in helping build Wheaton into the company it is today. 2019 was a year in which we took great strides in our ESG I look forward to keeping you informed on our commitments. We joined our fellow World Gold Council ESG performance. members in committing to the council’s Responsible Gold Mining Principles. In addition, we also joined the United Nations (“UN”) Global Compact, becoming the first precious metals streaming or royalty company to commit Sincerely, to its Ten Principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and to support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. I am pleased to reaffirm Wheaton’s support for the UN Global Compact for 2020. This Sustainability Report will also serve as our first annual Communication on Progress, where we will describe our actions taken to date to integrate the ten principles into RANDY SMALLWOOD our business strategy, culture and daily operations. President & CEO I write this letter in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. In response, Wheaton has just launched a US$5 million Community Support and Response Fund in support of global efforts to combat the pandemic and meet the immediate needs of the communities in which we operate, and those around the mines from which we receive precious metals. This is in addition to our existing Community Investment Program that supports over 50 programs around the world. It is clear that, while we at INTRODUCTION | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD ESG TIMELINE 2009 At Wheaton, sustainability has been a core value for many years, demonstrated by our longstanding Formed the Community Investment Program commitment to giving back to the communities in to support environmental and social initiatives which we operate and strong corporate governance in the communities where we operate. The practices. The timeline outlines some of our ESG program operated on a case-by-case basis. highlights over the years. Please note amounts are in CA$. Pledged $1 million towards the campaign for a new UBC Earth Sciences Building, to provide students with a new, expanded space to learn and connect with peers, and updated laboratory facilities to enable researchers to collaborate and investigate the challenges facing our planet in new ways. 8 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD 2011 2012 Committed to donate 1% of net income to the Pledged $1.6 million to the St. Paul’s Foundation Community Investment Program. Formed a CSR to expand the Inner City Youth Program and committee to oversee the program with a focus provide a new storefront to support programs on Four Pillars of Giving. and services. This seed capital led to the formation of Foundry, which today has eight locations open across the province with plans Pledged $1 million to The Campaign for BC Children to continue to expand. to support the construction of a new hospital. The Teck Acute Care Centre opened in the fall of 2017, transforming the way health care is delivered to the Donated $1.5 million in support of Streetohome’s one million kids across our home province. capital campaign to break the cycle of homelessness in Vancouver. The funds were earmarked for a new development (now called The Budzey) of 147 units for women and their children, as well as single women who were homeless or living in sub-standard housing. Teck Acute Care Centre opened in the fall of 2017. Foundry offers young people ages 12-24 health and wellness resources, services and supports, both online and through integrated service centres in communities across BC. LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD ESG TIMELINE, CONT’D 2014 2017 Launched our Partner CSR Program, becoming the Added environmental programs to our pillars first streaming/royalty company to support our of support, and initiated a partnership with Mining Partners’ environmental and social initiatives the Nature Trust of BC to support conservation that benefit communities that are directly influenced programs in the province. by mine operations. The first Partner CSR programs supported initiatives in Argentina (with Barrick Gold) and Mexico (with Primero Mining, subsequently Increased our disclosure around ESG risk acquired by First Majestic.) management and processes: added a new section to our website focused on our ESG Investment Principles, due diligence process Became the presenting sponsor of our home province’s and Community Investment Programs. largest fundraiser, the BC Ride to Conquer Cancer benefiting the BC Cancer Foundation. Donated seed capital to the Special Needs Foundation Cayman to support families with Supported the Britannia Mine Museum’s campaign children with special needs and facilitate the with $300,000 to develop a new mining education opening of the “Our House” centre. exhibit, “BOOM!” that takes visitors on a thrilling visual journey through all 20 storeys of the Britannia mine’s gravity-fed concentrator mills. Boom! was unveiled in May 2019. 2015 Began funding carbon-offsetting programs to achieve a Carbon Neutral Company designation. Our House is being used extensively to provide a full range of services designed to help children with special needs and those involved in their lives. One of Wheaton’s inaugural programs at the San Dimas mine provided funding for the construction of three community recreational facilities. 10 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD 2018 2019 Pledged an additional $5 million to UBC’s Increased our Community Investment Program Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric commitment from 1% to 1.5% (of average net Sciences to fund enhancements to the Pacific income of the previous four years) with the Museum of Earth and Beaty Biodiversity Museum increase dedicated to the Partner CSR Program. to improve the perception and appreciation of the exploration and mining professions. Became the first metal streaming company to join the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative—which included commitment to its Ten Principles and those Sustainable Development Goals that relate to our industry. Signed on to the World Gold Council’s Responsible Gold Mining Principles, an initiative to address ESG risks at gold mining operations, and includes a commitment to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. The Wheaton Precious Metals Atrium was unveiled in UBC’s Earth Sciences Building in June 2018. An Added Board-level oversight to corporate Elasmosaurus skeleton installed in the glass atrium sustainability initiatives, and established the was made possible with Wheaton’s support. Governance & Sustainability Committee. Awarded a “B” on the annual CDP Climate Change Questionnaire—the best score in our history—since we began participating at the request of our investors. LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS Wheaton has made several voluntary commitments to Human Rights adhere to high standards of ESG performance. These Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the voluntary commitments reflect our values and allow protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and external stakeholders to hold us accountable. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Labour In September 2019, Wheaton joined the UN Global Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Compact. We were the first precious metals streaming/ association and the effective recognition of the right to royalty company to commit to the largest corporate collective bargaining; sustainability initiative in the world, leading the way for our peers. Since signing on, Wheaton has made several Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and updates to its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics compulsory labour; and developed new policies to align our operations and strategy with the UN’s ten principles in the areas of Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As a participant, Wheaton will also take actions that Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of support broader UN goals, including the Sustainable employment and occupation. Development Goals and will report on our progress annually as part of this commitment. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. More information on these Ten Principles can be found at: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/whatis-gc/mission/principles 12 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Since 2014, the Company’s Partner CSR Program has supported social and environmental initiatives in the communities close to Wheaton’s partners’ mining operations. Through this program, Wheaton endeavors to continue to work collaboratively with our Mining Partners to support initiatives that advance the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Eight of the Goals are aligned with our corporate “Four Pillars of Giving” principles: HEALTH AND COMMUNITY EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT WELLNESS WHEATON’S FOUR PILLARS OF GIVING More information on these SDGs can be found at: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ sustainable-development-goals/ LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS, CONT’D WORLD GOLD COUNCIL Responsible Gold Mining Principles Wheaton is a longstanding member of the World Gold Council (“WGC”) since joining in 2014. In September 2019, Wheaton committed to the Responsible Gold Mining Principles (“RGMPs”), a framework to address key environmental, social and governance issues for the gold mining sector. The ten RGMPs set out clear expectations for consumers, investors and the downstream gold supply chain as to what constitutes responsible gold mining. It is important to note that the RGMPs apply to gold operators and the majority of Wheaton’s gold production is by-product from base metal operations. As a signatory, Wheaton endorses these Principles, and will encourage gold mine World Gold Council board members celebrating the launch of the Responsible Gold Mining Principles, operators to adopt this framework as outlined in Colorado, September 2019. Randy Smallwood seated the Company’s Partner/Supplier Code of Conduct. bottom far right. “The Responsible Gold Mining Principles help to reinforce trust in gold production and the supply chain. We hope that adherence to the principles will provide stakeholders with confidence that their gold has been responsibly sourced. These Principles were designed to address key issues specific to the gold mining sector and were formed using feedback from more than 200 organizations and individuals. Wheaton is proud to be a signatory and will promote these Principles throughout the industry.” Randy Smallwood, Vice Chair of the World Gold Council and Wheaton's President & CEO 14 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD The Ten Responsible Gold Mining Principles We will conduct our We will engage with our stakeholders businesses with integrity and implement management systems including absolute opposition so as to ensure that we assess, to corruption. understand and manage our impacts, realise opportunities and provide remedy where needed. We will require that our We will protect and promote the suppliers conduct their safety and occupational health of our businesses ethically and workforce (employees and contractors) responsibly as a condition of above all other priorities and will doing business with us. empower them to speak up if they encounter unsafe working conditions. We will respect the human We will ensure that our operations rights of our workforce, affected are places where employees and communities and all those people contractors are treated with respect with whom we interact. and are free from discrimination or abusive labour practices. We will contribute to the We will ensure that environmental socio-economic advancement responsibility is at the core of how of communities associated we work. with our operations and treat them with dignity and respect. We will work to ensure that We will improve the efficiency of our use fragile ecosystems, habitats and of water and energy, recognizing that endangered species are protected the impacts of climate change and water from damage, and will plan for constraints may increasingly become a responsible mine closure. threat to the locations where we work and a risk to our licence to operate. WORLD GOLD COUNCIL’S CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD Based upon internationally recognized benchmarks, the Conflict-Free Gold Standard helps companies to provide assurance that their gold is not contributing to conflict through potential links between gold and unlawful armed conflict, such as civil wars and militia activity. The standard puts processes in place to make sure that More information on these RGMPs can be found at: neither the producers, nor the gold they produce, are https://www.gold.org/about-gold/gold-supply/ contributing to the conflict. As a member of the WGC, responsible-gold/responsible-gold-mining-principles Wheaton supports and endorses these standards. LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD OUR BUSINESS: ABOUT PRECIOUS METALS STREAMING To better understand our approach to sustainability, Core Assets Non-Core Assets it is important to highlight that Wheaton is a precious metals streaming company, which generates its revenue GOLD SILVER primarily from the sale of precious metals. Wheaton COPPER enters into streaming agreements to purchase all or a portion of the by-product precious metals or cobalt production from mines located around the globe for an upfront payment and an additional payment upon the delivery of the precious metal. We do not own or operate any mines. What is a by-product metal? Most mines produce a variety of metals. For example, a copper mine may also produce smaller amounts of gold and silver. Those byproduct precious metals, generally, are not a mine’s business focus and the mine may not be positioned to realize the maximum return from them. Non-Core Assets Mine Operator Streaming Company Streaming allows mine operators to raise non-dilutive capital for this business, while realizing more value from their by-product precious metals. It also provides investors with some of the highest sustainable margins in the industry. Non-dilutive capital Price upside of those To our investors, this unique business model provides for core business precious metals many of the benefits of a mining investment including commodity price leverage, dividend yield, participation in the exploration and expansion success of our Mining Partners, while reducing many of the downside risks faced by traditional mining companies. UPFRONT PAYMENT (CASH AND/OR WPM SHARES) In particular, we believe the key benefit Wheaton offers its investors is both capital and operating cost Mining Partner predictability. Other than its initial upfront payment and delivery payment per ounce, Wheaton typically has no DELIVERY PAYMENT ($ PER OUNCE) ongoing capital or exploration costs. 16 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD OUR APPROACH TO ESG: MATERIAL TOPICS Wheaton is proud to present our inaugural Sustainability MATERIAL TOPICS FOR THIS REPORT Report. This report focuses on our achievements during 2019, but also includes historical information. In this report, material environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics are issues that are Our goal is to operate sustainably and to report traditionally associated with sustainability that are transparently in the way we conduct our own business assessed to have a material ﬁnancial impact to the and manage our offices, and in the ways that we shortand long-term viability of Wheaton, either structure and manage our relationships with our Mining directly through its own actions; or indirectly through Partners. While Wheaton is not involved in, nor does it the actions of our Mining Partners. We determined the control, the operational decisions of the mine projects topics and content of this report through a detailed on which we have precious metal streams, we pride and multi-step materiality assessment. ourselves in working with Mining Partners that share our principles and values. Approach The topics and content of this report were determined through a detailed and comprehensive materiality assessment, which included the following three steps: 1 2 3 Output Identification: Prioritization: Validation: Final List of Material Topics Through extensive We conducted internal We held a workshop Identified a final list of desktop research (peer and external engagement with our CEO and senior ESG topics that are reviews, review of ESG aimed at further management team to material to Wheaton rating agency topics, and understanding the validate the results of the and its stakeholders. reporting frameworks) importance of ESG topics materiality assessment. we identified an initial to the company and its list of ESG topics for stakeholders in order to consideration. refine the list of material topics. This included surveying investors, conducting interviews with employees and members of the Board of Directors. LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 02 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD OUR APPROACH TO ESG: MATERIAL TOPICS, CONT’D The final result was a list of twelve topics to track our due diligence phase, before making an investment ESG-related performance. Some topics are internal to decision. After that point, we have ongoing monitoring Wheaton, while the impacts of others come from our mechanisms which generally include several provisions Mining Partners’ operations. In selecting the topics to reduce exposure to ESG risks such as site visits, to measure and report on, we considered the direct reporting obligations and security over the mine project. impacts of our activities, and the more indirect impacts related to our precious metals streaming agreements This was Wheaton’s first materiality assessment. Our with our Mining Partners. annual process for determining material ESG topics will follow a three-year cycle with the second and third Since we do not operate mines, we have less years building on the results from the first year and the control over mine-site level topics. We have the assessment will be updated to reflect emerging issues. greatest influence on mining operations during the Material Topics for this Report Topic ESG Pillar Direct Impacts Indirect Impact (Wheaton) (Mining Partners) Corporate Governance Governance Business Ethics ESG & Investment Decisions Community Relations Social Human Rights Health and Safety Employee Relations Diversity and Inclusion Climate Change and Energy Environment Tailings and Waste Water Biodiversity and Land Use 18 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD OUR CORPORATE VALUES SASB AND GRI STANDARDS Integrity We are guided by our Code of Business Conduct The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Ethics at every level of the company. We are sets internationally-respected financial reporting honest and accountable in all our business matters standards, with specific classifications for major and dealings. industries and sectors. The Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Sustainability Reporting Standards are the Sustainability first and most widely adopted global standards for Long-term value can only be achieved through sustainability reporting, with industry-specific topics sustainable business practices from an economic, that represent the global best practice for reporting on social, and environmental perspective. a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. Safety The data and information presented within this report We believe everyone should go home safe and were informed by both the SASB and GRI Standards. healthy each and every day, from the employees at After careful review, we determined that Wheaton our offices to the employees working at our partners’ cannot report fully in accordance with the SASB Mining mine sites. and Metals Standard, as we do not own or operate mines. However, in order to ensure that we are Respect providing robust data and information throughout the We approach every aspect of our business with an report, we are reporting on selected GRI indicators attitude of respect for each other, the environment, and SASB topics. An index of GRI indicators and SASB and for the cultural integrity of the communities topics is included at the end of this report. where we operate. Accountability UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION We take ownership of our decisions and ON PROGRESS actions. Accountability sets the stage for operational excellence. This report will serve as Wheaton’s first Communication on Progress to inform company Excellence stakeholders on progress made in implementing We deliver excellence through a disciplined the ten principles. An index of where to find this approach focused on value creation. information is at the end of this report. LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY: SETTING THE STANDARD | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 At Wheaton, we believe strong corporate governance and values sets the foundation for ESG performance. 20 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GOVERNANCE 03 GOVERNANCE Wheaton maintains the highest standards of corporate governance. To ensure that our decision-making incorporates our values and ethics, we operate under a robust set of rules, practices and processes. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Human Resources Committee and the Governance and Sustainability Committee. During 2019, the Governance and Sustainability Committee added oversight of ESG reporting to its mandate. Wheaton’s Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Senior Vice President, Legal are responsible for the management of ESG topics. They report on a quarterly basis to the Board and periodically to the Governance and Sustainability Committee on ESG issues and their impacts, risks and opportunities. Wheaton’s CEO formally reviews and approves Wheaton’s annual sustainability report and ensures that all material topics are covered. During 2019, the Governance From time to time, ad hoc committees may be appointed. For and Sustainability Committee additional information on the committees and their mandates, and for added oversight of ESG details on remuneration, auditing and financial reporting, please refer reporting to its mandate. to Wheaton’s Corporate Governance page on the website, the most recent Management Information Circular for the applicable year, and the most recent financial statements. Members of the Board, 2019 Governance & Years on Audit HR Sustainability Name the Board Committee Committee Committee George L. Brack 10 Chair John A. Brough 15 Chair R. Peter Gillin 15 Chair Chantal Gosselin 6 Douglas M. Holtby, Chair 14 Charles A. Jeannes 3 Eduardo Luna 15 Marilyn Schonberner 2 Randy V. J. Smallwood 9 GOVERNANCE | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 03 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, CONT’D Board Statistics, 2019 Size of Board 9 Independent directors 90% Separate Chair and CEO Y Independent Chair Y % of committee members independent 100% % of female board members 22%* Years on board (average) 10 Average age of board members 63 Limit on external board service of independent directors May not sit on four or more public company boards without Board approval In-camera sessions at every board & committee meeting Y Board meeting attendance 100% *In 2020, with the increase to 10 directors, the percentage of female board members decreased to 20%. 03 GOVERNANCE CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS We are committed to conducting business to the highest ethical standards. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code”) was updated in 2019 to better align our policies with the UN Global Compact by adding provisions outlining our commitment to human rights, fair practice and freedom of association, collective bargaining and our support for the abolition of forced labour and child labour, as well as other provisions. The Code establishes standards for honest and ethical conduct, avoidance of conflicts of interest, enforces compliance with disclosure Our Code was updated to securities regulators, and other applicable governmental laws, rules in 2019 to include the and regulations and fosters a culture of honesty and accountability human rights, labour, antiat Wheaton. Everyone—directors, officers and employees, including bribery and anticorruption our subsidiaries—is required to adhere to the Code and to confirm commitments of the their understanding and acceptance of the Code annually. For more UN Global Compact. information, the Code can be found on our website under the Corporate Governance page. Our policy of financial transparency and fair dealing extends to our supplier relationships and forbids kickbacks and rebates. In our history, Wheaton knows of no incidents of corruption; allegations of fraud, 22 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GOVERNANCE executive misconduct or insider trading and has not WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY faced any significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations. As a foreign private issuer with shares listed on a U.S. Wheaton has no activities in the countries with the 20 exchange, Wheaton has established and adopted a lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption formal Whistleblower Policy in compliance with our Perception Index (CPI). obligations under the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our Whistleblower Policy allows employees to anonymously In 2019, Wheaton made no direct or indirect monetary or and confidentially report any violations of the Code in-kind political donations. or who have concerns regarding financial statement disclosure or other issues, and provides protection to those individuals reporting violations or concerns, and ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY establishes a process for investigating. We encourage employees to report any situation that appears to involve The Code, which applies to Wheaton’s directors, officers a breach of the Code, or any ethical or legal obligations. and employees, includes provisions related to antiTo enable anonymous and confidential reports, we bribery and anti-corruption that are in accordance with maintain an anonymous incident reporting hotline. In the provisions of the UN Global Compact. All directors, 2019, the Company received no whistleblower reports. officers and employees receive and are thoroughly familiar with the Code and acknowledge their support and Each employee, officer and director of the Company must understanding of the Code. immediately report concerns relating to the following areas (any reported concern being referred to as an “Incident”): Wheaton has adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct (the “Supplier Code”) which requires that all suppliers, • Financial Reporting including our streaming partners, meet or exceed certain standards of business practice, including in respect of • Fraudulent Activity compliance with applicable law and business ethics and integrity, which would include the adoption of, • Breaches and compliance with, anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions. In furtherance of these requirements, in • Retaliation entering into a transaction with a potential supplier, Wheaton will consider (i) the inclusion of anti-bribery and There are several manners in which an Incident may be anti-corruption contractual terms with a supplier, (ii) the reported, including: compliance of a supplier with the standards set out in the Supplier Code, and (iii) other means of encouraging • to an individual’s immediate supervisor adherence to the standards of the Supplier Code. Wheaton will also raise awareness of such issues where • to the President and Chief Executive Officer it becomes aware of any concerns with a supplier. • to the Senior Vice President, Legal Any non-compliance with the Code is to be reported to the Company’s Chief Compliance Officer or other appropriate • to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the person. The Board conducts regular audits to test Chairman of the Board; or compliance with the Code, including an annual certification by each of the employees of the Company that they are in • through EthicsPoint, which is an incident reporting compliance with the Code. The Company also engages an tool maintained through an independent third party, independent reporting agency to provide a confidential Navex Global and anonymous reporting system for breaches of the Code. In addition, Wheaton has adopted a Whistleblower Policy Any person to whom an Incident is reported must which allows its directors, officers and employees who report that Incident to the Chairman of the Audit feel that a violation of the Code has occurred, or who Committee and the Senior Vice President, Legal, unless have concerns regarding financial statement disclosure the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Senior issues, accounting, internal accounting controls or Vice President, Legal is named as being involved in the auditing matters, to report such violation or concerns Incident being reported. on a confidential and anonymous basis. See our Whistleblower Policy for additional information on Investigation Procedures and Corrective and Disciplinary Action. GOVERNANCE | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 03 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS By integrating material ESG information into the due diligence process, we are able to make better-informed investment decisions that result in better risk-adjusted returns in the long run. Wheaton is not involved in nor does it control the operational decisions of our Mining Partners; however, Wheaton is indirectly exposed to environmental, social and governance and other risks arising from these mine projects. Our Investment Principles guide Wheaton’s approach to evaluating potential streaming transactions as well as monitoring existing streaming agreements. The purpose of these principles is to identify Mining Partners that appropriately manage their ESG and other risks in order to minimize Wheaton’s indirect exposure to those risks. By addressing and minimizing exposure to ESG-related risks and issues, Wheaton is able to set the stage for long-term sustainability and ultimately, deliver value through streaming to our shareholders, our Mining Partners and our neighbors. Our Investment Principles guide Wheaton’s approach Wheaton requires that our suppliers, including our Mining Partners, to evaluating potential meet or exceed certain standards of business practice. Please see streaming transactions as the Partner/Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the minimum well as monitoring existing standards of conduct expected from all suppliers wishing to do streaming agreements. business with Wheaton. In our relationships with our Mining Partners, we seek to raise the standards and principles of the mining industry. When evaluating new opportunities, we identify, assess and, where possible, mitigate our risks prior to entering into streaming agreements. Our leverage and ability to influence our Mining Partners’ ESG performance is strongest when we are negotiating a streaming agreement. Prior to completing an agreement, we undertake a thorough due diligence process to ensure that the Mining Partner's operations are adequately managing their ESG risks. Once an agreement is in place, we monitor our Mining Partners’ operations on an ongoing basis. 24 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GOVERNANCE INVESTMENT PRINCIPLES related to the mine project including reviewing media reports in order to identify ESG issues or risks. The following Investment Principles guide Wheaton’s approach to evaluating potential streaming transactions 5. Wheaton will pay appropriate attention to ESG data as well as monitoring existing streaming agreements. reported by Mining Partners regarding mine projects The purpose of these principles is to identify Mining over which it holds interests and will report relevant, Partners that appropriately manage their ESG and other material information to its stakeholders. risks in order to minimize Wheaton’s indirect exposure to those risks. 6. Wheaton will consider partnering with Mining Partners to provide financial support for local community 1. Wheaton will exercise due diligence in making development projects where mine projects are investments. Investment decisions will be made after located. Emphasis will be placed on supporting careful review and consideration of the technical, initiatives in jurisdictions that have the most need for financial, ESG and other risks of the mine project. funding and will demonstrate the greatest impact. Wheaton will also assess the financial position, management experience, and track record in relation 7. Wheaton is committed to supporting Mining Partners to ESG risk management of the Mining Partner as in their efforts to improve their ESG policies and outlined in the Due Diligence Process. performance, and will encourage operators to implement best practices. 2. Wheaton requires Mining Partners to comply with the legal and regulatory requirements of the jurisdiction 8. Wheaton will support industry associations in which mine projects are located. and councils that are committed to principles of seeking continuous improvement in sustainable 3. Wheaton will take into account ESG issues by resource development. reviewing the ESG-related programs, policies and standards of Mining Partners. Performance, historical 9. Wheaton is committed to continuous improvement, issues/incidents and corrective actions will be and will, on an ongoing basis, consider potential reviewed when relevant. Wheaton will only engage enhancements to its ESG programs and policies. with Mining Partners that perform to a standard that is in accordance with responsible industry standards 10. Wheaton will evaluate whether to pursue an and practices, and that is satisfactory to Wheaton. investment should any issue(s) arise or be identified; and if so, whether any additional terms and/or 4. Wheaton will maintain regular and ongoing dialogue commitments by the Mining Partner are required with Mining Partners as to the status of the mine to ensure that corrective actions are taken. project. Wheaton will also review external reports Wheaton's technical team conducting site visit at an open pit mine. GOVERNANCE | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 03 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS, CONT’D DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS the lowest half of the cost curve for the primary metal being produced so that the mine project is more likely Wheaton is focused on high-quality mine projects that to remain economic throughout the term of the stream can support streaming transactions in the long-term. transaction and withstand fluctuations in metal prices. Due diligence is critical in determining whether mine projects can withstand market pressure and manage Environmental, Social and Governance Analysis: Wheaton ESG risks and issues, with a view to the long-term will undertake an ESG risk assessment of the mine success of the mine. project, Mining Partner, and surrounding environment; which may include: Due diligence for new streaming agreements When evaluating new streaming opportunities, Wheaton • Undertaking a country-risk analysis, including a employs extensive and diverse methods to identify thorough assessment of the country’s economy, and assess risks prior to entering into new agreements. history, political issues, demographics, and the social The due diligence process is undertaken by Wheaton’s fractionalization (along ethnolinguistic and religious internal staff with experience evaluating financial, dimensions) of the population. technical, ESG and political risks. When appropriate, third-party experts are used to assist in the evaluations. • Reviewing the Mining Partners’ approach to Information provided to Wheaton by Mining Partners is stakeholder and community engagement and subject to obligations of confidentiality. engagement with Indigenous Peoples, including reviewing relevant policies and programs. For Wheaton’s internal experts use their discretion in operating mines, social performance records determining the level of due diligence that is deemed (including grievances, protests and corrective actions) appropriate for each investment, and the due diligence and other existing community initiatives are reviewed. process can differ depending on the mine project, jurisdiction(s) and context. The due diligence conducted • Reviewing the Mining Partners’ adherence by Wheaton may include, but is not limited to: to the labour standards of the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) conventions and Technical Analysis: Wheaton will review the technical recommendations for fundamental principles and aspects of the mine, geology and processing methods; rights at work. which may include: • Reviewing environmental impact of mine projects and • Exploration data, concession boundaries, permits, the associated environmental management programs reserve and resource estimates, annual reserve as described in documents such as an Environmental replacement, mine plans, mining methods, ground Impact Assessment (EIA). conditions, metallurgy and processing, geography of the site (and any associated challenges with • Assessing environmental protection programs and developing or expanding sites), tailings design and plans, including water and waste management plans capacity, water management, manpower, production with a focus on tailings and contamination as well as statistics and forecasts, costs, profit margins and the management of any natural resources applicable closure plans. to the mine project and the surrounding biodiversity. Financial and Economic Analysis: Wheaton will review • Reviewing workplace safety records, standards, a mine project with a view to confirming if the mine protections and policies. project can support the streaming transaction longerterm. Wheaton favours accretive transactions where • Reviewing human rights records and whether there the mine project has costs of production that place it in have been any violations or grievances. 26 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GOVERNANCE Wheaton's technical team conducting site visit at an underground mine. • Review whether any external certifications have mineral processing plants, and other infrastructure. been obtained by the Mining Partner or mine project The surrounding communities are also visited with and whether the Mining Partner has committed to a focus on reviewing ESG related programs at the the principles of the International Council on Mining community level. & Metals, Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining Guiding Principles, Extractive After the potential investment is analyzed and evaluated Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), World Gold by Wheaton’s internal experts, the management Council, United Nations Global Compact, or any other teams discuss the opportunity, including reviewing relevant industry standards and principles. the financial, technical, legal and ESG risks uncovered during the due diligence process. The potential • Further information related to Wheaton’s ESG due investment is then considered on various quantitative diligence process is included in the relevant sections and qualitative factors, including ESG risk factors. of this report. Wheaton endeavors to add streaming transactions on mine project(s) with reputable partners that effectively Legal Analysis: Wheaton will undertake legal due manage their ESG risks through the appropriate policies diligence on the Mining Partner and the mine project, and programs. which may include a review of title to mining properties, Mining Partner corporate and ownership structure, During the due diligence process, input from the Board outstanding and threatened litigation, material contract of Directors of Wheaton and the Board of Directors of review, compliance with laws and regulations, and any subsidiary that may be a party to the transaction permits and approvals. (collectively referred to as the “Board”), may be sought on key aspects of the opportunity being considered Throughout the due diligence process, Wheaton will and incorporated into the structuring of the proposed extensively engage with the management team of transaction. Once the due diligence process has been the Mining Partner. A site visit is performed for every completed and management teams are supportive of investment, during which technical, financial and advancing a potential investment, the opportunity is ESG issues are discussed and all facilities are visited presented for final consideration to the Board. The including open pit and/or underground operations, Board undertakes a comprehensive review of the key GOVERNANCE | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 03 GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS, CONT’D aspects of the opportunity, including the due diligence Remedies: Streaming agreements afford Wheaton the process undertaken, the financial, economic and ability to terminate and recover specific remedies upon technical analysis, any risks associated with the proposed a material breach of the contractual provisions. transaction, any ESG related concerns, and the structure of the proposed transaction. The Board then determines Security: Where appropriate, Wheaton will look to whether to approve the proposed transaction. have in place suitable security arrangements, including corporate guarantees and other security over the mine project. This security is designed to secure Wheaton’s ONGOING MONITORING OF OPERATIONS investment during the term of the streaming agreement, including in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of Wheaton’s streaming agreements typically include the the Mining Partner. following types of provisions to reduce exposure to ESG risks: Mine Site Visits Audit and Inspection Rights: Wheaton may be entitled to audit the books and records of the Mining Partners In 2019, our technical teams visited 16 out of 20 on a periodic basis and may access and inspect the operating mines and one development project (Keno properties comprising the project. These rights provide Hill). The sites not visited represent smaller investments, Wheaton further insight into the operations and and in those cases, we maintain frequent, ongoing management by the Mining Partners of such operations communications with the site teams. The following mine and assist in confirming compliance with the terms of sites were visited: the streaming agreement. Mine Owner Location Reporting Obligations: Streaming agreements typically Aljustrel Almina Portugal contain a series of reporting obligations including the delivery of monthly and annual reports, updated Antamina Glencore Peru mine plans, forecasts and other documentation, which Constancia Hudbay Minerals Peru serve to keep Wheaton informed of operations. Mining Keno Hill Alexco Resource Canada Partners are also typically required to notify Wheaton of any material adverse changes to a project or Neves-Corvo Lundin Mining Portugal its operations. Peñasquito Newmont Mexico Salobo Vale Brazil Operating Covenants: Streaming agreements typically San Dimas First Majestic Silver Mexico contain certain operating covenants designed to ensure that Mining Partners are conducting mining operations Stillwater & East Sibanye-Stillwater USA in accordance with applicable law and commercially Boulder prudent mining practices. Where applicable, Stratoni Eldorado Gold Greece Wheaton may also ask Mining Partners to confirm their Sudbury 1 Vale Canada compliance with accepted third-party standards. Yauliyacu Glencore Peru Transfer Restrictions: Wheaton’s streaming agreements 1. Comprised of the operating Coleman, Copper Cliff, Garson, Creighton and Totten may have restrictions that either (a) require consent for gold interests. the Mining Partner to transfer the mine project, or (b) otherwise establish the circumstances in which such transfer is permissible. Such constraints are intended to ensure Wheaton continues to be partnered with a quality operator over the life of the agreement. 28 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GOVERNANCE In 2019, our technical teams visited 16 out of 20 operating mines and one development project. The sites not visited represent smaller investments, and in those cases, we maintain frequent, ongoing communications with the site teams. GOVERNANCE | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 “For the Vale Foundation, effective cooperation is key to obtaining sustainable socio-economic development. Our five years of partnership with Wheaton Precious Metals has resulted in more than ten projects that are benefitting various communities in the Maranhão and Pará states of Northern Brazil. Engaging with local stakeholders, we are carrying out initiatives that have long-term, positive impacts throughout these communities.” – Vale Foundation 30 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility is, and always has been, an important aspect of our business. We believe that long-term value can only be achieved through sustainable business practices, that protect and enhance social capital and improves the lives of those living in our community from an economic, social and environmental perspective. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM Wherever we, or our Mining Partners work, we are committed to helping build healthy, vibrant communities through purposeful investments. Through our community investment program, we dedicate a portion of our net income to charitable organizations and initiatives that help improve and strengthen communities both locally and internationally. We were the first in the streaming and royalty space to initiate CSR programs in collaboration with our Mining Partners. We first formalized our community investment program in 2011, by establishing a target of investing 1% of the average net income of In 2019, we increased the previous four years. Since 2009, we have contributed over US$21 our contribution to our million to community programs and initiatives. In 2019 alone, our community investment annual contributions increased by 13% over 2018. program to 1.5%, with the .5% increase entirely In 2019, we increased the percentage to 1.5%, with the 0.5% increase dedicated to international entirely dedicated to international communities through our Partner communities through our CSR Program. Partner CSR Program. Our Community Investment Program has two components: • The Partner CSR Program supports the communities influenced by our Mining Partners' operations. • The Local CSR Program supports organizations in Vancouver and the Cayman Islands, where our offices are located. The programs are overseen by a dedicated CSR committee composed of members of our senior management and leadership team. Voluntary Contributions to CSR Programs, 2019 ($US) Partner CSR Programs $1,714,958 Local CSR Programs $1,231,130 Total $2,946,088 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM, CONT’D OUR FOUR PILLARS OF GIVING PARTNER CSR PROGRAMS We focus on four pillars of giving, which align with Wheaton’s Partner CSR Program provides financial eight of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals support for our Mining Partners’ environmental and (see page 13). These pillars include: social initiatives, within the communities that are directly influenced by the mine. The program is Health and wellness designed to increase the impact of our Mining Partners’ Enhance quality and access to health services, initiatives, either by matching their funds for specific improve the delivery of care, and reduce the projects, or in some instances by providing funding prevalence of diseases. for new projects that are in addition to existing initiatives. Our Mining Partners manage the projects at Community the ground level and provide us with progress updates Enrich lives and make a lasting difference through and milestones achieved. Our team meets with local support for social and economic programs that stakeholders and visits the projects during annual mine deliver much-needed services and opportunities site visits. to the community. We launched the Partner CSR program in 2014 by Education supporting projects led by our Mining Partners Primero Improve access to educational resources and training Mining (now First Majestic) and Barrick Gold. Since the opportunities for mining communities, and supporting start of the program, we have supported 20 different programs of relevance to the mining, metals, and projects with seven of our streaming partners. Our energy industries. team works closely with our partners to identify the needs of the community and to assess where specific Environment programs could help fill gaps in services, infrastructure Improve the surrounding environment by focusing on or resources. The Partner CSR program is principally conservation programs that help protect biodiversity, focused on regions in Brazil, Mexico and Peru. These manage water and energy resources, and reduce waste. areas have been identified as demonstrating the greatest need through consultations with our Mining Partners’ operations and CSR teams. In 2019, we worked with Vale, Compañía Minera Antamina S.A. (“CMA”), Hudbay, Glencore (Yauliyacu) and First Majestic Silver to support various community projects and initiatives. The following section will highlight some of these key programs. 32 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY empowering women through improved literacy and Vale: overall business knowledge. Supporting Women-Run Micro-Businesses IMPACT Supporting 20 small women-run businesses in 13 communities 255% increase in average income Expanded market for the products, including selling products online LOCATION: BRAZIL START DATE: JANUARY 2018 Vale: NEAREST MINE: SALOBO STATUS: ACTIVE Providing Access to Community Programs In 2018, we initiated funding for a Vale Foundation program that provides support to 20 small womenrun businesses in 13 communities along the Carajás Railway. The Carajás Railway carries the Salobo mine’s copper concentrate from Vale’s rail terminal in Parauapebas to the Ponta da Madeira Maritime Terminal. These businesses were hard hit when the Carajás Railway received new closed-window passenger trains. Previously, the women sold food and drinks to passengers on the train through the open windows, which was not possible with the newly designed trains. In response, the Vale Foundation initiated the Income Generation Support Program (AGIR in Portuguese) to LOCATION: BRAZIL START DATE: OCTOBER 2016 promote the development of collective businesses NEAREST MINE: SALOBO STATUS: ACTIVE with vendors who used to work along the railway. The program created a logo and a name for the network Wheaton has been actively supporting the communities of women-run microbusinesses: “Women of Maranhão.” of Tucumã and Marabá in the Pará State of Brazil since The women’s products are presented under the 2016. We provide funding for Knowledge Stations brand, which is associated with the high quality of supported by the Vale Foundation. The stations offer the Vale Foundation, making them more attractive opportunities for social development and various and recognizable to consumers. Since inception, the services to the vulnerable population living in nearby average income of program participants has increased communities. Each station has been designed by 255% as compared to the baseline. considering the needs of the community and offers health-focused, educational, sporting, recreational and Wheaton’s support has been directed towards cultural activities for all ages. increasing market access and commercialization of the produced goods and integrating the supply and Our funding has been directed towards the health and production chains of the network’s businesses. The dental programs and structural improvements to the business owners have received training on accounting facilities including remodelling spaces into dental and practices, developing operational efficiencies and how medical offices, purchasing critical medical and dental to use social media for marketing. In addition, there equipment and furniture, and purchasing medicine and is a strong focus on expanding social inclusion and supplies. Healthcare professionals were also recruited to provide dental and medical services. In addition, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM, CONT’D Wheaton has funded other structural improvements including the installation of lightning deterrent safety Vale: systems at both stations to reduce risks posed by Supporting Entrepreneurial Programs lightning strikes and repairs were made to the aging electrical and sewage systems. In 2017–2018, we helped fund the construction of a covered sports court at the Marabá Knowledge Station. The all-weather facility was completed in October 2018 and is expected to be used by 1,000 participants every month in a variety of activities and events. The Knowledge Stations are an important resource to the residents of Tucumã and Marabá. The regular activities offered at the stations have benefited 2,000 children, youth and adults. The dental and medical programs that Wheaton funds provide over 100 medical and dental consultations every month. We continue to work closely with the Vale Foundation on new opportunities that will LOCATION: BRAZIL START DATE: JUNE 2019 positively impact the local communities. NEAREST MINE: SALOBO STATUS: ACTIVE In 2019, Wheaton initiated funding for a third Knowledge In 2019, Wheaton initiated funding for a Community Station in the state of Maranhão. The station is located in the Entrepreneurial Program in the municipality of Marabá. municipality of Arari along the Carajás railway. The funds will The program identifies groups of micro entrepreneurs be used to implement a medical and dental program that is with ideas or economic initiatives that can be similar to the programs in Tucumã and Marabá. leveraged by the program and offers them a course in business modelling. As part of the course, the program participants develop social business models. A multidisciplinary team will then evaluate and select the IMPACT most viable plans. The selected business models will receive support through consulting services, technical 2,000 children, youth and adults benefit from regular advice, and seed money to further improve and activities offered by the stations strengthen the implementation of the business plans. Over 100 medical and dental consultations All program participants will also benefit from monthly provided monthly meetings whereby the entrepreneurs come together to discuss shared interests, answer specific questions and receive further information. IMPACT Supports micro entrepreneurs in developing their business plans Provides consulting services, technical advice, and seed money to aid in implementation 34 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a few regions for a prolonged period. The program is Glencore: closely monitored to ensure that the desired results Improving Regional Education are achieved, and that the community is benefitting from the program. Since the program began, initial results show significant improvement in reading, math and interpersonal skills. In addition, students have undertaken several social initiatives with supervision from PEPs including a mobile library, micro businesses in arts and crafts and violence prevention education. IMPACT 71 supplemental teachers placed at 41 schools in 2019 Significant improvement in students’ academic LOCATION: PERU START DATE: JANUARY 2017 performance as well as soft skills NEAREST MINE: ANTAMINA STATUS: ACTIVE Since 2017, we have worked with Compañía Minera Antamina S.A. (“CMA”), the joint-venture company that Hudbay: operates the Antamina mine in Peru, in an innovative Growing and Diversifying Economic Opportunities partnership with Enseña Peru, a non-profit educational foundation. Studies conducted in the area indicated lower-than-average levels of basic reading and math skills. CMA with Wheaton’s support, commenced a unique program in partnership with Enseña Peru to improve the academic performance and interpersonal skills of the students in the rural areas. Enseña Peru is a non-profit organization that is part of the Teach for All global network dedicated to ensuring all children can fulfill their potential. The program selects and trains recent university graduates to be placed in rural schools as Enseña Peru professionals (PEPs) for a two-year period. The PEPs supplement the existing schoolteachers and bring LOCATION: PERU START DATE: JANUARY 2017 new perspectives to teaching. PEPs also engage with NEAREST MINE: CONSTANCIA STATUS: ACTIVE students in extracurricular activities and assist them with the development of interpersonal skills. In 2017, Hudbay and Wheaton launched an Agricultural Development Program (“ADP”) in the Chumbivilcas In the Ancash region of Peru, 41 schools have been province of Peru near the Constancia mine. The selected to participate in the program and 71 PEPs have agricultural-focused program helps support over half been placed in those schools in 2019. The second part of the local population, which raises livestock for their of the program provides existing teachers at the schools primary source of income. with the opportunity to receive specialized training and resources through the “¡Qué Maestro!” program, In 2016, in collaboration with the local government, which is a training and accompaniment program where Hudbay built the Cullahuata Dairy Plant to support the leadership, soft skills and pedagogical skills of economic diversification. Upon completion, the teachers, coordinators and directors of public schools plant was being utilized at only 25% of its capacity are strengthened. To date, 49 existing teachers have and had significant potential to expand the amount received training through the Qué Maestro! program. of dairy produced. The plant, which processes milk Enseña Peru programs are successful by focusing on and produces cheeses, yogurts and butter, provides SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM, CONT’D community members with skills development and employment opportunities. First Majestic: Improving Communication Through Wheaton partnered with Hudbay on various elements Community Radio of the program in an effort to increase local dairy production and create further income-generating opportunities for the communities. Over 450 families living in the four nearby communities benefit from technical training related to feeding, reproduction, livestock health management and milking practices. The ADP also facilitated the construction of barns and sheds to house the cattle. The ADP also aims to increase the percentage of product that receives quality certification and to help with marketing. ProActivo, one of the largest mining magazines in Peru, recognized the ADP program for its multi-stakeholder approach and contribution to social development with an award in November 2018. LOCATION: MEXICO START DATE: JUNE 2019 NEAREST MINE: SAN DIMAS STATUS: ACTIVE In 2019, Wheaton partnered with First Majestic to IMPACT provide funding for the setup and operation of the first local radio station in the town of Tayoltita where the Over 450 families benefiting from the ADP San Dimas mine is located. Radio is widely recognized as a powerful and inclusive communication tool. It is Recognition received for contribution to highly regarded for promoting access to information, social development especially to remote communities. The project’s objective is to improve and promote communication between the mine and the community. “Wheaton Precious Metals is a valued partner The radio station will serve as a platform for public of Hudbay in our effort to promote sustainable announcements and community relations initiatives as development for the surrounding communities well as deliver a variety of content including cultural of our mine Constancia and nearby satellite music and entertainment. As part of the project, a building will be renovated to host the radio station as deposits, which is a cornerstone to reach longwell act as a cultural centre that will be used to provide term stable operations and advance exploration additional community programs and activities. on large land packages in Peru.” – Carlos Castro Silvestre, Executive Director, Business Development and Corporate Affairs, Hudbay Perú S.A.C. 36 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Some completed initiatives over the years worth Newmont (formerly Goldcorp): Funding a Career highlighting include: Training Facility In 2015, we supported an educational center – College Vale: Improving Regional Healthcare of Vocational and Technical Education (CONALEP) that For our first initiative with the Vale Foundation, we provides hands-on career training for local students funded a program to improve the quality of service at to work in the mining industry in the community of the Basic Health Unit in the town of Parauapebas, near Mazapil, near the Peñasquito mine in Mexico. We funded the Salobo mine. Basic Health Units are government run improvements to the campus facilities, including “walk-in” medical clinics for residents of the surrounding purchasing essential equipment for students and communities. We funded the completion of a baseline teachers, such as learning equipment and materials. We study to understand the types of health-related issues also funded the installation of solar panels to provide a that are prevalent in the communities. To address the sustainable, renewable source of energy, with reduced key issues identified in the baseline study, the project environmental impact. also provided training for health care professionals at the Basic Health Unit. Community Relations at Mining Partners’ Operations We collaborate with our Mining Partners in the A permanent health education centre was established management of community relationships. The specifics to enable ongoing training and educational sessions to vary with each Mining Partner and each mine, depending take place. Also, training was provided to community on factors such as the proximity of the mine site to members to promote healthier practices in general. neighbouring communities and the methods for engaging The project was completed in September 2017. with community members and other stakeholders. Barrick: Helping Local Farmers Increase Yield and In the due diligence phase, Wheaton staff engage in Conserve Water discussions with on-site teams regarding each operation’s In 2014, we supported Barrick Gold’s program to stakeholder engagement plans. We strive to understand improve local agriculture in two communities near their the main issues or grievances among local communities, Veladero mine and Pascua-Lama project in Argentina. and how the site is responding to them. We also perform Through the introduction of drip irrigation technology independent research, reviewing baseline studies, seeking and water conservation techniques, the program independent reports of grievances, and monitoring increased agricultural yields while saving up to 65% any developments in community issues through online of the water. After the project was completed in 2015, resources including social media. Wheaton and Barrick extended it through 2016 and 2017, bringing drip irrigation to more farming enterprises in In 2019, Wheaton, through our Partner CSR Programs, more local communities. funded community engagement programs at five operating sites (25% of our operating sites). These include First Majestic (formerly Primero Mining): Community Salobo (Vale), Antamina (Glencore via Compañía Minera Playground & Recreational Facilities Antamina S.A.), Constancia (Hudbay), Yauliyacu (Glencore) One of Wheaton’s inaugural Partner CSR programs and San Dimas (First Majestic). These five operating assets was in Tayoltita, where the San Dimas mine is account for 65% of Wheaton’s total production and 69% of located and now operated by First Majestic Silver. our total revenue in 2019. These projects are determined The project provided funding for the construction of in partnership with our partners’ community engagement three community recreational facilities. The town of teams at each site, and are based on local community needs. approximately 8,000 is home to most of the San Dimas employees. Completed in 2015, this project provides With operational mines, we monitor community recreational opportunities that promote health and well relationships through communications with site being while encouraging positive interactions within the personnel—this is an ongoing process for general risk community. For the first time, the town has playgrounds, mitigation, but it also includes tracking of the progress outdoor fitness facilities for adults, softball and of our social programs. Where we have a Partner CSR soccer fields, and a multipurpose court for basketball Program in place, we visit the communities directly. If and volleyball. we observe or suspect significant issues within local communities, we communicate with our Mining Partner to understand how they are working to address the issues and mitigate any risk. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM, CONT’D LOCAL CSR PROGRAMS Our Local CSR programs support organizations in the communities where our offices are located: the Vancouver area and province of British Columbia, and the Cayman Islands. Special Needs Foundation Cayman Nature Trust of BC Since 2017, Wheaton International has supported The Since 2017, we have been in partnership with The Nature Special Needs Foundation Cayman, which is dedicated Trust of BC to help support land conservation efforts to the development and provision of support services in our home province. A non-profit, non-advocacy land for persons with special needs in the Cayman Islands. trust, the Nature Trust conserves habitat by acquiring We were the lead donor in the establishment of Our and caring for ecologically significant land. House, an inclusion training and community centre, and continue to support the SNCF in operating Our House For 2020, we have committed to sponsoring the and in its support for special needs programs at 16 Conservation Youth Crews. The Nature Trust of BC local schools. hires students each summer to tackle conservation activities on their properties across the province. Training includes First Aid and Bear Aware as well as the safe handling of power tools. The crews perform on-the-ground work, such as restoring habitat to benefit wildlife and plants, as well as attending workshops on topics such as bird counts and forest ecology. Our House open its doors in early 2018 and provides a full range of services designed to help children with special needs. Shoreline cleanup of The Nature Trust of British Columbia's Boundary Bay Property in Delta, B.C. 38 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Photo credit, this photo and below: Sombilon Photography LOCAL CSR PROGRAMS: A CASE STUDY RIDE TO CONQUER CANCER® The Silver Bullets raised over CA$1.6M Since 2014, we have been a proud Presenting Sponsor of The Ride to Conquer Cancer, benefiting the BC Cancer Foundation. The Ride is BC’s to date for cancer research and largest fundraiser and is a unique, two-day cycling event journeying Wheaton has committed to another over 200 kilometres throughout BC. The mission is to achieve a world free from cancer. The money raised supports breakthrough research and three years with the Ride. enhancements to care at BC Cancer. Funds raised ensure researchers and clinicians at BC Cancer have the support needed to reinvent the standard of cancer care through leading-edge research. Wheaton’s President and CEO, along with several other employees, have experienced firsthand the compelling movement of thousands of riders hitting the pavement and pedaling more than 200 kilometres over two days. Wheaton’s team, the Silver Bullets, has raised over CA$1.6 million over ten years in support of research that is helping improve cancer prevention, detection and treatment. In 2019 alone, the team raised more than CA$240,000. The Silver Bullets team is comprised of mining industry members, family and friends who share the vision of a world free from cancer. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 LOCAL CSR PROGRAMS: A CASE STUDY UBC EARTH SCIENCES BUILDING We committed CA$5 million to the One of Wheaton’s pillars of giving focuses on supporting programs of relevance to the mining, metals and energy industries. In 2018, Department of Earth, Ocean and we committed CA$5 million to the Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences at the University Atmospheric Sciences at the University of British Columbia (UBC). of British Columbia. In June 2018, UBC unveiled the Wheaton Precious Metals Atrium, located at the focal point of the recently-built Earth Sciences Building. Our support will be used to enhance current exhibits as well as to create new exhibits in the Pacific Museum of Earth (“PME”) and Beaty Biodiversity Museum (“BBM”). A proposed new Walk Through Time exhibit will take visitors on an interactive journey through Earth’s 4.5-billion-year history and allow them to appreciate the connectedness between Earth’s geologic and biologic processes as well as visualize the vastness of time behind us. The timeline will highlight the relationships between the Earth’s lithosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and atmosphere, and how geologic and biologic processes and events in Earth’s past helped to shape the present-day habitable planet on which we live. As visitors move along the timeline, each step will be equivalent to 18 million years. Wheaton was very excited to partner with UBC on this initiative to enhance educational and community outreach opportunities of the PME and BBM. These exhibits are designed to inspire and motivate future generations to pursue a career in earth sciences. The Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences is one of the In June 2018, UBC unveiled the Wheaton leading international Earth Science Programs and we are honoured to Precious Metals Atrium, located at the have the Atrium named after Wheaton. focal point of the recently-built Earth Sciences Building. 40 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Wheaton employees are passionate about giving back Employee Matching to the community through time, money and skills. It’s a Wheaton employees who raise funds for an eligible part of our culture and mandate to deliver value through registered charity qualify for the employee matching streaming by supporting the communities in which we program, which will match their donation, dollarlive and operate. for-dollar up to a certain threshold. This program is designed to empower our employees to pursue the Through three main employee initiatives, we have causes they are passionate about and to help them helped several organizations and causes: make a greater impact. Days of Caring Skills-Based Volunteering Wheaton employees can take up to three days off each year We believe that one of our greatest assets that we have for charitable activity leave to engage in volunteer activities to offer is our employees’ professional skills that can with a registered charity. From participation in various help charitable organizations accelerate their impact. fundraisers to helping clean-up the shoreline, Wheaton Whether that comes in the form of leveraging their employees are encouraged to use their time to make the network to raise funds for a cause or participation on world a better place in whatever way they choose. various charitable boards and organizing committees, Wheaton employees are dedicated to making a difference wherever they can. In 2018, Wheaton teamed up with The Nature Trust of British Columbia for a shoreline cleanup of their Boundary Bay Property in Delta, B.C. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Employees at both of our offices are trained in emergency preparedness in the event of a workplace HUMAN RIGHTS incident or natural disaster. This includes preparing for hurricanes in the Cayman Islands and earthquake readiness in Vancouver. Our Employee Health & Wellness Wheaton respects and supports the Universal programs encourage active, healthy lifestyles, and we Declaration of Human Rights and strives to ensure that subsidize fitness memberships and other activities. we are not complicit in human rights abuses. In 2019, our Code was updated to better align our policies In the mining industry, health and safety is a significant with the UN Global Compact by adding provisions consideration. A mining operation’s safety statistics outlining our commitment to human rights, fair practice are a key indicator of its performance, and we see this and freedom of association, collective bargaining and as a priority area. With regards to our Mining Partners’ our support for the abolition of forced labour and mines and projects, we have well-established processes child labour, as well as other provisions. In addition, for monitoring their health and safety performance. In we developed the Partner/Supplier Code of Conduct, the due diligence phase, and on an ongoing basis, we which sets out the minimum standards of conduct review each site’s safety statistics, types of injuries, expected from all Suppliers wishing to do business reason for injuries and incident trends over time. We with Wheaton including expectations with regard to also share our knowledge of industry best practices, respecting human rights. As a member of the World to encourage positive results at site level. Gold Council, we endorse the Conflict-Free Gold Standard and Responsible Gold Mining Principles, which During mine site visits, our experienced team members include principles regarding the human rights of our discuss health and safety metrics in detail. We review workforce, affected communities and all those people any major incidents and discuss preventative measures with whom we interact. that the operators have enacted to prevent future incidents. We work with our Mining Partners to ensure that their Supporting Mining Safety Initiatives approach to human rights and other policies are aligned In July 2018, Wheaton acquired a gold and palladium with ours. In general, the countries and jurisdictions that stream from Sibanye-Stillwater on the Stillwater and East our Mining Partners operate in are ones that we consider Boulder mines for a total upfront consideration of US$500 low risk, and in the due diligence phase we seek to million. Over the years, Sibanye-Stillwater has developed partner with mine operators whose practices align with several safety initiatives, including the creation and our expectations. investment in Digimine, a joint venture between SibanyeStillwater, academic institutions and other stakeholders. We conduct regular site visits to observe issues such This initiative prioritizes the use of digital technology as health and safety incidents or community grievances for enhanced safety applications including focus areas that might indicate human rights concerns. of seismicity and pro-active monitoring of underground environmental conditions. In 2019, there were no human rights allegations related to Wheaton. At Wheaton, we knew it was important to support Sibanye-Stillater's initiative to make mining safer and more sustainable through using digital technologies. Part of 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Wheaton's upfront payment was put towards supporting Sibanye-Stillwater's Digimine, facilitating the fast tracking HEALTH AND SAFETY of certain technology prototypes into SibanyeStillwater's underground environment. Safety is one of our core values: we believe everyone should go home safe and healthy every day, from our office employees to the people working at our partners’ mine sites. 42 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE RELATIONS At Wheaton, we recognize that our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled and engaged people who share our commitment to sustainability. Our employment selection process includes due consideration to equality, diversity, and employee welfare. To assess and improve engagement we brought in an employee engagement consultant in 2017. In 2018, we formed a professional We focus on leadership and development committee. In 2019, all Wheaton staff attended a twoprofessional development to day leadership workshop. For 2020 through 2021, we plan to build on ensure our team is engaged. what was learned, and have developed a program that will focus on personal and team development. Leadership Training Vancouver Cayman Professional 16 hrs. 23 hrs. Development Workshops Employee 92% 100% Participation Rate Topics Leadership, Effective Self-Leadership, Conflict Communication, Resolution, Effective Trust, Negotiation and Communication, Team Conflict Resolution Trust and Collaboration, Problem Solving Employee Relations at Third-Party Mining Operations As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we support the right to collective bargaining. Working with our Mining Partners, we strive to ensure that labour rights and relations are respected at their worksites. In the due diligence phase and through ongoing monitoring and site visits, we review each site’s situation with respect to collective agreements and unions including their policies and procedures around labour standards, discuss any major disruptions (including strikes), and research their training standards, employee turnover and other relevant statistics. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 04 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND DISCRIMINATION We are committed to employing and engaging a diverse workforce within a safe and respectful work environment. All employees, officers and directors are treated with equality, without regard to race, colour, religion, gender and gender identity, sex, sexual orientation, family or marital status, political belief, age, national or ethnic origin, citizenship or physical or mental disability and any other protected ground. By fostering an environment that promotes and values diversity, we enhance our effectiveness through broadening our scope of We are committed to employing experiences, skills, talents and knowledge. While our opportunities and engaging a diverse for employment and advancement are and will be primarily based on workforce within a safe and performance, skill and merit, we give due consideration to diversity respectful work environment. in all aspects of employment and engagement, including selection, recruitment, hiring, promotion, compensation, termination, training and development. In 2020 through 2021, we plan to provide employee training on Diversity, Inclusion and Discrimination and Human Rights. Gender Diversity Percentage of Employees Who Are Women 40% Percentage of Management Who Are Women 12% of VPs 44 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Wheaton, we recognize that our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled and engaged people who share our commitment to sustainability. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 Wheaton recognizes the importance of taking action to reduce humanity’s impact on climate change. We are committed to remaining a carbon neutral company and making a difference wherever possible. 46 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | ENVIRONMENT 05 ENVIRONMENT Wheaton is committed to the protection of life, health, and the environment, for present and future generations. As a company that serves the mining industry, but neither owns nor operates any mines, our goal is to minimize our direct and indirect impacts on the environment, through the way we conduct our own business and manage our offices, and in the ways that we manage our relationships with our Mining Partners. Our commitment to sustainable development is detailed in our Environment and Sustainability Policy which is available on the Wheaton website. ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE Wheaton recognizes the importance of taking action to reduce humanity’s impact on climate change. We are committed to remaining a carbon neutral company. Our Vancouver head office is in the MNP Tower, a sustainably designed, LEED Gold-certified building designed to reduce waste, conserve energy, and decrease water consumption. A 2019 waste audit at the MNP Tower determined that we effectively diverted 94% of our total Wheaton received a B* waste through recycling programs. score from CDP for the 2019 Climate Change Our Grand Cayman office is also built according to LEED certification Questionnaire. standards, with solar panels, a rainwater collection system for recycling water, thermal insulation, and reduced electricity consumption. REPORTING AND OFFSETTING EMISSIONS Since 2013, we have tracked and reported our energy use and emissions and reduced them where possible. We report the results through CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, a global climate change and disclosure monitoring NGO), and offset the difference through Offsetters, Canada’s leading carbon management solutions provider. Our offsetting funds are directed to the Lara Ceramic Fuel Switch Project, which is located in Brazil where the Salobo mine is also located. This project is using waste biomass as fuel, which reduces emissions, and saves on unsustainable forest harvesting, and provides jobs. * Wheaton received a B, which is higher than the North America regional average of C. Wheaton received a B score from CDP for the 2019 Climate Change Questionnaire, which indicates a company is taking coordinated action on climate issues. ENVIRONMENT | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 05 ENVIRONMENT ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE, CONT’D ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GREENHOUSE GAS (“GHG”) EMISSIONS Energy Consumption Total energy consumption from purchased electricity* Location Total Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumed (GJ) (Renewable Sources) (GJ) 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Vancouver 673.95 632.30 694.97 673.95 632.30 694.97 Cayman 127.54 123.73 123.39 0 0 0 Total 801.49 755.92 818.36 673.95 632.30 694.97 The electricity provided to the Vancouver office comes from hydroelectric facilities and meets the GRI definition of energy from a renewable fuel source. The electricity provided to the Cayman Islands Office is grid electricity. * The total energy consumption by the Wheaton offices in Vancouver and Cayman Islands includes purchased electricity (MWh) for the appropriate reporting year(s). These facilities are not heated by natural gas or diesel, and electricity consumption was the only applicable form of energy consumption. No energy was sold from the Wheaton facilities. We referenced GRI Standard 302-1 and the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol to perform and report these calculations. The conversion factor from the invoiced megawatt-hours to gigajoules was utilized from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, and applied consistently for both facilities. THE LARA CERAMIC FUEL SWITCHING PROJECT Since 2016, Wheaton has offset its emissions and contributed to the Lara Ceramic Fuel Switching Project in Brazil. Thanks to contributors like Wheaton, the Lara ceramic plant is able to fire its energy-intensive kilns, and produce its ceramic products, and using cleaner-burning energy from waste biomass, instead of unsustainably-harvested firewood. The fuel switching project has reduced the plant’s operating emissions by approximately 10,000 tonnes of CO2e annually, relative to the baseline. In addition to the direct climatechange benefits, the project has increased job opportunities in the local community and helps to conserve nearby forests. The Lara plant is located in Brazil, where our largest stream, Salobo, is also located. We are proud to contribute to a portion of this project alongside other organizations that make the project possible. 48 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions As an office-based company, Wheaton does not have Scope 1 emission activities or sources within the company’s operational control to report. Scope 2 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions** Location GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 2019 2018 2017 Vancouver 2.00 1.87 2.06 Cayman 24.80 24.06 23.99 Total 26.80 25.93 26.05 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are energy-related emissions that are As an office-based company, a consequence of our office operations, but occur at sources owned Wheaton does not have or controlled by another company (i.e. purchases of electricity) for the Scope 1 emission activities appropriate reporting year(s). Emissions have not varied significantly or sources within the year to year due to the electricity usage at the Vancouver and Cayman company’s operational Islands offices staying relatively consistent due to similar operations in control to report. the previous year. ** The indirect energy calculation methodology credits operations for electricity exported to our Vancouver and Cayman Islands offices. Emissions are calculated based on actual supplier data in units of tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) based on the emission factors recommended in the appropriate location-specific and up-to-date quantification methodology ([BC Methodological Guidance for Quantifying GHG Emissions] and [IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion] for Vancouver and Cayman Islands offices respectively). This approach, in which individual gases (CO2, CH4, N2O) were not separately calculated in favour of the comprehensive CO2e was applied consistently for both facilities. The use of emission factors for CO2e included the use of the 100-year Global Warming Potentials (“GWP”) issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We also referenced GRI Standard 305-2 and the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol to ensure proper alignment with the reporting requirements. These emissions were consolidated based on their operational control. Scope 3 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions include employee commercial travel for business purposes, as well as the consumption of paper supplies at the Vancouver and Cayman Islands offices for the appropriate reporting year(s). In 2020, we will evaluate whether additional Scope 3 categories are applicable to Wheaton that can be tracked, measured and offset. ENVIRONMENT | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 05 ENVIRONMENT ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE, CONT’D Scope 3 Other Indirect Emissions*** Emission Source GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 2019 2018 2017 Employee Commercial Travel 281.61 274.41 233.78 Office Paper Usage (Vancouver and Cayman) 3.35 2.99 2.89 Total 284.96 277.4 236.67 ***Emissions are calculated based on flight data and assertions of paper bought in units of tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO₂e) based on the emission factors recommended in the appropriate and up-to-date emission source specific quantification methodology ([UK Government Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting] and [BC Methodological Guidance for Quantifying GHG Emissions] for employee commercial air travel and office paper usage respectively). This approach, in which individual gases (CO₂, CH₄, N₂O) were not separately calculated in favour of the comprehensive CO₂e was applied consistently for both emission sources. The use of emission factors for CO₂e included the use of the 100-year Global Warming Potentials (“GWP”) issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We also referenced GRI Standard 305-3 and the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol to ensure proper alignment with the reporting requirements. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY DUE DILIGENCE Climate change and energy management are core areas of concern for Wheaton—and material topics for our stakeholders. We understand the importance of minimizing our energy usage, and of applying our influence to reduce the energy impacts of our Mining Partners’ operations. We also recognize the importance of adaptation and mitigation strategies for those segments of local communities who may be impacted by climate change. In the due diligence phase, we focus on each site’s energy requirements and energy sources, and the potential impacts on each operation’s economics. We review whether the operator plans to use electric mining equipment or use renewable energy, instead of relying on diesel and other fossil fuels, to reduce costs and GHG emissions. We look for programs to minimize energy use, and to introduce renewable energy options such as solar power, which is increasingly being used in remote sites. As of 2019, none of Wheaton’s streaming assets have been identified as having a significant climate-related risk with the potential to lead to a substantive financial or strategic impact on the business. Metal prices and overall revenues have not yet been impacted by transitional climate change opportunities. This is the main reason why Wheaton has determined that climate-related issues are not likely to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in the near-term. 50 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | ENVIRONMENT 05 ENVIRONMENT TAILINGS AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Tailings storage facilities are an issue of global concern In the ongoing monitoring phase, we follow the to the mining industry, and of special concern to local progress of the tailings facilities at each of the mines to communities, and tailings and waste management ensure that designs are adhered to. During site visits, are a major aspect of our due diligence research, and we engage in thorough discussions with site staff, visit ongoing monitoring. the facilities and inquire about recent observations or concerns raised by consultants. In the due diligence phase, we review the current or planned tailings facilities to gain an understanding of At the request of investors, in 2019, we provided our how each mine, or proposed mine, will produce and stakeholders with insight into tailings management at manage its tailings. If this review identifies any potential our Mining Partners’ mines, by providing a page on our risks or shortcomings in design, an outside expert website that aggregates links to each Mining Partner’s is engaged. individual disclosures: see the Tailings Management page on the Wheaton website. 05 ENVIRONMENT WATER USE AND MANAGEMENT Water access and quality is one of the primary concerns for a mine and for its surrounding communities, and each mine’s water systems are uniquely designed for its local geography and climate. In the due diligence phase, we review data about the local water supply, and each mine’s strategies for recycling water, minimizing discharge, protecting local aquifers, and maintaining clean drinking water access for local communities. Through the monitoring phase, we focus on how each Water access and quality is local community’s water supply is protected. During one of the primary concerns site visits, the technical team typically reviews the site’s for a mine and for its water balance and strategies for reducing water use. surrounding communities. ENVIRONMENT | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 05 ENVIRONMENT BIODIVERSITY, LAND USE AND MINE CLOSURE PLANNING Biodiversity is a term used to describe the enormous variety of life on earth including plants, bacteria, animals, and humans. Mining operations can directly or indirectly impact biodiversity and ecosystems. During the due diligence phase, we examine any concerns around the surrounding land use including preservation of biodiversity, conservation and land reclamation as a site is developed and the mine operates, as well as strategies for reclamation and planning for the time after the mine closes. The regulatory requirements around biodiversity are becoming increasingly stringent in response to We monitor our Mining widening recognition of these potential impacts. Partners’ plans and performance to ensure Government regulation around permitting requires detailed plans for that they are operating in biodiversity, closure, and reclamation, which we review during the due compliance, and that their diligence process and confirm that permits are attained to construct closure plans are up to date. and operate a mine. From the due diligence phase through a mine’s working life and into its ultimate closure, we monitor our Mining Partners’ plans and performance to ensure that they are operating in compliance, and that their closure plans are up to date. “ As an industry, it is our collective responsibility to protect the safety of the communities surrounding mine operations. Wheaton is supportive of greater transparency with regard to tailings management and welcomes the initiative on better disclosure. Our due diligence process has a strong focus on community and safety practices, including tailings storage facilities management.” – Randy Smallwood, President and CEO 52 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | ENVIRONMENT 06 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 2019 was a transformative year for Wheaton. We increased our contributions to our Community Investment Program and donated millions of dollars to our communities and the communities surrounding our Mining Partners' operations. We were the first among our peers to join the UN Global Compact—and we gladly embraced the many policy adjustments and transparency commitments that were required. We have already begun to integrate the UN’s universal principles and Sustainable Development Goals into our policies and metrics, and they will continue to guide us through current and new initiatives. The exercise of developing and producing this report has been instructive to all of us at Wheaton. Next year’s report will include more metrics and a greater depth of reporting. For any questions regarding this report or its contents please contact us at info@wheatonpm.com. 07 GRI, SASB AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICES GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Description Location or Direct Response Alignment to Disclosure GRI 102 General 102-14 Statement from senior decisionFrom the CEO Aligned Disclosures maker GRI 102 General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and ESG Principles and Our Mining Aligned Disclosures norms of behavior Partners; Social Responsibility GRI 102 General 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Code of Business Conduct Aligned Disclosures concerns about ethics and Ethics GRI 102 General 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Corporate Governance Aligned Disclosures economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102 General 102-31 Review of economic, Corporate Governance Aligned Disclosures environmental, and social topics GRI 102 General 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Corporate Governance Aligned Disclosures sustainability reporting GRI 102 General 102-47 List of material topics Material topics Aligned Disclosures GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Code of Business Conduct Aligned and actions taken and Ethics GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the Energy and GHG emissions Aligned organization GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Energy and GHG emissions Aligned emissions GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Energy and GHG emissions Aligned emissions GRI 413 Local 413-1 Operations with local community Community Relations at Third-Party Aligned Communities engagement, impact assessments, Mining Operations and development programs GRI 415 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Code of Business Conduct Aligned and Ethics GRI 419 Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Code of Business Conduct Aligned Compliance regulations in the social and and Ethics economic area 54 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI, SASB AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICES SASB INDEX SASB Standard Disclosure Description Location or Direct Response Alignment to Disclosure SASB Metals & Mining NR0302-21 Description of the management Code of Business Conduct Aligned Business Ethics & system for prevention of corruption and Ethics Payments Transparency and bribery throughout the value chain SASB Metals & Mining NR0302-22 Production in countries that Code of Business Conduct Aligned Business Ethics & have the 20 lowest rankings in and Ethics Payments Transparency Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index SASB Asset Management FN-AC-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses Code of Business Conduct Aligned & Custody Activities – as a result of legal proceedings and Ethics Business Ethics associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulations SASB Asset Management FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistleblower Business Ethics Aligned & Custody Activities policies and procedures Description of whistleblower policies and procedures UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Where Addressed (page number) Human Rights Principle 1 Social Responsibility, Pg. 42 Principle 2 Social Responsibility, Pg. 42 Labour Principle 3 Governance, Pg. 22; Social Responsibility, Pg. 42-43 Principle 4 Governance, Pg. 22; Social Responsibility, Pg. 42 Principle 5 Governance, Pg. 22; Social Responsibility, Pg. 42 Principle 6 Social Responsibility; Pg. 44 Environment Principle 7 Environment, Pg. 47-52 Principle 8 Environment, Pg. 47-52 Principle 9 Environment, Pg. 47-52 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Governance, Pg. 22-23, 27 GRI, SASB AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICES | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Wheaton greatly values our partnership with the Vale Foundation. Together, we have provided sustainable benefits to the communities near the Salobo mine by supporting initiatives that focus on health, education, community engagement and entrepreneurial resources. We believe the mining industry as whole, including streaming companies, should have a positive impact on the communities where we operate. This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the which the Mining Operations are located, actual results of mining, risks associated United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and forward-looking with the exploration, development, operating, expansion and improvement of the information within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation Mining Operations, environmental and economic risks of the Mining Operations, concerning the business, operations and financial performance of Wheaton and, and changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined), the ability of in some instances, the business, mining operations and performance of Wheaton’s each party to satisfy their obligations in accordance with the terms of the PMPAs, precious metals purchase agreement (“PMPA”) counterparties. Forward-looking and other risks discussed in the section entitled “Description of the Business – statements, which are all statements other than statements of historical fact, Risk Factors” in Wheaton's Annual Information Form available on SEDAR at www. include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to timing or achievement sedar.com, and in Wheaton's Form 40-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 and of future goals, programs, and related disclosure with respect to our operations, Form 6-K filed March 11, 2020 both on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange development, sustainability, environmental, safety and diversity initiatives, Commission in Washington, D.C. (the Disclosure”). the impact of epidemics (including the COVID-19 virus pandemic), the ability of Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions management currently Wheaton’s PMPA counterparties to comply with the terms of a PMPA (including as believes to be reasonable, including (without limitation): that neither Wheaton a result of the business, mining operations and performance of Wheaton’s PMPA nor the Mining Operations will suffer significant impacts as a result of an epidemic counterparties) and the potential impacts of such on Wheaton and the ability of (including the COVID-19 virus pandemic), that each party will satisfy their obligations Wheaton’s PMPA counterparties to comply with the terms of any other obligations in accordance with the PMPAs, Wheaton’s ability to complete goal and initiatives in under agreements with Wheaton. the areas of, among other things, sustainability, environment, safety and diversity, Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and such other assumptions and factors as set out in the Disclosure. There can be and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance no assurance that forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate and even or achievements of Wheaton to be materially different from those expressed or if events or results described in the forward-looking statements are realized or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to risks substantially realized, there can be no assurance that they will have the expected associated with fluctuations in the price of commodities (including Wheaton’s consequences to, or effects on, Wheaton. Readers should not place undue reliance ability to sell its precious metals or cobalt production at acceptable prices or at on forward-looking statements and are cautioned that actual outcomes may vary. all), risks of significant impacts on Wheaton or the Mining Operations as a result of Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, an epidemic (including the COVID-19 virus pandemic), risks related to the Mining reflects Wheaton’s management’s current beliefs based on current information and Operations (including fluctuations in the price of the primary or other commodities will not be updated except in accordance with applicable securities laws. mined at such operations, regulatory, political and other risks of the jurisdictions in 56 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS CORPORATE INFORMATION CANADA – HEAD OFFICE DIRECTORS TRANSFER AGENT Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. George Brack AST Trust Company Suite 3500 John Brough 1600 – 1066 West Hastings Street 1021 West Hastings Street Peter Gillin Vancouver, BC V6E 3X1 Vancouver, BC V6E 0C3 Chantal Gosselin Canada Douglas Holtby, Chairman Toll-free in Canada and the T: 1 604 684 9648 Glenn Ives United States: F: 1 604 684 3123 Charles Jeannes 1 800 387 0825 Eduardo Luna Marilyn Schonberner Outside of Canada and the CAYMAN ISLANDS OFFICE Randy Smallwood United States: Wheaton Precious Metals 1 416 682 3860 International Ltd. E: inquiries@canstockta.com OFFICERS Suite 300, 94 Solaris Avenue Camana Bay Randy Smallwood AUDITORS P.O. Box 1791 GT, Grand Cayman President & Chief Executive Officer Cayman Islands KY1-1109 Deloitte LLP Curt Bernardi Vancouver, BC Senior Vice President, STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING Legal & Corporate Secretary INVESTOR RELATIONS Toronto Stock Exchange: WPM New York Stock Exchange: WPM Gary Brown Patrick Drouin Senior Vice President Senior Vice President, & Chief Financial Officer Investor Relations T: 1 604 684 9648 Patrick Drouin TF: 1 844 288 9878 Senior Vice President, E: info@wheatonpm.com Investor Relations Haytham Hodaly Senior Vice President, Corporate Development ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS STATEMENT By using paper made with post-consumer recycled content, the following resources have been saved: Environmental impact estimates were made using Environmental Paper Network Calculator Version 4.0. For more information visit www.papercalculator.org. FSC® is not responsible for any calculations on saving resources by choosing this paper. Wheaton Precious Metals is a trademark of Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. in Canada, the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Design by: RedRocketCreative.com Wheaton Precious Metals Corp. Suite 3500 1021 West Hastings St. Vancouver, BC Canada V6E 0C3 T: 1 604 684 9648 F: 1 604 684 3123
