We can. Together. 2020 Annual Report CONTENTS How we create value Responding to COVID-19 risks 2020 Our strategic priorities 8 We have taken action to ensure operational resilience and to Focus on financial address the risks associated performance 18 with COVID-19. Overview P.14 P.6 Service Innovation Strength Delivering for our customers and communities P.56 We have been focused on supporting our customers and communities, especially through this year’s challenges. Building a more focused Best in bank to deliver for our 2020 highlights 2 Our commitment Directors’ report to sustainability 28 digital customers, underpinned Directors’ report 72 Chairman’s message 4 Focus on sustainability We aim to provide the best Remuneration report 78 by innovation and a performance 46 CEO’s message 6 digital banking experience by strong balance sheet. Managing our changing risk landscape 55 bringing together market-leading Financial report service, technology Responding to COVID-19 risks 56 and innovation. Financial statements 106 Our current risk priorities 58 Notes to the financial statements 113 Directors’ declaration 268 Our approach to We can. corporate governance 62 Independent auditor’s report 269 Board priorities during 2020 63 Additional information Together. Board of Directors 67 This is an interactive PDF designed Executive Leadership Team 70 to enhance your experience. The Security holder information 278 best way to view this report is with Adobe Reader. Click on the links and Five-year financial summary 285 use the home button in the footer Profit reconciliation 288 to navigate the report. Glossary of terms 290 The release of this announcement was authorised by Kara Nicholls, Group Company Secretary. Contact information 301 Commonwealth Bank of Australia | ACN 123 123 124 | Ground Floor Tower 1, 201 Sussex Street, Sydney NSW 2000 | 12 August 2020 161/2020 2 3 2020 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT highlights Financial highlights Value created OVERVIEW Group Customers Community Our people Shareholders Our strategy is to become a HOW WE CREATE VALUE simpler, better bank that delivers Statutory net profit Our targets balanced and sustainable outcomes after tax (NPAT) #1 Net Promoter Score Top quartile among Top 10% globally Top quartile TSR for our customers, community, $9,634m (NPS) in consumer and business banking peer companies for reputation improvement for our employee engagement score outperformance relative to peers our people and shareholders.  12.4% Our progress RepTrak Employee Total shareholder reputation score engagement return (TSR) Cash NPAT 61.6 81% #1 mobile app and DIRECTORS’ REPORT $7,296m internet banking NPS 151% 10-year #2 consumer NPS 8% 5-year Average of peer Global top 10%  11.3% #3 business NPS companies: 67.1 threshold: 84% (11%) 1-year Our purpose To improve the financial wellbeing of our customers Operating income and communities. 17m $3bn 89% 888,000+ $23,758m FINANCIAL REPORT customers served tax expense – one of of employees are proud shareholders,  0.8% Australia’s largest taxpayers to work at the Bank 78% Australian owned Our values Our business areas We do what is right Retail Banking Services Net interest margin $106bn 377,214 $5.8bn $2.98 We are accountable Business and Private Banking 2.07% of new lending for students enrolled in Start paid to our 41,778 dividend per share, We are dedicated to service Institutional Banking and Markets Australian home buyers Smart financial education people in salaries and fully franked  2 basis points superannuation ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We pursue excellence New Zealand (ASB) We get things done Capital ratio $27bn $10m 39,000+ $5.3bn CET1 (APRA, Level 2) of new lending for commitment to bushfire people and delivery returned to shareholders 11.6% Australian businesses recovery grants partners enabled to work as dividends Our brands remotely during COVID-19  90 basis points Commonwealth Bank is the largest bank and best known financial services brand in Australia. $650m+ 100% 41% $2,420 Deposit funding in loans under the of Australian women in dividend amount 74% Government’s Coronavirus electricity needs Executive Manager received by SME Guarantee Scheme, from renewable and above roles the average FY19 69% >50% of scheme lending energy sources retail shareholder Financials are presented on a continuing operations basis, except statutory NPAT, dividend per share and Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) which include discontinued operations. All figures relate to the full year ended 30 June 2020 and comparisons are to the year ended 30 June 2019, except employee engagement which is 30 April 2020 compared to 30 April 2019. For data sources, see Glossary on page 293. 4 5 COMMONWEALTH BANK CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Strength in uncertain times OVERVIEW Our progress on key strategic, risk and governance HOW WE CREATE VALUE priorities, together with the strength of our balance sheet and capital position, mean the Bank is well placed to deliver for our stakeholders. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Shortly after the Commonwealth Bank progress on divesting and ceasing to support returns for shareholders. Culture, accountability and exceptional talent, meets the spirit Board renewal of Australia commenced operations our wealth management businesses, The final dividend of 98 cents per remuneration of anticipated regulatory change and The program of Board renewal in 1912, the world was gripped by the which has allowed management to share reflects the guidance issued by is fit-for-purpose for the years ahead. continues. Sir David Higgins retired focus on the performance of our core APRA in July, that for the remainder of Over the past two years, considerable For more details see the Remuneration Spanish flu pandemic of 1918. Now, on 31 December 2019, after more than the calendar year, banks should retain attention has been given to cultural report on page 78. as then, the Bank’s purpose is to banking businesses and on providing five years of service and contribution at least half of their earnings. The final change within the organisation. support the financial wellbeing of our the best banking experiences for to the Board. Wendy Stops has been The change has been values-led with customers and the community, and to customers. It has also created capacity dividend payout ratio is 49.95% of the Sustainable business practice an integral member of the Board Bank’s second half statutory earnings. strong leadership from the Board, the provide strength in uncertain times. for ongoing investment in our marketWe are committed to sustainable and since March 2015 and will retire at the Combined with the interim dividend of CEO and his renewed management leading digital assets and in innovation responsible business practices, in conclusion of the 2020 Annual General This past year has been extremely $2.00, this takes the full year dividend team. There has been an acute for future growth. We have continued accordance with the commitments Meeting on 13 October. In June, we challenging for many of our customers, to $2.98 per share, fully franked. focus on the skills and behaviours to make significant improvements FINANCIAL REPORT the economy and the Australian required of our people to deliver better outlined in our Environmental and announced that Simon Moutter will in the management of non-financial Social Policy. We have continued to become a Non-Executive Director community at large – initially due Regulatory and stakeholder and risk outcomes. This risk, including better operational risk take the actions necessary to support on 1 September 2020. Simon was to bushfires and drought, and more includes our Code of Conduct, which and compliance practices, thereby compliance update incorporates our purpose, values and the responsible transition to a net previously Managing Director of Spark recently due to the coronavirus supporting balanced and sustainable pandemic. We have therefore been We have made significant progress on the ‘Should We?’ test, and guides our zero emissions economy by 2050, New Zealand Limited (New Zealand’s outcomes for all of our stakeholders. implementing the recommendations including ensuring that our business largest telecommunications and determined to provide financial relief people on how they should act and to households, keep working capital and from the 2018 APRA Prudential Inquiry make decisions to address customer lending activities are aligned with this digital services company) and has a Business performance into CBA, and have now submitted more and community expectations. intent. This year, we reached our goal background in science and engineering. credit flowing for businesses, deliver performance for our shareholders, and and dividends than three-quarters of the milestones of sourcing 100% of our Australian He brings a deep understanding of outlined in our resulting Remedial The changes we have made to electricity needs from renewable technology, process effectiveness and The business performed well in 2020, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION facilitate economic activity and financial incorporate risk considerations into stability more broadly. with the strong focus on operational Action Plan (RAP). The Prudential Inquiry energy, and increased our lending business strategy to the Board. Report, information on our RAP, and the our remuneration framework and to low carbon and renewable excellence driving growth in our core Our people and the Bank’s leadership independent reviewer’s (Promontory) assessment have delivered substantial energy projects. Looking ahead banking businesses. Cash net profit after team have done an extraordinary quarterly progress reports are available improvements to both accountability tax was, however, lower primarily due Although the year ahead will be job and responded quickly and at: commbank.com.au/APRA. and risk management maturity We also continued to support our to the $1.5 billion impairment provision marked by challenges and uncertainty, effectively to the demands of within the Bank. Unsatisfactory customers and clients by providing taken for the expected impacts of We are also well advanced on your Board and management team COVID-19 – by meeting customer risk management outcomes products that incentivise emissions COVID-19 on our customers and the implementing the recommendations are very clear about the role the Bank needs and supporting the delivery of and behaviours have negative reduction and increase climate economy and consequent credit losses. of the Financial Services Royal must and will play in supporting the Government’s stimulus initiatives. remuneration consequences. resilience. This year, our institutional Prudent balance sheet management Commission. We are engaging Equally, to reinforce a positive risk bank has provided sustainability-linked our customers and the economy, This has included helping businesses while also maintaining a strong underpinned the Bank’s resilient constructively and transparently on culture, a significant proportion of loans that tie the borrower’s cost of access JobKeeper and being the largest and resilient balance sheet and funding and liquidity positions. Strong matters that are being considered senior leaders’ short-term variable funding to the achievement of their lender to small and medium sized delivering operational performance capital discipline resulted in a Common by regulators as a result of the Royal remuneration is tied to the successful emissions reduction targets, and enterprises through the Government’s for shareholders. Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 11.6% Commission or otherwise under delivery of our APRA RAP, and our green mortgage initiative gave coronavirus loan guarantee scheme. at 30 June, well above the Australian investigation. Meanwhile, we continue employees who rate ‘exceptionally cashbacks to eligible customers with Thank you for your ongoing support. Prudential Regulation Authority to focus on remediating processes managed’ for risk are formally solar panels installed on their homes. A simpler, better bank and systems, and have delivered (APRA) ‘unquestionably strong’ recognised and rewarded. Throughout the year, the Bank’s refunds of more than $730 million We have been embedding our benchmark of 10.5%, and substantially leadership team has continued to to customers since 2015. Our priorities We have continued to review the human rights commitments in above the regulatory minimum of 8%. deliver on our strategic priorities, have included significant ongoing Bank’s remuneration framework to our operations and supply chain with a focus on becoming a simpler, The Bank’s strong capital position and investment in our financial crime ensure that it supports our strategic management, as well as in our Catherine Livingstone AO better bank. We have made substantial operational performance continues prevention and detection capabilities. objectives of attracting and retaining lending and investing activities. Chairman 6 7 COMMONWEALTH BANK CEO’S MESSAGE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Outlook Our absolute priority is to help our Delivering for our customers and the broader economy recover. We will continue to work closely with our customers and undertake customers and regular reviews and check-ins, to understand and support their needs. While the duration and impact of communities the health crisis is unclear, Australia OVERVIEW is relatively well positioned. We are starting from a position of fiscal and economic strength, and significant stimulus measures will continue to support the economy. There is a pipeline of infrastructure projects, As the Bank for all Australians, we’ve taken decisive and the outlook for mining and agriculture exports is strong. action to support customers, businesses, communities HOW WE CREATE VALUE We are, however, prepared for and the nation during one of the most challenging a range of economic scenarios. We’ve made provisions accordingly, periods we’ve faced. By contributing to economic stability, and will monitor our lending portfolios closely as the situation evolves. we also advance the Bank’s long-term success. We anticipate that lower credit growth and low interest rates will continue to put pressure on revenue, requiring increased focus on performance, efficiency and capital allocation. Even in this challenging environment, DIRECTORS’ REPORT Serving our customers in recovery grants, and also donated been reducing complexity and risk Delivering performance operational performance in the to and raised funds for the Australian in the Bank, and increasing our focus We are dedicated to being there for Red Cross and Rural Aid. on driving performance in our core Our financial results this year Customers business has remained strong. our customers during some of the most demonstrate the underlying strengths Engaging with our customers We will maintain our focus on retail, significant events in their lives, and banking businesses. of our business, as well as the business and digital banking to further For more than five years, we have to understand what is especially when we’re needed most. been playing our part to address Our retail bank extended its lead impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. most important to them extend our franchise strength, and will domestic and family violence and in home lending as our emphasis Operating income increased 1%, due and helping them through innovate for future growth. We will This year, in response to the to strong operational performance, also continue to work with our industry financial abuse. This has included on operational excellence delivered challenging times. coronavirus pandemic, our priority has including above market growth in peers, the government and regulators equipping our frontline staff to consistent decisions and turnaround For details see pages 30–31. been to do what we can to support home lending and record growth to support initiatives that stimulate help customers, providing direct times for customers. Deposits our customers through the financial in transaction deposits. This offset economic activity and jobs. financial assistance, and funding continued to grow strongly, thanks and business impacts of the crisis. We FINANCIAL REPORT financial counsellors. Most recently, to the strength of our branch network the impact of lower interest rates, were able to act quickly because of Throughout the year, and we funded the establishment of and digital assets. We have also been COVID-19 related fee waivers, and the commitment of our people, our a Financial Independence Hub investing in more business bankers, reduced income from credit cards and Community particularly in the last few months, technology capabilities, and our strong our people have shown tremendous to help those impacted achieve and delivering faster, better service international transactions due to lower Making a meaningful financial position. commitment to our customers, our long-term financial independence, – including through our BizExpress consumer spending. Loan impairment contribution to Australia and investing in the communities strategic priorities, and to keeping the To provide immediate cash flow no matter who they bank with. facility, which provides business expense increased significantly, due in which we operate. Bank running safely during a period relief to households and businesses, customers with same-day decisions to the additional $1.5 billion provision of significant uncertainty. I thank them we processed over 250,000 home, Engaging our people on eligible business loans. taken for estimated future loan losses For details see pages 32–33. for their dedication, and am proud of personal and business loan deferrals; related to the pandemic. As a result, The improvements we’ve made in The current environment has what we have been able to do together and to get much-needed cash to cash net profit after tax was 11% lower. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION our management of non-financial risk accelerated the shift to digital banking to support our customers and the businesses, we funded more than have underpinned our ability to make and electronic payments. With the The strength of our balance sheet country at this time. $650 million of new loans under high-quality decisions and implement best digital assets in the market we was a key highlight as it underpins the Government’s Coronavirus SME Strategy We remain focused on supporting them rapidly during the pandemic. are able to deliver richer and more our ability to serve our customers, Guarantee Scheme. Our digital channels our customers, driving operational This has enabled our people to go above personalised digital experiences and drive core business outcomes and Delivering a simpler, better managed 10.2 million peak daily logins, excellence and delivering balanced and beyond to support customers and services. This includes our Benefits deliver returns for shareholders. bank that leads in retail and and we sent 130,000 debit cards to outcomes. I am confident that given communities during challenging times. finder tool in the CommBank app We are now 74% deposit funded, business banking – supported customers unfamiliar with digital our digital leadership, balance sheet which connects our customers to more up from 69% just last year and almost by the best digital experience banking to ensure they could make Our people have been energised by our for customers. strength, and our people’s care than 230 government and third party 20 percentage points higher since purchases and pay bills from home. purpose and feel a strong sense of pride and commitment, we will continue benefits. Our customers clearly value the global financial crisis. We also For details see pages 8–17. and confidence in the organisation. delivering for our customers and the investments we’ve been making. significantly increased our loan loss Contributing to our communities Employee engagement is up 13% this communities, and for you, our We rank #1 for our internet banking provisioning. We ended the year year and is now the highest it’s been shareholders. Improving the financial wellbeing of and mobile app Net Promoter Score, with a very strong capital position, communities is central to the Bank’s for more than four years. and for the 11th consecutive year, putting us in the top quartile of international peer banks for capital. Performance purpose. This year we have been we’ve been rated #1 for online banking helping those impacted by bushfires Executing our strategy by Canstar. Independent research Our strong capital position, combined Focusing on financial Throughout the year, we have pursued with our strong statutory profit, performance and balance and drought, as well as continuing firm Forrester has also rated the has allowed us to return $5.3 billion sheet strength to drive core to support local organisations, improve our strategic priorities to simplify our CommBank app as the overall digital in dividends to shareholders this year. business outcomes and financial education and address business, lead in retail and business experience leader among mobile Matt Comyn sustainable returns. financial abuse. To help communities banking, and be the best in digital. banking apps in Australia for the CEO By divesting and exiting our wealth fourth year in a row. For details see pages 18–27. rebuild after this year’s devastating bushfires, we pledged $10 million management businesses we have 8 9 COMMONWEALTH BANK HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Our Delivering balanced strategic and sustainable OVERVIEW outcomes priorities Achieving our strategic goals enables us to create value for our stakeholders. HOW WE CREATE VALUE We are building on our strong foundations to drive performance and to position Customers the Bank for long-term success. Better outcomes DIRECTORS’ REPORT Simplify our business Lead in retail and Best in digital Community FINANCIAL REPORT business banking Trusted and reputable We are becoming a simpler We have the leading retail Our goal is to continue providing bank by focusing on our bank in Australia and are the best digital banking core banking businesses and focused on growing our experience by making banking simplifying how we do business. position in business banking. simple, smart and secure. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We have made substantial We continue to strengthen our We invest in customer-facing progress on divesting our wealth retail bank franchise by investing and back-end technology to management businesses. This is in exceptional customer service, deliver easy to use, personalised, Our people reducing risk, cost and complexity, the best distribution channels, value-add and secure digital Energised, accountable which together with the capital leading technology and strong banking services. We are generated, supports reinvestment operational performance. modernising and digitising in our banking businesses and future We are also investing in better our systems and processes to returns. We have been simplifying business and institutional bank increase our capabilities. We our systems and processes to make customer experiences through continue to innovate both within it easier for customers and our enhancements to our service, our business and with partners. people to get things done. data and technology capabilities. Shareholders Long-term sustainable returns 10 11 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Support for retail customers during COVID-19 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Our priority has been to provide safe, continuous and Leading in proactive essential banking services to our customers. retail banking We have kept our branches open with physical distancing OVERVIEW measures in place to protect customers and our people, and have surged resources into our customer contact centres to meet the increase in demand for help. We have also used our digital channels to send personalised messages to customers to alert them to the support available. To help households manage their cash flows, we quickly added new functionality to enable customers to apply for home loan repayment More than one in three Australians deferrals online, dropped the rates on fixed rate home loans, and reduced repayments on principal and interest variable rate home loans call the Commonwealth Bank HOW WE CREATE VALUE to the minimum required. We also offered repayment deferrals on personal loans and a special term deposit rate for our deposit customers. their main financial institution. We will continue to focus on relieving financial stress and supporting customers as we work towards economic recovery. 800% 154,000 increase in calls to our home loans financial assistance line deferred at peak DIRECTORS’ REPORT #1 Our retail banking strengths Helping first home buyers Rayen Gouli and his wife Sabina Lama kept Bank less with Bankwest Bankwest’s mission is to do more for in home lending, With over 10 million retail customers, including the largest a close eye on the property market and had customers by asking them to do less. household deposits saved for years, but thought a 20% deposit To deliver frictionless, customer-friendly FINANCIAL REPORT share of youth and new migrant customers, we help more to buy their first home in Melbourne was banking, Bankwest provides a new signing and credit cards 1 Australians manage their finances than any other bank. out of reach. service that allows customers to sign their home loan contracts digitally, from any That changed when Rayen spoke with device, in minutes – greatly reducing the time a home lending specialist at his local 1,118 Our retail bank holds leading market shares in home loans, taken to prepare a home loan for settlement. Commonwealth Bank branch who household deposits and credit cards. We aim to strengthen this explained that the couple qualified for Bankwest has also continued to innovate position by offering innovative products and services, backed the First Home Loan Deposit Scheme. for brokers and was voted ‘Bank of the branches (Group total) by the best systems and processes. Year’ in the Mortgage Professional Australia The home lender helped them through – largest network 2020 Brokers on Banks awards. The award ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the loan approval process, and shortly after, in Australia We are committed to providing exceptional service. Our retail bank service recognises Bankwest’s investment in digital Rayen and Sabina launched their house hunt. promise is ‘simple and easy everyday, brilliant when it matters’. tools and support. This includes a portal Today, the couple are enjoying being that enables brokers to track their clients’ Our leading distribution network enables us to serve our customers across homeowners and having a place to applications in real-time, and a dedicated 1,500+ multiple channels, including the Bank’s extensive network of branches, call their own. single point of contact for brokers mobile banking specialists, ATMs, and Australia-based customer contact throughout the application process. centres, as well as our online services and apps. home loan specialists To deliver a seamless experience for customers across all channels, we continue to invest in our technology, data capabilities and digital assets. 2,000+ We assess our performance using Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is a measure of our customers’ willingness to recommend us to their family and friends. We have seen a seven point improvement customer contact in the last 12 months in consumer NPS, indicating that customers are centre staff – all valuing the support and service we are providing. located in Australia New home owners, Sabina Lama and Rayen Gouli. 1 See Glossary on page 293 for source information. 12 13 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Support for business customers during COVID-19 2020 ANNUAL REPORT We have been helping small business customers adapt to the current environment. To help customers deal with the sudden shut down of the economy, we automatically enrolled eligible small Strength in business banking business customers into our loan repayment OVERVIEW deferral program. We also expanded our 24/7 support teams, adding further options and a dedicated helpline to help them access funds and pay their staff ahead of the Government’s JobKeeper payments. We funded more than $650 million in new lending under the Government’s Coronavirus SME Guarantee Scheme, equivalent to over 50% of all fundings through the scheme. We are investing in service, data and technology to become HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our teams also worked with small business customers to quickly move their business online. Using the Bank’s digital capabilities, we helped customers build e-commerce enabled websites with the ability to take Australia’s leading business bank. orders, process secure payments and arrange delivery. 86,000 $27bn business loans of new lending for Australian deferred at peak businesses in FY20 1 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Incentive-based finance for sustainable outcomes Keeping businesses moving forward Backing Australian businesses #1 Business owners need to act quickly when This year we have focused on supporting Australian payments provider Our institutional bank and Wesfarmers with largest FINANCIAL REPORT recently signed a $400 million three-year circumstances change or when opportunities businesses to facilitate the critical role they play bilateral sustainability-linked loan – the first arise. That’s why we are using our leading merchant base 1 in Australia to be linked to achieving better digital capabilities to provide them with smarter in the economy. social outcomes and the largest to be offered everyday banking, faster access to funds, and more support when and where they need it. 2,500+ by a single lender. Our business bank serves business, corporate and agribusiness Wesfarmers will receive a margin discount on Through our BizExpress facility we are providing customers. To build on the Bank’s strengths as the leading its loan if the company meets its ambitious existing customers with same-day lending social and environmental targets, linked to decisions for unsecured loans up to $250,000 payments provider and merchant acquirer in Australia, we have been adding dedicated business bankers and providing more tailored business bankers Indigenous employment and reduced carbon and secured loans up to $1 million. and specialists ADDITIONAL INFORMATION emissions intensity. and responsive everyday banking, deposit and lending services. By using existing customer information to Sustainability-linked loans deliver widespread automate and streamline the application Improvements have also been made to end-to-end processes and benefits by incentivising improved organisational process, BizExpress cuts the paperwork technology to enhance customers’ banking experiences. 240+ behaviours that build a better Australia and for customers and enables our teams to lead to more sustainable outcomes. get funds into customers’ accounts faster. Our institutional bank serves the commercial and wholesale banking needs of large corporate, institutional and government clients. To help clients navigate the rapidly changing business locations supporting environment, the institutional bank has been using its expertise business customers in capital structuring, financial markets and risk management. This increasingly includes advising clients on end-to-end financing and $650m+ helping them access alternative domestic and international sources of capital. The institutional bank is also leveraging insights from the Bank’s data and analytics capabilities to help clients stay on top of emerging trends in their industries and the economy. in loans under the Government’s Coronavirus SME Guarantee Scheme, >50% of scheme lending 1 See Glossary on page 293 for source information. 14 15 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Australia’s #1 banking app 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Our award-winning CommBank app, used by 6.1 million active customers, now delivers personalised services and alerts to help customers better manage their money and make smarter financial decisions. Best in digital Smart features include transaction notifications, reminders for upcoming credit card payments, budgeting tools and a month-to-month spend tracker. We have also strengthened security and fraud detection to keep our customers safe and secure. OVERVIEW Bill prediction, the latest feature, uses data and machine learning to identify recurring bills and provide a timeline of upcoming payments. The app also extends beyond banking to provide customers with integrated shopping and benefit features. This includes CommBank Rewards which matches customers with personalised offers and cashback rewards on everyday spending. Our goal is to provide the best digital banking experience globally. HOW WE CREATE VALUE DIRECTORS’ REPORT #1 Delivering the best digital bank We have built our leadership position in digital Extending our technology advantage We are focusing on six key areas: FINANCIAL REPORT  mobile app and banking through decades of investment in digital internet banking NPS infrastructure, assets and innovation. (Roy Morgan Research)  online banking We have prioritised the customer experience to deliver intuitive Deep Integrated digital Digitising – 11 years in a row and user-friendly digital banking services. personalisation experiences end-to-end (Canstar) We continue to invest in our Customer Engagement Engine We are deploying artificial We are building new digital We are automating and  mobile banking which uses artificial intelligence, machine learning and intelligence, machine banking services, partnering digitising processes to ADDITIONAL INFORMATION insights from customer activity to drive highly relevant learning and data insights with market leading providers make things simpler, faster – five years in a row to drive personalised and building x15ventures to and more user-friendly (Canstar) and personalised experiences. and seamless service deliver the best integrated for customers and We also continue to develop new features and functionality, across all channels. digital bank experience. our people.  banking app in Australia (Forrester) and partner with other innovative companies, to add more value for customers. Our mobile app and internet banking platform have consistently 66% ranked number one for Net Promoter Score. We aim to maintain this position by anticipating customers’ needs and expectations and by ensuring that their banking experience with us compares Intelligent Modern, resilient Globally leading of CommBank transactions favourably to their best digital experience with any other product protection platforms capability made digitally (by value) or service provider. We are using real-time We are leveraging We are partnering with intelligent analytics to platform-as-a-service to global technology leaders detect suspicious activity, deliver resilient systems, and talent to support 24/7 send real-time alerts cutting applications and operations, and providing and automatically block moving 95% of computing remote working capabilities fraudulent transactions. to the public cloud. for a distributed workforce. See Glossary on page 293 for source information. 16 17 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 2020 ANNUAL REPORT We launched x15ventures to build a portfolio of new digital businesses by combining the agility of a start-up with the Driving support and reach of the Bank, to better serve our retail and business customers. innovation x15ventures has launched four ventures already: Home-in (e-conveyancing), Vonto (data insights for businesses), Credit Savvy (credit-score and marketplace), and Backr (start-a-business platform). OVERVIEW In July, x15ventures hosted Xccelerate 2020, a virtual pitch event for start-ups to battle it out in front of industry experts to receive mentoring and funding. The inaugural event is part of our commitment to partner with the fintech community, and to launch 25+ ventures over the next five years. Our objective is to stay at the This year’s winner is givvable, led by Frances Atkins and leading edge of innovation. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Naomi Vowels. Their platform helps companies find and source sustainable suppliers. 25+ new ventures in five years  4 in market Sophie Gilder and Simon Gireau from  12 in development x15ventures at the inaugural Xccelerate event. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Innovating for growth We invest in innovation to offer compelling customer experiences, to stand out FINANCIAL REPORT amid increasing competition and to position the business for future growth. We innovate within our business and with strategic partners to improve our customerWe have partnered with Klarna Backr is a go-to portal for aspiring to offer a shop now, pay later entrepreneurs and micro-businesses facing applications as well as our back-end processes and systems. experience that is used by over looking to set up shop. 85 million shoppers worldwide. The small business-in-a-box service Reimagining Reengineering Growing strategic Through the Klarna app, customers can simplifies the process of setting up a business, giving step-by-step instructions banking processes partnerships shop at almost any online store and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION pay with instalments using their linked and in-app tools to support business Our innovation is structured By taking a new approach To drive step change innovation CommBank debit or credit card. registration, business plan formulation, around our core businesses – to existing processes and we partner with start-ups, fintechs, invoice creation and more. everyday banking, home buying information, we aim to deliver scientists, research institutes and Customers can create a Klarna account and business banking – to enhance simpler ways of working large market-leading companies. through the CommBank app, and once Developed through x15ventures, Backr’s the services we offer today and and improved efficiency and This allows us to strategically pool a purchase is made can track orders and official launch has been brought forward to anticipate and lead how our performance for our customers talent, resources and expertise. upcoming payments via the app. Klarna to September 2020 to help the next customers will bank tomorrow. and our own business. also provides special offers and sends generation of small businesses contribute By collaborating with organisations price drop notifications on wish list items. to Australia’s economic recovery. We continue to simplify the home We have invested in PEXA which such as the CSIRO’s Data61 and buying experience and are working digitises home loan settlement. Harvard STAR Lab we have used with Home-in to provide customers By building direct interfaces multi-disciplinary thinking to with an end-to-end digital home between our systems and the develop solutions that improve buying assistant. Through Credit PEXA settlement hub, we have our customers’ financial wellbeing. Hire contractors Savvy, our customers can track achieved greater settlement We have established our own their credit score and compare certainty for our customers and vehicle for innovation, x15ventures, products. We are helping small significant productivity benefits in partnership with Microsoft and Create website business customers access and for our people. As a result, four KPMG. We have also partnered interpret their data through Vonto out of five Commonwealth with SquarePeg and Zetta to help Register for an ABN so they can optimise and grow Bank and Bankwest home identify and launch future digital their business. We also launched loans are now digitally settled solutions for our customers. CommSec Pocket to provide new through PEXA. ways to invest. 18 19 Group financial performance COMMONWEALTH BANK FOCUS ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Financial Our banking businesses continued to perform well, with strong operational execution delivering above market growth in domestic home lending and deposits. This volume growth supported operating income and helped to performance overview offset the impact of historically low interest rates on our net interest margin. OVERVIEW Our financial results for the 2020 financial year reflect the Group profit – Impacted by COVID-19 impact of COVID-19 on our customers and the economy, Cash NPAT was 11% lower, largely due to Statutory NPAT includes non-cash items. however, our business performance remained strong. 1 Cash NPAT higher COVID-19 related loan impairment expense. Operating income was up 1%, In FY20, this included significant gains realised on the sale of businesses divested operating expenses increased by 1% and loan as part of our strategy to become a simpler, HOW WE CREATE VALUE $7,296m impairment expense increased by 110%. better bank, divestment-related transaction costs, and costs associated with the cessation Cash NPAT is management’s preferred of our aligned advice businesses. It also FY19 $8,221m measure of the Group’s financial Net profit after tax Loan impairment expense, provisions included hedging gains, mostly driven by performance. It excludes items that the foreign exchange volatility observed $9,634m $7,296m $2,518m 1.70% are non-recurring in nature and are not during the year. considered representative of the Group’s Statutory NPAT ongoing financial performance. For more details and a reconciliation between Statutory NPAT 2 Cash NPAT  $1,317m on FY19 Provision coverage ratio including statutory and cash NPAT, refer to page 73 discontinued in the Directors’ report.  12.4% on FY19  11.3% on FY19 operations NPAT was supported by strong business performance The loan loss rate increased to 33 basis points 3(bpts), DIRECTORS’ REPORT $9,634m but impacted by higher loan impairment expense due inclusive of the COVID-19 provision. Peer leading total to COVID-19. Statutory NPAT increased due to gains provision coverage ratio of 1.70%, up from 1.29% in FY19 4. on sale from divestments. FY19 $8,571m Volume growth in core business Net interest margin Business lending Business lending 5 +$7.0bn +5.1% 2.07% Operating income – Volume growth offset margin decline FINANCIAL REPORT  2bpts on FY19 Home lending 5 Net interest income increased 2%. This was Other operating income decreased 4%. Home lending +$18.4bn 1.3x system Group NIM declined due to the impact of lower interest driven by above market growth in domestic The key drivers were: Household deposits 6 rates, partly offset by lower short term funding costs. Operating home lending and household deposits, partly • The removal of certain fees and charges Household deposits +$25.0bn +9.8% income offset by a decrease in net interest margin plus fee waivers in response to the impact Cash basis due to the impact of lower interest rates. of COVID-19 on our customers. Net interest margin (NIM) is an important • Lower commissions from lower credit card $23,758m measure of our financial performance. It represents the return on our interest earning and international transaction volumes, from a decline in spend due to COVID-19. Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio Dividend ADDITIONAL INFORMATION assets (e.g. home loans) after accounting for the • Impairment losses on our aircraft lease FY19 $23,577m 11.6% $2.98 costs of funding these assets (e.g. deposits). portfolio due to the impact of COVID-19 NIM was 2 basis points lower due to the on the aviation industry. APRA (Level 2) 2 Per share, fully franked 2 impact of lower interest rates on deposit • Lower volumes of initial advice fees, the  90bpts on FY19  31% on FY19 Net interest margins, partly offset by lower short-term removal of ongoing service fees and margin funding costs. grandfathered trail commissions, and the Above APRA’s ‘unquestionably strong’ benchmark The final dividend was 98 cents per share, fully franked. wind down of our aligned advice businesses. of 10.5%. CET1 capital ratio of 17.4% on an internationally comparable basis. The interim dividend was $2.00 per share, fully franked. 2.07% • Higher insurance claims related to bushfires. For more details on operating income FY19 2.09% refer to Note 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 on pages 119 to 127 in the Financial report. 1 Unless otherwise stated, all information in this section is presented on a continuing operations basis. FY20 FY19 % change 2 Includes discontinued operations. 3 Cash loan impairment expense as a percentage of average gross loans and acceptances. Net interest income 18,610 18,224  2% 4 Total provisions as a percentage of credit risk weighted assets. 5 As reported in RBA Lending and Credit Aggregates (Home lending and Business lending). RBA collection data was aligned to the new regulatory definitions Other banking income 4,837 4,951  2% set by APRA from July 2019, therefore the home lending system multiple has been calculated for the 11 months to June 2020 annualised. Business lending Funds management income 172 255  33% includes Business and Private Banking, Bankwest and Institutional Banking and Markets (ex. CMPF) and growth is calculated for 12 months. 6 As reported in APRA Monthly ADI Statistics (MADIS) (Household deposits). Insurance income 139 147  5% Total operating income – cash basis 23,758 23,577  1% 20 21 Provisions and credit quality COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Operating expenses – Impacted by increased staff and IT costs Loan impairment expense – Higher due to the expected impact of COVID-19 Excluding notable items, operating expenses Information technology expenses Loan impairment expense reflects Loan loss rate (bpts) 1 were 3% higher: increased 7% due to higher IT infrastructure changes in our estimates of expected Operating costs and higher investment spend on risk Loan impairment loan losses, as well as bad debts 73 expenses Staff expenses increased 2% as a result of wage expense incurred during the year net of and compliance. inflation, higher annual leave costs due to lower any recoveries. The loan loss rate Cash basis Other expenses increased 2% primarily due to $2,518m annual leave usage, and an increase in full-time measures loan impairment expense OVERVIEW equivalent staff. The staff increases were due costs associated with our domestic violence $10,895m as a percentage of average gross loans 41 to higher levels of resourcing in call centres, programs and bushfire recovery grants. and acceptances. 33 operations and financial assistance; as well FY19 $1,201m Including notable items, operating expenses 25 as in areas related to remediation and risk Loan impairment expense increased 21 FY19 $10,824m were 1% higher. 20 19 and compliance. as a result of forward looking 16 16 15 15 16 Notable items included provisions for adjustments made to provisions for Occupancy and equipment expenses remediation and risk and compliance costs. the expected impact of COVID-19. The decreased 1% due to continued branch network Full-time optimisation and lower development costs for loan loss rate increased to 33 basis FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 HOW WE CREATE VALUE equivalent staff corporate offices, offset by higher cleaning points, up from 16 basis points in FY19. and maintenance costs due to COVID-19. 1 FY09 includes Bankwest on a pro forma basis. 41,778 FY20 FY19 % change Portfolio credit quality – Monitoring closely for signs of stress FY19 41,458 Staff costs 5,525 5,408  2% Occupancy and equipment 1,060 1,070  1% Consumer arrears Troublesome and impaired assets Consumer arrears show the proportion of our consumer Troublesome and impaired assets include loans where Cost-to-income Information technology 1,896 1,770  7% portfolio where customers have fallen behind on their customers are experiencing financial difficulties that could ratio Other expenses 1,561 1,528  2% contractual loan repayments. result in credit losses for the Group, loans to customers not Cash basis DIRECTORS’ REPORT Operating expenses excluding notable items – cash basis 10,042 9,776  3% meeting their repayment obligations such as loans in default Arrears on home loans and personal loans remained low. Notable items 853 1,048  19% and loans restructured on non-commercial terms. 45.9% In line with APRA’s regulatory approach, loans deferred as part Total operating expenses – cash basis 10,895 10,824  1% of our COVID-19 support packages are not included in arrears The increase in troublesome and impaired assets to where the loans were otherwise performing. $8,710 million from $7,799 million in FY19 was mainly due to FY19 45.9% For more details on operating expenses refer to Note 2.4 on pages 128 to 129 in the Financial report. the impact of COVID-19 on corporate customers in transport Credit card arrears were higher, driven by lower card balances and storage, manufacturing, culture and recreation, business and increased hardship due to the impact of COVID-19. services, and retail and wholesale trade, as well as continued weakness in sectors impacted by discretionary spending. There Consumer arrears >90 days (%) was also a small number of individual corporate impairments. 1.56 FINANCIAL REPORT 1.51 Tax expense 1.44 Troublesome and impaired assets ($m) 1.23 1.03 1.02 Income tax expense for the year decreased FY19 4,177 3,622 7,799 8% mainly due to lower profits. The effective 0.70 0.68 0.63 Tax expense tax rate for the year was 29.5%. This is below the Australian company tax rate of 30% FY20 5,162 3,548 8,710 Cash basis primarily as a result of profits earned by Tax Transparency Code JUN 18 JUN 19 JUN 20 $3,052m the offshore banking unit and in offshore jurisdictions that have lower corporate CBA is one of Australia’s largest tax payers. Personal loans Credit cards Home loans  Troublesome  Impaired ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Tax Transparency Code provides further tax rates. information on our approach to tax risk FY19 $3,321m management and additional tax disclosures Loan impairment provisions For more details on tax expense refer to Note 2.5 on pages 130–132 in the Financial report. – see commbank.com.au/policies. During the financial year, we took an additional credit Total impairment provisions ($m) provision of $1.5bn for the potential impacts of COVID-19 on our lending portfolios. This took into account the stress to the economy introduced by COVID-19 and the mitigating FY19 4,799 impacts of Government and industry assistance packages and support, such as loan repayment deferral arrangements. FY20 6,363 Our coverage ratio – which is the ratio of total provisions to credit risk weighted assets – has increased to 1.70% from 1.29% in FY19. We continue to monitor our lending portfolios closely and reassess our provisioning levels as the situation around COVID-19 evolves. For more details on loan impairment provisions, loan impairment expense and credit quality refer to Note 3.2 on pages 143–153 and Note 9.2 on pages 208–227 in the Financial report. 22 23 Balance sheet strength Delivering for shareholders COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Balance sheet strength is critical to our ability to serve our customers, drive core business outcomes Our aim is to deliver Sustaining performance and deliver strong and sustainable returns for our shareholders. Our key capital, liquidity and funding sector leading returns and The quality of the Bank’s franchise, including our customer, distribution metrics strengthened further during FY20. The strength of our balance sheet means the Bank has been a sustainable dividend. We and technology strengths, has supported strong and consistent operating achieve this by focusing on performance over time. The strength of our deposits franchise means that we well-positioned to support customers and the Australian economy through challenging and uncertain times. both operating performance have reliable access to lower cost funding. We also manage our balance sheet and capital generation. prudently to mitigate earnings volatility, and focus on risk-adjusted returns to Capital – Unquestionably strong We understand the importance efficiently allocate capital across our businesses. OVERVIEW of delivering shareholder returns As the outlook for the economy is uncertain we remain focused on managing The Group has a strong capital position with Additional outstanding divestments are at strong and sustainable levels, the business, our credit decisioning and our balance sheet carefully, to ensure a Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio expected to provide further capital uplifts that we remain well-positioned to continue supporting customers and performing Common Equity as at 30 June 2020 of 11.6%, above APRA’s in FY21. and that many Australians rely for shareholders. Tier 1 capital ‘unquestionably strong’ benchmark of on the income they receive The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking from dividends. ratio 10.5%, notwithstanding the payment of the Institution (ADI) regulated by APRA. To interim dividend and the adverse impact of ensure banks hold sufficient capital to protect Dividends 11.6% the additional $1.5 billion provision for the deposit holders against unexpected losses, The final dividend of 98 cents per share reflects APRA’s July 2020 guidance, expected impact of COVID-19. HOW WE CREATE VALUE APRA sets minimum capital requirements 888,000+ which applies until the end of the calendar year, that banks should retain During the year, the Group’s CET1 capital was for ADIs based on the Basel Committee at least 50% of earnings. The final dividend payout ratio was 49.95% of the APRA (Level 2) 1 supported by: on Banking Supervision guidelines. These Bank’s statutory earnings for the second half of this financial year. FY19 10.7% shareholders hold CBA • Risk-adjusted profits generated in the requirements influence the Bank’s ability shares directly, millions more Including the interim dividend of $2.00 per share, the full year dividend was $2.98 ordinary course of business (organic to pay dividends. hold CBA shares through per share, fully franked. The Dividend Reinvestment Plan continues to be offered capital) as business fundamentals The Bank’s dividend policy seeks to: their superannuation to shareholders. No discount will be applied to shares allocated under the plan for remained strong. the final dividend. • pay cash dividends at strong and • The benefits from proceeds received 78% sustainable levels in relation to the sales of Colonial First • target a full-year payout ratio of 70–80% State Global Asset Management and PT Commonwealth Life and the phased • maximise the benefits to shareholders Australian ownership Dividend per share (cents) DIRECTORS’ REPORT divestment of CommInsure Life. by paying fully franked dividends. 52% 500 420 420 429 431 431 401 direct ownership by 400 364 334 retail shareholders 320 Funding and liquidity – Continued to strengthen 300 200 218 222 222 230 231 231 298 98 $5.3bn 188 197 The deposit funding ratio represents The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 200 the proportion of home loans and other represents the level of high quality liquid Deposit returned to shareholders income-producing assets that are funded by assets available to meet short-term 100 164 183 198 198 199 200 200 200 as dividends in FY20 132 137 funding ratio customer deposits. Customer deposits are obligations in a liquidity stress scenario. FINANCIAL REPORT considered the most stable source of funding. 0 The Group’s average LCR for the quarter 74% The strength of our banking business has $2,420 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 ended 30 June 2020 was 155% which was allowed us to maintain the highest share significantly above the minimum regulatory Interim Final of stable, household deposits in Australia. dividend amount received by FY19 69% requirement of 100%. The increase in LCR Ensuring we are well funded has been critical the average retail shareholder during the year was driven by strong deposit to our ability to support our customers growth and the Term Funding Facility during COVID-19. introduced by the Reserve Bank of Australia Liquidity The Group continued to satisfy a significant to stimulate business lending as part of the COVID-19 economic support package. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION coverage ratio portion of its funding requirements from customer deposits, accounting for 74% of The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) shows 155% total funding. This was due to the growth in customers’ transaction and savings account to what extent our long-term assets are Total shareholder return Return on equity Earnings per share covered by stable sources of funding. (%) Cash, continuing operations (%) Cash, continuing operations (cents) balances and mortgage offset accounts. The Group’s NSFR as at 30 June 2020 was 151 FY19 132% 13.1 120%, well above the regulatory minimum 12.1 of 100%. The increase in the ratio was due to 10.3 491.5 465.5 the growth in customer deposits, the benefit 412.5 Net stable of the Term Funding Facility, and our strong 54 funding ratio capital position. (11) (32) 8 (24) 120% 1yr 5yr 10yr FY18 FY19 FY20 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY19 112% CBA Peer average (ex. CBA) Total shareholder return (TSR) Return on Equity (ROE) Earnings per share (EPS) combines both share price measures the Bank’s profitability. measures the Bank’s earnings appreciation and dividends It represents the net profit growth. It is calculated by dividing paid. It shows the total return generated as a percentage of the net profit after tax by the number to shareholders over time. equity shareholders have invested. of shares on issue. 1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio including discontinued operations. 24 25 Business unit performance COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Retail Banking Services Business and Private Banking Cash NPAT Retail Banking Services (RBS) provides simple, convenient and Cash NPAT Business and Private Banking (BPB) serves the banking needs of affordable banking and general insurance products and services business, corporate and agribusiness customers across the full $3,997m to personal customers, helping them manage their everyday banking needs, buy a home, protect their assets or invest for $2,654m range of financial services solutions as well as providing banking and advisory services for high net worth individuals. BPB also OVERVIEW FY19 $3,907m the future. RBS includes the retail banking businesses under the FY19 $2,931m provides Australia’s leading equities trading and margin lending Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest brands, general insurance, services through CommSec. BPB includes the financial results of mortgage broking and Commonwealth Financial Planning. business banking activities conducted under the Bankwest brand. Contribution to Group profit Financial performance Contribution to Group profit Financial performance 55% 36% Cash net profit after tax was $3,997 million, an increase of $90 million or 2% on Cash net profit after tax was $2,654 million, a decrease of $277 million or 9% 2019. The result was driven by higher home lending volumes and lower short on 2019. Income from volume growth in deposits was offset by the impact HOW WE CREATE VALUE term funding costs. Income from credit cards and international transactions of lower interest rates on deposit margins. Other banking income increased declined as spend volumes were lower due to COVID-19. Costs increased, due to higher trading volumes through CommSec, partly offset by lower largely due to higher staff and IT expenses as resources were boosted to merchant income due to fee waivers during the coronavirus pandemic and meet customer needs during the coronavirus pandemic. RBS’ result was also the introduction of fee-free business transaction accounts. The cost of new Net interest margin impacted by significantly higher loan impairment expense which reflects the Net interest margin dedicated business bankers and our investments to improve the customer 2.63% 3.10% expected increase in home loan, personal loan and credit card bad debts due experience and technology was offset by lower remediation costs. Loan to the expected impacts of COVID-19 on our customers. impairment expense was significantly higher, as additional provisions were taken to provide for the potential impact of COVID-19 on certain business Operating performance sectors and the economy. FY19 2.55% FY19 3.10% We continued to focus on driving operational excellence in our home lending business. Our ability to deliver quick and consistent decisions for our customers Operating performance allowed us to grow above market, despite competitive pricing from other Business momentum continued to grow this year as we simplified how we DIRECTORS’ REPORT lenders and low levels of housing turnover. We provided $106 billion of new do things, improved our customers’ banking experience and tailored our Brands home loans during the year, including to over 3,200 first home buyers who Brands solutions to better meet their needs. bought a home through the Government’s First Home Loan Deposit Scheme. Delivering on our commitment to do better for small businesses, we added Our strong franchise combined with our investment in digital banking helped 100 new dedicated business bankers and Business Banking Managers in key to drive above market growth in deposits. With interest rates at historic lows, branches. We also expanded the capabilities of our 24/7 Australia-based more customers chose to keep their money in at-call accounts. Customers contact centres and worked to improve the end-to-end customer experience opened more than 1 million new personal transaction accounts with us during through investment in technology, digital assets and analytics. the year. Personal loan and credit card activity was lower as customers chose to reduce debt and spend less during the coronavirus-related shutdown. Our new Digital Handover Tool has simplified our lending processes, enabling our teams to work more efficiently. Our ability to make high quality decisions More customers than ever chose to use our digital channels and phone at speed allowed us to increase lending to business customers. We also FINANCIAL REPORT banking services. During the second half of the financial year we saw a peak of improved and extended our same-day lending facility, BizExpress, to get funds 10.2 million daily logins to our CommBank app and NetBank due to COVID-19, to customers faster. and an 800% increase in calls to our financial assistance line. Our technology capabilities also enabled us to quickly develop online home loan repayment Our ability to make credit decisions quickly also helped us to support deferral application functionality for customers. business customers impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. We funded over 7,300 loans, totalling more than $650 million in new funding under the Government’s Coronavirus SME Guarantee Scheme. Using our technology capabilities, we were also able to automatically enrol all eligible small business customers into our loan repayment deferral program. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 26 27 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Institutional Banking and Markets New Zealand Cash NPAT Cash NPAT $655m $811m Institutional Banking & Markets (IB&M) serves the commercial New Zealand includes the banking and funds management businesses and wholesale banking needs of large corporate, institutional operating in New Zealand under the ASB brand. ASB provides a range and government clients across a full range of financial services of banking, wealth and insurance products and services to its personal, FY19 $1,117m solutions including access to debt capital markets, transaction FY19 $1,059m business, rural and corporate customers in New Zealand. banking, working capital and risk management through OVERVIEW dedicated product and industry specialists. Financial performance Contribution to Group profit Contribution to Group profit Cash net profit after tax was $811 million, a decrease of $248 million or 23% Financial performance on 2019. Income from growth in lending and deposit volumes was offset by lower 9% 11% margins due to the low interest rate environment. Other banking income declined Cash net profit after tax was $655 million, a decrease of $462 million or 41% on 2019. due to lower fees from cards and merchants as a result of the impact of COVID-19 Income from growth in deposit volumes was offset by lower margins due to the on consumer spending. Operating expenses increased due to higher staff and lower interest rate environment. Other banking income was lower as the impact of IT costs, and investment in risk and compliance. Profit was also impacted by COVID-19 on travel volumes led to the impairment of certain aircraft assets owned a significant increase in loan impairment expense due to the expected impact by the Group and leased to clients. Costs were higher due to investment in systems HOW WE CREATE VALUE of COVID-19 on customers and the economy. Net interest margin infrastructure and risk and compliance. Profit was also impacted by significantly Net interest margin 1 higher loan impairment expense related to expected loan losses in industry sectors 1.00% 2.11% most at risk from COVID-19. Operating performance ASB continued to deliver growth in home lending and above system growth in Operating performance deposits. A key focus in the second half of the year was supporting customers impacted by COVID-19 through personal and business customer relief packages that FY19 1.11% The institutional lending market remained highly competitive and recent monetary FY19 2.23% included loan repayment deferrals and temporary overdrafts. and fiscal stimulus by central governments around the world increased the amount of liquidity in the market. Investment in uplifting our capital markets capabilities Throughout the year, ASB continued to advance its digital strategy to help has allowed IB&M to meet client needs through a combination of traditional customers save time and deliver more guidance, advice and tools to reach financial lending products and capital-light structuring and distribution activities. goals faster. This included adding a Save-the-Change feature in the ASB mobile banking app, digitising business term deposits and launching Josie, the chatbot. DIRECTORS’ REPORT To help clients manage through the impacts of COVID-19, IB&M has offered a variety of support such as facility increases and extensions, covenant waivers Brands To find innovative solutions to complex customer problems, ASB continued to and new funding. Deposit inflows have been significantly higher as clients collaborate with industry partners and fintechs. This resulted in the launch of have been managing their liquidity needs. Volatility in financial markets has TradeWindow, developed out of ASB’s innovation program. TradeWindow uses presented additional risks and opportunities for Global Markets’ sales and trading distributed ledger technology to reduce the time, cost, risk and complexity businesses. The fourth quarter trading result was especially strong on the back surrounding international trade documentation. of tighter credit spreads, increased volatility, market dislocations and a large increase in new bond issuance. ASB enhanced its market leading KiwiSaver and investments offering through the launch of a Positive Impact Fund, a portfolio with a preference for investments IB&M continued to build its capabilities to offer insights and customer solutions that generate positive and measurable social and/or environmental impact, based on real-time data analytics that reveal trends shaping industries. Using the alongside a financial return. For the second year in a row, ASB received Canstar’s Bank’s Household Spending Intentions research, IB&M kept clients up-to-date Outstanding Value KiwiSaver Scheme of the Year award. FINANCIAL REPORT on changes to income and spending through the pandemic. 1 Net interest margin is ASB Bank only and is calculated in New Zealand dollars. International Financial Services Wealth Management ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Cash NPAT International Financial Services (IFS) includes the Group’s Indonesian retail Cash NPAT 1 As part of becoming a simpler, better bank we have been divesting the Group’s and business banking operations (PT Bank Commonwealth), and minority Wealth Management businesses. We have sold Colonial First State Global Asset $131m investments in China (Bank of Hangzhou and Qilu Bank) and Vietnam (Vietnam International Bank). During the year, we completed the sale of PT Commonwealth Life, the Indonesian $137m Management and Sovereign, the New Zealand life insurance business. We have also sold Count Financial and ceased the financial advice businesses, Financial Wisdom and CFP-Pathways. The sale of CommInsure Life is underway and we FY19 $250m FY19 $528m have announced the sale of a 55% interest in the superannuation and investment life insurance businesses. The sale of the Group’s equity stake in BoCommLife, the business, Colonial First State. All Wealth Management businesses are now Chinese life insurance business, remains subject to regulatory approval. Both are classified as discontinued operations. included in discontinued operations. Financial performance Contribution to Group profit Financial performance Wealth Management cash net profit after tax was $137 million, a decrease of 2% Cash net profit after tax from continuing operations was $131 million, a decrease $391 million or 74% on the prior year. The result was largely driven by the fact that of $119 million or 48% on 2019. The result was driven by lower other banking profits from Colonial First State Global Asset Management are only included up income reflecting lower net profits from Chinese minority investments and higher to 2 August 2019 when the business was sold, and the results of CommInsure Life loan impairment expense reflecting the deterioration in the economic outlook are only included up to 1 November 2019 when the business was deconsolidated. mainly due to COVID-19. The result was also driven by lower earnings in Colonial First State due to lower funds management income as a result of increased competitive pressures, and an increase in provisions for remediation, compliance and legal matters. 1 Cash NPAT including discontinued operations. For more information on discontinued operations, refer to Note 11.3 on pages 258–261 in the Financial report. 28 29 COMMONWEALTH BANK HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Supporting Our approach is guided by evolving Our our customers global practices and feedback from To improve our customers’ financial our stakeholders on material matters. wellbeing, we are focused on being commitment a simpler, better bank and supporting OVERVIEW our customers through uncertain and challenging times. Global principles and goals to sustainability We are signatories to international initiatives, principles and goals. Investing in our communities HOW WE CREATE VALUE As the Bank for all Australians, we have a responsibility to improve the financial wellbeing of the Delivering balanced and communities we serve and to make a positive contribution to society. sustainable outcomes for our stakeholders. Our policies and targets We develop policies and targets to drive progress DIRECTORS’ REPORT Commitment on our commitments. Key policies include: to our people • Environmental and Social Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct Our people are our greatest asset and • Diversity and Inclusion Policy having an engaged, energised and accountable workforce delivers better View our policies at commbank.com.au/policies outcomes for our stakeholders. FINANCIAL REPORT Providing transparency Good business We report our progress in line with global frameworks practice and standards. By conducting our business responsibly and transparently, we ADDITIONAL INFORMATION contribute to a strong economy and a trusted and resilient financial system. Assessing our performance Our approach to We benchmark our progress using leading sustainability indices and surveys, including: climate change We are committed to supporting the responsible global transition to a net zero emissions economy by 2050. Dr Scott Sleap and Jordarna Barber Commonwealth Bank Teaching Award winner Dr Scott Sleap pictured with Cessnock High School student Jordarna Barber, working on her team’s entry for the F1 in Schools STEM Challenge. 30 31 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Delivering better customer outcomes $153m+ We use our technology, data and insights to help customers better manage their finances. This year benefits for customers in FY20 we sent over 27 million smart alerts through the CommBank app and NetBank to enable our retail Supporting and business customers to avoid Connecting OVERVIEW unnecessary overdraft and credit card fees. We provide additional resources customers with where we have identified areas of our customers customer vulnerability. This includes Benefits finder unclaimed benefits for businesses our ‘Safe and Savvy’ guide to help prevent elder financial abuse. We also Each year, Australians miss out on To help customers who run provide fee-free banking for customers millions of dollars in benefits and a business, Benefits finder with low incomes and a dedicated HOW WE CREATE VALUE rebates offered by government now includes COVID-19 related Indigenous Customer Assistance Line agencies and third parties, such as business support packages for customers in remote communities. energy rebates, toll relief and carer provided by State and Federal allowances. Our Benefits finder tool governments. Through the in the CommBank app and on NetBank uses data insights and machine learning tool customers can now access facilities including instant asset Helping customers to match customers with relevant write offs, cash flow assistance, tax relief options and apprentice in hardship rebates and benefits. Over 690,000 claims have been started through the and trainee support. Customers experiencing financial tool since launch. This financial year, Learn more at hardship are supported by our Financial customers have saved $69 million commbank.com.au/benefitsfinder Assistance Solutions (FAS) team. DIRECTORS’ REPORT in utility bills and over $84 million This year, the FAS team worked with in additional government payments. 45,787 customers to provide solutions tailored to their situations. To help customers experiencing financial stress due to COVID-19, the team has more than doubled to approximately 1,500 1m+ frontline staff. Loans deferred due to We can. Together. Listening to customers COVID-19 impacts are not included in the hardship figure. calls and online requests We continue to focus on being a COVID-19 support This year, our Executive Leadership simpler, better bank and supporting FINANCIAL REPORT Team prioritised directly talking for help during COVID-19 our customers through uncertain and challenging times. To meet the surge in demand for phone and online banking, with customers, to understand what is most important to them, and Compassionate This year, we have worked to maintain we reskilled support and frontline employees and added new temporary get their feedback on the Bank’s care for mortgage 250,000+ performance. This included open essential banking services and provide additional support to customers recruits from the aviation industry to help in our customer contact centres. customer forums, individual customers customer meetings, spending time impacted by bushfires, drought We kept our branch network open in our branches and listening to When our customers face a terminal and COVID-19. with measures in place to protect home, business and customer calls in our contact centres. illness diagnosis or lose a spouse or our customers and our people. personal loans deferred Helping customers in need Matt Comyn talks to customers at an dependant, they need to focus on ADDITIONAL INFORMATION At the forums, customers asked open forum in Brisbane in November. their health and caring for their family. at peak To meet the needs of customers most about our deposit and lending Through our Emergency Assistance at risk from visiting branches, we To ensure they do not worry about rates, how we are rewarding loyalty, team for an independent review. making their mortgage payments, we Package for customers affected by prioritised calls from customers aged plans for our branch network, and The Customer Advocate’s decisions launched Home Loan Compassionate bushfires, floods and storms, we over 70, sent debit cards to those 250m what we are doing on financial are final and binding for the Bank, expedited more than $100 million who rely on passbooks and cash, and Care in February. This complimentary education. Customers also wanted but customers can take their dispute in insurance claims, deferred loan proactively called 250,000 customers insurance policy covers up to 12 months to hear what we learnt from the to an external resolution body, repayments, restructured small to discuss alternative ways to bank. of mortgage repayments for eligible Royal Commission and how we such as the Australian Financial business loans, and waived certain owner-occupied home loan customers. personalised in-app messages At the height of the crisis, we are rebuilding trust and improving Complaints Authority, if they remain fees and charges. We also extended our culture. offering COVID-19 support automatically deferred repayments unhappy with the outcome. Learn more at the package to all volunteer firefighters. commbank.com.au/compassionate-care on all eligible small business loans We made a Drought Assistance Responding to complaints The Customer Advocate team and quickly processed deferral Package available to farmers also analyses complaint data to requests for our home loan customers. and regional businesses affected We take customers’ complaints fix problems before they become Relevant UN Sustainable by drought. Support measures We will continue to work with our seriously and seek to resolve systemic issues. This helps us to Development Goals retail and business customers to any problems quickly, fairly and proactively improve our products, included a loan repayment pause, provide the support that best meets transparently. If customers are processes and decision-making. waiving of fees and charges and their individual circumstances dissatisfied with the outcome of a access to a confidential telephone Key complaint and Customer Advocate going forward. complaint investigation, they can counselling service. metrics are provided on page 47. turn to our Customer Advocate 32 33 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Farmers in Armidale received hay donated through the Bank’s 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Advancing Tackling reconciliation Awarding great teachers financial abuse Through our Reconciliation Action For several years we have Plan, we are committed to achieving invested in programs that support parity for Indigenous representation customers, employees and in our workforce. members of the community who Christmas Drought Appeal and partnership with Rural Aid. Together with Australian are affected by financial abuse Training and employment pathways are in the context of domestic and Investing in our critical to accomplishing this goal. To Schools Plus, the Bank OVERVIEW continues to celebrate family violence. that end, we sponsor several traineeship programs and launched an Indigenous outstanding Australian This year, we established a Training Academy to encourage the educators through the Community and Customer communities take-up of careers in technology. More Commonwealth Bank Teaching Vulnerability team to identify and than 30 trainees and interns have now Awards. Now in its fourth year, respond to those in need with graduated from the Academy and many the 12 selected teachers and sensitivity and skill. Our frontline are pursuing their careers with us in school leaders each receive branch staff are also trained to areas such as engineering, end user a $45,000 Teaching Fellowship provide support and affected experience and cyber security. to fund a strategic project in customers can speak confidentially HOW WE CREATE VALUE their school and further their to our specialist Community We are committed to increasing own professional development. Wellbeing team. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander This year’s winners include representation in our domestic Dr Scott Sleap, deputy principal We have partnered with workforce to 3% by 2026. of Cessnock High School in leading experts and community the Hunter Valley. Dr Sleap organisations to develop the Indigenous workforce helps his students see new resources and support networks career possibilities in science, required to help those affected get technology, engineering and back on their feet. 2020 1.5% maths through The Cessnock We have also worked with other Academy of STEM Excellence. financial services companies TARGET DIRECTORS’ REPORT 3% and industry bodies to identify 2026 and stop abuse via digital banking platforms, such as the use of transaction descriptions to threaten and intimidate. $332m Making a positive contribution Fostering green shoots Focusing on in community investment As the Bank for all Australians, we have a responsibility to improve the community partners including Rural Aid which delivered over 4,500 bales of reputation FINANCIAL REPORT financial wellbeing of the communities we serve and to make a positive hay to more than 440 affected farmers. Other beneficiaries included the Bush and trust contribution to society. Children’s Education Foundation, NSW 377,214 Rural Financial Counselling and the It is critical that we meet the For more than 100 years, the Australian Red Cross. community’s expectations and are CommBank Staff Foundation – our trusted. To rebuild trust, we have people’s charity – has been supporting Our commitment to education been focused on demonstrating Australians’ wellbeing. As part of the through our actions that we are students enrolled in Start We have a longstanding commitment Foundation’s 2020 grants program, capable and reliable, doing the right Smart financial education more than 200 grants of $10,000 to financial education to help the next thing and improving outcomes ADDITIONAL INFORMATION have been awarded to community generation make smart decisions for all of our stakeholders. To organisations to enable them to about their financial wellbeing, Students and teachers at Quaama Public School. emphasise the importance of $10m continue the important work they through our school banking and rebuilding the Bank’s reputation, are doing to help communities in Start Smart programs. From the start of the bushfire One bushfire grant recipient is executive leaders’ long-term need. Recipient organisations of this season, we used our branch network Quaama Public School in the Bega variable remuneration granted since More than 3.9 million school-aged year’s grants are working to address and the CommBank app to help Valley Shire. The town’s residents FY18 is in part linked to relative students have now received financial commitment to bushfire a diverse range of issues across our education through Start Smart, our gather donations from customers had spent years raising money improvements in our RepTrak score. recovery grants community – including homelessness, and employees. Thanks to their to build a teaching garden at their award-winning financial education See page 90 for more details. Indigenous disadvantage, domestic initiative. The free program was founded generosity, nearly $6 million was local public school. Less than two violence and cancer support. in 2007 and is designed to give young raised for affected communities. weeks after the garden was officially Australians the skills and confidence opened, fire swept through. This year, to raise money for To help with the rebuild and communities impacted by drought, to make good decisions about money. provide practical, on the ground The grant will now allow the school we launched the Christmas Drought support, we committed up to $10 to rebuild the garden, replace the Relevant UN Sustainable This year, with schools closed due to Development Goals Appeal. Customers and staff donated COVID-19, we created Start Smart million to bushfire recovery grants. irrigation system and get back generously through our branches Digital to take facilitators into online Community groups were able to to teaching the students how and the CommBank app, adding to classrooms across the nation. More apply for a grant of up to $50,000 to to grow food. the $1.6 million donated by the Bank. than 11,000 students have participated replace lost or damaged equipment The donations were provided to four in online learning sessions to date. or support community wellbeing. 34 35 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Prioritising health, Welcome aboard wellbeing We hired new colleagues from the aviation industry to help our contact This year, more than ever, our Promoting a centres manage the increased volume priority has been the safety, health SpeakUP culture of customer assistance requests and wellbeing of our people. To during the coronavirus pandemic. ensure we maintained essential It is important that our people The temporary recruits, from Qantas banking services and met the surge feel they can raise any issue or conduct that concerns them, and Virgin, bring customer service in customer demand for assistance Commitment to skills that transfer well from aviation OVERVIEW during COVID-19, we quickly adapted and know that they will be taken seriously. This year, we to banking. To prepare them for our branches and offices to maintain supporting customers, we launched enhanced our whistleblower physical distancing and keep our a 15-day training program. We also policy to meet the requirements our people people and customers safe. We also provided dedicated coaching and of ASIC Regulatory Guide 270 quickly scaled our remote working observation, so that our new recruits and provided additional avenues technologies allowing more than for our people to raise concerns, had the confidence and capability 39,000 of our people and delivery including the introduction of to take calls with customers. partners to work from home. an anonymous online channel. HOW WE CREATE VALUE To help our people manage The policy was also expanded to coronavirus-related health, anxiety include spouses, dependants and relatives of employees, in addition or financial concerns, we provided a to current and former employees, range of wellbeing and family support contractors, consultants and resources via podcasts, webinars, suppliers. As a result of these videos and our Thrive wellness portal. changes, whistleblower cases Employees were able to book free raised through our SpeakUP health checks through our online program increased to 103 from health hub, and access confidential 30 in FY19. More broadly, general counselling through our MyCoach SpeakUP cases decreased to 284 telephone service. We also offered for the year, from 311 last year. DIRECTORS’ REPORT an interest-free cash advance to Learn more at employees who were having difficulty commbank.com.au/policies meeting expenses due to the impact of COVID-19 on them or their families. Molly Beveridge, Scott Thompson and 89% Louis Diamond have joined the Bank Engaged and energised Creating a diverse, inclusive culture from the aviation industry. Our people are the Bank’s most Strengthening culture When our people and leaders reflect Manager and above roles by 2025. proud to work for the Bank important asset and an engaged, and accountability the diversity of our customers and We are also committed to gender Support for staff FINANCIAL REPORT impacted by energised and accountable workforce when our people feel respected and pay equity and review it throughout is essential to delivering better Our Code of Conduct incorporates supported, we can deliver the best the year as part of our remuneration domestic and 90% outcomes for all of our stakeholders. our purpose and values, and sets outcomes for all of our stakeholders. review process. expectations on how our people should We track and measure employee Our employee-led networks play an While we are proud that the Bank engagement through the Your Voice act. It includes the ‘Should We?’ test to ensure our people do the right thing important role in promoting inclusion overall is more culturally diverse than family violence people and culture survey. Our and informing solutions for our people the Australian population, we will confident in the future by our customers and the community. and customers. They include WeCAN continue to focus on cultural diversity goal is to be among the top 10% of This year, further work was done to Due to the size of our workforce of the Bank companies globally for our employee (gender equality), Yana Budjari across our senior leadership roles. embed our Code of Conduct into our and the scale of the issue, we engagement score. Our most recent (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander know that many of our people are ADDITIONAL INFORMATION processes to support the skills and peoples and cultures), Unity (sexual Our key workforce metrics results show a significant improvement mindset required to deliver the best are provided on page 50–51. directly impacted by domestic and 41% in engagement, with our people orientation and gender identity), Mosaic customer and risk outcomes. Our family violence. To support affected indicating they feel proud of the (cultural diversity), AdvantAge (life-stage new recognition programs celebrate employees, we offer as much paid work we have been doing to provide and age) and Enable (accessibility and colleagues who are living our values, inclusion for people with a disability). leave as they need to navigate their essential services to customers, and allow our people to nominate Women in leadership situation. We also provide up to women in Executive communities and the broader economy those who have gone above and We know that sharing child caring five days’ paid leave to employees 2020 2020 Manager and above roles during this year’s bushfires and beyond for Excellence Awards. responsibilities promotes workforce target actual helping an immediate family or COVID-19. During the pandemic, we participation and are happy to see male household member. conducted additional, focused surveys Employee Engagement Index score employees continue to access parental Executive to assess our people’s key concerns. 81% 84% leave this year. Parents at Work, an organisation that provides work and Manager and above roles 40% 41% In the April survey, employee 68% 72% family education and policy advice, engagement was 81%, up 13% on Manager featured the Bank in a case study Relevant UN Sustainable April 2019. 89% of our people said they feel proud to work for the Bank, 90% on our gender-neutral parental leave. and above roles 45% 45% Development Goals We also created Financial Wellbeing expressed confidence in the future Guides to further support parents. of the Bank, and 82% said they felt New goal a personal sense of accomplishment CBA CBA CBA GLOBAL We have achieved the goals set in 2015 APR 2019 OCT 2019 APR 2020 TOP 10% 47–50% women in the work we are doing. THRESHOLD to increase the number of women in in Executive Manager leadership roles, and so this year have and above roles by 2025 set a new ambitious goal to achieve 47–50% of women in Executive 36 37 COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Managing Managing our environmental supply chain Banking and social risks We have more than 7,200 Australian Code of Practice and international suppliers so We manage environmental and social it is important that we fulfil our As a member of the Australian risks in our operations, lending responsibilities to those businesses as Banking Association we activities, and superannuation and well as manage potential risks. helped develop the new investment business. This includes Good business minimising our environmental footprint We are a signatory to the Australian Banking Code of Practice OVERVIEW and supporting the transition to a low Supplier Payment Code which requires which came into effect on carbon economy, as well as identifying us to pay eligible Australian small 1 July 2019. The code adds and improving human rights impacts business suppliers on time and within new protections for vulnerable practice through our value chain. 30 days of receiving an invoice. This customers, loan guarantors, year, our average payment time for co-borrowers and small Our Environmental and Social Policy business customers. outlines our commitments and these suppliers was 11 days; and to targets, as well as how we manage keep cash flowing during COVID-19 we the risks and identify opportunities. changed all payment terms for small businesses to immediate payment. HOW WE CREATE VALUE We are committed to playing our part in limiting climate change in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement and Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines how we manage supply-chain risks Political donations supporting the responsible global such as data security and privacy, human rights, modern slavery, Our Group External Communications transition to net zero emissions by environmental impact, and bribery and and Engagement Policy explicitly 2050. This year, we achieved our target to source 100% renewable electricity corruption. We require all suppliers to precludes the Bank from making for our Australian power needs, 10 acknowledge this code as part of their political donations. We may, however, years ahead of our 2030 deadline. As at contractual agreement with us. pay to attend some political events 30 June 2020, we had total committed aimed at the business community. exposures of $5.4 billion to low carbon To attend these events in the 2020 financial year we contributed $70,500 DIRECTORS’ REPORT projects, including $4.2 billion in renewable energy exposure. Minimising the risk to the Australian Labor Party, $70,000 of modern slavery to the Liberal Party of Australia All institutional bank loans, as well and $11,175 to the National Party as large loans in other business units, of Australia. These payments are are evaluated through a compulsory Our approach to human rights and disclosed in line with the requirements ESG Risk Assessment Tool. Annual modern slavery is guided by our of Federal and State governments. 100% Building partnerships training is undertaken by the relevant Environmental and Social Policy. client, risk and product teams to We engage with new and existing ensure they are up-to-date with suppliers to actively identify, manage of Australian electricity The Bank’s heritage and scale means that we have a responsibility makers design policies that support economic recovery over the longer-term. requirements. and mitigate these issues. This year we Industry associations FINANCIAL REPORT ESG risks are also incorporated into added detailed questions on modern needs now sourced from to contribute to a strong economy slavery to our tender questionnaires for The Bank is a member of a number and a trusted and resilient financial To drive increased customer choice, our investment decisions to deliver renewable energy, 10 years competition and innovation, we sustainable, long-term outcomes. all new supplier arrangements; and we of industry associations and we ahead of target system. We can achieve this when we have been an active participant updated our Supplier Code of Conduct participate both through those work transparently and constructively For more information on how we manage in initiatives such as Open Banking, to provide guidance to suppliers on associations and directly with policy with government, regulators, industry climate change risk and opportunities, Comprehensive Credit Reporting how we will work with them when makers in the development and associations and the community. see pages 38–45. and the New Payments Platform. issues are suspected or identified. advocacy of public policy positions. $5.4bn During the coronavirus pandemic, we Industry associations represent have been working with the industry, To support financial and economic We undertook country and industry a range of members with diverse the government and regulators to stability more broadly, we contribute level risk analysis of key suppliers. For interests so the policy positions ADDITIONAL INFORMATION quickly mobilise a broad range of to initiatives that address financial our property operations, this identified in low carbon project financing adopted by an industry association support and stimulus measures. By crime and cyber security. As a member that the high risk suppliers were in should not be assumed to represent working together, we have been able of the Fintel Alliance we work with construction, catering, cleaning and the views of the Bank. to get money into the economy and Australian and international regulators security services. We then asked 11 days take pressure off households and to combat money laundering and these suppliers to provide detailed businesses by offering lower cost terrorism financing; and through information on their policies, processes loans and loan repayment deferrals. our cyber security program we and remediation mechanisms. We This collaborative environment has invest in cyber skills education and Responsible also sought advice from the Mekong average time to payment also enabled unprecedented change capacity building to strengthen investing Club on supply chain due diligence for small business suppliers; and accelerated innovation in the system-wide resilience. and invited Be Slavery Free to present Our investment and sector, including increased adoption to key property services suppliers moved to immediate of electronic payments and digital We are also committed to making superannuation business, Colonial the changes necessary to restore to build awareness. payment terms for small engagement by the community. First State (CFS), has exited and maintain trust in the Bank and all investments in companies We will release our Modern Slavery businesses during COVID-19 Relevant UN Sustainable To help the government and regulators our industry. We have participated associated with the production Statement in the 2021 financial year as Development Goals get a gauge on how the economy, in more than 65 government inquiries of tobacco and controversial required under the Modern Slavery Act businesses and individuals are faring, in recent years which have led to weapons across its bond and 2018 (Cth). we are providing access to aggregated changes in legislation, regulation equity portfolios. The exclusion real-time banking and payments data. and industry practice. Our annual Modern Slavery and Human applies to all fund managers This data will continue to help policy Trafficking statement which responds engaged by CFS, and was to UK requirements is available at achieved as at 31 December 2019. commbank.com.au/CRreporting 38 39 Our progress COMMONWEALTH BANK OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Phase 1–2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Action Pre-FY19 FY19 FY20 FY21 Governance Oversight of climate risks by the Board Risk & Compliance Committee and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) through the Risk Management Framework Group Environmental and Social (E&S) Policy clarifying OVERVIEW Our approach to Board and subsidiary Boards’ oversight and Management accountability for E&S risk, including climate change Group E&S Framework outlining climate commitments climate change (reviewed on an ongoing basis) Review and update Responsible Investment Policy in Colonial First State (CFS) HOW WE CREATE VALUE Strategy Commitment to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement Climate scenario analysis: • Business lending: transition risks. Home lending and insurance: physical risks. FirstChoice Australian Share Fund: transition risks. • Agribusiness lending: physical risks. • Business lending: physical risks. DIRECTORS’ REPORT • Retail (home lending) and insurance: transition risks. Develop and integrate strategic responses to address climate change through our own business actions, as well as through our broader role with our customers and communities Climate change poses a significant risk Phase 1 Risk Climate incorporated into the Risk Management to our environment, our economy and our Pre-FY18 management Framework as a strategic risk and a driver of financial FINANCIAL REPORT Policy, due diligence, and non-financial risks community, and is a source of both risks and governance Group Risk Appetite Statement annual review opportunities for the Bank. We are committed Update our business lending policies in the E&S to playing our part in limiting climate change Phase 2 Framework to support the responsible transition to a net zero emissions economy by 2050 in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement FY18 Analysis of portfolio Undertake analysis of emissions intensity of our business and supporting the responsible global risks and opportunities lending portfolio and Energy Value Chain to track transition to net zero emissions by 2050. performance of supporting the transition to a net zero ADDITIONAL INFORMATION emissions economy Phase 3 Ongoing development and evolution of our ESG Risk To achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, action over the next decade to 2030 Assessment tool for business lending is crucial while supporting the financial wellbeing of our customers, communities FY19 and the Australian economy. Extending scenario Expansion of climate change metrics aggregated analysis, developing across the entire CFS portfolio Since 2018 we have been disclosing our progress, performance and plans in strategic responses, line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial capability building Metrics and Emissions reduction targets (Scope 1 and 2) Disclosures (TCFD). The first three phases of our approach to climate change targets focused on establishing the governance and deep analysis required to better RE100 commitment to source 100% renewable energy by understand climate risks and opportunities. In the current fourth phase, we are focused on incorporating climate considerations into our strategy across Phase 4 2030 (achieved for Australian operations) all business units, and enhancing our approach to risk management. FY20–21 Targeting an average emissions intensity decrease of our The recent bushfires resulted in heightened attention from customers, investors, business lending portfolio Embedding climate regulators and the community on the role businesses play in addressing and considerations into Set new emissions reduction targets: managing environmental and social impacts. This year, we have continued strategy, business to take proactive steps to support our customers and clients, and contribute and risk management • Science-based emissions reduction target (Scope 1 and 2) to economy-wide initiatives that support a sustainable and resilient economy. processes • Scope 3 emissions reduction target Key: Complete Ongoing Future activity 40 41 Climate governance COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Board oversees the management of The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) minimum standards, targets and We are addressing climate change through our own business actions as well as climate-related risks and opportunities, is responsible for climate-related commitments we are working towards. our broader role with customers and communities. as outlined in the Board Charter. matters, including: Accountabilities for the E&S Policy are Specifically, the Board: set out in the relevant Business Unit • Directing the development and We are aligning our business Supporting our implementation of environmental and Support Unit Procedures. lending portfolio to a net zero • Sets, approves and oversees the customers and clients Group’s approach to managing and social policies. The E&S Policy also prescribes the emissions economy by 2050 by: Sustainable finance We are developing innovative risk, including the management • Overseeing of progress, process for subsidiary Board oversight. • Developing climate-related products This year, the Bank was a joint climate-related products to help lead manager for the AUD300 of financial and non-financial risks performance and reporting. and increasing our lending to low OVERVIEW See our E&S Framework at customers with mitigation and million QIC Shopping Centre and of strategic and emerging • Leading external engagement carbon projects, tracked through commbank.com.au/policies adaptation. We have launched a Fund (QSCF) Green Bond, material risks. and advocacy. our Low Carbon Target. green term deposit pilot for wholesale certified by the Climate Bonds • Considers the social, ethical • Partnering with our clients and clients in Australia. The investment The Group E&S Policy released incentivising measurable action Initiative. QSCF has committed and environmental impact proceeds contribute to the Bank’s in August 2019 outlines the governance through sustainability-linked loans. to achieve a minimum 4-star of the Group’s activities. pool of funding used to finance and oversight in place to support NABERS energy rating for • Approves with input from embedding environmental and social • Supporting increased renewable ‘green’ assets certified by the Climate its core retail assets by 2023 management, the strategic, considerations into our business energy generation, while Bonds Initiative. In New Zealand, and are targeting zero net business and financial plans to be processes and decision-making. reducing our exposure to coal ASB has developed and launched emissions by 2028. HOW WE CREATE VALUE implemented by management. This is supported by the Group over time. two new Positive Impact Funds • Approves climate-related disclosures. E&S Framework outlining the • Using the business lending available through the ASB KiwiSaver assessed emissions analysis Scheme and ASB Investment Funds to identify priority areas for customers who want a stronger for reducing emissions approach to responsible investment. (see page 44 for details). The funds have a preference for assets making a positive social and environmental impact with a lower carbon intensity than the wider market. Climate strategy DIRECTORS’ REPORT We are committed to playing our role in the responsible transition to a net zero emissions economy by 2050. To achieve this, we remain focused on reducing our own emissions and continuing to progress our actions in the institutional bank, ensuring our business lending activities are aligned and supporting our clients. Going forward, we recognise the opportunity to leverage our business banking and retail banking franchise to support our customers to reduce their emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. We will continue to evolve our approach over time. In 2018 and 2019, we undertook scenario analysis to better understand the climate change impacts, risks and opportunities for the Bank and to build the resilience of our Supporting our Green mortgage Incentivising the customers and business. The insights from the analysis inform our approach to managing the short and medium term impacts, transition to a low FINANCIAL REPORT agribusiness customers initiative and having the right tools in place to reshape each of our portfolios to be more resilient to the long-term impacts identified. carbon economy Last year, we undertook To help home loan climate scenario analysis customers benefit from Sustainability-linked Scenario analysis – areas of focus to better understand the more affordable and loans tie a borrower’s potential impacts that a sustainable energy, cost of funding to their Physical Transition changing climate may have we ran a pilot offering environmental and on farm productivity and $500 cash-back to our social performance. the long-term outlook for retail customers with In July 2019, we provided the sector. Separately, we an installed and certified $150 million of debt ADDITIONAL INFORMATION have also used historical solar PV system of five funding to Queensland industry data to map kilowatts (kW) or greater. Airports Limited (QAL) Drought Flooding Storms Extreme Bushfires Sea level Market Policy and Legal Reputation Technology productivity levels for for the Gold Coast heat rise Regulation regions in Australia for During the six-week offer Airport redevelopment, the grains, livestock and period, 4,703 customers with $75 million dairy sectors. A closer took up the offer. The provided in the form of Grains, livestock focus on productivity initiative prompted Building FirstChoice Business a sustainability-linked and dairy Home loan levels across these three 16% of participating insurance Australian lending loan. The Gold Coast agriculture portfolio sectors and regions customers to install policies Share Fund portfolio Airport financing is the first portfolios helps us understand and new solar panels. in Australia to be directly better support individual linked to a reduction customers’ needs and in carbon emissions, Potential impacts Potential impacts Potential damage Exposure of fund to Economic growth and circumstances. We used aligning to a widely on profitability and on insurance claims to properties at an growth and contraction contraction by sector. these insights to guide our adopted carbon emission adaptation options and affordability of aggregated level sectors. approach to agribusiness to reduce impact. insurance. due to natural perils. Sector heat maps. lending for these sectors, industry framework, Exposure of portfolio to to help our customers the Airport Carbon Home loan Accreditation Program. portfolio exposure growth and contraction manage sustainability of sectors. through agricultural cycles. concentrations. More information on our climate scenario analysis is available at commbank.com.au/TCFD2018 and commbank.com.au/TCFD2019 42 43 Climate risk management COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Playing our role in creating a resilient and sustainable economy Environmental and social risk, including climate change, is a strategic Monitoring our exposures Our E&S Framework outlines our • Recognising and supporting gas as a transition fuel, while working with risk managed under the Group’s Risk climate commitments, including: our customers in accordance with our Supporting community Collaborating on new banking The Bank is also a signatory to the Management Framework and has the own climate scenario analysis, which potential to impact the achievement • Continuing to reduce our exposures recovery and resilience and industry standards Equator Principles III (EPIII) – a global is informed by the Intergovernmental of our purpose and strategy. to thermal coal mining and coal set of principles and guidance to Panel on Climate Change guidance. This year’s extreme weather events We are a member of the Australian fired power generation, with assess, mitigate, manage and monitor In December 2019, we updated our a view to exiting the sectors by including drought, floods and Sustainable Finance Initiative, which The energy value chain graphic environmental and social risks in Group Risk Appetite Statement to 2030, subject to Australia having bushfires, tested the resilience of the supports the development of a roadmap below shows our exposure OVERVIEW project-related financing. CBA co-leads provide greater clarity on non-financial a secure energy platform. communities impacted. The Bank’s to a more resilient and sustainable to energy-related assets. the Climate Change Working Group risk indicators and capture the Emergency Assistance package economy for Australia. In New Zealand, • Only providing Banking and Financing Our support for the transition to a low to develop additional climate change importance of environmental and provided immediate support to ASB has joined with more than 100 activity to new oil, gas or metallurgical carbon economy is reflected in our assessment requirements in the next social risks as a driver of franchise value. our customers. We also supported companies as part of the Climate coal projects if supported by an declining exposure to coal, and our iteration of the Equator Principles assessment of the environmental, recovery efforts for communities. Leaders Coalition. To support a strategic and coordinated increasing exposure to renewables. (EPIV). This will include deeper social and economic impacts of such See pages 32–33 for more information. response on E&S matters across all The increase in oil-related exposures We are actively contributing to the guidance to support implementation activity, and if in line with the goals business areas, we are developing is substantially due to foreign exchange We are actively collaborating with Climate Measurement Standards of the principles by global financial an E&S Risk Roadmap, focusing of the Paris Agreement. institutions. movements in derivative hedging other organisations to lift national Initiative. Through the initiative, initially on climate risk. HOW WE CREATE VALUE exposures for a single existing client. resilience. This work allows us to Australian banks, insurers, scientists More information about the Bank’s proactively invest in building resilient and asset owners have been current risk priorities including climate communities, disaster reduction and developing open-source technical and change and the key actions we are taking disaster response. business standards for the assessment is on page 61. and disclosure of physical climate risks on infrastructure and real estate assets. Energy value chain exposures as at 30 June 2020 1 Key: +/– change since FY19 Natural resources 2 Infrastructure Electricity generation Network and retailers DIRECTORS’ REPORT Gas LNG terminals Gas $1.2bn $2.2bn $0.6bn –6% –22% –13% CO2 Thermal coal Renewables $0.35bn $4.2bn Electricity and Responsible Responsible investing gas transmission, –6% +14% FINANCIAL REPORT business lending Colonial First State (CFS) is the Group’s investment and distribution and Thermal coal retailing 5 All Institutional Bank superannuation business. CFS assesses climate-related risks loans, as well as large in line with its Responsible Investment Policy. within diversified miners 3 Coal terminals Coal $5.2bn loans in other business $0.16bn To monitor the climate-related risks of its investments, +4% units, are evaluated through our compulsory CFS assesses two metrics for the equity allocation of Assets $0.9bn $0.004bn ESG risk assessment tool. Under Management (AUM) at a whole of portfolio level 1: –25% –5% –13% Medium or high ESG risk • Carbon emissions footprint per $100,000 invested: profiles are subject to 20.77tCO 2 e/$100k AUD (FY20). ADDITIONAL INFORMATION additional due diligence • The weighted average carbon intensity per US$M sales: and escalated depending Uranium Nuclear 235.47tCO 2 e/$1M sales USD (FY20). on the level of risk. We continue to provide Equities comprise approximately 60% of CFS’ total AUM. $0.0bn $0.0bn guidance to our bankers CFS also measures the carbon emissions of its investments by on executing the business assessing forward-looking metrics such as low carbon transition and lending commitments Oil distribution emissions management scores. This information is reported to the Oil 4 in the E&S Framework. and refining This year’s ESG training CFS Board Investment Committee. As CFS investments are managed by external investment managers, CFS monitors the climate-related $2.3bn $1.1bn provided bankers with risk within individual funds and aggregated portfolios at the selection, +7% +41% prompts to understand appointment and monitoring stages of portfolio management. clients’ plans for climate transition and resilience to physical climate risks. 1 All figures are Total Committed Exposures (TCE) excluding Commitment at Offer as at 30 June 2020. Figures represented have been specifically derived based on material client exposures, and have not been netted off against any insurance or guarantees that mitigate the Bank’s risk exposure to clients. Not included are ‘Other energy-related’ exposures ($0.1 billion) which comprise smaller loans and exposure to energy trading entities. 2 Exposures to metallurgical coal mining ($0.02 billion), and metallurgical coal mining within diversified miners ($0.06 billion) not included. 1 Excluding Avanteos Investments Limited (AIL) and Bankwest bank deposits. 3 Thermal coal exposure within each diversified miner is calculated as the Group’s exposure to the miner, excluding exposure to coal subsidiaries, multiplied by the percentage EBITDA contribution of thermal coal in its latest annual financial statements. Exposures to coal subsidiaries of diversified miners, i.e. subsidiaries whose business activities are predominantly related to coal mining, are allocated to thermal coal. 4 Exposures in Oil (Natural resources) for 30 June 2019 have been revised due to reclassification of some clients, which impacts the year-on-year change percentages. 5 Electricity and gas transmission, distribution and retailing includes exposures to companies that operate across the electricity and gas supply chain, including vertically integrated gentailers; exposures to entities that operate domestic gas pipeline, processing and storage facilities; and exposures to companies that provide retail electricity and gas products to end-customers. 44 45 Metrics and targets COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Measuring the emissions intensity Group business lending % of assessed emissions We are committed to continually reducing the environmental impact We continue to track the overall performance of our Scope 1 and 2 Supporting the low carbon economy of our business lending by sector (FY19) of our operations and aim to reduce our emissions by investing in smart emissions reduction target, and have committed to setting science-based In February 2020, we released our technologies and practices. Key emissions reduction targets for Scope Green, Social and Sustainability We continue to assess the emissions arising from our business Funding Framework outlining the milestones achieved this year include: 1 and 2, as well as a Scope 3 emissions lending across Commonwealth Bank, ASB and Bankwest. The insights governance and asset eligibility criteria reduction target. garnered from this analysis provide us with a quantitative basis • Reaching our target to source for Sustainable Funding Instruments to identify key priorities to reduce the emissions arising from our 100% of our electricity needs from We remain committed to issued by CBA. This framework provides OVERVIEW business lending portfolio. renewable sources for Australian offsetting unavoidable emissions the guidelines to support capital operations, consistent with our 2030 to achieve carbon neutrality, and deployment toward new sustainable Our sixth iteration of this annual assessment has demonstrated RE100 commitment. intend to achieve Climate Active products, services and business models. overall stability in the emissions intensity of the Group’s business • Increasing our onsite renewable carbon neutrality certification for lending portfolio, at 0.26kgCO 2 -e/$AUD of expenditure. With the In the 2017 financial year we set a Low energy generation capacity using our Australian FY21 emissions. exception of Property and business services, the emissions intensity Carbon Target to make $15 billion of expenditure in each sector across our portfolio decreased in FY19. solar photovoltaic (PV) panels of funding available to Low Carbon The Agriculture, forestry and fishing, and Electricity, gas and water to 1,510kW at 80 sites across the Projects by 2025. Eligible projects supply sectors continue to represent the most emissions intensive country, exceeding our 2020 target include renewable energy, 6-star HOW WE CREATE VALUE sectors in the Bank’s lending portfolio. of 1,250kW. rated commercial green buildings, • Our New Zealand operations (ASB) energy efficiency projects and low An increase in the proportion of our lending exposure to the  Agriculture, forestry 44% have achieved Toitū carbonzero carbon transport. Agriculture, forestry and fishing sector offset the broader decline and fishing certification from Toitū Envirocare. in other sectors’ emissions intensity. The Electricity, gas and  Transport and storage 14% The certification validates ASB water supply sector’s emissions intensity continues to decline  Electricity, gas and as a carbon neutral organisation year-on-year, partially driven by reduced exposure to coal electricity 13% water supply for its 2019 operational emissions. generation. In addition, several renewable energy projects became operational, and this phase is typically less carbon intensive than  Manufacturing 10% the construction phase.  Property and 7% business services Within the Mining sector, metal ore mining had the largest drop DIRECTORS’ REPORT in emissions intensity. The Bank’s exposures to thermal coal mining  Mining 5% also decreased in the period.  Construction 2%  Personal and other 1% services  Other 4% Metric Target FY19 FY20 Progress Emissions per FTE 2.0tCO 2 -e/FTE 2.1tCO 2 -e/FTE 1.9tCO2-e/FTE by 2020 Group business lending emissions intensity of expenditure (kgCO2 -e/$AUD) FINANCIAL REPORT RE100 – renewable energy Sourcing 100% 65% 100% (1 Jan 2020) (Australia) renewable energy by 2030 2.0 Low Carbon Target $15 billion by $5.13 billion $5.37 billion 2025 committed committed exposure exposure 1.5 Assessed emissions in our business Net zero by 2050 0.26kgCO 2 -e/$ 0.26kgCO 2 -e/$ lending portfolio of expenditure of expenditure ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (2018 financial year) (2019 financial year) 1.0 Key: Complete Commenced 0.5 0.0 FY16 FY15 FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16FY17 FY18FY19 FY16 FY15 FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY15 FY16FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16FY17 FY18FY19 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18FY19 Agriculture, Electricity, Transport and Mining Manufacturing Personal and Construction Property and Other forestry and gas and water storage other services business fishing supply services The full assessed emissions analysis including the detailed findings and methodology is available at commbank.com.au/CRreporting 46 47 COMMONWEALTH BANK FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Limited assurance report PwC has provided limited assurance on these metrics Sustainability (pages 47–52), for the year ended 30 June 2020, unless otherwise indicated. The PwC Limited Assurance Report is provided performance overview on pages 53–54. Customer metrics OVERVIEW We aim to deliver the best products, service and outcomes for our customers. We believe Net To achieve our objective of balanced and Promoter Score is a good overall measure of our customers’ experience with us, as it subtracts our detractors from our promoters. We do not always get things right so we also measure how sustainable outcomes, we set targets for, many complaints our Group Customer Relations team resolves. In addition, our Customer Advocate is an independent voice for customers within the Bank, and if customers are not happy measure and report a range of material customer, with how we have resolved an issue, they can choose to have the Customer Advocate investigate and make a determination that is binding on the Bank. environmental, social and governance metrics. 1 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Customer advocacy1 # 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Commonwealth Bank – Net Promoter Score Women in leadership Mobile app NPS 2  0.4 on FY19 Consumer NPS 2,3 (2.9) (10.0) (2.7) (0.3) (0.7) in Executive Manager – Rank 2nd 3rd 2nd 3rd 3rd Target: #1 in mobile app NPS 50 and above roles by 2025 40 37.6 Business NPS 2 (14.3) (22.4) (19.6) (13.1) (13.0) – Rank 3rd 3rd 4th 1st 3rd 41.2% We continue to extend our 30 Internet banking NPS 4 31.1 30.9 31.3 – – digital leadership and have maintained our #1 position. 20 – Rank 1st 1st 1st – – DIRECTORS’ REPORT Target New target 10 Mobile app NPS 4 37.6 37.2 37.8 – – – Rank 1st 1st 1st – – 40% 47–50% Key CBA Peers 0 JUL 17 JUL 18 JUL 19 JUN 20 Bankwest – Net Promoter Score 3 by 2020 by 2025 Consumer NPS (4.6) (11.4) – – – – Rank 5th 5th – – – Business NPS (0.2) 0.9 – – – – Rank 3rd 3rd – – – Low carbon funding 3 Customer NPS4  7.1 on FY19 ASB – Net Promoter Score $5.4bn Target: #1 in consumer NPS 20 Retail banking 5 32.0 – – – – – Rank 3rd – – – – FINANCIAL REPORT 10 By focusing on delivering better customer outcomes we have (2.9) Business and rural banking 6 4.2 – – – – Target 0 – Rank 1st – – – – seen a seven point improvement $15bn in the last 12 months. -10 Customer complaints # 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 by 2025 Key CBA Peers -20 JUL 17 JUL 18 JUL 19 JUN 20 Resolved 7 45,324 40,588 33,530 Escalated to an external dispute resolution (EDR) scheme 8 5,480 4,695 – – Privacy complaints 22 22 22 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Greenhouse gas emissions Business NPS 5  8.1 on FY19 (14.3) 1.9tCO2-e Target: #1 in business NPS 0 Customer Advocate 30 Jun 20 -5 We are narrowing the gap in -10 Complaints reviewed by the Office of the Customer per FTE Advocate # 1,035 -15 business NPS, gaining eight -20 points in the last 12 months. Average business days to review complaint days 14 -25 Outcomes from review process: Target -30 – Upheld bank decision % 54 2.0tCO2-e -35 Key CBA Peers JUL 17 JUL 18 JUL 19 JUN 20 – Upheld bank decision, enhanced outcome for customer % 35 per FTE by 2020 – New decision % 11 1 Customer advocacy metrics have not been assured by PwC as they are sourced from independent third-party providers. 2 Net Promoter Score (NPS) metrics are provided by DBM Consumer Atlas. 3 NPS methodology and service provider changed to DBM Consumer Atlas in 2019. 1 All metrics capture data of the wholly owned and operated entities of the Group, associates and joint ventures unless otherwise stated. 4 NPS metrics are provided by Roy Morgan Research. Not available prior to FY18. 2 Roy Morgan Research Mobile app Net Promoter Score. See Glossary on pages 294–300 for details. 5 NPS methodology and service provider changed to Retail Market Monitor in 2019. The results prior to FY20 are not comparable. 3 For definition see Glossary on pages 294–300. 6 NPS methodology and service provider changed to Business Finance Monitor in 2019. The results prior to FY20 are not comparable. 4 DBM Consumer Net Promoter Score. See Glossary on pages 294–300 for details. 7 Complaints based on ASIC RG165 guidance. Methodology revised in FY20 to consider only those complaints resolved after five business days, and FY19 and 5 DBM Business Net Promoter Score. See Glossary on pages 294–300 for details. FY18 have been restated. FY20 complaints increased due to the CEO writing to customers and inviting feedback, a technology outage in October 2019 as well as hardship complaints due to COVID-19. 8 FY19 number restated to exclude complaints that have not been through the Group's internal dispute resolution process, based on the percentage of complaints in FY20. Excludes Bankwest complaints. 48 49 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Operations – Australia tCO 2 -e 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Environmental metrics We manage our operations to ensure we minimise our carbon footprint, use resources efficiently Greenhouse gas emissions and minimise costs associated with those resources. We report the Scope 1 and 2 (direct) and Scope 1: Natural gas and diesel stationary 1 1,124 357 389 541 663 Scope 3 (indirect) carbon emissions for our operations in Australia, New Zealand and other Scope 1: Transport 7,182 6,626 6,868 6,870 7,019 overseas locations. We are also committed to supporting the transition to a low carbon economy and report our progress against our target to fund $15 billion of low carbon projects by 2025. Scope 2: Purchased electricity: property portfolio 1 62,443 71,128 76,866 83,723 94,255 Scope 2: Purchased electricity: data centres 1 33,819 Scope 3: Purchased electricity: data centres 1 1,475 38,182 39,647 44,052 41,261 OVERVIEW Scope 3: Natural gas and diesel stationary 202 73 79 116 133 Scope 3: Transport 2 10,581 20,531 21,349 21,576 23,451 Low carbon transition 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Scope 3: Hotel accommodation 3 2,191 Scope 3: Transmission and distribution losses 10,572 8,272 10,021 10,503 12,453 Low carbon funding 1 $m 5,374 5,134 4,575 – – Scope 3: Office paper use 4 204 30 – – – – Renewable energy lending exposure 1 $m 4,225 3,644 3,716 2,800 2,200 Scope 3: Base building 18,116 19,793 – – – Business lending emissions intensity 2 kgCO 2 -e/AUD N/A 0.26 0.26 0.28 0.29 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Climate bond arrangement 3 $m 9,490 1,845 2,014 1,018 50 Energy – Australia gigajoules Greenhouse gas emissions tCO 2 -e 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Fuels – natural gas, diesel and transport 127,827 112,675 112,671 129,671 142,418 Purchased electricity – property portfolio 281,356 313,065 339,270 365,617 399,781 Group – Renewable energy via power purchase agreement Scope 1 emissions 4,5 10,840 7,624 8,740 9,694 9,063 or retail contracts 3 279,932 – – – – Scope 2 emissions 5 103,528 78,757 87,277 96,595 107,762 Electricity generated from on-site solar panels 3 6,106 – – – – Scope 3 emissions 5,6 47,151 99,580 7 85,754 91,150 93,622 Purchased electricity – data centre electricity 157,578 168,620 173,281 189,456 174,796 Total 161,519 185,961 7 181,771 197,439 210,447 Total energy consumption 572,867 594,360 625,222 684,744 716,995 Scope 1 and 2 per FTE 8 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.3 2.6 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Australia Water and paper – Australia Scope 1 emissions 5 8,306 6,983 7,257 7,411 7,682 Water 5 kilolitres 177,047 216,102 172,134 171,477 114,608 Scope 2 emissions 5 96,262 71,128 76,866 83,723 94,255 Office paper usage (A3 and A4) tonnes 483 570 629 750 – Scope 3 emissions 5,6 43,341 88,282 72,430 77,553 78,961 Total 147,909 166,393 156,553 168,687 180,898 Scope 1 and 2 per FTE 8 1.9 2.1 2.3 2.6 2.9 New Zealand Scope 1 emissions 4 2,046 82 733 1,348 436 FINANCIAL REPORT Scope 2 emissions 1,614 1,938 2,462 2,661 3,213 Scope 3 emissions 1,266 4,259 5,834 3,813 4,950 Total 4,926 6,279 9,029 7,822 8,599 Other overseas Scope 1 emissions 488 559 750 935 945 Scope 2 emissions 5,652 5,690 7,949 10,211 10,294 Scope 3 emissions 2,544 7,039 7,490 9,784 9,711 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total 8,684 13,288 16,189 20,930 20,950 1 Prior year numbers have not been assured. 2 See commbank.com.au/CRreporting for methodology. Current period data is not available as the methodology relies on published client-specific data which is time delayed. Not assured by PwC. EY has provided limited assurance on the pool of assets backing the Green Liabilities in August 2020. 3 Not assured by PwC. Includes the full value of the transactions where CBA has acted as an Involved Party. FY20 number has increased due to higher demand for green bonds. 4 New Zealand operations has reclassified a proportion of their leased fleet fuel usage from Scope 3 emissions to Scope 1 emissions. 1 In FY20, CBA assumed operational control of two data centres. Emissions from these locations have been reclassified from Scope 3 to Scope 1 or 2 emissions, 5 In FY20, CBA assumed operational control of two data centres. Emissions from these locations have been reclassified from Scope 3 to Scope 1 or 2 emissions, depending on source. depending on source. 2 Emissions reduced due to travel restrictions as a result of COVID-19. 6 FY20 Scope 3 emissions exclude emissions from waste to landfill. From FY19, Scope 3 emissions include emissions from base buildings and paper use. 3 Reported for first time in FY20. 7 Restated due to summation error in FY19 Scope 3 emissions. 4 Paper use emissions increased as a new supplier of office products also includes non-carbon neutral paper in their range. 8 Emissions intensity calculations for FY20 exclude the reclassified Scope 2 emissions from the two data centres now under operational control. 5 FY20 and FY19 commercial water use includes both new commercial buildings and old commercial buildings that have not been vacated. 50 51 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Social – our people metrics Employee training hrs Female Male Total Female Male Total Employees are the Bank’s most important asset and having an engaged, well-trained and accountable workforce is essential to the delivery of the Bank’s strategy and delivers tangible Executive Managers and above roles 29,023 41,060 70,083 40,795 61,054 101,849 benefits for our customers, shareholders and the communities we operate in. Flexible working Others 856,919 649,055 1,505,974 795,978 577,415 1,373,393 practices help our people balance their goals and commitments and support a performance culture. Diversity and inclusion are an integral part of the Bank’s culture, values and the way Total 885,942 690,115 1,576,057 836,773 638,469 1,475,242 we do business. Per employee Executive Managers and above roles 21.3 19.9 20.5 31.6 29.7 30.4 OVERVIEW Others 29.1 25.6 27.5 27.2 22.3 24.9 Employees 1 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Average per employee 28.8 25.2 27.1 27.4 22.8 25.2 Total full-time equivalent (FTE) # 43,585 45,165 45,753 45,614 45,129 # 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 – Australia 36,330 37,137 36,446 35,701 35,273 – New Zealand 5,122 5,038 5,538 5,409 5,518 ESG training 1 1,560 4,043 3,577 2,768 1,786 – Other 2,133 2,990 3,769 4,504 4,338 Gender diversity % 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Graduates 153 183 188 149 119 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Headcount # 48,167 50,482 51,371 51,779 51,120 Women in workforce 56.9 57.2 57.4 57.8 58.0 Employee turnover – voluntary % 10.1 11.3 11.8 10.1 11.3 Women in Manager and above roles 45.0 45.0 44.6 44.4 43.6 Employee turnover – involuntary % 4.2 4.0 4.2 – – Women in Executive Manager and above roles 41.2 39.1 37.6 36.7 35.2 Employment type (headcount) 2 # Women in Senior Leadership (Group Executives) 27.3 22.2 20.0 – – Full-time 32,178 33,125 – – – Part-time 7,565 7,900 – – – Gender pay equity Casual 399 438 – – – (female to male base salary) 2 ratio 31 Mar 20 31 Mar 19 31 Mar 18 31 Mar 17 Safety and wellbeing Executive General Manager 0.90 0.95 0.94 0.95 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 3 rate 0.9 1.6 1.4 1.6 1.6 General Manager 1.00 0.97 0.99 1.00 Absenteeism days 7.8 7.2 6.0 5.9 6.0 Executive Manager 0.98 1.00 0.98 0.99 Health, safety and wellbeing training 4 # 49,385 49,977 – – – Manager/Professional 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.98 Team Member 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 Employee engagement and flexible working 5 % Apr 20 Oct 19 Apr 19 Apr 18 Apr 17 Apr 16 Employee engagement index – CBA 6 81 72 68 72 78 77 Age diversity % 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Employees working flexibly – 66.0 73.9 73.7 69.4 43.4 <25 years 7.9 7.4 7.3 8.1 8.3 Employees with caring responsibilities – 47.5 50.7 53.0 – – 25–34 years 30.8 31.4 33.2 34.8 35.9 FINANCIAL REPORT 35–44 years 31.9 31.8 31.0 29.7 29.5 % 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 45–54 years 19.6 19.9 19.5 18.9 18.5 Employees working part-time or job-sharing 19.0 19.5 19.7 19.4 19.8 55–64 years 8.6 8.4 8.0 7.6 7.2 65+ years 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.6 Parental leave # 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Other diversity dimension 3 % Oct 19 Apr 19 Apr 18 Apr 17 2016 Female employees who have accessed parental leave 1,433 1,479 CBA Indigenous workforce (ancestry) 4 1.5 0.9 1.0 0.8 – ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Male employees who have accessed 2016 Australian Census parental leave 913 917 – – – – 2.8 (Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander) Employees who have returned to work and are Employees who identify as having a disability 8.7 10.5 11.9 – – still employed after 12 months 7 1,825 – Employees who identify as LGBTI 3.3 3.4 3.4 – – Cultural Australia, Indigenous, Diversity NZ, British, Africa, Pacific Cultural diversity based on ancestry Index Irish Europe Asia Middle East Americas Islanders (Oct 2019) 3 # % % % % % % CBA overall 0.72 57.37 11.04 23.87 3.42 1.39 2.91 General Manager and above 0.49 75.38 12.16 6.38 2.74 2.43 0.91 Executive Manager and above 0.57 70.59 13.78 9.52 3.06 1.97 1.09 1 Includes discontinued operations. 2016 Australian Census (ancestry) 0.59 69 12 14 4 1 1 2 Excludes fixed term contractors and contingent workers. 3 Prior year numbers have been restated due to claims received after year-end reporting date. 1 FY19 number restated due to incorrect capture of training modules. FY20 number has decreased due to postponement of training as a result of COVID-19. 4 FY19 number has been restated. The health, safety and wellbeing training number is higher than FTE as the training is assigned annually and to new employees. 2 Methodology changed in FY20, to improve representation of management levels. Reported values exclude employees seconded to their role at the time of 5 Sourced from the Group's people and culture survey. Survey provider changed in FY20 to Qualitrics. Due to COVID-19 not all metrics were surveyed in April 2020. reporting. All prior year numbers have been restated. 6 Employee engagement showed a significant improvement due to the Bank's support of customers, people and communities during COVID-19. 3 Sourced from the Group's people and culture survey. Survey provider changed in FY20 to Qualitrics. Due to COVID-19 not all metrics were surveyed in April 2020. 7 Reported for first time in FY20. 4 Metric can be volatile due to small sample size. 52 53 Independent assurance report on COMMONWEALTH BANK Social – community metrics sustainability performance metrics 2020 ANNUAL REPORT We contribute to our communities through community investment and financial education. For the year ended 30 June 2020 We also provide support for Indigenous communities in keeping with our purpose of improving the financial wellbeing of customers and communities. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Community investment $m OVERVIEW Total community investment 1,2 332.3 288.4 290.0 266.0 262.6 – Cash contributions 2 57.5 41.6 55.5 37.2 37.8 – Time volunteering 3 0.7 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.4 – Forgone revenue 1 261.4 231.5 220.3 215.9 211.8 To: the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia – Program implementation costs 12.7 14.2 13.2 11.7 11.6 Scope HOW WE CREATE VALUE Community investment as a percentage of pre-tax In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 18 May 2020, we were engaged by Commonwealth Bank profit 4 % 3.2 2.4 2.2 2.0 2.0 of Australia and its subsidiaries (the Group) to perform an independent limited assurance engagement in respect of the Financial literacy programs # Non-financial Performance metrics (Customer, Environmental, Social and Governance metrics) (the Performance Metrics) School banking students (active) 3 174,997 244,636 299,074 321,389 325,797 for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2020 (the Period), presented on pages 47 to 52 of the 2020 Annual Report. The definitions (the Criteria) against which we assessed the Performance Metrics are established by management and Start Smart students (booked) 3,5 377,214 427,527 568,649 574,246 557,475 are presented on pages 294 to 300 of the 2020 Annual Report. Indigenous community support Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (calls received) # 206,436 202,444 180,225 168,218 170,789 Management’s responsibilities Australian Indigenous supplier spend – first tier $’000 4,395 2,959 – – – The Management of the Group is responsible for the Performance Metrics and for the preparation of the Performance Metrics in accordance with the Criteria. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Our Independence and Quality control Governance metrics We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to assurance engagements, which include independence and Strong governance is key to the Bank’s ability to deliver on our purpose and strategy. other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, Having independent and diverse Non-Executive Directors supports strong oversight confidentiality and professional behaviour. and quality decision-making by our Board. It is also important that our people know In accordance with Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports what is expected of them and are confident to speak up about any issues or concerns. and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements the firm maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 FINANCIAL REPORT Our responsibilities Board composition 6 # Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence Total Directors 9 10 10 10 12 we have obtained. – Female 5 5 4 4 4 Our engagement has been conducted in accordance with the Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements (ASAE 3000) Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. That standard requires that we – Male 4 5 6 6 8 plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether anything has come to our attention to indicate Independent Directors 8 9 9 9 11 that the Performance Metrics have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria, for the Period. Female Directors on Board % 56 50 40 40 33 The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group compliance training 7 % • Enquiries of relevant staff responsible for preparing the Performance Metrics; Training completion rate – Code of Conduct 92.7 96.7 99.4 97.6 – • Enquiries about the design of the internal controls and systems used to collect and process the Performance Metrics; Training completion rate – mandatory learning 96.4 93.6 94.4 96.9 – • Where applicable, enquiries of third parties responsible for the preparation of data included in the Performance Metrics; Conduct and whistleblowing # • Enquiries about the design of the systems used by third parties to collect and process the Performance Metrics; Substantiated misconduct cases 1,851 1,869 1,259 1,022 – • Comparing the Performance Metrics to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis; and Misconduct cases resulting in termination 136 187 – – – • Reading the Performance Metrics to determine whether they are in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the corporate responsibility performance. SpeakUP Program cases 284 311 143 171 – – Whistleblower cases 8 103 30 33 44 – 1 Forgone revenue methodology has changed in FY20. The FY19 number has been restated. Increase in FY20 is mainly due to expanding the age eligibility for fee waivers on Smart & Complete accounts in October 2019, increase in Streamline accounts and pricing changes to transaction fees in November 2019. 2 The FY20 increase is mainly due to the launch of the Next Chapter program to address domestic and financial abuse, and donations for bushfire and drought relief. 3 FY20 metrics impacted by COVID-19. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 4 Cash net profit from continuing operations before tax. One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 5 Start Smart program for vocational students ceased in FY19. T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au 6 As numbers are actuals, no assurance by PwC is provided. 7 The training completion rates are not 100% as allocated training may be scheduled for completion after 30 June or training may be overdue. There are Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 remuneration consequences for employees who do not meet their training obligations. T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au 8 The FY20 increase in whistleblower cases is in part attributable to an expanded definition of an Eligible Person and Reportable Conduct as per changes to the Corporations Act applicable from 1 July 2019. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 54 55 COMMONWEALTH BANK HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Managing our The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, changing risk OVERVIEW landscape a reasonable assurance engagement and consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Use of report HOW WE CREATE VALUE This report was prepared for the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report to any persons or users other than the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. The external operating environment altered Inherent limitations materially this year, resulting in rapid and dynamic changes to the risk landscape. The recent Because of the inherent limitations of any assurance engagements due to the selective testing of the information being examined, it is possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. A limited assurance engagement is not designed to detect all instances of non-compliance of the Performance Metrics with the Criteria, as it is limited primarily to making enquiries, of management, and applying analytical procedures. The limited assurance conclusion strengthening of our risk framework has positioned expressed in this report has been formed on this basis. the Bank well to respond to these risks and support DIRECTORS’ REPORT Conclusion our customers and the community. Based on our review, which is not an audit, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Performance Metrics have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria for the year ended 30 June 2020. In recent years, banks Global tensions – geopolitical The Board and Management PricewaterhouseCoopers issues and trade disputes are of the Bank understand the have been adapting to creating uncertainty for Australian importance of good risk FINANCIAL REPORT a range of new and evolving and global businesses, which could management to the financial risks such as uncertain further exacerbate economic wellbeing of our customers, macroeconomic conditions, conditions and increase cyber shareholders, the community and privacy risks. and the broader economy. the advancement of new Matthew Lunn Increase in financial crime – We therefore remain focused technologies and competitors, Partner the availability of financial on improving the Bank’s risk and increasing societal and support packages creates new management discipline. This regulatory expectations. opportunities for financial focus in recent years, including on ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sydney criminals to exploit the larger business continuity planning, has 12 August 2020 Events of the last year have number of vulnerable people equipped our teams to exercise introduced new risks or altered and businesses. sound judgement and mobilise existing risks: rapidly to support customers Climate change risk – this through the challenges of the COVID-19 impacts – uncertainty year’s bushfires and floods have exists regarding the duration and bushfires, drought and the highlighted the physical impacts COVID-19 pandemic. severity of COVID-19 impacts and the of climate change and the associated disruption to the domestic increased frequency and severity Our historically sound credit and global economy. While there has of extreme weather events. risk management practices and been significant government support resilient systems have also enabled and stimulus, we expect challenging Increased regulatory the Bank to offer a range of relief economic conditions ahead. In scrutiny – the Bank and its measures to support individuals the longer term we anticipate operations are subject to and businesses. Positive customer increased credit losses from business heightened regulatory scrutiny feedback has reinforced that the insolvencies, higher consumer and requirements as well investment and efforts being made defaults due to unemployment and as potential regulatory and to improve the Bank’s risk culture slower overall growth. legal action. are driving meaningful change. 56 57 Responding to COVID-19 risks Our risk framework COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The COVID-19 pandemic rapidly During this time, our focus was on Financial crime Overview Strengthening our risk framework and embedding a new Anti-Bribery protecting the stability of the Bank’s & Corruption (AB&C) framework. introduced an array of new and Social distancing restrictions during The diagram below outlines the Risk We have developed and improved critical operations and supporting our the height of the pandemic made Management Framework – including the Bank’s Risk Management • Implementing data quality elevated risks to the safety of customers. To ensure there was no initiatives to improve the structure complying with customer verification risk governance structures – for Framework to ensure it is robust and our people, the resilience of our disruption of services to customers, obligations under the Anti-Money managing the Group’s Material Risk fit-for-purpose. This means evolving and quality of data to support we initiated a temporary technology reporting and decision making. operations, the strength of our production change freeze. Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Types. It incorporates the requirements our risk management practices for Financing (AML/CTF) regime difficult of APRA’s prudential standard for better risk and compliance outcomes, • A cyber security program to balance sheet and the financial and to take account of changes in the We also implemented infrastructure where customers are required to risk management (CPS 220). Integral enhance the Bank’s cyber defences OVERVIEW security of our customers and changes to increase the reliability and present in person at a branch. Special to our approach to managing risk is: Bank’s operating context. This includes against a continually increasing the community. Action has been speed of remote working operations relief was provided by AUSTRAC heightened regulatory change and threat environment. • The Group Risk Appetite for critical functions, and increased to allow alternative verification shifting consumer preferences – two required to address these risks, Statement that articulates the trends that are likely to continue into • A data centre and network our oversight of critical suppliers. procedures in these situations, type and degree of risk the Board modernisation program, which is particularly in the following areas: To enable our teams to prioritise such as video calls. the foreseeable future. Significant is prepared to accept and the investment is underway in a number improving the security and resilience customer support, we slowed certain The significant number of financial maximum level of risk that the of our technology infrastructure. of areas, including: Employee health and safety non-essential projects – excluding support packages made available institution must operate within. • Initiatives to improve the quality those with regulatory commitments • Our comprehensive Remedial The increased risk to the safety and to millions of Australians whose • The Group Strategy that Action Plan to strengthen the and automation of data used in – and temporarily moderated risk HOW WE CREATE VALUE welfare of our workforce has been employment has been impacted articulates the Group’s approach Bank’s operational and compliance non-retail credit risk reporting of paramount concern during the framework requirements for lower by COVID-19 has increased the to the implementation of its risk framework is in its third year, and portfolio management. COVID-19 pandemic. The measures risk activities. We also hired new opportunity for those seeking to employees and redeployed almost strategic objectives. after the 2018 APRA Prudential introduced to support and protect commit financial crimes. This new risk Underpinning each of these initiatives 500 team members to service Inquiry exposed a lack of maturity is the Bank’s strategic imperative of our people, and to ensure they are has been factored into our financial The framework is delivered through increased customer queries and in the Bank’s non-financial risk equipped with the information and crime detection processes and staff governance and reporting processes, becoming simpler and better. These hardship requests. management practices. Progress has resources they need, are outlined financial crime compliance education risk policies and procedures, risk initiatives are being managed through been made on enhancing our risk in Commitment to our people and and awareness programs. infrastructure (risk systems, tools strong governance and accountability governance and business ownership Board priorities during 2020 on pages Financial strength and processes), and people with the of risk outcomes, elevating the status structures and by setting clear 34–35 and 63, respectively. Notwithstanding the range of Managing market volatility risk skills and capabilities appropriate priorities for business areas. of the Risk Management function relief measures made available to managing the varying risk types. within the organisation, and investing For further details on our Risk In early March, global markets Customer welfare DIRECTORS’ REPORT to businesses and individuals, experienced extreme volatility, in risk systems for improved analytics, Management Framework refer to Note 9 The specific risks we manage within The long term prosperity of the the depth and severity of COVID-19 mainly due to COVID-19 and the reporting and better decision making. on page 201 in the Financial report. each of our Material Risk Types will be Bank ultimately depends on related impacts on the economy oil price shock. In response, the • Strengthening our financial either existing risks or forward-looking the financial wellbeing of our are uncertain. Board approved a temporary crime policies, standards and emerging risks that require action now customers. The prolonged closure In anticipation of the potential three-month increase in the Market to minimise their impacts in the future. controls, improving our Know Your of businesses, particularly in the impact on our customers, we have Risk intervention levels outlined in Customer operational practices service industry, combined with increased our forward-looking loan the Group Risk Appetite Statement. the impact of restrictions on loss provisions. These have been regional and international travel, Volatility is expected to continue determined based on a range of in the current environment, has threatened the livelihoods of millions of Australians. We have plausible economic and industry stress requiring ongoing close CBA Board factors, and take into account the Risk governance FINANCIAL REPORT been committed to supporting our monitoring by management. mitigating impacts of Government customers during this time, while still and reporting and industry assistance packages and focusing on maintaining responsible Ongoing monitoring Group Strategy Group Risk Appetite Statement support, including loan repayment credit risk decisions. The assistance deferral arrangements. We continue The COVID-19 situation continues to and relief measures we are providing to monitor our lending portfolios evolve both locally and globally and are outlined in Supporting our closely, with stress testing forming will likely present new challenges and customers on pages 30–31. the basis for ongoing re-assessments risks in the short to medium term. Board Risk & Compliance Committee Board People & Remuneration Committee Risk policies and of provisioning levels as the The Board and Management continue Operational resilience to actively monitor the situation Risk Framework Enablers situation evolves. procedures and adapt our response as required ADDITIONAL INFORMATION During the initial stages of COVID-19, Financial risks Non-financial risks the Bank had to respond quickly Cyber risk to maintain our financial strength Executive Leadership to changing circumstances. This and ensure our customers and the There has been a global increase community are supported through Team (ELT) increased the risk of introducing Risk & in cyber crime during COVID-19 as these challenging times. Asset and Insurance Remuneration operational vulnerabilities into our cyber criminals seek to gain financially Financial Risk Committee Liability Subsidiary Non-Financial Risk Committee Review (FRC) Committee (NFRC) Risk infrastructure processes, and created general from people’s vulnerability, or exploit (ALCO) Boards Committee (RRRC) uncertainty over the stability of potential weaknesses introduced BU/SU global supply chains and the potential through rapid operational changes Leadership Teams impact on third-party suppliers. The implemented by businesses. Through Business Unit (BU) Leadership BU/SU NFRC Committees BU/SU RRRC Leadership Teams Teams Committees shift to remote working also added a our cyber security program, we level of disruption to our operations, continue to enhance the Bank’s and increased our cyber, privacy and cyber defences and have focused on Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk Insurance risk Compliance Operational conduct risk profiles. Strategic risk risk educating staff and customers on the Risk Risk skills and dangers of cyber crime activities. capabilities Operating environment Customer Climate and Macroeconomic Competition Technology Regulatory Political Societal expectations environment Values Expectations and Risk Behaviours 58 59 Our current risk priorities COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT This section describes the specific risks within our material risk types where the Board and the Executive Leadership Team are focusing their efforts. It includes a mix of existing and emerging risks that could materially impact our ability to serve our customers or deliver our strategy. OVERVIEW Macroeconomic environment Cyber security and data management Financial crime Digital disruption Our business performance is closely linked to the The Bank manages a large volume of sensitive data. Banks have a critical role to play in combating financial Emerging technologies and regulatory changes such performance of the Australian and New Zealand The regulatory landscape is increasingly focused on the crime and protecting the integrity of the financial system. as Open Banking and Comprehensive Credit Reporting economies, which in turn are impacted by events privacy, integrity and appropriate management of data Not detecting or preventing financial crimes can have are making it easier for neobanks, fintechs and HOW WE CREATE VALUE in the global economy. throughout its lifecycle. Data governance tools, standards a significant impact on our customers and the community technology companies to compete directly in banking. and procedures to meet these expectations are currently and can result in material fines and penalties for the Bank. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in prolonged not consistently embedded across the Group. The emergence of new technologies, like Artificial closures of businesses, predominantly in service The Bank’s Program of Action continues to address the Intelligence (AI), is driving the digitisation and industries. We expect challenging economic conditions Information security risks for the Group have increased underlying causes of the Anti-Money Laundering and automation of processes and requires a different ahead. In the longer term we anticipate increased in recent years due to the evolution and development Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF) Act failings set of skills that may be difficult for the Bank credit losses from business insolvencies, and higher of new technologies, the Group’s increasing use of that resulted in AUSTRAC commencing enforcement to attract and retain. consumer defaults due to unemployment. digital channels, and the increased sophistication and action against the Bank in 2017. broadened activities of cyber criminals. The adoption of AI can be a differentiator. However, Credit growth has slowed and house prices may There is currently a higher risk of financial crime if poorly implemented or managed in areas such as decline due to increasing unemployment and a sharp Cyber attacks have the potential to cause financial because of increased opportunities through the lending decisions, the use of AI could create data fall in immigration rates. system instability. A successful cyber attack could number of financial support packages available, privacy concerns or deliver incorrect results with DIRECTORS’ REPORT result in a serious disruption to customer banking combined with an increase in the number of potentially poor financial, regulatory, conduct or Uncertainty exists regarding the duration and severity services or compromise customer data privacy. of COVID-19 impacts and the associated disruption to vulnerable people and businesses. reputational outcomes. the local and global economy. Currently, cyber criminals are also motivated to exploit potential or perceived weaknesses introduced through Geopolitical tensions and trade disputes are creating rapid operational changes implemented in this uncertainty for businesses, which could further environment. Key actions we are taking Key actions we are taking exacerbate economic conditions. • Improvements being made through our • Being ‘Best in digital’ is a key pillar of the multi-year Program of Action include: Bank’s strategy. We continue to invest to deliver – Enhanced financial crime policies and procedures. the best digital banking experiences for our customers through new digital services, marketKey actions we are taking Key actions we are taking – Investment in new technology, including leading technology, seamless service across FINANCIAL REPORT enhanced transaction monitoring systems • The Bank has the backing of a strong balance • A cyber security program is in place to enhance channels and data driven insights. and processes, aimed at the detection of sheet with strong deposit funding, significant the Bank’s cyber defences against a continually financial crime. • We have invested in digital infrastructure and excess liquidity and unquestionably strong capital. increasing threat environment. This includes assets over many years to achieve a leadership focus on enhanced detection and monitoring – Establishing mechanisms and processes to • We undertake regular stress tests to position in digital banking. Most recently, this infrastructure, as well as security configuration improve customer data integrity through understand how our business performs and includes our Customer Engagement Engine which core systems. to prepare alternative action plans for a range and vulnerability management capabilities. uses AI and machine learning to drive personalised – Revision of our Anti-Bribery & Corruption and innovative services for customers. of economic scenarios. • We also collaborate with a range of government, (AB&C) Policy and Standard, development • We will continue to support our customers community and industry bodies to strengthen • Our mobile banking app and internet banking of new tools, and implementation of a Group whilst adhering to, and if necessary, revising system-level resilience and to reduce the platform both consistently score highest among AB&C control framework. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION credit policies, procedures and tools to support possibility of cyber attacks and the impact major bank peers for Net Promoter Score and in of fraud and scams on the community. – A significant increase in specialised Financial independent surveys. responsible credit decisions in this new Crime Compliance team members and environment. • Our data management program of work • We are investing in digital businesses that enhanced financial crime compliance is focused on strengthening our Data add to our core product offering and extend • We have increased our loan loss provisions in education and training for staff aimed at Management Framework across the Group. our ‘Best in digital’ leadership. This includes anticipation of the potential impact of COVID-19 deterring and detecting financial crime. This involves enhancing our methodology, the launch of our x15ventures incubator which on our customers, and continue to monitor – A high level of engagement with the is working with innovators to identify, fund our lending portfolios closely, with detailed architecture, tools, standards and procedures Fintel Alliance. across all business areas, to ensure the quality and build new digital banking businesses. stress testing forming the basis for ongoing re– Constructive engagement with AUSTRAC and integrity of data throughout its lifecycle. • We are modernising and simplifying our assessments of provisioning levels. and international regulators. As part of this work, we are prioritising the data systems and digitising our end-to-end processes • Investment is underway to enhance the • Given the links between human trafficking and to reduce risk and cost and to improve system management practices for the most critical data systems and data necessary for credit reporting financial crime, we continue to strengthen our availability and resilience. elements across the Group. and portfolio management, particularly supply chain due diligence by embedding new • We have developed tools and guidelines in the non-retail parts of our business. • The Bank has a privacy strategy to enhance modern slavery requirements into procurement for the safe and fair use of AI across our our data privacy processes, capabilities policies, processes and capabilities. • We regularly discuss the macroeconomic business. We are also actively engaged in the and awareness to ensure compliance in all challenges with both regulators and government. • We also collaborate with not-for-profit development of national and international jurisdictions where we have a presence. organisations that work with the private standards regarding the safe and fair use of AI. sector to detect and end modern slavery, • We monitor emerging technologies and including the Mekong Club. research and test the adoption of new, innovative capabilities to maintain our technology leadership. 60 61 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Business resilience Skills and capabilities Trust and reputation Climate change OVERVIEW The continuity and resilience of our operations Our people are critical to the success of our strategy Trust in the Bank and our reputation was impacted by Australia has been experiencing frequent and are crucial for serving our customers, upholding and an inability to attract or retain the right talent the failings identified in the APRA Prudential Inquiry extreme weather events, including the recent community trust, and maintaining our reputation. and capabilities could prevent us from delivering our Report into CBA and highlighted by the Financial bushfires and east coast floods. This highlights the The extended outage of the Bank’s payments long-term goals. Services Royal Commission. risks to our customers and our business of damage platform in October 2019 highlighted the impact to property and assets. The progression of new technologies, changing We recognise that trust takes time to build and can such disruptions can have on customers and macroeconomic conditions, and increasing regulatory easily be eroded through poor decisions, failure to meet There is also an increasing risk of financial impacts to the community. expectations, increases the need for leaders with customer and community expectations, or by not our business and our customers’ businesses as a result HOW WE CREATE VALUE The risk of potential disruption to parts of our new and different skill sets, as well as deep banking complying with our regulatory obligations. As a provider of the policy, legal, technology and market changes operations is currently elevated due to: the possibility expertise, to deliver the performance expected by of financial services, the Bank and its operations are associated with the transition to a low carbon economy. that COVID-19 clusters could impact the safety our stakeholders. currently subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and We seek to identify, assess and manage climate of employees, disrupt operations and reduce requirements, particularly those relating to product These skills may become more difficult to attract change risk in our core business areas, including productivity; uncertainty over the stability of global development and distribution practices, privacy and and retain, particularly with the emergence of lending and insurance. supply chains and the impact on third-party suppliers; customer complaints management. non-traditional technology competitors who aim and natural disasters such as bushfires and floods. We also seek to manage the risk that the Bank’s to compete directly in banking. The current high volume of new and proposed assets, including those held as collateral or legislation will impact a number of areas in our investments, could become impaired as a result business and will require material changes to of permanent physical damage or misalignment operational processes. Failure to effectively Key actions we are taking Key actions we are taking with new policy or community expectations. implement these changes within the required DIRECTORS’ REPORT timeframes could result in severe penalties and Importantly, the transition to a low carbon • The safety and welfare of our employees is of • We continue to invest in our value proposition loss of trust by regulators and the community. economy also creates opportunities for the Bank. paramount importance. To manage risks from as an employer through: COVID-19, physical distancing measures have – Offering flexible working models, competitive been implemented at branches to protect staff benefits, wellbeing programs and fostering and customers, and we have implemented a an inclusive and diverse workforce. range of measures to provide our non-branch Key actions we are taking Key actions we are taking team members with the necessary tools and – Leadership initiatives to develop the • Through our Remedial Action Plan, good • We have implemented policy frameworks skills to maximise productivity in a remote capabilities of our leaders and to equip progress is being made in driving towards for considering environmental, social working environment. them with the skills and approaches required a risk culture of accountability, empowerment, and governance (ESG) issues, including to lead cultural and behavioural change • We monitor the health of our systems and constructive challenge, reflection and striving climate change. throughout the organisation. perform contingency planning for disruptions FINANCIAL REPORT for best practice risk management. • We are progressively performing climate to critical systems and processes. – Strengthening our culture and remuneration • We are addressing the Royal Commission change scenario analyses on our credit and • A data centre and network modernisation frameworks to ensure employees are clear recommendations and implementing the insurance portfolios to understand potential program is improving the security and resilience on expectations and accountabilities, always necessary changes. impacts and opportunities. of our technology infrastructure. do what is right, are empowered to address issues, and demonstrate risk behaviours • Our Code of Conduct ensures all staff have • We are developing strategic responses to • We are driving greater agility and alignment a clear understanding of what it means to do climate change, which includes strengthening that lead to appropriate outcomes for in our supplier partnerships to ensure we the right thing by asking ‘Should We?’ when our due diligence processes, considering our all stakeholders. effectively mitigate risks across the supply chain. making decisions. range of products and services, and building • We have targeted training programs to develop • Our supplier initiatives are driving greater • Trust and reputation is a performance measure internal and customer capabilities to support our people, including senior management, and consistency and rigour over supplier governance ADDITIONAL INFORMATION in Group Executives’ long-term variable the economy’s transition to net zero emissions and performance monitoring, especially over our talent and career approach seeks to attract remuneration. by 2050. partners supporting critical systems, or the and retain high-calibre people by providing career opportunities that recognise people’s • We work with government and regulators • Our approach to climate governance, strategy, infrastructure on which those systems rely. expertise, potential and aspiration. to deliver industry-wide improvements and risk management and metrics and targets, in initiatives to support a trustworthy and reliable line with the recommendations of the Task • We are piloting opportunities to re-skill financial services sector. Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and support our people to be ready for the is discussed in detail on pages 38–45. workforce of the future, and are engaging with • Our SpeakUP/Whistleblowing program allows educators, government and the community current employees – their spouses, dependants to build these changes into our long-term and relatives – as well as former employees, workforce plan and capability roadmaps. contractors, consultants and suppliers, to anonymously raise a conduct issue. • We continue to review the Bank’s remuneration framework to ensure that it supports our strategic objectives of attracting and retaining exceptional talent. 62 63 Board priorities during 2020 COMMONWEALTH BANK HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Governance Strategy Operations Our approach to The Final Report of the 2018 APRA The Board regularly considered the relevance and effectiveness of the The Board remained focused on corporate governance Prudential Inquiry into CBA sets out ensuring the Bank is positioned to five key recommendations relating Bank’s strategy in the context of current operate safely and effectively, and to the role of the Board. and potential future market conditions. implemented further measures to In accordance with its recurring elevate the prominence of compliance 1. Board visibility. schedule of strategic updates, the Board matters at the Board and Committee OVERVIEW 2. Board practices and processes. considered new product initiatives, level. This included emphasising emerging opportunities in new digital the compliance oversight role of the 3. Coordination between businesses, and the Bank’s technology Good governance is key to the Bank’s ability Board Committees. 4. Enforcement of accountability and innovation strategies. Business and Support Units also provided regular Board’s Risk Committee and renaming it the Risk & Compliance Committee. to deliver on our purpose and strategy. through the Audit Committee. updates on the key strategic issues pertaining to their areas. The Board increased its focus on 5. Reporting to Board people matters, including the health, on non-financial risks. Regular reporting was provided to the safety and wellbeing of employees. Board on customer complaints and The Remuneration Committee’s remit HOW WE CREATE VALUE Under the Bank’s Remedial Action management’s program in identifying was expanded to include a greater We are continuing to improve governance, Our Corporate Governance Framework Plan (RAP) the Board has designed and proactively remediating systemic focus on people matters and the accountability and risk management. Clearer lines and implemented target states for issues with a view to continuously committee was renamed the People Our Corporate Governance Framework is based on each recommendation. This year, the improving the Bank’s products, & Remuneration Committee. of accountability and stronger risk management accountability, effective delegation and adequate oversight focus was on embedding changes services and processes. Ongoing practices are improving our ability to meet to support sound decision-making. The Board is responsible and developing sustainability consideration was also given to the for setting the strategic direction and risk appetite of the plans to ensure that the target regulatory and compliance obligations and Bank’s sustainability commitments. Bank, and for leading the culture, values and behaviours states are consistently achieved deliver on the expectations of our customers of our people. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and and continuously improved. and the community more broadly. Executive Leadership Team (ELT) are responsible for the management of the Bank and for bringing important issues Promontory is the independent to the attention of Board. The Board monitors and assesses reviewer of the Bank’s RAP. On Governance during COVID-19 DIRECTORS’ REPORT performance and holds management to account. 30 June, Promontory issued their final assessment of Recommendation 1 From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board received regular and deemed it closed, with the target updates to ensure it was well informed and in a position to provide state achieved and the sustainability oversight and guidance to management during the challenging and Stakeholders plan operationalised. rapidly changing environment. The Board’s key areas of focus included: The Board has also continued to exercise greater oversight Health, safety and wellbeing Independent and scrutiny of the risks facing The health and safety of our people, their families, our customers and CBA Board assurance the Bank. In particular, the Board communities has been paramount. The Board has encouraged and supported and advice focused on the identification and management’s efforts to establish frequent and transparent communications FINANCIAL REPORT Including internal management of non-financial risks, to help our people feel safe, act responsibly, and stay fully informed and external audit about the Bank’s support for employees, customers and communities. Risk & People & including regulatory compliance, Strategy and risk management Audit Nominations conduct and cyber security. Compliance Remuneration Purpose, values and culture Committee Committee Committee Committee Operational and risk oversight To strengthen corporate governance practices across the Group, an The Board received daily updates from the CEO, and met as required to entity governance framework has ensure it was equipped to oversee management’s efforts to identify, Executive Leadership been developed to apply to all CBA prioritise and manage potentially significant risks to business operations. The ELT met daily during the first six weeks of COVID-19 to ensure they CEO Team entities. The Audit and Nominations had a comprehensive view of operational and risk matters and to Non-Financial Committees are responsible monitor the wellbeing of our people and the impact on customers. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Risk Committee for monitoring and oversight of the framework. Business continuity and crisis management Executive Leadership Team The Final Report of the APRA Prudential The Bank’s Crisis Management Team was activated. The Board reviewed Inquiry into CBA, our Remedial Action the Group Business Continuity Management Policy in February to ensure Plan, and the independent reviewer’s progress reports can be read at: it was fit-for-purpose. Changes were also made to provide employees commbank.com.au/APRA with the resources and support required to work remotely with limited Our people or no impact on customers. Continuous disclosure Policies, systems and processes Temporary delegations were approved by the Board to allow decisions regarding disclosure to be made in the event the full Board was unable to convene promptly due to unexpected circumstances. Key Delegation Accountability New ways of working Corporate Governance Statement Drawing on feedback and insights shared by our customers and our people, the Board and management have been considering what ways Our Corporate Governance Statement (Statement) provides detailed information on our corporate governance frameworks. of working were well executed during COVID-19. The changes that have The Statement and the Board and Board Committee Charters are available at commbank.com.au/corporategovernance been well received will be leveraged to support simpler, better banking for our customers and new ways of working for our people. 64 65 Assessing board effectiveness Board skills and experience COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Board recognises the importance of continuously monitoring and Performance focus areas The Board Skills Matrix sets out the skills and experience considered Board diversity essential to the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees. improving its performance and the performance of its Committees. This year, as a result of the internal evaluation conducted in 2019, the Board focused The matrix is reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee to ensure the on the following four areas: An independent external evaluation prescribed skills and experience address the Bank’s existing and emerging business and governance issues. The matrix is also used to guide the identification of the Board and its Committees is 1 The working relationship of reflection, constructive challenge conducted every three years. The CEO, and accountability to drive better of potential director candidates as part of the ongoing Board renewal process. between the Board each of the CEO’s direct reports, each risk outcomes. and management OVERVIEW Non-Executive Director, and the Group Company Secretary are interviewed The Board strengthened governance 3 Longer-term strategy and Skills and experience and surveyed. An independent and oversight between the Board the impact of emerging external review was held in 2020 and management through increased technology and innovation and the results will be available in engagement, including: management Enhanced customer outcomes August 2020. Internal evaluations are inclusion at the Board’s annual More opportunities for strategic 9 strategy education and offsite strategy discussions on innovation were Demonstrated ability to understand the needs of  Female 55% undertaken in the intervening years. sessions; scheduled one-on-one incorporated into the Board’s planning customers and enhance their experience and outcomes meetings between the Chairman and cycle. The Board received regular  Male 45% HOW WE CREATE VALUE each member of the ELT; Board and updates from management on projects Financial acumen ELT workshops; the Chairman joining and programs across technology, 1 6 Exceeds 2020 target Evaluation cycle the ELT meetings on a quarterly basis; cyber security and data management. Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, of 40% female and management attendance at Board This enabled the Board to address capital management and/or actuarial experience Year 1 and Committee meetings. As a result, weaknesses and consider investment Externally facilitated the Board continues to have a positive prioritisation, while maintaining a focus Financial services (we are here) influence on the behaviours within on improving IT risk management 1 4 the Group, and is engaged and visible governance, operations and processes. Experience in banking, as relevant to CBA, with management. and financial regulation Board tenure 4 Enhanced Board reporting 2 Culture including customer and processes Global perspective DIRECTORS’ REPORT outcomes, conduct, 2 7 The Board increased its examination, Having a global perspective through exposure or compliance and reputation identification, and understanding responsibility for international operations The Board focused on building an of non-financial risks and new accountable, customer-focused and and emerging risks. The Board transparent culture, and on achieving receives a regular Non-Financial Leadership better customer and risk outcomes Risk Committee update from the Held CEO or similar position in an organisation 3 6 with an emphasis on capability, CEO and Chief Risk Officer, which of significant size accountability and consequences. The informs discussions and decisions Board’s annual risk culture assessment on the management of non-financial was conducted in February 2020, and risk. The Board has observed Legal acumen Year 3 Year 2 an improvement in the quality FINANCIAL REPORT targeted initiatives were developed to Proven ability and understanding in the application 5 1 Internal review Internal review further mature the risk culture of the and quantity of non-financial  0–1 year – risk information, as well as an of legal principles bank in areas of need. This includes improvement in insights provided.  1–3 years 56% reinforcing senior leader behaviours Listed company  3–6 years 33% 2 3 Experience as a Non-Executive Director of at least two other listed entities (Australia or overseas)  6–9 years 11% Board composition and renewal Risk management ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Proven ability in identifying, assessing and managing 3 6 macro, strategic, operational and financial risks that could impact our business It is essential that Non-Executive was appointed a member of the Risk 1 November 2019. He remains a member Directors are independent, & Compliance Committee with effect of the Nominations Committee. collectively have the relevant skills from 1 November 2019. Anne Templeman-Jones remains Stakeholder engagement and experience, and represent a the Chairman of the Audit Committee, 4 5 Under the Board Appointment, Demonstrated ability to build and maintain key diverse range of views and thinking. and Catherine Livingstone AO remains Renewal and Performance Policy, the relationships with industry, government or regulators This supports sound decision making the Chairman of the Nominations Chair of each Board Committee, other and enables the Board to effectively Committee. Genevieve Bell AO was than the Nominations Committee Chair, discharge its responsibilities. is required to rotate after a term, usually appointed a member of the Nominations Strategy After more than five years serving every three years. Accordingly, Shirish Committee with effect from 1 November 3 6 Demonstrated experience in developing, implementing the Board, Sir David Higgins Apte retired as Chairman of the Risk 2019. On 12 June 2020, it was announced and delivering strategic business objectives retired as a Non-Executive Director & Compliance Committee with effect that Simon Moutter will be appointed as and Chairman of the People & from 31 October 2019. He remains a an independent Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee on 31 member of both the Risk & Compliance with effect from 1 September 2020. Technology December 2019. Paul O’Malley was 3 4 Committee and the Audit Committee. On 10 August 2020, it was announced Experience in technology strategies and innovation appointed Chairman of the People & Remuneration Committee with effect Rob Whitfield AM was appointed as that Wendy Stops will not be standing from 1 January 2020. Paul ceased Chairman of the Risk & Compliance for re-election at the 2020 Annual as a member of the Nominations Committee and a member of the General Meeting. Wendy has been a Key Practised/direct experience High competency and experience Committee on 31 October 2019 and Audit Committee with effect from Non-Executive Director since March 2015. 66 67 Committee priorities Board of Directors COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Board Committees assist the Board with discharging its duties. The Charter for each Committee sets out its role, responsibilities, powers and authorities, and is reviewed at least annually. Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman BA Hons (Accounting), FCA, FTSE, FAICD, FAA Nominations Committee Appointed: Non-Executive Director from 1 March 2016, Chairman from 1 January 2017 Board Committees: Nominations (Chairman), Audit, Risk & Compliance, People & Remuneration Responsibilities: Board and Board Committee composition; succession planning and Board 2020 focus areas Catherine has extensive business, finance and executive leadership experience and has contributed renewal; CEO performance review; Non-Executive to the development of Australia’s banking, telecommunications, science, technology and innovation OVERVIEW Director induction and appointment; election and • Reviewing the induction and ongoing education sectors. She has held a number of senior roles, including as Chairman of Telstra Corporation Ltd re-election of Non-Executive Directors of the Group program for Directors. and of the CSIRO, and as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Cochlear Ltd. Catherine Board and CBA subsidiary boards. • Considering and setting out the governance policies has also served on the boards of WorleyParsons Ltd, Macquarie Bank Ltd, Macquarie Group Ltd, that apply to key operating subsidiaries. Goodman Fielder Ltd and Rural Press Ltd and is a former President of the Business Council of Committee members: Catherine Livingstone AO • Measuring progress against the board gender diversity Australia and the Australian Museum. (Chairman), Genevieve Bell AO, Mary Padbury and target across nominated Group subsidiaries. Rob Whitfield AM. Catherine is Chancellor of the University of Technology Sydney. She is also a member of the Steering • Enhancing entity governance and the endorsement Committee for the CSIRO Australia Telescope National Facility and the Growth Centre Advisory Committee. of an entity governance framework. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: WorleyParsons Ltd (July 2007 – October 2019) Audit Committee Responsibilities: The external reporting of financial information for the Group and its subsidiaries, the 2020 focus areas internal control framework, the internal auditor and the internal audit function, the external auditors, • The Committee’s remit was expanded to support Matt Comyn Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer BAv, MCom, EMBA, GMP and the Group’s Risk Management Framework in the Nominations Committee to oversee and monitor conjunction with the Risk & Compliance Committee. the efficient management of entity formation and Appointed: 9 April 2018 liquidation governance arrangements under the entity Committee members: Anne Templeman-Jones Board Committees: Nil DIRECTORS’ REPORT governance framework. (Chairman), Catherine Livingstone AO, Shirish Apte, • Achieving improvements in reporting on the Group’s Matt has 20 years’ experience in banking across business, institutional, retail and wealth management Wendy Stops and Rob Whitfield AM. internal control environment. and has held a number of senior leadership roles since joining the Bank in 1999. As CEO, Matt is • Following-up on progress with the remediation of focused on building a simpler bank fully aligned to meeting the needs of customers in core markets, audit findings, and reporting from the Group Audit underpinned by stronger risk management and a continuing commitment to innovation and customer and Assurance function. service. From 2012 until his appointment as CEO, Matt was Group Executive Retail Banking Services, the Bank’s largest operating division, which accounts for more than half of the Bank’s profit and also leads the development of digital products and services for the Bank. Between 2006 and 2010, Matt was Managing Director of the Bank’s biggest digital business, CommSec, overseeing a significant Risk & Compliance Committee modernisation of its technology platform and growing market share and profitability. Matt is the Chair of the Australian Banking Association and serves on the Board of UNICEF Australia FINANCIAL REPORT Responsibilities: The oversight and governance of risks impacting the Bank and its subsidiaries; and the Financial Markets Foundation for Children. 2020 focus areas the design, implementation and operation of the Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: Nil Group’s Risk Management Framework, and Risk • Consideration of the Group’s risk frameworks and Management Approach; monitoring of the Group’s policies for managing financial and non-financial risks. risk appetite and assessing the overall risk profile • Endorsing the risk culture roadmap. of the Group; monitoring the effectiveness of the • Financial risk focus areas included key industry compliance management framework; oversight of sector and portfolio reviews, the potential impacts of the Group’s risk management function, and risk COVID-19, climate change and stress testing. culture. • Non-financial risk focus areas included financial crime Shirish Apte Independent Non-Executive Director ACA, BCom, MBA ADDITIONAL INFORMATION prevention, conduct, data management, supplier Committee members: Rob Whitfield AM Appointed: 10 June 2014 governance and increased reporting of cyber security (Chairman), Catherine Livingstone AO, Shirish Apte, and technology risks. Board Committees: Audit, Risk & Compliance Paul O’Malley and Anne Templeman-Jones. Shirish has more than three decades of international banking experience at Citi, where he focused on corporate, investment banking, and risk management, and managed commercial and retail banking People & Remuneration Committee businesses at country and regional level. His roles included Co-Chairman of Citi Asia Pacific Banking, Chief Executive Officer of Citi Asia Pacific, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Europe, Middle East and Responsibilities: Remuneration strategy and policy, Africa, and Country Manager and Deputy Chairman of Citi Handlowy, Poland. remuneration arrangements and outcomes, and 2020 focus areas Shirish is an Advisor to Virtusa Corporation, a Director of Fullerton India Credit Company Limited, performance management frameworks. Early in the a Director of Clifford Capital Holdings, and a Director of Keppel Infrastructure Pte Ltd. financial year, the Committee’s remit was expanded • Reviewing the Group’s remuneration strategies and to provide an enhanced focus on people matters, performance within the Risk Management Framework. Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: IHH Healthcare Berhad and health, safety and wellbeing. • Reviewing relevant policies and share plans. (September 2014 – present) and Citi Handlowy (Member of the Supervisory Board) • Ongoing assessment of senior leader talent. (March 2016 – present) Committee members: Paul O’Malley (Chairman), • Development and succession. Catherine Livingstone AO, Mary Padbury and Wendy Stops. • Continued delivery of the Group’s cultural change roadmap. • Reporting on the health, safety and wellbeing of employees. The Board Committees’ charters are available at commbank.com.au/corporategovernance 68 69 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Genevieve Bell AO Independent Non-Executive Director PhD, MA, MPhil, BA Wendy Stops Independent Non-Executive Director BAppSc (Information Technology), GAICD Appointed: 1 January 2019 Appointed: 9 March 2015 Board Committees: Nominations Board Committees: Audit, People & Remuneration Genevieve is a cultural anthropologist, technologist and futurist with deep knowledge and Wendy has significant experience in the information technology and consulting sectors. She has a understanding of technology in society and business. She is adept at bringing together social deep understanding of digital trends, business strategy and risk and quality management. Wendy has OVERVIEW science, design, computing and engineering to enhance customer experiences. Genevieve is also worked across multiple industries, geographies and cultures, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region. an experienced business executive, having spent 18 years working at Intel Corporation in Silicon She has held a number of senior leadership positions at Accenture Ltd, including Senior Managing Valley, including as Vice President. She remains a Senior Fellow at Intel and is Vice President of Director, Technology (Asia Pacific), Director of Operations (Asia Pacific), and Global Managing Intel’s Product Assurance and Security Group. Director of Technology Quality & Risk Management and of Outsourcing Quality & Risk Management. Wendy also served on Accenture’s Global Leadership Council. Genevieve is a Distinguished Professor at the College of Engineering and Computer Science at the Australian National University (ANU) and is the university’s inaugural Florence Violet McKenzie Wendy is Chairman of the Melbourne Business School’s Centre for Business Analytics Advisory Board, Chair. She is also the Director of the Autonomy, Agency and Assurance Innovation Institute at ANU, a Council Member of the University of Melbourne, a Director of Fitted for Work Ltd, a member of the a member of the National Science and Technology Council, and an Engelbart Distinguished Fellow Australian Institute of Company Directors Technology Governance & Innovation Panel, a member HOW WE CREATE VALUE of SRI International. In 2020, Genevieve was awarded the Order of Australia and has been nominated of the Digital Technology Taskforce Advisory Committee for the Department of Prime Minister and to contribute her expertise to the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence. Cabinet and a member of Chief Executive Women. Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: Nil Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: Coles Group Ltd (November 2018 – present) and Altium Ltd (February 2018 – November 2019) Paul O’Malley Independent Non-Executive Director BCom, M. App Finance, ACA Anne Templeman-Jones Independent Non-Executive Director BCom, EMBA, MRM, CA, FAICD DIRECTORS’ REPORT Appointed: 1 January 2019 Appointed: 5 March 2018 Board Committees: People & Remuneration (Chairman), Risk & Compliance Board Committees: Audit (Chairman), Risk & Compliance Paul has broad executive leadership and operational experience. He served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BlueScope Steel Ltd for 10 years, after joining the company as Chief Anne is an experienced listed company director with substantial operational risk, banking and strategy Financial Officer. Previously, Paul was the Chief Executive Officer of TXU Energy, a subsidiary of experience. Anne is a Director of G.U.D. Holdings Ltd and WorleyParsons Ltd. During her 30-year TXU Corp based in Dallas, Texas. He also has a strong background in finance and accounting and executive career, Anne held a number of leadership positions in corporate and private banking with worked in investment banking and audit. Paul is a former Director of the Worldsteel Association, domestic and offshore banks including Westpac Banking Corporation, Australia and New Zealand Banking Chair of its Nominating Committee, and Trustee of the Melbourne Cricket Ground Trust. Group Ltd and Bank of Singapore. Anne is the former Chairman of Commonwealth Bank’s financial advice companies and has served on the boards of The Citadel Group Ltd, Cuscal Ltd, HT&E Limited, Pioneer Paul serves as the Chairman for Australian Catholic Redress Ltd. Credit Ltd, TAL Superannuation Fund and HBF’s private and general insurance companies. FINANCIAL REPORT Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: BlueScope Steel Ltd Anne is a Director of the Cyber Security Research Centre Ltd and a member of the Cyber Security (August 2007 – December 2017) Research Committee. Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: HT&E Limited (June 2013 – May 2018), G.U.D Holdings Ltd (August 2015 – present), The Citadel Group Ltd (September 2017 – May 2020) and WorleyParsons Ltd (November 2017 – present) Mary Padbury Independent Non-Executive Director BA LLB (Hons), GAICD ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Appointed: 14 June 2016 Board Committees: Nominations, People & Remuneration Rob Whitfield AM Independent Non-Executive Director BCom, Grad Dip Banking, Grad Dip Fin, Mary is an intellectual property and trade practices lawyer with over 35 years’ international legal, AMP, SF Fin, FAICD governance and technology experience. Mary served as the Chairman of Ashurst Australia before Appointed: 4 September 2017 its full merger with Ashurst LLP, and was the global Vice Chairman of the post-merger firm. Board Committees: Risk & Compliance (Chairman), Nominations, Audit She retired as a Partner of Ashurst at the end of April 2018. Rob has extensive leadership experience across banking, finance and risk in both the private and Mary is the Chairman of the Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health public sectors. During Rob’s 30-year executive career with Westpac Banking Corporation he held Ltd, and Clinical Genomics Technologies Holdings Pty Ltd, a private technology company. Mary is a a number of senior leadership positions including Chief Executive Officer of the Institutional Bank, member of Chief Executive Women as well as a member of the Victorian Legal Admissions Committee. Chief Risk Officer, Group Treasurer and Chairman of the Asia Advisory Board. In these roles, Rob Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: Nil developed a deep knowledge of equity and capital markets and was instrumental in developing Westpac’s risk management function and strategies. Rob is a Director of GPT Group. He is a former Chairman and Director of New South Wales Treasury Corporation, former Secretary of NSW Treasury, former Secretary of NSW Industrial relations, and a former Deputy Chair of the Australian Financial Markets Association. Directorships of other listed entities in the last three years: GPT Group (May 2020 – present) Simon Moutter will be appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 September 2020. Wendy Stops will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2020 Annual General Meeting. 70 71 Carmel Mulhern Vittoria Shortt Angus Sullivan Executive Leadership Team COMMONWEALTH BANK Group General Counsel and Group Chief Executive and Managing Group Executive, Executive, Legal & Group Governance Director, ASB Bank Ltd Retail Banking Services 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Pascal Boillat Priscilla Brown David Cohen Group Executive, Enterprise Services Group Executive, Marketing and Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Information Officer Corporate Affairs Appointed: January 2020 Appointed: February 2018 Appointed: July 2018 Priorities: Carmel is responsible for Priorities: Vittoria is responsible for Priorities: Angus is responsible the Group’s legal and governance leading the Group’s New Zealand for providing market-leading functions and advises the Chief banking business, operating under services to the retail customers OVERVIEW Executive Officer and the Board. the ASB brand. Her priorities of Commonwealth Bank and Her priorities are to ensure the are to provide leading customer Bankwest. His priorities are to deliver fair and efficient resolution of the experiences and outcomes; exceptional customer service and Group’s legal matters and to support harnessing new technology outcomes, leading technology and Appointed: October 2018 Appointed: August 2019 Appointed: November 2018 the effectiveness of the Board. to provide innovative solutions; innovation in products and services. Priorities: Pascal is responsible Priorities: Priscilla is accountable Priorities: David’s key priority and supporting programs that Experience: Carmel has over Experience: Angus joined the for IT, cyber security, technology for customer insights, marketing, is supporting the Chief Executive have a significant positive impact 25 years’ legal experience. Prior Bank in 2012 as Executive General infrastructure, digital delivery, brand, government relations, Officer on Group-wide initiatives to for New Zealanders. to joining the Bank, she was the Manager, Group Strategy and has operations and IT procurement. communications and corporate social build a simpler and better bank for HOW WE CREATE VALUE Group General Counsel and Group Experience: Vittoria joined the held a number of senior positions He is focused on the safe, sound responsibility. She is focused on the future. He also has responsibility Executive Legal & Corporate Affairs Bank in 2002 and has held various in RBS across products, payments and secure provision of the restoring trust and pride in the Bank. for Customer and Community at Telstra, where she was responsible executive and senior leadership and the branch network. Previously, Bank’s technology and enhancing Experience: Priscilla has over Advocacy, Mergers and Acquisitions, for legal matters, government positions, including Group Executive he was a Partner at McKinsey & Co. operations to deliver the best 30 years’ financial services sector Group Investigations, Aussie Home relations, communications, Marketing and Strategy, Chief in New York, specialising in retail digital services for customers. experience. She has held senior Loans, Colonial First State and PT regulatory engagement, compliance Marketing Officer of Commonwealth and commercial banking, wealth Experience: Pascal has more than executive positions in strategy, Bank Commonwealth in Indonesia. and corporate sustainability. Bank, and Chief Executive Retail management, payments and 30 years’ international experience marketing and corporate affairs with Experience: David joined the Bank At Telstra, Carmel also held the at Bankwest. Vittoria started her general insurance. in financial services. Prior to joining AXA, Sun Life Financial and Lincoln in 2008 and held a number of senior positions of General Counsel Finance career in corporate finance and the Bank, Pascal was Group Chief Financial Group. Before joining the roles, including Group General and Company Secretary. Carmel mergers and acquisitions with Information Officer at Deutsche Bank, she was Chief Executive Officer Counsel, Group Executive Corporate is a Fellow of the Governance Institute Deloitte and Carter Holt Harvey. Bank with accountability for of Emerge, a digital health insurance Affairs and Chief Risk Officer. of Australia. DIRECTORS’ REPORT technology strategy and delivery of broker, and advisor to several digital Previously, he was General Counsel IT. He also held technology-focused start-ups. Priscilla is a Member of the for AMP and a partner with Allens executive roles at Fannie Mae, Board of TIAA, a US-based financial Arthur Robinson for 12 years. Citibank and Credit Suisse. services company. Mike Vacy-Lyle Scott Wharton Nigel Williams Group Executive, Business Group Executive, Program Delivery Group Chief Risk Officer and Private Banking Alan Docherty Andrew Hinchliff Sian Lewis Group Executive, Financial Services Group Executive, Institutional Group Executive, Human Resources and Chief Financial Officer Banking and Markets FINANCIAL REPORT Appointed: February 2020 Appointed: August 2019 Appointed: November 2018 Priorities: Mike is responsible Priorities: Scott is responsible for Priorities: Nigel is focused on for serving the banking needs overseeing the implementation ensuring our people manage risk Appointed: October 2018 Appointed: August 2018 Appointed: August 2018 of business, corporate and of major Group-wide programs. well to maintain the trust placed (Acting CFO from May 2018) Priorities: Andrew is responsible Priorities: Sian is focused on helping agribusiness customers, and for These include the Bank’s Remedial in the Group by our customers, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Priorities: Alan is responsible for for serving the banking and the Bank maintain an energised and the Bank’s online equities trading Action Plan which responds to the shareholders and the community. the Group’s finance, treasury, tax, finance needs of large corporates, accountable team; integrating the platform, CommSec. Mike’s focus APRA Prudential Inquiry into CBA, He is accountable for ensuring investor relations, property and governments and institutions in Bank’s values to guide behaviours; is on extending the Bank’s business cost reduction and other programs the effective governance and security functions. His priorities are Australia and select international and strengthening and supporting banking and payments capabilities, helping CBA to become a simpler, management of all risk types ensuring his teams provide accurate, markets, by providing a full range a diverse and inclusive workforce. and on making banking simpler and better bank. – including credit risk, operational independent and objective analysis of financial markets, capital She is also committed to promoting better for customers by providing risk, compliance, liquidity, financial Experience: Scott joined the Bank to drive sound decision making and raising, transactional banking and employee wellbeing and skilling the market-leading service, products crime compliance and insurance. in 2016 from Citigroup in New York performance; managing balance risk management solutions and Bank’s workforce for the future. and technology. where he was Managing Director Experience: Nigel has over 35 years sheet settings in a sustainable and services. His priority is to ensure Experience: Sian joined the Bank Experience: Prior to joining the and Global Head of Enterprise of international banking experience, conservative manner; and delivering that IB&M leverages its network, in 2014 and has been Executive Bank, Mike was Chief Executive Supply Chain. He has 20 years’ having held Directorships and capital generation that supports capabilities and insights to bring General Manager, Direct Channels Officer of FNB Commercial international financial services executive business and risk better outcomes for all stakeholders. new perspectives to clients to help where she led 2,500 people across Banking in South Africa. He spent experience, with broad knowledge management leadership roles. Prior Experience: Alan joined the Bank in build a better Australia. the Bank’s customer contact almost 20 years working at FNB of technology, operations and to joining the Bank, Nigel was the 2003 and has held numerous senior Experience: Andrew joined the centres. Previously, Sian spent nine Commercial Banking holding project management. Chief Risk Officer at Australia and roles in finance, including CFO of Bank in 2015 as Executive General years at Westpac, leading retail and various roles across finance, pricing, New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ). IB&M. He started his career with Manager, Global Markets. His career commercial banking, marketing and product, capital management, sales PwC’s Financial Services practice in institutional banking and markets call centre teams. Sian also spent and relationship management. in the UK before joining Arthur spans more than 20 years, having 10 years in senior HR consulting Andersen in Australia. Alan is a held various leadership positions roles in the UK and two years member of the Institute of Chartered with Goldman Sachs and Credit in Australia consulting to APRA. Accountants of Scotland. Suisse First Boston. Adam Bennett ceased as Group Executive, Business and Private Banking on 31 January 2020. 72 73 Directors’ report COMMONWEALTH BANK The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia present their report, together with Impact of COVID-19 2020 ANNUAL REPORT the Financial report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Bank) and of the Group, During the financial year we have seen the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the depth and duration of an economic downturn dependent on the effectiveness of containment measures and the Government, prudential and industry response being the Bank and its controlled entities, for the year ended 30 June 2020. and support measures. During the financial year, the Bank announced an additional credit provision of $1.5 billion for the potential longer term impacts of COVID-19. This further reinforces our already strong provisioning and balance sheet settings that position the bank well for a range of possible economic scenarios. Given the unprecedented set of circumstances which are still evolving, a definitive assessment of the longer term outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent economic and societal impacts is difficult at this stage. The Bank’s lending portfolios continue to be monitored closely, with detailed portfolio stress testing as the situation continues to evolve. The focus for the Bank continues to be supporting our OVERVIEW Principal activities customers through continued operational excellence underpinned by the commitment and pride of our people. We are one of Australia’s leading providers of financial services and operate predominantly in Australia and New Zealand, with For further details on how we are responding to COVID-19 risks, refer to pages 55–56. a small presence in Europe, North America and Asia. Our products and services are provided through the following divisions: • Retail Banking Services (RBS) provides banking and general insurance products and services to personal customers. RBS includes retail banking activities conducted under the Bankwest brand, the Group’s general insurance business in Australia, Operating and financial review the Group’s mortgage broking operations and Commonwealth Financial Planning. Group profit • Business and Private Banking (BPB) serves the banking needs of business, corporate and agribusiness customers and The Group’s statutory net profit after tax including discontinued operations for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 was provides banking and advisory services to high net worth individuals through Commonwealth Private. BPB also includes the $9,634 million, an increase of $1,063 million or 12% on the prior year. Statutory net profit after tax from continuing operations HOW WE CREATE VALUE online equity trading business, CommSec, and business banking activities conducted under the Bankwest brand. for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 was $7,459 million, a decrease of $630 million or 8% on the prior year. This was • Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M) serves the commercial and wholesale banking needs of large corporate, driven by a 2% increase in operating income, flat operating expenses and a significant increase in loan impairment expense. institutional and government clients. Statutory net profit after tax from discontinued operations for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 was $2,175 million, • ASB New Zealand (ASB) includes banking and funds management businesses operating in New Zealand. an increase of $1,693 million on the prior year. It includes the following items: • Wealth Management provides superannuation, investment, and retirement products and services. • The results of CFSGAM up to 2 August 2019 when the business was sold and deconsolidated and the related gain on sale • International Financial Services (IFS) includes the Indonesian retail and business banking operations and minority • The results of CommInsure Life up to 1 November 2019 when the Group entered into the JCA with AIA and subsequently investments in China and Vietnam. deconsolidated CommInsure Life, and the related loss on deconsolidation A review of the above operations and their results for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 can be found on pages 24–27. • The results of PTCL up to 4 June 2020 when the business was sold and deconsolidated, and the related gain on sale • The results of CFS which was classified as a discontinued operation during the year. Becoming a simpler bank DIRECTORS’ REPORT On 21 September 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to sell 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia Statutory net profit after tax complies with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), Australian Accounting (CommInsure Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018 Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The cash net profit after tax is management’s preferred and includes a long-term partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in New Zealand. measure of the Group’s financial performance. It excludes items that are non-recurring in nature and are not considered representative of the Group’s ongoing financial performance (non-cash items). We use the cash net profit after tax to present On 23 May 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited a clear and consistent view of our financial performance from period to period. (BoCommLife) to MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (MS&AD) 1, which is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals. The sale is expected to complete in the second half of calendar year 2020. The Group’s cash net profit after tax including discontinued operations for the year ended 30 June 2020 was $7,449 million, a decrease of $1,257 million or 14% on the prior year. Excluding discontinued operations, cash net profit after tax for the year On 1 November 2018, the Group completed the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited ended 30 June 2020 was $7,296 million, a decrease of $925 million or 11% on the prior year. For further detail on the drivers (TymeDigital SA) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital. of cash net profit after tax refer to pages 18–21. On 2 August 2019, the Group completed the sale of CFSGAM to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). FINANCIAL REPORT Cash to statutory profit reconciliation On 1 October 2019, the Group completed the sale of its 100% interest in Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) to CountPlus Limited (CountPlus). Statutory net profit after tax includes the following non-cash items: On 1 November 2019, the Group announced the implementation of a joint cooperation agreement (JCA) which resulted in the full Total including economic interests associated with CommInsure Life being transferred to AIA, and AIA obtaining direct management and control Continuing operations discontinued operations of the business (excluding the Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife). As a result, CommInsure Life (excluding BoCommLife) FY20 FY19 FY20 FY19 was deconsolidated and derecognised on 1 November 2019. The aggregate proceeds are being received in instalments. The Group and AIA remain fully committed to completing the divestment of CommInsure Life through either a share sale Net profit after tax – cash basis 7,296 8,221 7,449 8,706 or a statutory asset transfer. In the event of a share sale, the divestment is expected to complete shortly following the Gain/(loss) on acquisition, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses 70 (52) 2,092 (61) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION completion of the sale of the Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife. In the event of a statutory asset transfer, the divestment is expected to complete in the first half of the calendar year 2021. Hedging and IFRS volatility 93 (79) 93 (79) Bankwest non-cash items – (1) – (1) On 28 April 2020, the Group announced the sale of its subsidiary, Australian Investment Exchange Limited (AUSIEX), to Nomura Research Institute (NRI). The sale is subject to regulatory and other conditions, and is expected to complete in the first half Treasury shares valuation adjustment – – – 6 of calendar year 2021. Net profit after tax statutory basis 7,459 8,089 9,634 8,571 On 13 May 2020, the Group entered into an agreement to sell a 55% interest in Colonial First State (CFS) to KKR. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals, and is expected to complete in the first half of calendar year 2021. Non-cash items include: On 4 June 2020, the Group completed the sale of its 80% interest in its Indonesian life insurance business, PT Commonwealth • Gain/(loss) on acquisition, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses: Gains and losses on these transactions Life (PTCL), to FWD Group (FWD). As part of the sale, CBA’s Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT Bank Commonwealth (PTBC), are inclusive of foreign exchange impacts, impairments, restructuring, separation and transaction costs and cover both has entered into a 15-year life insurance distribution partnership with FWD. controlled businesses and associates. • Hedging and IFRS volatility: Hedging and IFRS volatility represents timing differences between fair value movements The Group ceased providing licensee services through Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited-Pathways (CFP-Pathways) on qualifying economic hedges and the underlying exposure. To qualify as an economic hedge the terms and/or risk profile in March 2020 and through Financial Wisdom Limited (Financial Wisdom) in June 2020. must match or be substantially the same as the underlying exposure. CFS, CommInsure Life, BoCommLife, CFSGAM and PTCL have been classified as discontinued operations in the Group’s • Bankwest non-cash items: The acquisition of Bankwest resulted in the recognition of assets at fair value, some of which financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020. The assets and liabilities of CFS, AUSIEX and the Group’s interest have been amortising over their useful life. The transaction was considered one-off in nature. in BoCommLife are classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2020. • Treasury shares valuation adjustment: Valuation adjustments represent the elimination of gains and losses on CBA There have been no other significant changes in the nature of the principal activities of the Group during the financial year. shares that were held through funds in the Wealth Management business. For further details, refer to Note 1.1 and Note 11.3 in the Financial report on pages 113 and 258–261, respectively. 1 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings is the ultimate parent company of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd 74 75 Directors’ report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Assets and liabilities Change in state of affairs 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Home loans increased $20 billion or 4%, driven by strong operational execution of credit-decisioning processes. Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group during the financial year include: Australian home loan balance growth of 4% was above market growth. • Changes in the nature of principal activities outlined above. Deposits increased $64 billion or 10%, primarily driven by strong growth in transaction and savings deposits, partly offset • Changes to the Board as outlined in the Our approach to corporate governance section on pages 62–71. by lower investment deposits. The increase in transaction and savings deposits is driven by customer preference for at-call • COVID-19 related impairment provisions as outlined on pages 18–21. deposits due to the low interest rate environment, continued growth in mortgage offset accounts and clients managing their liquidity needs in response to COVID-19 in Institutional Banking and Markets. • During the financial year, we have participated in the RBA’s Term Funding Facility (TFF) scheme to access long-term funding to help support Australian households and businesses during this unprecedented time. The TFF is a three-year Debt issues decreased $22 billion or 13%, reflecting lower wholesale funding requirements due to growth in deposit funding. facility with a fixed interest rate of 0.25% per annum. As at 30 June 2020, the Group has drawn $1.5 billion of its total OVERVIEW available TFF allocation of $26.6 billion, composed of $19.1 billion of Initial Allowance and $7.5 billion of Additional As at Allowance. As at 7 August 2020, the Group’s total available allocation was $31.4 billion. Total Group assets and liabilities ($m) 30 June 2020 30 June 2019 % change For more information on the TFF, refer to Note 5.2 in the Financial report on pages 159. Other than the changes outlined above and discussed in this Annual Report, there have been no other significant changes Home Loans 542,880 522,942 4% in the state of affairs during the financial year. Consumer finance 18,217 21,993 (17%) Business and corporate loans 216,695 214,953 1% Events subsequent to reporting date Total Group lending 777,792 759,888 2% HOW WE CREATE VALUE The Bank expects the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) for the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2020 to be Other assets (including held for sale) 236,268 216,614 9% satisfied by the issuance of shares of approximately $260 million. Total assets 1,014,060 976,502 4% Deposits 699,413 635,312 10% Environmental reporting Debt issues 142,503 164,022 (13%) We are subject to the Federal Government’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) scheme. The scheme makes Other liabilities (including held for sale) 100,131 107,519 (7%) it mandatory for controlling corporations to report annually on greenhouse gas emissions, energy production and energy Total liabilities 942,047 906,853 4% consumption, if they exceed certain threshold levels. Our NGER submission is independently audited and submitted before the deadline to ensure that the Group meets the NGER requirements. Further information and analysis on the financial performance of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 can be We do not believe that we are subject to any other significant environment reporting regulations under the law of the found in the Focus on financial performance section on pages 18–27 of this Annual Report. Details on our risk management Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of Australia. Our environmental policies are updated to manage risks appropriately. DIRECTORS’ REPORT framework, material risk types and approach to managing them, including a description of the material trends in our current external operating context and more information on our business strategies and prospects for future financial years can be For more information on our voluntary environmental reporting, see the Our approach to climate change section on pages 38–45 and our environmental metrics on pages 46–52. found in the Overview (pages 2–7), How we create value section (pages 8–71), including the Managing our changing risk landscape section (pages 55–61) of this Annual Report. Other than the information included in the operating and financial review and throughout this Annual Report by cross reference, Human rights supply chain reporting information on other likely developments, business strategies and prospects for future financial years of the Group’s operations We will fulfil the reporting requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) with the Modern Slavery Statement that will has not been included in this report as it would be likely to result in unreasonable prejudice to the Bank. be released in the 2021 financial year. This statement shows the steps we are actively taking to enhance the work undertaken to identify, manage and mitigate modern slavery risks and human rights abuses in our business operations and supply chains from the 2020 financial year onwards. Dividends Details of dividends paid and dividends determined are outlined in Note 8.4 in the Financial report on pages 199–200. FINANCIAL REPORT Litigation and regulatory matters Consistent with an industry-wide trend, there has been an increase in litigation and regulatory actions against the Group. The actions include: • the defence of nine class actions, four of which were commenced in financial year 2020. These include two separate shareholder class action proceedings, four class action claims in relation to superannuation products, a class action that was commenced by Bankwest customers, a class action in relation to consumer credit insurance for credit cards and personal loans, as well as a class action commenced in the United States relating to the BBSW benchmark; and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • four separate ASIC civil penalty proceedings against the Group, one of which has been resolved. Each of these relate to matters considered by the Financial Services Royal Commission. There are also a number of ongoing matters where regulators are investigating whether CBA or a Group entity has breached legal or regulatory obligations. Where a breach has occurred, regulators are likely to impose, or apply to a Court for, fines and/or other sanctions. These matters include investigations by APRA and ASIC of issues which were considered by the Financial Services Royal Commission, as well as a number of other matters notified to, or identified by, regulators. The Group also continues to receive various notices and requests for information from its regulators as part of both industry-wide and Group-specific reviews. In addition to possible regulatory action, there may also be financial exposure to claims by customers and this could include further class actions, customer remediation or claims for compensation. The outcomes and total costs associated with such regulatory reviews and possible customer claims remain uncertain. The Board continues to monitor each of these actions, investigations and reviews. CBA also continues to actively work with its regulators in response to these matters. For information about some of the litigation and regulatory matters referred to above, refer to Note 7.1 in the Financial report on pages 183–189. 76 77 Directors’ report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Directors and Directors’ meetings Directors’ and officers’ indemnity and insurance 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Board of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia met 18 times during the year ended 30 June 2020. In addition, Directors Constitution attended Board strategy sessions and special purpose committee meetings during the year. The Directors, as named on pages 67–69 of this report, and the Company Secretaries of the Bank, referred to below, are The following table includes: indemnified under the Constitution of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Constitution), as are all current or former • names of the Directors holding office at any time during, or since the end of, the financial year Directors or Executive Officers of the Bank. • the number of scheduled and unscheduled Board and Board Committee meetings held during the financial year that each The indemnity extends to such other Officers or former Officers of the Bank, or of its related bodies corporate, as the Directors Director was a member of the Board or relevant Board Committee and eligible to attend, and the number of meetings in each case determine (each, including the Directors and Company Secretaries, is defined as an ‘Officer’ for the purpose attended by each Director. of this section). OVERVIEW All Directors may attend Board Committee meetings even if they are not a member of the relevant Committee. The below The Officers are indemnified on a full indemnity basis and to the full extent permitted by law against all losses, liabilities, table excludes the attendance of those Directors who attended Board Committee meetings of which they are not a member. costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Officer as an Officer of the Bank or of a related body corporate. Board Committees Deeds of indemnity Scheduled Unscheduled Risk & People & Deeds of Indemnity, which include indemnification in substantially the same terms to that provided in the Constitution, have meetings meetings 1 Compliance Audit Remuneration Nominations Concurrent been executed by the Bank in favour of each Director and Company Secretary of the Bank. Held 2 Attended Held 3 Attended Held 2 Attended Held 2 Attended Held 2 Attended Held 2 Attended Held 4 Attended An Indemnity Deed Poll, which includes indemnification in substantially the same terms to that provided in the Constitution, has been executed by the Bank in favour of each: HOW WE CREATE VALUE Director • company secretary and senior manager of the Bank Catherine • Director, secretary or senior manager of a related body corporate of the Bank Livingstone AO 10 10 8 5 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 2 2 • person who, at the prior formal request of the Bank or a related body corporate, acts as Director, secretary or senior Matt Comyn 10 10 8 8 manager of a body corporate which is not a related body corporate of the Bank (in which case the indemnity operates only in excess of protection provided by that body corporate) Shirish Apte 10 10 8 8 6 6 6 6 2 2 • person who, at the request of a related body corporate of the Bank, acts as a member of the compliance committee of a registered scheme for which the related body corporate of the Bank is the responsible entity. Genevieve Bell AO 10 10 8 7 6 6 2 2 In the case of a partly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, where a Director, company secretary or a senior manager of that entity is a nominee of an entity which is not a related body corporate of the Bank, the Indemnity Deed Poll will not apply to that Sir David DIRECTORS’ REPORT person unless the Bank’s CEO has certified that the indemnity will apply to that person. Higgins 5 6 6 1 1 3 3 3 3 Insurance Paul O'Malley 6 10 10 8 8 4 4 6 6 2 2 2 2 The Bank has, during the financial year, paid an insurance premium in respect of a Directors’ and Officers’ liability and Mary Padbury 10 10 8 8 6 6 6 6 2 2 company reimbursement insurance policy for the benefit of the Bank and persons defined in the insurance policy who include Directors, Company Secretaries, Officers and certain employees of the Bank and related bodies corporate. The Wendy Stops 7 10 10 8 7 6 6 6 6 2 2 insurance is appropriate pursuant to section 199B of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). In accordance with commercial practice, the insurance policy prohibits disclosure of the terms of the policy, including the nature of the liability insured against and the Anne amount of the premium. Templeman-Jones 10 10 8 7 6 6 6 6 2 2 Rob Proceedings on behalf of the Bank FINANCIAL REPORT Whitfield AM 8 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 6 6 2 2 No application has been made under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) in respect of the Bank, and there are no 1 Out of cycle Board meetings typically called for a special purpose that do not form part of the Board approved yearly planner. proceedings that a person has brought or intervened in on behalf of the Bank under that section. 2 The number of scheduled meetings held during the time the Director was a member of the Board or of the relevant committee. Rounding and presentation of amounts 3 The number of unscheduled meetings held during the time the Director was a member of the Board. 4 The number of concurrent meetings held during the time the Director was a member of the relevant committee. 5 Sir David Higgins was appointed a Non-Executive Director between 1 September 2014 and 31 December 2019. Sir David Higgins retired from the Risk & Commonwealth Bank is an entity to which ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016, relating to the Compliance Committee, People & Remuneration Committee and the Board effective 31 December 2019. rounding of amounts in directors’ reports and financial reports, applies. Pursuant to this Instrument, amounts in this Directors’ 6 Paul O’Malley was appointed a member of the Risk & Compliance Committee on 1 November 2019 and was a member of the Nominations Committee between report and the accompanying financial report have been rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless indicated otherwise. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 July 2019 and 31 October 2019. 7 On 10 August 2020, it was announced that Wendy Stops will not be standing for re-election at the 2020 Annual General Meeting. 8 Rob Whitfield AM was appointed a member of the Audit Committee on 1 November 2019. Company secretaries Details of current Directors, their experience, qualifications, Directorships of other listed entities and any special responsibilities, Kara Nicholls was appointed Group Company Secretary of the Bank on 8 January 2019. Kara has extensive listed company including Board Committee memberships, are set out in the Our approach to corporate governance section on pages 62–71. expertise with over 20 years’ of global equity markets, commercial and corporate governance experience. She was previously Company Secretary of Caltex Australia Limited and prior to that was Company Secretary of Woolworths Limited, Arrium Limited and Global Head of Company Secretariat for Macquarie Capital Funds. Prior to those roles Kara spent almost six years Options and share rights outstanding at the ASX. Kara is the Chair of Gidget Foundation Australia. She is a Fellow of the Governance Institute of Australia (GIA), There are no options over Bank shares on issue as at the date of this report. As at the date of this report there are 965,095 and a member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors (AICD) and the GIA Legislative Review Committee. share rights outstanding in relation to Bank ordinary shares and no employee options. Holders of outstanding share rights FGIA, MAICD, B.Bus, MLS, JP. in relation to the Bank’s ordinary shares do not have any rights under the share rights to participate in any share issue or interest of the Bank. Kristy Huxtable was appointed Company Secretary of the Bank on 20 March 2019. Kristy is an experienced company secretary and brings extensive corporate governance experience, having previously worked as Company Secretary with other ASX Top 50 companies, including Suncorp and the ASX. Kristy is a Fellow of the GIA, and a Member of the AICD and the GIA Directors’ interests in contracts Legislative Review Committee. A number of Directors have given written notices stating that they hold office in specified companies and accordingly are FGIA, MAICD, MBA, Grad.Dip.Corp.Gov, Grad.Dip.HR to be regarded as having an interest in any contract or proposed contract that may be made between the Bank and any of those companies. 78 79 Remuneration report COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT of our people as they worked reflecting performance relative in difficult conditions to support to our major competitors. See Dear Shareholder the financial wellbeing of page 93 for further details. Looking ahead – changes our customers. Such positive for the 2021 financial year feedback from our people Governance, risk, culture Notwithstanding our assessment During these uncertain times, the Bank’s OVERVIEW during the second half of the and accountability that the 2020 financial year 2020 performance period Executive remuneration framework leadership team have delivered strong suggests that we have operated Over the past two years, the renewed Executive team has was sound, due to the likely new in accordance with our values APRA regulatory standard on underlying performance, and continue and purpose. been charged with delivering remuneration (CPS511), together a significant cultural and with the strategic challenges ahead to support the financial wellbeing of our Substantial progress has also business transformation. CBA for the sector, the Board conducted been made on divesting and has made considerable progress customers and communities. ceasing our wealth management to enhance its risk maturity, with a wide-ranging review to assess whether the framework will remain HOW WE CREATE VALUE businesses, which has allowed leadership demonstrating a very positive values-led tone from fit for purpose for the years ahead. the Bank’s leadership team to focus on driving growth in our the top. This is contributing The Board concluded that change is core banking businesses. to stronger business resilience. required. Therefore, our Executive remuneration framework has evolved The formulaic outcomes of Throughout the 2020 financial to ensure we continue to deliver a On behalf of the Board, I am The Group was well positioned the bushfires, drought and results were considered against year we have continued our competitive remuneration framework pleased to present the 2020 coming into this volatile coronavirus pandemic, and an after-the-fact discretionary focus on implementing and to retain and attract high calibre leaders Remuneration Report. environment, with prudent ongoing commitment to assessment of the extent to embedding the Australian during a time of intense competition management of the business supporting customers and other which the outcomes reflect Prudential Regulation Authority for capable and values-led banking The 2020 financial year has seen leading to solid and resilient stakeholders through this unique our values, the current Remedial Action Plan (APRA talent. At the same time a revised unprecedented health, economic balance sheet settings, combination of events. operating environment, and RAP) into our ways of working. DIRECTORS’ REPORT framework will continue to enhance the and environmental events, continued outperformance impacts on our customers and With the delivery of 79% of alignment of management incentives from the devastating bushfires in our core banking business, While the external environment other stakeholders. milestones, as at 30 June with our key stakeholders and to the current coronavirus and strong execution of our has been challenging, the 2020, including 22 in relation meet new regulatory requirements. pandemic. Our shareholders, simpler, better banking strategy, Executives (CEO, Group Executives The CEO’s STVR outcome for to risk and remuneration Changes to be implemented in the employees, customers and the including divestments. Our strong and CEO ASB) delivered strong the 2020 financial year reflects consequences, there is 2021 financial year will include: communities we serve have capital position and operational results across both financial the Group’s financial and growing evidence of clearer • Reducing overall remuneration been directly impacted. performance continues to and non-financial performance non-financial performance, and lines of accountability and quantum and re-balancing the support returns for shareholders. measures. The Group’s takes into account the significant more effective application of remuneration mix to lower the performance reflects two years leadership he has displayed remuneration consequences. leverage of the variable components. Throughout this challenging of concentrated effort. However, both within the Bank, and at As required by APRA, the RAP • Extending vesting timelines period, the Bank’s leadership we have taken a $1.5 billion a national level, particularly over also continues to be a significant FINANCIAL REPORT to reflect risk and performance team has maintained a clear forward-looking provision for the past six months. His final component of the Executive horizons, and to meet anticipated focus on and dedication to our loan impairments related to the outcome is 73% of maximum. STVR scorecards to ensure regulatory remuneration In this section purpose. As a Board, we would like to acknowledge the way expected impact of the coronavirus pandemic on our customers and STVR outcomes for the Group adequate focus on the delivery of milestones. Employees are requirements regarding risk and Executives and CEO ASB deferral periods. all of our employees have the economy. These have had a also recognised where they Remuneration responded to these challenges, material negative impact on the ranged between 49% and 76% contribute to a positive risk • Updating policy and procedures overview 80 of maximum, with an average culture. More information relating to malus and clawback. guided by our values. Group’s 2020 financial results. of 59%. These outcomes on risk and remuneration • Introducing a new LTVR component 1. Executive The Group achieved a cash are inclusive of STVR risk consequence outcomes can that supports additional long-term remuneration Executive remuneration ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) adjustments applied to two be found on page 82. share ownership, together with the in detail 88 outcomes for the 2020 of $7,449 million, below of 11 Executives. current LTVR that has been reduced. financial year threshold, therefore eliminating The Bank has continued to • Increasing alignment with the 2. Variable remuneration The remuneration outcomes The 2017 financial year implement the recommendations any Short-Term Variable shareholder experience. outcomes for for the 2020 financial year Long-Term Variable Remuneration (STVR) outcomes of the Sedgwick Retail Banking the financial year Remuneration (LTVR) award More information on these changes ended 30 June 2020 92 reflect the intended operation for this element of the financial Remuneration Review across of the remuneration framework. reached the end of its four-year customer-facing employees and will be provided ahead of the measure, and reducing the This framework is designed performance period on 30 June their leaders. 2020 Annual General Meeting 3. Executive statutory Group’s overall STVR pool. to accommodate a range of 2020 with 84.04% vesting and in the 2021 financial year remuneration 94 Remuneration Report. performance and risk outcomes, Performance against key overall. 80% vesting against As part of ongoing monitoring adjust for risk matters and, non-financial measures the TSR performance hurdle and in line with the RAP We invite you to read the 4. Non-Executive Director arrangements 100 where appropriate, apply Board exceeded expectations with reflects our strong and positive milestones, during the 2020 Remuneration Report and discretion. The outcomes this a notable increase in employee shareholder returns relative to financial year the People & welcome your feedback. 5. Loans and other year also reflect the exemplary engagement. At 81%, employee comparator organisations over Remuneration Committee transactions 102 leadership shown by the Chief engagement improved markedly the longer term. The portion of conducted a formal review of Executive Officer (CEO) and by 13% over last year, reflecting the award subject to customer the effectiveness of the Group his leadership team during the pride and commitment satisfaction vested at 97%, Remuneration Policy. Paul O’Malley People & Remuneration Committee Chairman 80 81 Remuneration overview COMMONWEALTH BANK Executive remuneration framework for the 2020 financial year 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Our values We do what is right We are accountable We are dedicated to service We pursue excellence We get things done Remuneration outcomes snapshot CEO remuneration Group Executive and CEO ASB remuneration Our remuneration principles FR increase 0% FR average increase 1.4% STVR % of maximum 73% OVERVIEW STVR % of maximum 49% to 76% Aligned with Market Reward sustainable Recognise the role Simple and Reflect the Total remuneration received $3.9m shareholder competitive to outperformance of non-financial transparent Group’s value creation attract and retain and discourage poor drivers in longer-term strategy and high calibre talent performance value creation values LTVR which reached the end of its performance period on 30 June 2020 84.04% of the award vested HOW WE CREATE VALUE Fixed Remuneration Short-Term Variable Remuneration Long-Term Variable Remuneration FR STVR (at risk) LTVR (at risk) Group financial performance Rationale Provides market Rewards for achieving key Rewards participants for creating competitive strategic and stakeholder annual sustainable and superior longRemuneration outcomes reflect short and long-term performance remuneration to performance outcomes. term shareholder value, improving The graphs and table below illustrate the relationship between Executive remuneration outcomes and the Group’s attract and retain engagement of our people, and financial performance over the past five financial years (including the 2020 financial year). high quality talent The values and risk and reputation re-building trust and reputation with while reflecting modifiers adjust overall STVR for our customers and the community. how performance was achieved. STVR scorecard measure LTVR relative TSR measure role size and accountabilities. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Base 50% 25% 25% Rights to shares with no dividend Group Cash NPAT 1 Group PACC Share price as at Dividends per share TSR: Four-year period Structure remuneration and equivalent payments, with vesting ($m) ($m) 30 Jun 2 ($) ($) to 30 Jun (%) paid as deferred deferred superannuation. cash into into subject to performance over equity for equity for a four-year period. 9,445 9,881 6,525 82.81 82.78 4.29 74.74 9,412 6,187 4.20 4.31 4.31 8,706 74.37 one year two years 5,783 72.87 69.42 • Reviewed annually Quantum: Quantum: 7,449 Approach against relevant • Target opportunity of 100% • Maximum face value allocation of 180% 4,333 2.98 50.75 3,913 comparator group of FR (75% for Group Chief of FR (150% for Group CRO). remuneration Risk Officer (CRO)). Business performance measures: benchmarks. • Maximum opportunity of 150% 20.51 • For the CEO and Group Executives, relative 16.53 FINANCIAL REPORT • Primary of FR (112.5% for Group CRO). total shareholder return (TSR) (75%); 11.39 comparator group relative trust and reputation (12.5%); and Business performance measures: is the other three employee engagement (12.5%). • Financial measures (30%; 10% major Australian for Group CRO). • For the CEO ASB, relative TSR (50%); 16 17 18 19 20 16 17 18 19 20 16 17 18 19 20 16 17 18 19 20 16 17 18 19 20 banks, with further • Non-financial measures (70%; ASB relative trust and reputation (25%); business and 1 Group Cash NPAT includes discontinued operations. 90% for Group CRO), being and ASB employee engagement (25%). talent comparators 2 CBA opening share price on 1 July 2015 was $84.79. included as customer, people and strategic • A positive TSR gateway applies to the relevant. For measures, including delivery trust and reputation and employee Remuneration outcomes 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 the CEO ASB, of the RAP (or Risk and Conduct engagement measures. STVR outcome (average % of maximum) 60% ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the primary agenda for CEO ASB). • Relative TSR is measured against 75% 0%1 19% 2 44% comparator group Risk and values assessment a comparator group of the 20 largest is the other New companies on the ASX by market LTVR vesting outcome (% of maximum) 20% 67% 24% 24% 84% (gate/modifiers): Zealand banks. Outcomes subject to Board 1 capitalisation, excluding resources consideration of values, risk companies and CBA. 1 The STVR outcomes for the CEO and Group Executives were adjusted downwards to zero, reflecting collective accountability for the overall reputation of the Group and risk and reputation matters. and reputation (via Executive Risk and values assessment 2 As a consequence of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report, the Board applied a negative adjustment of 20% to the 2018 financial year performance risk scorecards). (gate/modifiers): scorecard outcomes for each current Group Executive and assessed individual risk outcomes as partially met to reflect collective accountability for 1 Board is to be read as ASB Board Outcomes subject to Board consideration the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. Further negative risk adjustments to STVR outcomes were also made in respect of certain individual for the CEO ASB. of conduct and risk and reputation matters. Group Executives to reflect individual accountability for other risk and reputation matters separate from the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. All variable remuneration is subject to malus adjustment Mandatory shareholding requirement (MSR) The CEO must accumulate CBA shares equal to 300% of FR, and Group Executives and the CEO ASB must accumulate 200% of FR, over a five-year period from the date of their appointment to the respective roles. More detail on Executive shareholding is provided in on page 84. 82 83 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Risk and remuneration consequences Remuneration governance The Board has continued to oversee enhancements to CBA’s management of risk and remuneration consequence From 1 July 2019, the Remuneration Committee was renamed the People & Remuneration Committee to reflect its through its guidance, procedures and governance, including reinforcing the Board’s expectations of risk outcomes role in the oversight of talent and succession in addition to remuneration related matters. The People & Remuneration and behaviours in support of a positive risk culture. There were two risk-related adjustments to CEO and Group Committee is the governing body for developing, monitoring and assessing remuneration strategy, policies and practices Executive STVR outcomes in the 2020 financial year. Remuneration adjustments for remaining employees across CBA on behalf of the Board. The role of the People & Remuneration Committee is to review, challenge, assess and, in relation to the 2020 financial year will be finalised in September 2020 in line with the CBA-wide annual as appropriate, endorse the recommendations made by management for Board approval. It oversees CBA’s remuneration remuneration review process and will be outlined in the 2021 Remuneration Report. framework and assists the Board to ensure CBA’s remuneration strategy and policy are appropriate and effective. The remuneration adjustments made in the 2019 and 2018 financial years follow. Due to a change in reporting The People & Remuneration Committee met formally six times during the 2020 financial year with the following OVERVIEW methodology, 2019 financial year data provided below includes employees eligible for a performance review. members (as at 30 June 2020): Paul O’Malley (Chairman), Catherine Livingstone AO, Mary Padbury and Wendy Stops. As part of the performance and risk review, and to support the determination of remuneration outcomes for the 2019 financial year 2018 financial year CEO and Group Executives, the People & Remuneration Committee met concurrently with the Risk & Compliance, Audit and Nominations Committees in February 2020 and June 2020. These concurrent meetings provided Employees rated ‘exceptionally managed’ for risk an opportunity for the Committees to review and discuss relevant risk and audit matters that may warrant 500 employees 309 employees consideration in the People & Remuneration Committee’s determination of remuneration outcomes, including HOW WE CREATE VALUE any in-year or malus adjustments for the CEO and Group Executives (including former Group Executives). Employees rated ‘partially met’ or ‘not met’ for risk Information provided to the Board Committees to support their determinations of collective and/or individual 4,515 employees 2,462 employees remuneration impacts includes risk scorecards for the CEO and Group Executives, details of material risk matters, (including 121 General Managers and above) (including 73 General Managers and above) outcomes of internal audit reviews conducted during the year, and consideration of the quality of CBA’s financial results. The Board reviews, challenges, applies judgment and, as appropriate, approves the People & Remuneration Committee’s recommendations. In both the 2019 and 2018 financial years, STVR outcomes were reduced by a minimum of 10% for ‘partially met’ ratings, ranging up to 100% for ‘not met’. Malus adjustments were also applied to unvested deferred variable In addition to Board oversight, the Group Risk & Remuneration Review Committee, a management Committee that remuneration in relation to poor risk outcomes and/or misconduct (2019: 10 employees with adjustments ranging advises the Group CRO, oversees assessment of accountability for material risk matters, including those impacting CBA’s from 20% to 100%; 2018: six employees with 100% adjustment and approximately 470 employees with 10% to 20% reputation, and application of remuneration adjustments as applicable for Executive General Managers and below. malus adjustment related to collective accountability). During the 2020 financial year, external advisors were engaged by management to provide information to the DIRECTORS’ REPORT CBA’s consequence management framework was further embedded in the current financial year, with instances People & Remuneration Committee to assist the Committee with making remuneration decisions. The People & of unacceptable conduct resulting in termination. In the 2020 financial year there were 1,851 instances Remuneration Committee did not seek or receive any remuneration recommendations from the external advisors of substantiated unacceptable conduct, including 10 senior leaders (General Managers and Executive General in the 2020 financial year. Managers), with 136 resulting in termination. CBA’s remuneration governance framework Our remuneration framework has continued to evolve over the past year, enabling us to achieve better alignment between risk, performance and remuneration. CBA Board Risk culture Alignment of remuneration with prudent risk‑taking FINANCIAL REPORT • Continued embedding a risk mindset through the • Oversight by business unit CROs was strengthened deployment of a leadership assessment program to support the consistent application of risk to all General Managers and above, and the launch assessment ratings and STVR adjustments through of a new Recognition Platform anchored in our values. a constructive challenge process. Board Risk & Compliance People & Remuneration Audit Committee The maturity of our risk culture continued to be assessed • Comprehensive reporting was provided to the Committees Committee Committee via the annual Board Risk Culture Assessment process. Board to support oversight of remuneration and risk Assesses and • The Recognition Award, first introduced in 2019, consequences and their effectiveness, and to assist Concurrent Advises the People Oversees CBA’s remuneration advises the People continued to recognise and reward employees rated in informing the Board’s guidance for the 2020 meetings are & Remuneration framework and assists the & Remuneration held to determine Committee of material Board to ensure the Group’s Committee of any ‘exceptionally managed’ for risk, whose risk behaviours performance and remuneration review. CEO and Group risk matters which remuneration strategy and audit matters which ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and outcomes were considered exemplary. Out of the may impact collective Executive may impact collective policy are appropriate and 500 employees rated ‘exceptionally managed’ in the outcomes. and/or individual effective. and/or individual 2019 financial year, 62 employees received additional remuneration remuneration recognition to acknowledge their outstanding outcomes. outcomes. contribution to the positive risk culture of the Group. Risk assessment in performance review process Malus/clawback • Executive risk assessments were supported by • Malus is the ability to reduce (including to zero) Risk & Remuneration Review Committee Independent Remuneration Consultant comprehensive reporting and governance, as part a variable remuneration award and/or lapse or of the interim and annual performance assessment postpone vesting of variable remuneration awards The management committee that advises the The People & Remuneration Committee processes for the CEO and Group Executives. granted, but yet not vested. Group CRO on material risk matters that may may engage external advisors to provide impact remuneration outcomes for Executive information to assist the Committee in • Enhanced remuneration guidance was introduced • Guidance and enhanced processes to support the General Managers and below. making remuneration decisions. to help people leaders consistently determine the application of malus have been implemented across appropriate level of STVR adjustments for risk outcomes CBA during the 2020 financial year. and behaviours not fully meeting expectations, and • Clawback will apply to all CEO and Group Executive document the reasons for their assessment. variable remuneration from the 2021 financial year. People & Remuneration Committee Charter The responsibilities of the People & Remuneration Committee are outlined in its Charter and reviewed annually. The Charter is available at commbank.com.au/peopleandremuneration 84 85 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Key Management Personnel Executive appointment arrangements Key Management Personnel (KMP) are defined as persons having authority and responsibility for planning, In the 2020 financial year, Mike Vacy-Lyle (Group Executive, Business and Private Banking) was appointed to the directing and controlling the activities of an entity, directly or indirectly, including any Director (whether Executive Executive Leadership Team as KMP. or otherwise) of that entity. Mike is responsible for leading the Bank’s strategy and operations for the Business and Private Banking business The table below outlines the Group’s KMP for the financial year ended 30 June 2020. It also shows each individual’s unit. This is a critical portfolio and a core strategic priority for the Group. He brings extensive banking experience, shareholding and corresponding progress against their MSR as at 30 June 2020. including experience from his previous role as CEO of First National Bank Commercial Banking in South Africa. OVERVIEW Term as Current Progress against The Board determined it was appropriate to provide a competitive remuneration package, including a sign-on Name Position KMP shareholding 1 MSR and deadline award to compensate for unvested awards granted by his former employer, forfeited or forgone upon termination of his previous employment. Relocation benefits were also provided to Mike to support his relocation to Australia. Chairman 2 The table below outlines the sign-on award offered to Mike: Catherine Livingstone Chairman Full year 104% Meets Grant date Grant details Vesting schedules Vesting conditions AO Current Non-Executive Directors 2 31 January 2020 Cash award Cash award vested in April 2020. Subject to: HOW WE CREATE VALUE (final value of $153,435). • continued employment Shirish Apte Director Full year 256% Meets Genevieve Bell AO Director Full year 22% On track, 1 Jul 2024 21,262 deferred shares Deferred shares vesting in two • Board risk and reputation (grant date fair value tranches in September 2020 review Paul O’Malley Director Full year 182% Meets of $1.803m). and September 2021. • malus provisions. Mary Padbury Director Full year 52% On track, 1 Jul 2024 Eligible for dividends paid Wendy Stops Director Full year 546% Meets on deferred shares during Anne TemplemanDirector Full year 53% On track, 1 Jul 2024 the deferral period. Jones Rob Whitfield AM Director Full year 50% On track, 1 Jul 2024 More information on the remuneration package and relocation benefits are provided on pages 94 and 95. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Former Non-Executive Director 2 David Higgins Director (ceased as KMP on Part year n/a n/a 31 December 2019) Managing Director and CEO 3 Executive exit arrangements Matt Comyn Managing Director and Chief Full year 264% On track, 9 Apr 2023 Executive Officer Adam Bennett (Former Group Executive, Business and Private Banking) ceased as KMP on 31 January 2020. His exit arrangements were as follows: Current Group Executives and CEO ASB 4 • Payment in lieu of balance of contractual notice period. Pascal Boillat Group Executive, Enterprise Services Full year 349% Meets • Provision of benefits and payments in accordance with his employment agreement, law and Group Policy FINANCIAL REPORT and Chief Information Officer including in respect of past service (six months’ FR). David Cohen Deputy Chief Executive Officer Full year 347% Meets • Eligible for pro-rated 2020 financial year STVR award 1. Not eligible for 2020 financial year LTVR award. Alan Docherty Group Executive, Financial Services Full year 115% On track, 15 Oct 2023 Unvested deferred STVR and LTVR awards remain on-foot 2. and Chief Financial Officer 1 In line with the Banking Executive Accountability Regime, for any payment determined and paid in ordinary course (subject to performance and Board risk and reputation review), 60% of any award will be paid in cash and remaining 40% deferred as cash vesting at least four years after the Andrew Hinchliff Group Executive, Institutional Banking Full year 158% On track, 1 Aug 2023 decision is made to make the relevant award. and Markets 2 No accelerated or automatic vesting upon ceasing employment. The on-foot STVR awards will be assessed in the ordinary course at the end Sian Lewis Group Executive, Human Resources Full year 119% On track, 1 Aug 2023 of the vesting period related to each award (as applicable). Final deferred STVR outcomes will be subject to performance, and Board risk and reputation review. While Adam’s LTVR awards remained on foot at cessation, the Board exercised its post-cessation discretion to lapse his Vittoria Shortt Chief Executive Officer, ASB Full year 231% Meets ADDITIONAL INFORMATION unvested deferred 2018 and 2019 financial year LTVR awards upon his commencing employment with a competitor of the Group. Angus Sullivan Group Executive, Retail Banking Services Full year 150% On track, 1 Jul 2023 Mike Vacy-Lyle Group Executive, Business and Private Part year 160% On track, 31 Jan 2025 Banking (from 31 January 2020) Nigel Williams Group Chief Risk Officer Full year 266% Meets Former Group Executive Adam Bennett Group Executive, Business and Private Part year n/a n/a Banking (ceased as KMP on 31 January 2020) 1 For the Non-Executive Directors, the percentage shown represents the individual’s percentage of CBA shares as a proportion of their individual base fees. For the CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB the percentage shown represents the individual’s percentage of CBA shares as a proportion of their FR as at 1 July 2019. 2 Non-Executive Directors are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 100% of base Board member fees for Non-Executive Directors and 100% of Board Chairman fees for the Chairman. This is to be accumulated over five years based on base Board member fees or Board Chairman fees as at 1 July 2019 (when the new MSR for Non-Executive Directors was introduced) or date of appointment, whichever is later. 3 The CEO is required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 300% of FR. This is to be accumulated over five years from appointment to the role. 4 Group Executives and the CEO ASB are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 200% of FR. This is to be accumulated over five years from the time appointed to the role or for the CEO ASB, the time the role was determined to be KMP (1 July 2018). 86 87 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Remuneration received by current Executives Executive remuneration mix The remuneration outcomes table below provides a summary of the remuneration that was received by the current Executives in their KMP roles during the financial year ended 30 June 2020. We believe that presenting this The following diagram illustrates the remuneration mix at maximum potential for the Executives. For the CEO, information provides shareholders with greater clarity and transparency of Executive remuneration. This table differs Group Executives (excluding the Group CRO) and the CEO ASB, approximately three-quarters of maximum from the statutory remuneration table on page 94, which presents remuneration in accordance with accounting remuneration is variable and at risk. The Group CRO’s remuneration mix has a greater emphasis on FR than standards (i.e. on an accruals basis), and instead is prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation noted below. variable remuneration compared to other Group Executives to support the role’s independence from the Group’s All remuneration presented in this report is in Australian dollars. business activities. OVERVIEW Previous Deferred Total years' awards Other cash Total cash equity remuneration forfeited or Maximum remuneration mix FR Cash STVR remuneration payments awards 1 received lapsed a b c d=a+b+c e f=d+e g CEO, Group Executives CEO and CEO ASB 23% 17.5% 17.5% 42% Matt Comyn 30 Jun 20 2,200,000 1,210,000 – 3,410,000 486,243 3,896,243 (1,307,409) (excluding Group CRO) HOW WE CREATE VALUE 30 Jun 19 2,200,000 747,450 – 2,947,450 464,108 3,411,558 (1,270,151) Variable remuneration (77%) Current Group Executives and CEO ASB Pascal Boillat 2 30 Jun 20 1,500,000 618,954 – 2,118,954 1,149,354 3,268,308 – 30 Jun 19 1,12 1,9 18 353,825 – 1,475,743 1,052,765 2,528,508 – Group CRO 28% 15.5% 15.5% 41% David Cohen 30 Jun 20 1,200,000 469,243 – 1,669,243 555,783 2,225,026 (1,114,563) 30 Jun 19 1,200,000 348,218 – 1,548,218 405,514 1,953,732 (1,109,864) Variable remuneration (72%) Alan Docherty 30 Jun 20 1,025,000 475,072 – 1,500,072 200,884 1,700,956 – 30 Jun 19 945,277 291,296 – 1,236,573 233,096 1,469,669 – Andrew Hinchliff 2 30 Jun 20 1,050,000 388,229 – 1,438,229 437,897 1,876,126 –  FR  STVR Cash  STVR Deferred Equity  LTVR DIRECTORS’ REPORT 30 Jun 19 915,068 302,888 – 1,217,956 378,283 1,596,239 – Sian Lewis 2 30 Jun 20 850,000 381,212 – 1,231,212 214,437 1,445,649 – 30 Jun 19 754,932 260,829 – 1,015,761 223,942 1,239,703 – Vittoria Shortt 3 30 Jun 20 976,834 385,239 – 1,362,073 589,998 1,952,071 (1,046,457) 30 Jun 19 965,550 940,777 – 1,906,327 309,688 2,216,015 (345,461) Angus Sullivan 30 Jun 20 1,100,000 625,826 – 1,725,826 256,709 1,982,535 – Remuneration time horizon 30 Jun 19 1,050,000 374,500 – 1,424,500 409,280 1,833,780 – Mike Vacy-Lyle 4 30 Jun 20 456,831 209,882 153,435 820,148 – 820,148 – The following diagram provides an illustrative indication of how 2020 financial year remuneration will be delivered Nigel Williams 2 30 Jun 20 1,450,000 545,381 – 1,995,381 1,069,362 3,064,743 – to the Executives. FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Jun 19 945,479 276,819 – 1,222,298 1,294,553 2,516,851 – Fixed remuneration 1 Deferred equity awards : This reflects the portions of the 2016 financial year LTVR award (performance period ended 30 June 2019), and the 2016 and 2017 financial year deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements that vested in the 2020 financial year. For Pascal Boillat and Nigel Williams, this also represents the portion of their sign-on awards that vested in the 2020 financial year. STVR cash (50%) 2 Pascal Boillat was appointed as KMP effective 1 October 2018, Andrew Hinchliff was appointed as KMP effective 1 August 2018, Sian Lewis was appointed as KMP effective 1 August 2018 and Nigel Williams was appointed as KMP effective 5 November 2018. Prior year comparison reflects time in KMP role. STVR deferred equity (25%) 3 Vittoria Shortt has an additional payment of $11,557 of KiwiSaver payable on her cash STVR component. 4 Mike Vacy-Lyle was appointed as KMP effective 31 January 2020, therefore no prior year comparison is shown and amounts reflect time in KMP role. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STVR deferred equity (25%) Basis of preparation LTVR Cash a) FR: Base remuneration plus superannuation (for the CEO ASB, contributions are made in line payments with the KiwiSaver employer contribution requirements) paid for the period as KMP. FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 b) Cash STVR: 50% of the 2020 financial year STVR (relates to performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2020). For 2019: 50% of the 2019 financial year STVR (relates to performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2019). c) Other cash remuneration: Includes cash components of sign-on awards received during the  Date granted  End of deferral/performance period  Date paid/eligible for vesting relevant financial year. Vesting e) Deferred equity awards: The value of all equity awards (STVR, LTVR or sign-on awards) that of prior vested during the period as KMP plus any dividends accrued during the deferral period. The value year awards shown is based on the volume weighted average closing price (VWACP) of the Group’s ordinary shares over the five trading days preceding the vesting date. Awards g) Previous years’ awards forfeited or lapsed: The value of all unvested deferred equity awards forfeited that were forfeited or lapsed during the 2020 financial year as the performance, risk and or lapsed reputation conditions were not met. The value shown is based on VWACP of the Group’s ordinary shares over the five trading days preceding the date of forfeiture or lapse. 88 89 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Long-term variable remuneration 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1. Executive remuneration in detail The table below outlines key features of the 2020 financial year LTVR for the Executives. Refer to page 99 for treatment of LTVR on cessation of employment. Features Approach Fixed remuneration Purpose Varies remuneration outcome in line with the extent of longer-term (four-year) performance Fixed remuneration comprises base remuneration (i.e. cash salary) and superannuation (KiwiSaver for the CEO ASB). achievement, with a balanced focus on relative shareholder returns, customer and community trust and reputation, and employee engagement to support creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value. OVERVIEW Fixed remuneration is delivered in accordance with contractual terms and conditions of employment. Executive fixed remuneration is reviewed annually against relevant comparator group remuneration benchmarks. Participants All Executives. Opportunity The maximum face value of LTVR that can be granted for the Executives, excluding the Group CRO is 180% of FR. The maximum face value of LTVR that can be granted for the Group CRO Short-term variable remuneration is 150% of FR. The minimum potential outcome value is zero. The table below outlines key features of the 2020 financial year STVR award for the Executives. Refer to page 99 for Performance period Four years from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2023. treatment of STVR on cessation of employment. Business HOW WE CREATE VALUE TSR Trust and reputation Employee engagement Features Approach performance (relative) (relative) 1 (absolute) 1 measures and weightings CEO and Group Executives (excluding the CEO ASB) 75% 12.5% 12.5% Purpose Varies remuneration outcomes in line with the extent of annual performance achievement, with a balanced focus on customer, people, strategic and shareholder measures, incorporating CEO ASB 2 50% 25% 25% both risk scorecard and values assessments. Recognises both the “how” and the “what” Instrument of performance. Rights – each right entitles the participant to receive one CBA share (or cash equivalent at the Board’s discretion), subject to meeting performance measures. Participants All Executives. Maximum face value The number of rights granted are calculated as follows for the Executives: allocation approach Opportunity Target STVR Maximum STVR FR $ Share price $ (at time of grant) x 180% 3 ÷ (no discount applied)  Number of rights CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB (excluding Group CRO) 100% of FR 150% of FR DIRECTORS’ REPORT Group CRO 75% of FR 112.5% of FR The share price used was the volume weighted average price of CBA’s ordinary shares over the five trading days up to 1 July 2019. Business Individual STVR outcomes are determined on the basis of Group (or ASB for the CEO ASB) performance performance and individual performance through a balanced scorecard. The performance Board discretion The Board has discretion to determine that some or all of the award will lapse in certain measures and measures comprise a mix of financial and non-financial metrics linked to Group and business circumstances (malus), including where, in the opinion of the Board: weightings unit targets. Together they provide a balanced assessment of performance and support the • The vesting of rights is not justified or supportable, having regard to the participant’s delivery of the Group’s strategy. The weightings vary by role. More information on the CEO’s performance and/or conduct, the performance of the business unit or function (as relevant STVR scorecard can be found on page 92. having regard to the participant’s accountability or role), or the overall Group performance. Non-financial • The vesting of rights will impact on the financial soundness of the Group or a member of the Group. (including customer, • The Group is required or entitled to reclaim remuneration or reduce an Executive’s remuneration FINANCIAL REPORT Financial people and strategy) 1 outcome under law, regulation or Group policy. CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB (excluding Group CRO) 30% 70% • A significant unexpected or unintended consequence or outcome has occurred, including where original expected performance outcomes have not been realised. Group CRO 10% 90% Prior to vesting, LTVR awards are also subject to Board risk and reputation review, and should Risk and values Performance outcomes determined through assessment of the balanced scorecard are subject any issues be identified the award can be reduced, including to zero. assessment to the following assessments (gate/modifiers): (gate/modifiers) • Risk and reputation: via the Executive risk scorecard2 the Board 3 has the discretion to adjust Performance measures Approach Executive STVR outcomes upwards or downwards, including to zero, where appropriate. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Values: the Board 3 has the discretion to adjust Executive STVR outcomes upwards or downwards Relative TSR Relative TSR peer group including to zero, where appropriate. • TSR measures share price • The peer group is made up of the 20 largest companies on the ASX by market movement, dividends paid capitalisation at the beginning of the performance period, excluding resources Calculation STVR awards for the Executives are calculated as follows: and any return of capital over companies and CBA. This cross-industry peer group has been chosen as it represents of awards a specific period. Scorecard Risk and values Adjusted the typical portfolio of companies in which CBA’s shareholders invest, and so provides Opportunity valid benchmarks for measuring against CBA’s TSR. result assessment outcome • Relative TSR compares the ranking of CBA’s TSR over the • The peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the relative TSR Risk Value of Target STVR Business performance period with the Values adjusted performance hurdle comprised: FR $ x opportunity x performance x scorecard x result = STVR award TSR of other companies in % result % 4 result 5 – Amcor Limited – Goodman Group – Suncorp Group Limited $ a peer group. – Aristocrat Leisure Limited – Insurance Australia – Sydney Airport – ASX Limited Group Limited – Telstra Corporation Deferral 50% of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in deferred shares that vest in equal tranches over – Australia & New Zealand – Macquarie Group Limited Limited one and two years. Deferred shares have rights to dividends declared during the deferral period. Banking Group Limited – National Australia – Transurban Group All deferred STVR awards are subject to applicable Board 3 risk and reputation review prior to vesting. – Brambles Limited Bank Limited – Wesfarmers Limited See page 99 for an overview of the treatment of deferred STVR awards on termination. – Coles Group Limited – QBE Insurance – Westpac Banking – CSL Limited Group Limited Corporation 1 Strategic initiatives include 30% weighting required by APRA to be allocated to the delivery of the RAP. – Scentre Group – Woolworths Limited 2 Executive risk scorecard assessments include: risk culture and leadership; risk strategy/appetite; incidents and issues; and risk and control environment. 3 ‘Board’ is to be read as ASB Board in respect of discretion for the CEO ASB’s STVR outcomes. 1 Trust and reputation and employee engagement measures are subject to a gateway of positive absolute CBA TSR. 4 The Board retains discretion to adjust scorecard outcomes. 2 For ASB this means ASB Trust and Reputation (relative) and ASB Employee Engagement (absolute). 5 Also subject to risk and reputation review. 3 150% for the Group CRO. 90 91 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Performance measures Approach Performance measures Approach Relative TSR A reserve bench company will be substituted (in order of market capitalisation as at the Relative trust Vesting framework (continued) beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company and reputation Peer group ranking Vesting % ceases to be listed on the ASX as a result of an acquisition, merger or other relevant (continued) corporate action or delisting. The reserve bench comprised: Ramsay Health Care Limited, At the 75th percentile or higher 100% Cimic Group Limited, Dexus, AGL Energy Limited and Sonic Healthcare Limited. Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% Vesting framework At the median 50% OVERVIEW Peer group ranking Vesting % Below the median 0% At the 75th percentile or higher 100% Calculation of results Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the change in its pulse score over the four-year performance period. The opening pulse score for each company At the median 50% will be calculated based on the average of the March, June and September 2019 surveys (or Below the median 0% September 2018, March and August 2019 surveys conducted in NZ for the CEO ASB), and the closing pulse scores will be calculated based on the average of the surveys anticipated to be HOW WE CREATE VALUE Calculation of results around November 2022, March and June 2023. Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the growth in its TSR over the four-year performance period. TSR outcomes are calculated Reason for selection by an independent provider, Orient Capital. The Board recognises the critical importance for the Group and the industry of rebuilding and improving the trust of customers and the broader community. This is a key factor in Reason for selection enhancing long-term financial performance and shareholder value. Provides a direct link between Executive remuneration and shareholder returns, providing Subject to positive absolute TSR gateway alignment with our shareholders. Employee engagement Target setting (absolute) • For the CEO and Group Executives, the target and stretch levels of performance have • Employees are invited been set by the Board having regard to the IBM Kenexa gap closure method and global Relative trust CEO and Group Executives: relative trust and reputation peer group to participate in an and reputation benchmark scores provided by IBM Kenexa, and CBA’s EEI baseline relevant to the award. • For the CEO and Group Executives (excluding the CEO ASB), the peer group is made up externally conducted DIRECTORS’ REPORT • Measured against the • For the CEO ASB, the target and stretch levels of performance have been set by the ASB of the 16 largest consumer-facing companies listed on the ASX by market capitalisation at online survey. independent RepTrak® Board, having regard to ASB’s baseline relevant to the award and benchmark levels. the beginning of the performance period, excluding resources companies, companies that pulse score survey are not familiar to the general public, companies that do not operate nationally, and CBA. • For the CEO and Group Vesting framework conducted quarterly Executives, Employee • For the CEO and Group Executives (excluding the CEO ASB), the peer group at the beginning CBA EEI score ASB EEI Score Vesting % by the Reputation Engagement Index of the performance period for the trust and reputation performance hurdle comprised: Institute. (EEI) is calculated using 78% or higher 8.30 or higher 100% – AGL Limited – Medibank Private Limited – Suncorp Group Limited particular questions • The survey comprises – Australia & New Zealand – National Australia – Telstra Corporation from the survey. Between 72% and 78% Between 8.10 and 8.30 Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% four equally-weighted Banking Group Limited Bank Limited Limited 72% 8.10 50% questions to test – Coles Group Limited – Qantas Limited – Wesfarmers Limited • EEI is based on the trust, respect – Crown Resorts Limited – QBE Insurance Group – Westpac Banking the proportion of Below 72% Below 8.10 0% FINANCIAL REPORT and admiration a – Insurance Australia Limited Corporation employees responding Calculation of results Subject to positive absolute TSR gateway respondent has for Group Limited – Stockland Corporation – Woolworths Limited that they “strongly a particular company. – Macquarie Group Limited Limited agree” or “agree” The surveys will be conducted by an independent provider who will facilitate and collate the A reserve bench company will be substituted (in order of market capitalisation as at the with the four equally EEI results. For the CEO and Group Executives (excluding the CEO ASB), the change in CBA’s • CBA’s score over the weighted questions EEI scores between the March 2019 EEI score of 68% and the March 2023 score will be used beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company ceases performance period relating to satisfaction, to determine the level of vesting. For the CEO ASB, the change in ASB’s EEI scores between to be listed on the ASX as a result of an acquisition, merger or other relevant corporate action is compared with the commitment, the base year (the August 2019 EEI score of 8.10) and the end year (the last score prior to July or delisting. The reserve bench comprised: Coca-Cola Amatil Limited, Lendlease Group, AMP performance over advocacy and pride. 2023) will be used to determine the level of vesting. Limited, and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited. the same period of a peer group. CEO ASB: relative trust and reputation peer group • For the CEO ASB, the Reason for selection ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Peak On methodology The Board considers that an engaged workforce results in greater productivity and a better • For the CEO ASB, the peer group is made up of the four largest financial institutions in provides an employee customer experience, and that builds overall value for the Group. It is important the Group’s NZ, excluding ASB (sourced from Deloitte’s Top 30 Financial Institutions Index), and the engagement score employees are its advocates, committed to its purpose, values and strategy. nine largest consumer-facing companies in NZ by revenue on the Deloitte Top 200 Index, which can be and are included on the Reputation Institute Annual Reputation Index. compared to the ‘True • For the CEO ASB, the peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the Benchmark’. The True trust and reputation performance hurdle comprised: Benchmark reflects – ANZ Bank New Zealand – Fonterra Co-operative – Spark New Zealand an adjustment for Limited Group Limited Limited demographic factors – Air New Zealand Limited – Foodstuffs (combined – Westpac New Zealand that typically play a role – Bank of New Zealand North Island and South Limited in determining scores – BP Oil New Zealand Limited Island) – Woolworths New Zealand (e.g. tenure, gender, – Fletcher Building Limited – Fulton Hogan Limited Limited geography). – Kiwibank Limited – Z Energy Limited A reserve bench company will be substituted (in order of revenue as at the beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company ceases to operate as An positive absolute TSR gateway is applied to the non-financial performance measures (trust and reputation, a result of an acquisition, merger or other relevant corporate action or delisting. The reserve employee engagement), such that no vesting on these measures occurs unless TSR is positive over the relevant period. bench comprised: The Warehouse Group Limited and Meridian Energy Limited. • These cross-industry peer groups have also been chosen to ensure that the focus is on delivering trust and reputation outcomes that are among the best in class for all customerfocused industries, not just financial services. 92 93 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Executive STVR performance outcomes 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2. Variable remuneration outcomes for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 The following table provides the 2020 financial year STVR outcomes for Executives for the period they were KMP. The minimum potential outcome is zero. STVR actual CEO STVR performance outcomes 73% of max STVR actual as a % Reflective of Group performance, the CEO’s 2020 financial year STVR outcome is: STVR of STVR maximum Total Cash 1 Deferred maximum 2 OVERVIEW $ $ $ $ % Scorecard result Threshold Target Stretch % of STVR CEO Measure, rationale and commentary Weight 50% 100% 150% maximum Matt Comyn 3,300,000 2,420,000 1,210,000 1,210,000 73% Financial Current Group Executives and CEO ASB Strong underlying financial performance, however NPAT outcome 8,122 8,520 8,919 materially impacted by significant provisions for expected future Pascal Boillat 2,250,000 1,237,908 618,954 618,954 55% loan impairments. PACC outcome impact less material given long-tail 15% 0% David Cohen 1,800,000 938,486 469,243 469,243 52% nature of potential impact: HOW WE CREATE VALUE • Group cash NPAT – below threshold (Actual: $7,449 million). 3,730 4,214 4,699 Alan Docherty 1,537,500 950,144 475,072 475,072 62% • Group underlying PACC – above threshold (Actual: $3,913 million). 15% 7% Andrew Hinchliff 1,575,000 776,458 388,229 388,229 49% Sian Lewis 1,275,000 762,424 381,212 381,212 60% Customer Vittoria Shortt 1,465,252 770,478 385,239 385,239 53% NPS outcomes for consumer, business and IB&M customers, with Angus Sullivan 1,650,000 1,251,652 625,826 625,826 76% reference to complaints remediation: • Consumer, business & IB&M NPS ranked #2 or higher for majority 10% 6% Mike Vacy-Lyle 3 685,246 419,764 209,882 209,882 61% of the 2020 financial year. Nigel Williams 1,631,250 1,090,762 545,381 545,381 67% • Progress addressing systemic challenges and underlying causes. Former Group Executive DIRECTORS’ REPORT People Adam Bennett 4 924,835 492,558 295,535 197,023 53% Group People measure results (focus on culture, wellbeing, talent and capability): 1 Cash amounts will be paid in or around September 2020. 10% 9% • Significant increase in employee engagement indicating strong 2 The percentage of 2020 financial year STVR forfeited (as a percentage of STVR maximum): Matt Comyn 27%, Pascal Boillat 45%, David Cohen 48%, Alan pride, satisfaction and connection with the Bank. Docherty 38%, Andrew Hinchliff 51%, Sian Lewis 40%, Vittoria Shortt 47%, Angus Sullivan 24%, Mike Vacy-Lyle 39%, Nigel Williams 33%, Adam Bennett 47%. • Ongoing renewal of executive and senior leadership teams, with 3 Mike Vacy-Lyle’s remuneration reflects his time in the role (31 January 2020 to 30 June 2020). targeted growth in critical capability, and delivery of cultural change. 4 Adam Bennett’s remuneration reflects his time in the role (1 July 2019 to 31 January 2020). Strategy Progress on and quality of implementation of the APRA RAP: LTVR performance outcomes • All APRA RAP milestones delivered on plan to the Independent FINANCIAL REPORT 30% 22% The 2017 financial year LTVR award reached the end of its four-year performance period on 30 June 2020 and vested at Reviewer, with the Second Foundational Review approved. 84.04%, with 15.96% of the LTVR award lapsing. Significant progress on the delivery of Group strategic priorities: Percentage Vesting • Continued focus on innovation with the launch of Vonto, Home-In Performance measure of award Performance outcome outcome and CommSec Pocket, and innovation capability (x15 ventures, Klarna). 20% 19% • Strengthened leadership position in digital (online, Banking app). Relative TSR 76.25% 65th percentile ranking relative to TSR peer group 80% • Significant progress on targeted divestments and simplification Relative customer satisfaction 1 23.75% Average result by business over performance period: 97% of portfolio. – retail main financial institution (MFI) customer Overall CEO STVR outcome 63% satisfaction = 1.02 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION – wealth management customer satisfaction = 1.13 – business MFI customer satisfaction = 1.00 Values assessment Total weighted average ranking = 1.06 • Role modelled the Group’s ‘Should We’ test through the bushfire, drought and No coronavirus pandemic responses, displaying national and Bank leadership. Exceptionally Demonstrated adjustment 1 Vesting outcome for relative customer satisfaction is calculated based on the weighted average ranking across the three independent surveys (weighted by the • Demonstrated personal care and support for customers and communities, business area’s contribution to NPAT at the beginning of the performance period). Relative customer satisfaction vests at 50% if the weighted average ranking including through Compassionate Care and Financial Abuse support initiatives. is 2nd and 100% if the weighted average ranking is 1st. Risk and reputation assessment No • Clear tone from the top on risk compliance and the control environment, Fully Met adjustment with notable progress in Financial Crime, data management and the RAP. Board discretion • Industry leadership and contribution at a national policy level to the challenges faced by our customers, 10% communities and the economy particularly over the second half of the 2020 financial year and the practical and ongoing steps taken to assist our customers, people and their communities. Overall adjusted CEO STVR outcome 73% 94 95 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 3. Executive statutory remuneration 1 FR comprises base remuneration and superannuation (post-employment benefit). Superannuation contributions for Vittoria Shortt are made in line with the KiwiSaver employer contribution requirements (this includes the additional payment of $18,421 payable on her cash STVR component and deferred awards). 2 Total cost of salary including cash salary, short-term compensated absences and any salary sacrificed benefits. 3 Cost of car parking (including associated fringe benefits tax). This includes an adjustment to 2019 car parking benefits for Pascal Boillat and Angus Sullivan. 4 KiwiSaver is payable on the CEO ASB’s cash STVR. Executive statutory remuneration accounting expense 5 Includes company-funded benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax where applicable) and the net change in accrued annual leave. 2019 financial year accrued annual leave figures have been restated due to change in reporting methodology. For Pascal Boillat, this also includes costs in relation to a housing The following statutory table details the statutory accounting expense of all remuneration-related items for the Group’s allowance. For Mike Vacy-Lyle, this also includes costs in relation to his relocation to Sydney and the cash component of his sign-on award which vested during Executives. This includes remuneration costs in relation to both the 2019 and 2020 financial years. The tables are different the 2020 financial year. from the remuneration outcomes table on page 86, which shows the remuneration received in the 2020 financial year rather 6 Long service leave entitlements accrued during the year as well as the impact of changes to long service leave valuation assumptions, which are determined in OVERVIEW than the accrual accounting amounts determined in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards. The tables have line with Australian Accounting Standards. This includes an adjustment to 2019 long service leave accrual for Vittoria Shortt. been developed and audited against the relevant Australian Accounting Standards. Refer to the footnotes below each table 7 The deferred portion of the 2020 financial year STVR outcome for Adam Bennett will be deferred into cash vesting four years after the decision is made to for more detail on each remuneration component. make the relevant award. 8 2020 financial year expense for deferred STVR awarded under Group Executive and Executive General Manager arrangements as well as sign-on awards received Fixed remuneration 1 Other short-term benefits Long-term benefits Share-based payments as deferred rights and/or shares in prior years. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive is dismissed or ceases to be employed by the Group as a result of resignation prior to the vesting date. Deferred 2020 financial year STVR will be expensed over the vesting period commencing 1 July 2020. Total 9 2020 financial year expense for the 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 financial year LTVR awards. Base Cash Deferred Deferred LTVR Termistatutory remuneraSuperanNonSTVR LongSTVR equity equity nation remunera10 The percentage of 2020 financial year remuneration related to performance was: Matt Comyn 59%, Pascal Boillat 61%, David Cohen 64%, Alan Docherty 51%, tion 2 nuation monetary 3 (at risk) 4 Other 5 term 6 (at risk) 7 (at risk) 8 (at risk) 9 benefits tion 10 Andrew Hinchliff 51%, Sian Lewis 52%, Vittoria Shortt 42%, Angus Sullivan 54%, Mike Vacy-Lyle 58%, Nigel Williams 55%, Adam Bennett 60%. HOW WE CREATE VALUE $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 11 For Vittoria Shortt, remuneration was paid in New Zealand dollars. The value shown was impacted by movements in exchange rates. 12 For Mike Vacy-Lyle and Adam Bennett, remuneration reflects the time in their KMP roles. CEO 13 The LTVR rights value for Adam Bennett reflects the disclosable accruals for all previously granted LTVR awards that remain unvested following cessation of employment up to the end of each performance period. This means that up to three years of each unvested LTVR award expense has been brought forward and Matt Comyn disclosed in total for the 2020 financial year, including those amounts which would otherwise have been included in future year disclosures and that may not 30 Jun 20 2,178,997 21,003 17,399 1,210,000 14,813 105,112 – 467,155 1,667,697 – 5,682,176 vest. While Adam’s awards remained on foot at cessation and the amortised value brought forward, the Board exercised its post-cessation discretion to lapse his unvested deferred 2018 and 2019 financial year LTVR awards upon his commencing employment with a competitor of the Group. 30 Jun 19 2,179,469 20,531 16,928 747,450 150,925 98,034 – – 1,204,552 – 4,417,889 Current Group Executives and CEO ASB Fair value assumptions for awards granted in the 2020 financial year Pascal Boillat 30 Jun 20 1,478,997 21,003 15,602 618,954 431,541 12,734 – 1,843,450 585,408 – 5,007,689 In the 2020 financial year, a face value allocation approach was used to determine the number of rights granted under the LTVR (refer to page 96). The table below is provided in accordance with statutory requirements. The fair value has been DIRECTORS’ REPORT 30 Jun 19 1,106,561 15,356 11,368 353,825 325,325 6,612 – 2,357,718 183,916 – 4,360,681 calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation method. The exercise price is nil across all LTVR and STVR awards. David Cohen The fair value of rights under the trust and reputation and employee engagement performance measures is higher than for 30 Jun 20 1,178,997 21,003 17,399 469,243 (8,972) 29,463 – 304,767 1,387,959 – 3,399,859 the relative TSR performance measure. This reflects that the likelihood of achieving a positive TSR over the performance 30 Jun 19 1,177,914 22,086 16,928 348,218 26,483 38,147 – 163,350 1,133,049 – 2,926,175 period (i.e. the gate opener that applies to the trust and reputation and employee engagement tranches) is greater than the Alan Docherty likelihood of achieving a relative TSR ranking higher than the median across the peer group. 30 Jun 20 1,003,997 21,003 17,399 475,072 32,977 24,098 – 268,262 400,041 – 2,242,849 Performance 30 Jun 19 924,746 20,531 16,928 291,296 11,732 237,972 – 167,426 125,676 – 1,796,307 period Fair value end/final Andrew Hinchliff Equity plan Performance measure Grant date $ Weighting vesting date 30 Jun 20 1,028,997 21,003 17,399 388,229 28,399 26,824 – 398,714 396,763 – 2,306,328 FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Jun 19 896,281 18,788 15,520 302,888 66,426 33,247 – 331,132 122,606 – 1,786,888 FY19 STVR deferred shares Service 1 Sep 19 77.87 100% 1 Sep 21 Sian Lewis Relative TSR 18 Nov 19 31.79 75% 30 Jun 23 30 Jun 20 828,997 21,003 17,399 381,212 11,318 24,296 – 256,331 325,226 – 1,865,782 Relative trust and reputation 18 Nov 19 56.60 12.5% 30 Jun 23 30 Jun 19 736,144 18,788 15,520 260,829 11,886 35,812 – 151,824 101,156 – 1,331,959 FY20 LTVR rights (positive TSR gateway) Vittoria Shortt 11 30 Jun 20 948,383 46,872 10,293 385,239 19,784 29,377 300,212 90,862 1,831,022 Employee engagement 18 Nov 19 56.60 12.5% 30 Jun 23 (positive TSR gateway) 30 Jun 19 937,427 56,346 9,926 940,777 24,021 28,772 – 310,192 529 – 2,307,991 Relative TSR 18 Feb 20 43.96 75% 30 Jun 23 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Angus Sullivan 30 Jun 20 1,078,997 21,003 15,602 625,826 (6,877) 48,782 – 319,238 416,286 – 2,518,857 FY20 LTVR rights Relative trust and reputation 18 Feb 20 61.58 12.5% 30 Jun 23 30 Jun 19 1,029,469 20,531 15,165 374,500 48,189 97,018 – 183,493 128,740 – 1,897,104 (for Mike Vacy-Lyle and (positive TSR gateway) Vittoria Shortt) 1 Mike Vacy-Lyle 12 Employee engagement 18 Feb 20 61.58 12.5% 30 Jun 23 30 Jun 20 448,108 8,722 7,323 209,882 344,897 2,202 – 817,166 116,192 – 1,954,492 (positive TSR gateway) Nigel Williams Sign-on award (deferred shares) 30 Jun 20 1,428,997 21,003 17,399 545,381 29,467 12,035 – 832,735 471,561 – 3,358,578 – Mike Vacy-Lyle Service 31 Jan 20 84.78 100% 30 Sep 21 30 Jun 19 932,092 13,388 11,162 276,819 182,242 5,604 – 2,117,055 148,148 – 3,686,510 Former Group Executive 1 For Vittoria Shortt, the performance measures for the 2020 financial year LTVR rights have the following weightings: 50% relative TSR, 25% ASB trust and reputation and 25% ASB employee engagement. ASB trust and reputation and ASB employee engagement measures are both subject to the positive TSR gateway. Adam Bennett 12,13 30 Jun 20 601,871 14,686 10,083 295,535 6,774 (6,179) 197,023 164,794 1,407,913 767,733 3,460,232 30 Jun 19 1,024,580 25,000 16,928 244,684 7,992 34,629 – 141,240 1,018,078 – 2,513,131 96 97 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Equity awards received as remuneration Overview of unvested equity awards 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The table below details the value and number of all equity awards that were granted, vested, forfeited or lapsed to Executives Performance period/ during their time in a KMP role in the 2020 financial year. It also shows the number of previous years’ awards that vested vesting schedule during the 2020 financial year – some of which relate to past non-KMP roles. Equity plan Grant date Start date End date Performance measures/vesting conditions Granted during 2020 Awards vested during Forfeited or lapsed during financial year 2 2020 financial year 3 2020 financial year4 FY18 Executive STVR 1 Sep 18 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 18 Equal tranches vesting after one and two years, Class 1 Units $ Units $ Units $ subject to: FY19 Executive STVR 1 Sep 19 1 Jul 18 30 Jun 19 • continued employment OVERVIEW CEO • Board risk and reputation review Matt Comyn LTVR rights 47,957 1,821,975 5,236 486,243 16,298 1,307,409 • malus provisions. Deferred STVR shares 9,599 747,474 – – – – FY17 Executive 1 Sep 17 1 Jul 16 30 Jun 17 Equal tranches vesting after one, two and three years, Current Group Executives and CEO ASB General Manager STVR subject to: • continued employment Pascal Boillat LTVR rights 32,698 1,242,266 – – – – FY18 Executive 1 Sep 18 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 18 General Manager STVR • Board risk and reputation review Deferred STVR shares 4,544 353,841 – – – – • malus provisions. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Sign-on equity – – 14,052 1,149,354 – – FY18 LTVR 17 Nov 17 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 21 Three tranches vesting after four years David Cohen LTVR rights 26,157 993,739 4,463 414,458 13,894 1,114,563 (following a Board risk and reputation review) being: Deferred STVR shares 4,472 348,235 1,815 141,325 – – FY19 LTVR 12 Nov 18 1 Jul 18 30 Jun 22 • 75% TSR ranking relative to peer group Alan Docherty LTVR rights 22,344 848,904 – – – – FY20 LTVR 18 Nov 19 1 Jul 19 30 Jun 23 • 12.5% trust and reputation (relative to peer group) Deferred STVR shares 3,741 291,312 915 71,247 – – and • 12.5% employee engagement. Deferred STVR rights – – 1,459 129,637 – – 18 Feb 20 The non-financial measures are subject to a positive Andrew Hinchliff LTVR rights 22,889 869,604 – – – – TSR vesting gateway. Deferred STVR shares 4,368 340,136 2,006 156,197 – – FY20 LTVR (CEO ASB) 18 Feb 20 1 Jul 19 30 Jun 23 Three tranches vesting after four years DIRECTORS’ REPORT Deferred STVR rights – – 3,167 281,700 – – (following a Board risk and reputation review) being: Sian Lewis LTVR rights 18,529 703,957 – – – – • 50% TSR ranking relative to peer group Deferred STVR shares 3,589 279,475 833 64,862 – – • 25% ASB trust and reputation (relative to peer group) Deferred STVR rights – – 1,681 149,575 – – • 25% ASB employee engagement. Vittoria Shortt LTVR rights 21,048 1,110,703 4,190 389,106 13,045 1,046,457 The non-financial measures are subject to a positive Deferred STVR shares 8,055 627,243 – – – – TSR vesting gateway. Deferred STVR rights – – 2,580 200,892 – – Pascal Boillat 1 Oct 18 n/a 1 Mar 23 No performance measures. Subject to: Angus Sullivan LTVR rights 23,978 910,972 – – – – sign-on equity • continued employment Deferred STVR shares 4,810 374,555 800 62,292 – – • Board risk and reputation review FINANCIAL REPORT Mike Vacy-Lyle 31 Jan 20 30 Sep 20 30 Sep 21 Deferred STVR rights – – 2,184 194,417 – – sign-on equity • malus provisions. Mike Vacy-Lyle LTVR rights 23,978 1,159,687 – – – – Nigel Williams 5 Nov 18 n/a 22 Nov 21 Sign-on equity 21,262 1,802,592 – – – – sign-on equity Nigel Williams LTVR rights 26,339 1,000,666 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 3,555 276,828 – – – – Sign-on equity – – 13,365 1,069,362 – – Former Group Executive ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Adam Bennett LTVR rights – – 4,860 451,325 15,128 1,213,553 Deferred STVR shares 2,514 195,765 1,569 122,170 – – 1 Deferred STVR shares/rights represents STVR previously awarded under the Group Executive or Executive General Manager arrangements in prior years. Mike Vacy-Lyle was awarded sign-on equity in the 2020 financial year in the form of deferred shares. Approval was given for the granting of the CEO’s 2020 financial year LTVR award at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. 2 Represents the maximum number of equity awards that may vest to each Executive in respect of their time as KMP. The values represent the fair value at grant date. The minimum potential outcome for the equity awards is zero. 3 Awards that vested include the 2016 financial year LTVR award (granted 17 November 2015), deferred STVR awards (vested in full) (tranches granted 1 September 2016, 1 September 2017 and 1 September 2018) and sign-on shares/rights (granted 1 October 2018 and 5 November 2018) that vested during time in KMP role. The value of the awards vested is calculated using VWACP for the five trading days preceding the vesting date, and includes the value of dividends accrued over the vesting period on rights. Executives receive one ordinary share in respect of each right that vests during the financial year. 4 This includes the portion of the 2016 financial year LTVR award (75.69%) that did not meet the performance hurdle and lapsed. The value of the lapsed award is calculated using the VWACP for the five trading days preceding the lapse date. 98 99 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Shares and other securities held by Executives Acquired/ Awards vested 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Balance granted as during the 2020 Net change Balance Details of the shareholdings and other securities held by Executives (or close family members or entities controlled, jointly Class 1 1 Jul 2019 remuneration financial year 2 other 3 30 Jun 2020 controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of the aforementioned hold significant voting power) are set out below relating to time in KMP role. Former Group Executive Acquired/ Awards vested Adam Bennett Ordinary 24,271 – 6,429 (7,000) n/a Balance granted as during the 2020 Net change Balance Class 1 1 Jul 2019 remuneration financial year 2 other 3 30 Jun 2020 LTVR rights 89,664 – (4,860) (15,128) n/a Deferred STVR shares 3,139 2,514 (1,569) – n/a OVERVIEW CEO 1 Ordinary shares include all CBA shares held by the Executive’s closely related parties. LTVR rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred rights/shares Matt Comyn Ordinary 55,397 – 5,236 – 60,633 represent the deferred STVR awarded under Group Executive and Executive General Manager arrangements in prior years. Both LTVR rights and deferred LTVR rights 120,948 47,957 (5,236) (16,298) 147,371 rights/shares are unvested as at 30 June 2020. The maximum potential outcome for LTVR rights and deferred rights/shares is subject to CBA share price at time of vesting. Deferred STVR shares – 9,599 – – 9,599 2 LTVR rights and deferred rights/shares become ordinary shares or cash equivalent upon vesting. Executives receive one ordinary share in respect of each right that vests during the financial year. Current Group Executives and CEO ASB 3 Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures during the year and shares or rights held by an Executive prior to their Pascal Boillat Ordinary – – 14,052 (9,052) 5,000 appointment as KMP. 4 Opening balance has been restated from 55,881 to 37,733 to include a correction to CBA ordinary shares. HOW WE CREATE VALUE LTVR rights 37,066 32,698 – – 69,764 5 Opening balance has been restated from 2,936 to 3,596 to include a correction to CBA ordinary shares. Deferred STVR shares – 4,544 – – 4,544 Sign-on equity 67,781 – (14,052) – 53,729 David Cohen 4 Ordinary 37,733 6,278 – 44,011 Executive employment arrangements LTVR rights 99,214 26,157 (4,463) (13,894) 107,014 The table below provides the employment arrangements for Executives. Deferred STVR shares 3,630 4,472 (1,815) – 6,287 Contract term CEO Group Executives CEO ASB Alan Docherty Ordinary 5,142 – 2,374 312 7,828 LTVR rights 25,329 22,344 – – 47,673 Contract type 1 Permanent Permanent Permanent Deferred STVR shares 2,745 3,741 (915) – 5,571 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Notice period 12 months Six months Six months Deferred STVR rights 2,259 – (1,459) – 800 Andrew Hinchliff Ordinary 4,831 – 5,173 – 10,004 Severance n/a n/a 2 12 months 2 LTVR rights 24,709 22,889 – – 47,598 STVR In general, unless otherwise determined by the Board (or ASB Board in respect of the CEO ASB): Deferred STVR shares 6,019 4,368 (2,006) – 8,381 treatment • Executives who resign or are dismissed are not eligible to receive an STVR award and will forfeit any Deferred STVR rights 4,807 – (3,167) – 1,640 on termination unvested deferred STVR awards. Sian Lewis 5 Ordinary 3,596 – 2,514 – 6,110 • Where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g. retrenchment, retirement or death), the Executive remains eligible (unless the Board determines otherwise) to be considered for an STVR award LTVR rights 20,386 18,529 – – 38,915 with regard to actual performance against performance measures (as determined by the Board in the Deferred STVR shares 2,500 3,589 (833) – 5,256 ordinary course following the end of the performance period). FINANCIAL REPORT Deferred STVR rights 2,534 – (1,681) – 853 • Where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g. retrenchment, retirement or death), Vittoria Shortt Ordinary 15,026 – 4,190 – 19,216 unvested deferred STVR awards will remain on-foot subject to the original terms and conditions and will vest in the ordinary course, as though the Executive had not ceased employment. LTVR rights 54,013 21,048 (4,190) (13,045) 57,826 Deferred STVR shares – 8,055 – – 8,055 LTVR In general, unless otherwise determined by the Board: Deferred STVR rights 7,064 – (2,580) – 4,484 treatment • Executives who resign or are dismissed before the end of the performance period will forfeit all on termination unvested LTVR awards. Angus Sullivan Ordinary 9,469 – 2,984 – 12,453 • Where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g. retrenchment, retirement or death), any LTVR rights 25,946 23,978 – – 49,924 unvested LTVR awards continue on-foot with performance measured at the end of the performance ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Deferred STVR shares 2,402 4,810 (800) – 6,412 period related to each award. Deferred STVR rights 3,266 – (2,184) – 1,082 1 Permanent contracts continue until notice is given by either party. Mike Vacy-Lyle Ordinary n/a – – – – 2 Contractual severance pay is no longer offered in Group Executive employment arrangements. Group Executives remain entitled to statutory redundancy LTVR rights n/a 23,978 – – 23,978 pay if retrenched. For Group Executives on grandfathered arrangements, they are eligible for severance payments of six months’ base remuneration if their employment is terminated by the Group, other than for misconduct or unsatisfactory performance. For the CEO ASB, contractual severance allows for Sign-on equity n/a 21,262 – – 21,262 minimum 12 months’ base salary (inclusive of notice) or a maximum of 64 weeks in accordance with ASB Policy. Nigel Williams Ordinary 18,538 – 13,365 – 31,903 LTVR rights 29,858 26,339 – – 56,197 Deferred STVR shares – 3,555 – – 3,555 Sign-on equity 24,574 – (13,365) – 11,209 100 101 Remuneration report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Short-term Post-employment Share-based 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 4. Non-Executive Director arrangements benefits benefits payments Non-Executive Directors' Total statutory Non-Executive Director fees Cash Superannuation Share Plan 3 remuneration 1 2 $ $ $ $ Non-Executive Directors receive fees to recognise their contribution to the work of the Board and the associated Committees on which they serve. Non-Executive Directors do not receive any performance-related remuneration. The total amount Former Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Directors’ fees is capped at a maximum fee pool that is approved by shareholders. The current fee pool is $4.75 million, which was approved by shareholders at CBA’s 2015 Annual General Meeting on 17 November 2015. David Higgins 5 OVERVIEW The following table outlines the Non-Executive Directors’ fees for the Board and the Committees as at 30 June 2020. 30 Jun 20 183,066 10,724 – 193,790 There has been no change to Board fees during the 2020 financial year. Fees are inclusive of base fees and statutory 30 Jun 19 313,052 20,531 – 333,584 superannuation. The Chairman does not receive separate Committee fees. Chairman Member 1 Cash includes Board and Committee fees received as cash, as well as the provision of additional benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax). Board/Committee $ $ 2 Superannuation contributions are capped at the superannuation maximum contributions base as prescribed under the Superannuation Guarantee legislation. 3 The values shown in the tables represent the post-tax portion of fees received as shares under the NEDSP. Shares granted under the NEDSP are granted on current Board 870,000 242,000 share price as at grant date and paid for out of pre-tax fee sacrifice (to a maximum of $5,000 p.a.) or after-tax fees, and were not provided as compensation. Audit Committee 65,000 32,500 4 Genevieve Bell AO and Paul O’Malley were appointed as Non-Executive Directors effective 1 January 2019 and their remuneration reflects time in the role. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Risk & Compliance Committee 65,000 32,500 5 David Higgins retired from his Non-Executive Director role effective 31 December 2019 and his remuneration reflects time in the role. He was appointed as the Chairman of the United Kingdom Remuneration Assurance Committee from 1 July 2019. His remuneration includes the fees paid for this role during the period he was KMP. People & Remuneration Committee 60,000 30,000 Nominations Committee 11,600 11,600 Non-Executive Director MSR United Kingdom Remuneration Assurance Committee (UK RAC) 1 30,000 18,000 The MSR for Non-Executive Directors was reviewed during the 2019 financial year. From 1 July 2019, Non-Executive Directors are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 100% of Board Chairman fees for the Chairman and 100% of Board member fees for Non1 David Higgins served as Chair of the UK RAC during the 2020 financial year. Board members who also serve as members of the UK RAC receive fees in relation Executive Directors. This is to be accumulated over five years commencing the later of 1 July 2019 or date of appointment, valued with to that service, and these fees are set appropriately below fees for UK RAC independent members given a small portion of UK RAC matters overlap with People reference to the prevailing CBA share price at the date of appointment. For existing Non-Executive Directors, the number of shares & Remuneration Committee matters. required is calculated based on the prevailing CBA share price as at 1 July 2019 rather than the appointment date. This will also be the starting date for compliance with the revised MSR within five years. Progress against the MSR for each individual is shown on page 84. Non-Executive Director statutory remuneration The statutory table below details individual statutory remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for both the 2019 and Shares and other securities held by Non-Executive Directors DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2020 financial years. Details of the shareholdings and other securities as well as interests in registered schemes made available by CBA, or a related body Short-term Post-employment Share-based corporate of CBA held by Non-Executive Directors (or close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly benefits benefits payments influenced by them, or any entity over which any of the aforementioned hold significant voting power) are set out below relating to Non-Executive time in KMP role. All shares were acquired by Non-Executive Directors on normal terms and conditions or through the Non-Executive Directors' Total statutory Directors’ Share Plan (NEDSP). Other securities acquired by Non-Executive Directors were on normal terms and conditions. Cash 1 Superannuation 2 Share Plan 3 remuneration Balance Net change Balance $ $ $ $ Class 1 Jul 2019 Acquired 1 other 2 30 June 2020 Chairman Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO Catherine Livingstone AO Ordinary 7,337 3,598 – 10,935 FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Jun 20 870,108 21,003 – 891,111 Current Non-Executive Directors 30 Jun 19 864,013 20,531 – 884,544 Shirish Apte Ordinary 7,500 – – 7,500 Current Non-Executive Directors Genevieve Bell AO Ordinary 141 500 – 641 Shirish Apte PERLS 5 1,020 – – 1,020 30 Jun 20 314,694 21,003 – 335,697 Paul O'Malley Ordinary 5,330 – – 5,330 30 Jun 19 349,010 20,531 – 369,541 Mary Padbury 3 Ordinary 1,279 248 – 1,527 Genevieve Bell AO 4 PERLS 5 1,600 – – 1,600 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 30 Jun 20 196,617 20,724 33,550 250,891 Wendy Stops Ordinary 16,000 – – 16,000 30 Jun 19 95,031 9,905 14,320 119,256 Anne Templeman-Jones Ordinary 1,038 512 – 1,550 Paul O'Malley4 Rob Whitfield AM Ordinary 858 613 – 1,471 30 Jun 20 292,542 21,003 – 313,545 30 Jun 19 112,266 10,099 – 122,365 Former Non-Executive Director Mary Padbury David Higgins 4 Ordinary 10,878 – – n/a 30 Jun 20 252,575 21,003 11,233 284,811 PERLS 5 150 – – n/a 30 Jun 19 236,674 20,531 25,618 282,823 1 Incorporates shares and other securities acquired during the year. In the 2020 financial year, under the NEDSP, Genevieve Bell AO acquired 500 shares, Mary Padbury Wendy Stops acquired 248 shares, Anne Templeman-Jones acquired 272 shares and Rob Whitfield AM acquired 613 shares. 30 Jun 20 284,797 21,003 – 305,800 2 Net change other incorporates changes resulting from sales of securities. 3 Mary Padbury also holds an interest in 158,162.747 units in the Commonwealth Specialist Fund 15, a registered scheme made available by a related body 30 Jun 19 287,028 20,531 – 307,559 corporate of the Bank, as at 12 August 2020. Varying interests in this Fund have been held by Mary Padbury since 2015. CBA identified that it omitted to Anne Templeman-Jones disclose these interests in its Annual Reports from 2016 in error. 30 Jun 20 306,732 21,003 13,213 340,948 4 David Higgins retired from the Group effective 31 December 2019 and therefore his shareholding balance as at 30 June 2020 is not included. 5 Includes cumulative holdings of PERLS securities issued by the Group. 30 Jun 19 271,568 20,531 30,136 322,235 Rob Whitfield AM 30 Jun 20 266,263 21,003 43,014 330,280 30 Jun 19 231,314 20,531 33,471 285,316 102 103 Remuneration report (continued) Directors’ report (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Non-audit services 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 5. Loans and other transactions Amounts paid or payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for audit, review, assurance and non-audit services provided during the year, are set out in Note 12.3 to the Financial report on page 264. Auditor’s Independence Declaration Loans to KMP We have obtained an independence declaration from our external auditor as presented on page 104. All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in Auditor independence the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other The operation of the Group External Auditor Services Policy assists in ensuring the independence of the Group’s OVERVIEW employees, including the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). No loans external auditor. were written down during the period. The Audit Committee has considered the provision, during the year, of non-audit services by PwC and has concluded that the provision of those services did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Total loans to KMP The Audit Committee is satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services by PwC during the year is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). $ The Directors are satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services by PwC during the year is compatible with the general Opening balance (1 Jul 19) 12,402,631 standard of independence for auditors and did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations HOW WE CREATE VALUE Act 2001 (Cth). The reasons for this are as follows: Closing balance (30 Jun 20) 1 7,942,387 • The effective operation of the Group External Auditor Services Policy during the year to restrict the nature of non-audit Interest charged (during 2020 financial year) 308,403 services engagements, to prohibit certain services and to require Audit Committee pre-approval for all such engagements; and • The relative quantum of fees paid for non-audit services compared to the quantum for audit, and audit related services was 1 The aggregate loan amount at the end of the reporting period includes loans issued to 11 KMP and their closely related parties. appropriate. The above Directors’ statements are in accordance with the advice received from the Audit Committee. Loans to KMP exceeding $100,000 in aggregate during the 2020 financial year Incorporation of additional material Highest Balance Interest Interest not Balance balance The following sections of this report form part of the Directors’ report and should be read in conjunction. 1 Jul 2019 1 charged charged Write-off 30 Jun 2020 in period 2 • Directors’ shareholdings, share rights and options can be found on pages 98 and 101; and DIRECTORS’ REPORT $ $ $ $ $ $ • The Remuneration report can be found on pages 78–102. Adam Bennett 1,014,436 7,772 – – n/a 1,022,961 This Directors’ report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. Alan Docherty 1,447,903 45,453 – – 1,298,389 1,452,190 Sian Lewis 776,528 29,781 – – 777,066 817,095 Vittoria Shortt 3,300,739 41,007 – – 138,774 5,600,432 Angus Sullivan 5,654,483 178,606 – – 5,601,320 5,814,816 Total 12,194,090 302,618 – – 7,815,549 14,707,493 Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman FINANCIAL REPORT 1 Opening balances at 1 July 2019 have been restated due to a change in reporting methodology. 2 Represents the sum of highest balances outstanding at any point during the 2020 financial year for each individual loan held by the KMP and their closely related parties. Other transactions of KMP Financial instrument transactions Matt Comyn Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP, their close family Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer ADDITIONAL INFORMATION members and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them, occur in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees. 12 August 2020 All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and KMP, their close family members and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them, were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Transactions other than financial instrument transactions All other transactions with KMP, their close family members, related entities and other related parties are conducted in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. 104 105 Auditor’s Independence Declaration For the year ended 30 June 2020 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Financial report contents Financial statements 7. Other liabilities 183 As lead auditor for the audit of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 2020, I declare that to the Income Statements 106 7.1 Other provisions 183 OVERVIEW best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: Statements of Comprehensive Income 107 7.2 Bills payable and other liabilities 190 (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and Balance Sheets 108 (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. Statements of Changes in Equity 109 8. Our capital, equity and reserves 191 This declaration is in respect of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the entities it controlled during the period. Statements of Cash Flows 111 8.1 Capital adequacy 191 Notes to the financial statements 8.2 Loan capital 192 8.3 Shareholders’ equity 194 HOW WE CREATE VALUE 1. Overview 113 8.4 Dividends 199 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies 113 9. Risk management 201 Matthew Lunn Partner 9.1 Risk management framework 202 PricewaterhouseCoopers 2. Our performance 119 9.2 Credit risk 208 9.3 Market risk 228 2.1 Net interest income 119 Sydney 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk 231 12 August 2020 2.2 Average balances and related interest 121 9.5 Disclosures about fair values 235 2.3 Other operating income 126 9.6 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Collateral arrangements 241 2.4 Operating expenses 128 9.7 Offsetting financial assets and 2.5 Income tax expense 130 financial liabilities 242 2.6 Earnings per share 133 2.7 Financial reporting by segments 134 10. Employee benefits 245 3. Our lending activities 139 10.1 Share-based payments 245 10.2 Retirement benefit obligations 247 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 139 10.3 Key management personnel 250 3.2 Provisions for impairment 143 FINANCIAL REPORT 11. Group structure 252 4. Our deposits and funding activities 154 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities 252 4.1 Deposits and other public borrowings 154 11.2 Related party disclosures 257 4.2 Liabilities at fair value through 11.3 Discontinued operations 258 Income Statement 155 4.3 Debt issues 156 4.4 Securitisation, covered bonds and 12. Other 262 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION transferred asset 158 12.1 Contingent liabilities, contingent assets and commitments arising from the 5. Our investing, trading and banking business 262 other banking activities 159 12.2 Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows 263 12.3 Remuneration of auditors 264 5.1 Cash and liquid assets 159 12.4 Future accounting developments 265 5.2 Receivables due from and Payables due to financial institutions 159 12.5 Accounting policies applicable for comparative periods 266 5.3 Assets at fair value through Income Statement 160 12.6 Subsequent events 267 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 161 5.5 Investment securities 174 Directors’ declaration 268 Independent auditor’s report 269 PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 6. Other assets 176 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY, NSW 2001 Additional information 277 6.1 Property, plant and equipment 176 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au 6.2 Intangible assets 179 Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 6.3 Other assets 182 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 106 107 Income Statements Statements of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 COMMONWEALTH BANK Group 1, 2, 3 Bank 2, 3 Group 1, 2, 3 Bank 2, 3 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Note $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Interest income: Net profit after income tax for the period from continuing operations 7,459 8,101 8,742 10,168 7,783 Effective interest income 2.1 29,726 34,089 33,643 26,651 30,953 Other comprehensive income/(expense): Other interest income 2.1 436 620 629 485 660 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit/(loss): Interest expense 2.1 (11,552) (16,485) (15,807) (10,660) (15,434) Foreign currency translation reserve net of tax (186) 488 (12) (51) 214 OVERVIEW Net interest income 18,610 18,224 18,465 16,476 16,179 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging instruments net of tax 726 947 (53) 694 1,003 Other banking income 4 2.3 5,002 4,877 5,299 9,154 5,919 (Losses)/gains on debt investment securities at fair value through (199) 103 – (200) (5) Net banking operating income 23,612 23,101 23,764 25,630 22,098 Other Comprehensive Income net of tax Net funds management operating income 2.3 173 254 314 – – Losses on available-for-sale investments net of tax – – (68) – – Total of items that may be reclassified 341 1,538 (133) 443 1,212 Net insurance operating income 2.3 141 150 241 – – Items that will not be reclassified to profit/(loss): Total net operating income before operating expenses 23,926 23,505 24,319 25,630 22,098 Actuarial gains/(losses) from defined benefit superannuation plans net and impairment 116 (49) 161 115 (50) of tax HOW WE CREATE VALUE Operating expenses 2.4 (10,929) (10,928) (10,687) (10,745) (10,633) Losses on liabilities at fair value due to changes in own credit risk Loan impairment expense 3.2 (2,518) (1,201) (1,079) (2,155) (1,058) – – (2) – – net of tax Net profit before income tax 10,479 11,376 12,553 12,730 10,407 Gains/(losses) on equity investment securities at fair value through 34 (6) – 40 (1) Income tax expense 2.5 (3,020) (3,275) (3,811) (2,562) (2,624) Other Comprehensive Income net of tax Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 7,459 8,101 8,742 10,168 7,783 Revaluation of properties net of tax 19 34 31 15 33 Non-controlling interests in net profit after income tax from Total of items that will not be reclassified 169 (21) 190 170 (18) – (12) (13) – – Other comprehensive income net of income tax from continuing continuing operations 510 1,517 57 613 1,194 operations Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank from 7,459 8,089 8,729 10,168 7,783 Total comprehensive income for the period from continuing continuing operations 7,969 9,618 8,799 10,781 8,977 DIRECTORS’ REPORT operations Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations 11.3 2,178 489 606 – – Net profit after income tax for the period from discontinued operations 2,178 489 606 – – Non-controlling interests in net profit after income tax from 11.3 (3) (7) (6) – – Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period from discontinued operations (56) (17) (6) – – discontinued operations net of income tax 4 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 9,634 8,571 9,329 10,168 7,783 Total comprehensive income for the period 10,091 10,090 9,399 10,781 8,977 The above Income Statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Total comprehensive income for the period is attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 10,088 10,071 9,380 10,781 8,977 Non-controlling interests 3 19 19 – – Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank during the year: Total comprehensive income net of tax 10,091 10,090 9,399 10,781 8,977 FINANCIAL REPORT Group 1, 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. Cents per share 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect the changes in accounting policies detailed in Note 1.1. 3 Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details Earnings per share from continuing operations: on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 4 Includes $48 million loss on foreign currency translation net of tax (30 June 2019: $24 million loss; 30 June 2018: $3 million gain) and $8 million loss on revaluation Basic 421. 8 458. 3 500. 0 of debt investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income net of tax (30 June 2019: $7 million gain). The year ended 30 June 2018 Diluted 408. 5 443. 2 485. 5 includes $9 million loss on revaluation of available-for-sale investments net of tax. Earnings per share: The above Statements of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Basic 544. 8 485. 6 534. 3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diluted 523. 2 468. 6 517. 7 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. Group 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect the changes in accounting policies detailed in Note 1.1. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 3 Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details Note Cents per share on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 4 Other banking income is presented net of directly associated depreciation and impairment charges. Dividends per share attributable to shareholders of the Bank: Ordinary shares 8.4 298 431 431 106 107 108 109 Balance Sheets Statements of Changes in Equity As at 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1, 2, 3 1, 3 Group Bank Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Ordinary NonTotal Note $M $M $M $M share Retained controlling Shareholders' capital Reserves profits Total interests Equity Assets $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 5.1 44,165 29,387 40,300 26,912 As at 30 June 2018 37,270 1,676 28,360 67,306 554 67,860 Receivables from financial institutions 5.2 8,547 8,093 8,309 7,334 Change on adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 – – (955) (955) – (955) Assets at fair value through Income Statement 5.3 46,545 33,677 46,284 33,128 Restated opening balance 37,270 1,676 27,405 66,351 554 66,905 OVERVIEW Derivative assets 5.4 30,285 25,215 29,322 24,311 Net profit after income tax from continuing Investment securities: – – 8,089 8,089 12 8,101 operations 1 At amortised cost 5.5 5,173 7,355 5,167 7,349 Net profit after income tax from discontinued At fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 5.5 79,549 78,912 72,335 73,212 – – 482 482 7 489 operations 1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3.1 771,547 755,173 677,268 660,508 Net Other Comprehensive Income from – 1,566 (49) 1,517 – 1,517 Shares in and loans to controlled entities 11.2 – – 66,792 63,943 continuing operations 1 Property, plant and equipment 6.1 5,602 2,383 4,051 1,389 Net Other Comprehensive Income from HOW WE CREATE VALUE – (17) – (17) – (17) Investments in associates and joint ventures 11.1 3,034 3,001 1,082 1,017 discontinued operations 1 Intangible assets 6.2 6,944 7,965 3,951 4,317 Total comprehensive income for the period – 1,549 8,522 10,071 19 10,090 Deferred tax assets 2.5 2,060 1,675 1,968 1,570 Transactions with equity holders in their capacity Other assets 6.3 8,839 7,115 6,917 5,860 as equity holders: 2 Assets held for sale 11.3 1,770 16,551 1 1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares – – (7,606) (7,606) – (7,606) Total assets 1,014,060 976,502 963,747 910,851 Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 748 – – 748 – 748 Liabilities Share-based payments – 16 – 16 – 16 Deposits and other public borrowings 4.1 701,999 636,040 631,301 573,851 Purchase of treasury shares (93) – – (93) – (93) Payables to financial institutions 5.2 16,429 23,370 15,350 22,618 Sale and vesting of treasury shares 95 – – 95 – 95 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4.2 4,397 8,520 3,888 7,961 Other changes – (149) 161 12 (518) (506) Derivative liabilities 5.4 31,347 22,777 36,248 26,654 As at 30 June 2019 38,020 3,092 28,482 69,594 55 69,649 Due to controlled entities – – 53,072 49,610 Change on adoption of AASB 16 3 – – (146) (146) – (146) Current tax liabilities 795 326 716 129 Restated opening balance 38,020 3,092 28,336 69,448 55 69,503 Deferred tax liabilities 2.5 30 – 30 – Net profit after income tax from continuing – – 7,459 7,459 – 7,459 operations Provisions 7.1 3,408 2,968 2,914 2,554 Debt issues 4.3 142,503 164,022 113,323 131,094 Net profit after income tax from discontinued – – 2,175 2,175 3 2,178 operations Bills payable and other liabilities 7.2 13,188 10,068 11,866 8,687 FINANCIAL REPORT 11.3 Net Other Comprehensive Income from Liabilities held for sale 594 15,796 – – – 394 116 510 – 510 continuing operations 914,690 883,887 868,708 823,158 Net Other Comprehensive Income from Loan capital 8.2 27,357 22,966 26,964 22,569 – (56) – (56) – (56) discontinued operations Total liabilities 942,047 906,853 895,672 845,727 Total comprehensive income for the period – 338 9,750 10,088 3 10,091 Net assets 72,013 69,649 68,075 65,124 Transactions with equity holders in their Shareholders' Equity capacity as equity holders: 2 Ordinary share capital 8.3 38,131 38,020 38,180 38,212 Dividends paid on ordinary shares – – (7,629) (7,629) – (7,629) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Reserves 8.3 2,666 3,092 2,444 3,813 Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) (1) – – (1) – (1) Retained profits 8.3 31,211 28,482 27,451 23,099 Share-based payments – (23) – (23) – (23) Shareholders' Equity attributable to equity holders of the Bank 72,008 69,594 68,075 65,124 Purchase of treasury shares (65) – – (65) – (65) Non-controlling interests 5 55 – – Sale and vesting of treasury shares 98 – – 98 – 98 Total Shareholders' Equity 72,013 69,649 68,075 65,124 Decrease in treasury shares on deconsolidation 79 – – 79 – 79 of CommInsure Life 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect the changes in accounting policies detailed in Note 1.1. 2 Current year balances have been impacted by the announced disposals of AUSIEX and Colonial First State, completed disposals of CFSGAM, Count Financial, PT Other changes 4 – (741) 754 13 (53) (40) Commonwealth Life, and deconsolidation of CommInsure Life. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations, refer to Note 11.3. As at 30 June 2020 38,131 2,666 31,211 72,008 5 72,013 3 Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 1 Information has been restated to reflect reclassification of Colonial First State as a discontinued operation during the current year. 2 Current year and prior year include discontinued operations. The above Balance Sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 3 The Group adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16, the Group recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the new requirements as an adjustment to opening Retained profits at 1 July 2019. Comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 4 Includes $733 million transfer from General reserve to Retained profits. The above Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 108 109 110 111 Statements of Changes in Equity (continued) Statements of Cash Flows COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1, 2 1 Bank Group Bank Ordinary Total 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 share Retained Shareholders' Note $M $M $M $M $M capital Reserves profits Equity $M $M $M $M Cash flows from operating activities Interest received 30,920 34,757 35,801 27,817 32,366 As at 30 June 2018 37,533 2,568 23,819 63,920 Interest paid 3 (11,932) (15,695) (15,356) (10,947) (16,743) Change on adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 – – (868) (868) Other operating income received 5,237 5,808 6,181 3,618 3,971 Restated opening balance 37,533 2,568 22,951 63,052 OVERVIEW Expenses paid 3 (9,749) (10,784) (10,340) (9,228) (9,693) Net profit after income tax from continuing operations – – 7,783 7,783 Income taxes paid (3,171) (4,878) (4,791) (2,728) (4,453) Net Other Comprehensive Income from continuing operations – 1,244 (50) 1,194 Net (outflows)/inflows from assets at fair value through Total comprehensive income for the period – 1,244 7,733 8,977 (4,009) 2,482 5,270 (2,668) 6,915 Income Statement (excluding insurance) Transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders: Net inflows/(outflows) from liabilities at fair value through Dividends paid on ordinary shares – – (7,606) (7,606) Income Statement: Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 748 – – 748 Insurance: HOW WE CREATE VALUE Share-based payments – 22 – 22 Investment income 198 340 225 – – Purchase of treasury shares (69) – – (69) Premiums received 4 1,135 2,414 3,241 – – Other changes – (21) 21 – Policy payments and commission expense 4 (2,087) (3,061) (3,453) – – As at 30 June 2019 38,212 3,813 23,099 65,124 Other liabilities at fair value through Income Statement (4,312) 126 (208) (3,963) (410) Change on adoption of AASB 16 1 – – (146) (146) Cash flows from operating activities before changes 2,230 11,509 16,570 1,901 11,953 Restated opening balance 38,212 3,813 22,953 64,978 in operating assets and liabilities Net profit after income tax from continuing operations – – 10,168 10,168 Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from Net Other Comprehensive Income from continuing operations – 498 115 613 cash flow movements Total comprehensive income for the period – 498 10,283 10,781 Movement in investment securities: DIRECTORS’ REPORT Transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders: Purchases (42,088) (41,925) – (38,397) (39,020) Dividends paid on ordinary shares – – (7,629) (7,629) Proceeds 44,358 43,239 – 43,099 39,556 Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) (1) – – (1) Movement in available-for-sale investments: Share-based payments – (23) – (23) Purchases – – (51,783) – – Purchase of treasury shares (65) – – (65) Proceeds – – 52,832 – – Sale and vesting of treasury shares 34 – – 34 Net increase in loans, bills discounted and other receivables (20,386) (9,465) (16,105) (17,745) (4,585) Other changes 2 – (1,844) 1,844 – Net (increase)/decrease in receivables from financial institutions (584) 1,345 884 (1,069) 1,210 As at 30 June 2020 38,180 2,444 27,451 68,075 Net (increase)/decrease in securities purchased under (4,126) 930 9,258 (4,753) 933 agreements to resell FINANCIAL REPORT 1 The Bank adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16, the Bank recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the new requirements as an adjustment to opening Retained profits at 1 July 2019. Comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. Insurance business: 2 Includes $586 million transfer from General reserve and $1,254 million transfer from Capital reserve to Retained profits. Purchase of insurance assets at fair value through Income Statement (903) (1,383) (1,594) – – Proceeds from sales and maturities of insurance assets at The above Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 1,415 2,512 2,671 – – fair value through Income Statement Net (increase)/decrease in other assets (1,560) 525 (11) (449) 524 Net increase/(decrease) in deposits and other public borrowings 69,214 4,891 (876) 59,334 1,949 Net (decrease)/increase in payables to financial institutions (6,970) 2,154 (8,279) (7,257) 2,319 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Net (decrease)/increase in securities sold under agreements (2,222) 4,402 (1,574) (2,131) 4,408 to repurchase Net increase/(decrease) in other liabilities 482 (648) (884) 547 (137) Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from 36,630 6,577 (15,461) 31,179 7,157 cash flow movements Net cash provided by operating activities 12.2 (a) 38,860 18,086 1,109 33,080 19,110 1 It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. 2 Includes discontinued operations. For the cash flows from discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. 3 Includes cash outflows due to lease payments, under AASB 16 Leases, which was implemented on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. 4 Represents gross premiums and policy payments before splitting between policyholders and shareholders. 110 111 112 113 Statements of Cash Flows (continued) Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1, 2 1 Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 1. Overview Note $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows from investing activities Cash inflows from acquisitions – – 26 – – 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies Net proceeds from disposal of entities and businesses (net of General information 5,011 1,259 – – – cash disposed of) The Financial Report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Bank) and the Bank and its subsidiaries (the Group) for the year OVERVIEW Dividends received 95 141 68 4,809 1,473 ended 30 June 2020, was approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 August 2020. The Directors have the power to amend and reissue the financial statements. Net amounts paid to controlled entities 3 – – – (789) (1,906) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 200 151 155 26 89 The Bank is a for-profit entity incorporated and domiciled in Australia. It is a company limited by shares that are publicly traded on the Australian Securities Exchange. The registered office is Ground Floor, Tower 1, 201 Sussex Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia. Purchases of property, plant and equipment (910) (326) (477) (238) (271) Net cash flows from (acquisitions)/sales of associates and joint ventures (18) 72 (271) – 29 The Financial Report includes the consolidated and standalone financial statements of the Group and the Bank, respectively. Notes accompanying the financial statements and the Independent Auditor’s Report form part of the Financial Report. Net purchase of intangible assets (682) (314) (503) (529) (597) On 21 September 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to sell 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (CommInsure Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 3,696 983 (1,002) 3,279 (1,183) Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018 and includes a HOW WE CREATE VALUE Cash flows from financing activities long-term partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in New Zealand. Dividends paid (excluding Dividend Reinvestment Plan) (7,629) (6,853) (5,366) (7,629) (6,853) On 23 May 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited (BoCommLife) Redemption of other equity instruments – (505) – – – to MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (MS&AD)1, which is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals. The sale is expected to complete in Proceeds from issuance of debt securities 37,630 56,448 68,273 32,889 46,685 the second half of calendar year 2020. Redemption of debt securities (64,661) (73,747) (67,809) (55,706) (63,343) On 1 November 2018, the Group completed the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (TymeDigital Purchases of treasury shares (65) (93) (95) (65) (69) SA) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital. Sales of treasury shares 93 22 55 – – On 2 August 2019, the Group completed the sale of CFSGAM to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). Proceeds from issuance of loan capital 5,849 1,579 4,445 5,845 1,571 On 1 October 2019, the Group completed the sale of its 100% interest in Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) to CountPlus Limited Redemption of loan capital (2,871) (2,637) (464) (2,876) (2,263) (CountPlus). DIRECTORS’ REPORT Payments for the principal portion of lease liabilities (463) – – (428) – On 1 November 2019, the Group announced the implementation of a joint cooperation agreement (JCA) which resulted in the full Other (115) 47 27 33 (70) economic interests associated with CommInsure Life being transferred to AIA, and AIA obtaining direct management and control of the business (excluding the Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife). As a result, CommInsure Life (excluding BoCommLife) was Net cash used in financing activities (32,232) (25,739) (934) (27,937) (24,342) deconsolidated and derecognised on 1 November 2019. The aggregate proceeds are being received in instalments. Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10,324 (6,670) (827) 8,422 (6,415) The Group and AIA remain fully committed to completing the divestment of CommInsure Life through either a share sale or a statutory Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 17 675 715 54 598 asset transfer. In the event of a share sale, the divestment is expected to complete shortly following the completion of the sale of the Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 17,010 23,005 23,117 15,534 21,351 Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife. In the event of a statutory asset transfer, the divestment is expected to complete in the Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12.2 (b) 27,351 17,010 23,005 24,010 15,534 first half of calendar year 2021. On 28 April 2020, the Group announced the sale of its subsidiary, Australian Investment Exchange Limited (AUSIEX), to Nomura 1 It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. FINANCIAL REPORT Research Institute (NRI). The sale is subject to regulatory and other conditions, and is expected to complete in the first half of calendar 2 Includes discontinued operations. For the cash flows from discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. year 2021. 3 Amounts paid to controlled entities are presented in line with how they are managed and settled. On 13 May 2020, the Group entered into an agreement to sell a 55% interest in Colonial First State (CFS) to KKR. The sale is subject to The above Statements of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. regulatory approvals, and is expected to complete in the first half of calendar year 2021. On 4 June 2020, the Group completed the sale of its 80% interest in its Indonesian life insurance business, PT Commonwealth Life (PTCL), to FWD Group (FWD). As part of the sale, CBA’s Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT Bank Commonwealth (PTBC), has entered into a 15 year life insurance distribution partnership with FWD. The Group ceased providing licensee services through Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited-Pathways (CFP-Pathways) in March ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2020 and through Financial Wisdom Limited (Financial Wisdom) in June 2020. CFS, CommInsure Life, BoCommLife, CFSGAM and PTCL have been classified as discontinued operations in the Group’s financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020. The assets and liabilities of CFS, AUSIEX and the Group’s interest in BoCommLife are classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2020. There have been no other significant changes in the nature of the principal activities of the Group during the year. Basis of accounting The Financial Report: • is a general purpose financial report; • has been prepared in accordance with the Australian Accounting interpretations adopted by the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); • has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth); • is presented in Australian dollars, which is the Bank’s functional and presentation currency, with all values rounded to the nearest million dollars ($M) in accordance with ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/191 unless otherwise indicated; • includes foreign currency transactions that are translated into the functional currency, using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of each transaction; 112 1 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings is the ultimate parent company of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd. 113 114 115 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies (continued) 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Basis of accounting (continued) Leases • has been prepared on a going concern basis using a historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities (including derivative The Group assumes lease residual value risk on assets such as industrial, mining, rail, aircraft, marine, technology, healthcare and instruments) measured at fair value; other equipment. A lease residual value guarantee exposes the Group to the movement in second-hand prices of these assets. Severe disruption to the global shipping market resulted in a $17 million reduction in the estimated residual values in relation to the lease of • presents assets and liabilities on the face of the Balance Sheets in decreasing order of liquidity; shipping vessels. This was recognised as an immediate loss in Net interest income. • where required, presents restated comparative information for consistency with the current year’s presentation in the Financial Report; In June 2020, AASB 16 Leases was amended to provide lessees with an exemption from the requirement to determine whether a • contains accounting policies that have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated. OVERVIEW COVID-19 related rent concession is a lease modification. While the Group did not receive rent concessions, it elected to early adopt Impact of coronavirus (COVID-19) the amendments in the 2020 financial year. Background Hedge accounting The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures undertaken to contain it have dramatically changed the global economic outlook, causing The Group has considered the impact of COVID-19 on its existing hedges, and whether they continue to meet the criteria for hedge large-scale economic disruption and pronounced volatility in financial markets. The market disruption is expected to lead to rising levels accounting. In most cases, the hedged future cash flows remained highly probable. The Group reassessed the forecast sales of of unemployment, elevated levels of credit losses from business insolvencies and higher consumer defaults. In an attempt to mitigate particular aircraft and expected future lease payments, which due to disruption in the aviation sector, were no longer considered to be the economic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, governments, prudential regulators and central banks have offered significant fiscal, highly probable within the designated time period. The hedging relationships were therefore discontinued and a loss of $11 million was regulatory and monetary support to allow businesses to remain liquid and solvent, and to support retail customers. The extent to which reclassified from the Cash flow hedge reserve to Other banking income. The repayment deferrals granted to retail and SME customers HOW WE CREATE VALUE these efforts will reduce the adverse financial effects of the COVID-19 pandemic remains uncertain. did not impact the Group’s cash flow hedges. Refer to Note 5.4. Consideration of the financial statements and further disclosures Receivables from and payables to financial institutions The Group has carefully considered the impact of COVID-19 in preparing its financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2020. The On 19 March 2020, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) announced a Term Funding Facility (TFF) for ADIs, to support lending to key impacts on the financial statements, including the application of critical estimates and judgements, are as follows: Australian businesses. The TFF is a three year facility with a fixed interest rate of 0.25% per annum. The funding is collateralised by residential mortgage-backed securities issued by the Group. The TFF is initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at Loans, bills discounted and other receivables amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. As at 30 June 2020, the carrying value of the TFF was $1,500 million. Refer to The Group has introduced a number of support measures for customers impacted by COVID-19, which include loan repayment Note 5.2. deferrals to retail and small business customers, and the origination of loans under the Government's Small and Medium Enterprises Events subsequent to reporting date (SME) guarantee scheme. The repayment deferral arrangements were deemed continuations of customers’ existing loans and were therefore accounted for as non-substantial loan modifications. A total modification loss of $6 million was recognised in relation to There remains significant uncertainty regarding how the COVID-19 pandemic will evolve, including the duration of the pandemic, the repayment deferrals on home loans, where interest over the deferral period was charged on a simple interest, rather than compounding severity of the downturn and the speed of economic recovery. In accordance with AASB 110 Events after the Reporting Date, the Group DIRECTORS’ REPORT basis. No other modification gains or losses were recognised as a result of the repayment deferrals. Refer to Note 3.1 and 3.2. considered whether events after the reporting period confirmed conditions existing before the reporting date. Consideration was given to the macro-economic impact of lockdowns implemented across Victoria, the closure of state borders, and the extension of further Provisions for impairment government support measures. The Group did not identify any subsequent events precipitated by COVID-19 related developments, In March 2020, the IASB published IFRS 9 and COVID-19, a document which highlights the requirements within IFRS 9 Financial which would require adjustment to the amounts or disclosures in the financial statements. Further, no other material non-adjusting Instruments relevant to the impact of COVID-19 on the recognition of expected credit losses. The publication reinforces the fact that subsequent events relating to COVID-19 were identified requiring disclosure in the financial statements. Given the fluid nature of the IFRS 9 does not provide a mechanistic approach in accounting for impairment provisions. current situation, the Group will continue to regularly review forward looking assumptions and forecast economic scenarios. In assessing forecast conditions, the Group has incorporated the effects of COVID-19 and government support measures on a Changes in comparatives reasonable and supportable basis. The AASB 9 impairment methodology, and the definition of default have remained consistent with prior periods. Forward looking adjustments have been determined based on a range of plausible economic and industry stress factors, Discontinued operations taking into account the mitigating impacts of government and industry assistance packages, including loan repayment deferral The financial results of businesses reclassified as discontinued operations are excluded from the results of the continuing operations arrangements. Stress testing has formed the basis for ongoing re-assessments of provisioning levels as the situation evolves. The and are presented as a single line item Net profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations in the Income Statement, and Other FINANCIAL REPORT circumstances are unique in that many of the deferred loans were performing prior to COVID-19, and either continue to perform, or have comprehensive income/(expense) from discontinued operations in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. genuine prospects of recovery once government restrictions are eased and lockdowns are discontinued. COVID-19 repayment deferrals The Income Statements and the Statements of Comprehensive Income for comparative periods are also restated. Assets and liabilities were not borrower specific, but rather addressed to broad ranges of customers, and have therefore not been classified automatically as of discontinued operations subject to disposal have been presented on the Balance Sheet separately as assets and liabilities held for Stage 2 loans. Refer to Note 3.2 and 9.2. sale. The Balance Sheet is not restated when a business is reclassified as a discontinued operation. Fair value measurement Re-segmentation The Group has considered the impact of economic and market disruptions on fair value measurement assumptions and the During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group made the following structural changes to its operating segments: appropriateness of the valuation inputs. These included valuation adjustments, notably credit valuation adjustments (CVA), and funding valuation adjustments (FVA). The Group has also considered the impact of COVID-19 on the classification of exposures in the fair value • enhancing the classification of its business banking portfolios which resulted in a transfer of some customers from Retail Banking Services to Business and Private Banking and Institutional Banking and Markets; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION hierarchy. There was a reduction in the availability of quoted prices for certain Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income and trading securities during the current reporting period. This resulted in a transfer of $16,777 million of • Aligned Advice related businesses (including Financial Wisdom Limited, Count Financial Limited and Commonwealth Financial Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income and $4,979 million of trading securities from Level 1 to Level 2 Planning Limited-Pathways) were transferred out of the Wealth Management division and consolidated into the Retail Banking since their fair values ceased to be determined by using unadjusted quoted prices. There were no other material transfers of financial Services division; and instruments between levels within the fair value hierarchy as a consequence of COVID-19. Refer to Note 9.5. • other re-segmentations, allocations and reclassifications, including refinements to the allocation of support unit and other costs. Assessment of impairment of non-financial assets These changes have not impacted the Group’s net profit, but have resulted in changes to the presentation of the Income Statement and The Group tested goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment, updating the assumptions, and cash flow forecasts, where the Balance Sheet of the affected segments. These changes have been applied retrospectively. relevant, to reflect the potential impact of COVID-19. No impairment losses were recognised on these assets. Changes in accounting policies The Group assessed Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, and assets held as lessor for indicators of impairment. Severe disruption to the aviation sector caused by international travel bans was deemed an indicator of impairment, and therefore required Adoption of AASB16 Leases aircraft held by the Group as lessor to be tested for impairment. A total impairment loss of $81 million was recognised in Other banking On 1 July 2019, the Group adopted AASB 16 Leases, replacing AASB 117 Leases. AASB 117 required leases to be classified as income relating to aircraft leased to financially distressed airlines, where the assets were considered likely to be repossessed, or where operating leases or finance leases according to their economic substance at inception of the lease. Finance leases were recognised on the leases were close to expiry. Lower demand for used aircraft and a decline in asset prices resulted in a reduction in these assets’ the Balance Sheet. Operating leases were not recognised on the Balance Sheet and rent payable was recognised as an expense over expected recoverable values below their carrying values. There remains significant uncertainty regarding the severity of the impact of the lease term. COVID-19 on the aviation sector, and the duration of restrictions on domestic and international travel. Refer to Notes 6.1. and 6.2. AASB 16 introduced a single accounting model for recognising and measuring lease arrangements. Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged from the previous standard. Under lessee accounting, AASB 16 requires all leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet, as a lease liability and right-of-use asset, unless the underlying asset is of low value or the lease has a term of 12 months or less. The total lease expense recognised over the life of the lease remains unchanged as compared to AASB 117, however the timing of expense recognition changes. A higher expense is recognised in the earlier stages of a lease due to the interest expense being determined on the lease liability that amortises over the lease term. 114 115 116 117 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies (continued) 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Lease liability The following table reconciles the operating lease commitments disclosed under AASB 117 as at 30 June 2019 to the opening lease Lease liabilities are initially measured at the net present value of the following lease payments (if applicable): liabilities recognised under AASB 16 as at 1 July 2019. • fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable; Group Bank • variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate; $M $M • amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees; Operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019 under AASB 117 4,078 3,760 • the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and Increase in the lease term for extension options 566 536 OVERVIEW • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option. Inclusion of technology contracts not recognised as a lease under AASB 117 71 71 Lease liabilities are remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in the above. Lease liabilities Exclusion of leases with a remaining term of less than one year and low value leases (96) (92) are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest is recognised as part of Interest expense in the Exclusion of service components (738) (738) Income Statement. Exclusion of operating lease commitments regarding contracts not yet commenced (610) (610) Right-of-use asset Exclusion of GST (274) (226) Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost comprising the following: Total undiscounted lease payments 2,997 2,701 • the initial amount of the lease liability measured at the present value of the future lease payments; HOW WE CREATE VALUE Effect of discounting at a weighted average incremental borrowing rate of 2.8% (267) (231) • any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received; Total lease liabilities as at 1 July 2019 under AASB 16 2,730 2,470 • any initial direct costs; and Provision for lease restoration obligations 135 121 • an estimate of the costs to be incurred upon disassembling or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms of the lease. Total liabilities recognised on adoption of AASB 16 2,865 2,591 The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Adoption of interpretations and amendments to existing standards Determining the lease term AASB Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (Interpretation 23) Extension options are included in a number of leases. In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances Interpretation 23 clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement criteria in AASB 112 Income Taxes where there is that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option. Extension options are only included in the lease term if the lease is uncertainty over income tax treatments. It requires an assessment of each uncertain tax position to determine whether it is probable that reasonably certain to be extended. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs a taxation authority will accept the position. Where it is not considered probable, the effect of the uncertainty will be reflected in DIRECTORS’ REPORT determining the relevant taxable profit or loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates. The amount will be which affects this assessment and is within the control of the Group. determined as either the single most likely amount or the sum of the probability weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes, Excluded leases whichever better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty. Judgements will be reassessed as and when new facts and circumstances A scope exemption has been applied to short-term leases with a lease term of 12 months or less, and low value leases. These continue are presented. The previous recognition and measurement requirements applied by the Group are aligned with Interpretation 23 and to be expensed on a straight-line basis. hence no transition adjustment to retained earnings was required. Impact of AASB 16 Other amendments The Group has adopted AASB 16 on a modified retrospective basis without restating prior periods. Under the modified retrospective The following amendments to existing standards were adopted during the current year but did not have an impact on the Group: approach, the Group elected to measure the right-of-use asset at the same amount as the lease liability, except for larger property • AASB 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures was amended to clarify that an entity should first apply the measurement leases where the Group elected to measure the right-of-use asset on a retrospective basis. This resulted in a decrease in the Group’s and expected credit loss requirements of AASB 9 to its long-term debt investments that form part of the net investment in an equity Retained profits on transition of $146 million, net of tax. (Bank: $146 million, net of tax). accounted investee, before applying the loss allocation and impairment requirements of AASB 128; and FINANCIAL REPORT The Group applied the following practical expedients on transition to AASB 16, as permitted by the standard, where the Group is a • AASB 119 Employee Benefits was amended to specify the treatment of a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement that occurs lessee in a lease previously classified as an operating lease: during a reporting period. An entity should use the assumptions applied in the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability or • reliance on assessments performed under AASB 117 of whether a lease contract is onerous; asset when determining the current service cost and the net interest in the period following the plan event. • adjusting lease terms for extension or termination options which are reasonably certain of being exercised with the benefit of hindsight; Other minor amendments to existing standards were adopted in the current reporting period. • excluding from the right-of-use asset any initial direct costs incurred prior to 1 July 2019; and Commodity financing transactions • accounting for leases whose remaining term will end within 12 months from the transition date of 1 July 2019 as short-term leases. During the financial year ended 30 June 2020, the Group amended its accounting policy in respect of certain short-term commodity financing transactions, which are not clearly captured within the scope of any accounting standard. The Group reclassified a portfolio of The impact of adopting AASB 16 on the Group’s and the Bank’s Balance Sheets at 1 July 2019 is as follows: physical commodities, previously accounted for as inventories under AASB 102 Inventories, to loans designated at fair value through ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group Bank profit or loss under AASB 9. Significant judgement has been applied in assessing whether control of the commodities transfers to the $M $M Group on inception of the transaction. In line with evolving technical interpretation of the accounting requirements for commodity transactions, it has been determined that control of the commodities does not transfer to the Group. The transactions are therefore more Opening retained profits at 1 July 2019 28,482 23,099 fairly presented as loans. The change has been applied retrospectively and impacted the prior year financial statements of both the Right-of-use assets 2,659 2,385 Group and the Bank, as follows: Net deferred tax asset 60 60 • an increase in Interest income, and a corresponding decrease in Other banking income, for the year ended 30 June 2019 of Lease liabilities (2,730) (2,470) $121 million (30 June 2018: $128 million); and Provision for lease restoration obligations (135) (121) • an increase in Commodities financing and other lending, and a corresponding decrease in Commodities, presented within Assets at fair value through income statement, as at 30 June 2019 of $6,854 million (30 June 2018: $7,353 million). Net impact on retained profits (146) (146) Adjusted retained profits at 1 July 2019 28,336 22,953 Where relevant, comparative information has been restated. All changes have been footnoted throughout the financial statements. Upon transition, judgement has been applied by the Group in assessing which arrangements contain a lease, the period over which the lease exists and the variability of future cash flows. Lease liabilities are presented within Bills payable and other liabilities and right-of-use assets are presented within Property, plant and equipment. Provisions for lease restoration obligations are included within Provisions. The depreciation charge for right-of-use assets is presented within Depreciation of Property, plant and equipment. The interest charge on lease liabilities is presented within Interest expense. 116 117 118 119 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2. Our performance Intergroup transactions with consolidated special purpose entities During the financial year ended 30 June 2020, the Group amended its accounting policy in respect of certain intergroup positions with consolidated securitisation vehicles where it holds all of the issued instruments of the securitisation vehicle. The transactions between OVERVIEW the entities will no longer be accounted for as imputed loan liabilities, and debt securities held by the Bank. The revised treatment more fairly represents the economic substance of the arrangement and therefore provides more reliable and relevant information. There has The Group earns its returns from providing a broad range of banking and wealth management products and services to retail and been no change to the consolidated financial statements of the Group as a result of this accounting policy change. The change has wholesale customers in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. been applied retrospectively and impacted the prior year financial statements of the Bank as follows: Lending and deposit taking are the Group’s primary business activities with Net interest income being the main contributor to the OVERVIEW • a decrease in Shares in and loans to controlled entities as at 30 June 2019 of $56,250 million (30 June 2018: $56,250 million); Group’s results. Net interest income is derived from the difference between interest earned on lending and investment assets and • a decrease in Due to controlled entities as at 30 June 2019 of $56,164 million (30 June 2018: $56,173 million); interest incurred on customer deposits and wholesale debt raised to fund these assets. • a decrease in Other assets as at 30 June 2019 of $50 million (30 June 2018: $61 million); The Group further generates income from lending fees and commissions, general insurance products and trading activities. It also • a decrease in Bills payable and other liabilities as at 30 June 2019 of $136 million (30 June 2018: $138 million); incurs costs associated with running the business such as staff, occupancy and technology related expenses. • a decrease in Interest income for the year ended 30 June 2019 of $1,967 million; The Performance section provides details of the main contributors to the Group’s returns and analysis of its financial performance by • a decrease in Interest expense for the year ended 30 June 2019 of $1,971 million; and business segments and geographical regions. • a decrease in Other banking income for the year ended 30 June 2019 of $4 million. HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2.1 Net interest income Where relevant, comparative information has been restated. All changes have been footnoted throughout the financial statements. 1, 2, 3 2, 3 Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M $M Interest income Effective interest income: Loans and bills discounted 4 28,144 31,449 31,315 24,830 27,744 Other financial institutions 110 181 140 105 171 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Cash and liquid assets 356 572 459 335 528 Investment securities: At amortised cost 114 199 – 114 199 At fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 1,002 1,688 – 911 1,559 Available-for-sale investments – – 1,729 – – Controlled entities – – – 356 752 Total effective interest income 29,726 34,089 33,643 26,651 30,953 Other: Assets at fair value through Income Statement 436 620 629 436 620 FINANCIAL REPORT Controlled entities – – – 49 40 Total other interest income 436 620 629 485 660 Total interest income 30,162 34,709 34,272 27,136 31,613 Interest Expense Deposits 7,304 9,965 9,848 5,851 8,394 Other financial institutions 391 464 418 382 435 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 74 172 167 66 162 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Debt issues 2,529 4,563 4,169 1,877 3,625 Loan capital 825 951 836 811 917 Lease liabilities 71 – – 63 – Bank levy 358 370 369 358 370 Controlled entities – – – 1,252 1,531 Total interest expense 11,552 16,485 15,807 10,660 15,434 Net interest income 18,610 18,224 18,465 16,476 16,179 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 2 Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 3 Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect the changes in accounting policies detailed in Note 1.1. 4 Includes $17 million loss from the reduction in estimated residual values in relation to leases of shipping vessels. The loss was driven by the severe disruption to the global shipping market as a result of COVID-19. 118 119 120 121 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.1 Net interest income (continued) 2.2 Average balances and related interest 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The following tables have been produced using statutory Balance Sheet and Income Statement categories. The tables list the major ACCOUNTING POLICIES categories of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities of the Group together with the respective interest earned or paid and the average interest rate for each of the full years ended 30 June 2020, 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018. Averages were predominately Interest income and interest expense on financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost, and debt financial assets measured daily averages. Interest is accounted for based on product yield. Where assets or liabilities are hedged, the amounts are shown net of at fair value through OCI, are recognised using the effective interest rate method. Interest income is calculated on financial assets the hedge, but individual items not separately hedged may be affected by movements in exchange rates and interest rates. The classified within Stage 1 and Stage 2 by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the assets. Interest income overseas component comprises overseas branches of the Bank and overseas domiciled controlled entities. Non-accrual loans are on financial assets in Stage 3 is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount net of provisions for included in interest earning assets under Loans, bills discounted and other receivables. The official cash rate in Australia has decreased impairment. Interest income on finance leases is recognised progressively over the life of the lease, consistent with the outstanding OVERVIEW 100 basis points on a spot basis, while in New Zealand the official cash rate has decreased 125 basis points on a spot basis during the investment and unearned income balance. financial year ended 30 June 2020 (2019: 25 basis points decrease for both Australia and New Zealand on a spot basis, 2018: no Interest expense also includes payments made under a liquidity facility arrangement with the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Major Bank changes). Levy (Bank Levy) expense and other financing charges. Group 1, 2 Interest income and expense on financial assets and liabilities that are classified at fair value through the Income Statement are 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 accounted for on a contractual rate basis and include amortisation of premium/discounts. Fees, transaction costs and issue costs Average Average Average Average Average Average integral to the financial assets and liabilities are capitalised and included in the interest recognised over the expected life of the Interest earning balance Interest rate balance Interest rate balance Interest rate instrument. This includes fees for providing a loan or a lease arrangement. assets $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % HOW WE CREATE VALUE Cash and liquid assets Australia 23,468 244 1. 0 18,415 367 2. 0 19,087 313 1. 6 Overseas 22,539 112 0. 5 20,238 205 1. 0 18,898 146 0. 8 Receivables from financial institutions Australia 2,461 38 1. 5 2,095 52 2. 5 2,290 50 2. 2 Overseas 6,420 72 1. 1 5,799 129 2. 2 5,997 90 1. 5 Assets at fair value through Income Statement DIRECTORS’ REPORT (excluding life insurance) Australia 34,237 422 1. 2 31,895 609 1. 9 28,381 572 2. 0 Overseas 2,070 14 0. 7 822 11 1. 3 4,070 57 1. 4 Investment Securities: At amortised cost Australia 6,272 114 1. 8 6,887 199 2. 9 – – – Overseas 6 – 0. 6 5 – 0. 6 – – – At fair value through OCI FINANCIAL REPORT Australia 56,929 716 1. 3 57,088 1,329 2. 3 – – – Overseas 19,996 286 1. 4 18,640 359 1. 9 – – – Available-for-sale investments Australia – – – – – – 66,241 1,479 2. 2 Overseas – – – – – – 17,011 250 1. 5 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Australia 4 614,980 23,563 3. 8 603,394 26,524 4. 4 597,343 26,711 4. 5 Overseas 108,031 4,581 4. 2 106,140 4,925 4. 6 102,566 4,604 4. 5 Total interest earning 897,409 30,162 3. 4 871,418 34,709 4. 0 861,884 34,272 4. 0 assets and interest income 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 3 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include bank acceptances. 4 Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest earning assets. Mortgage offset balance is $48,807 million (30 June 2019: $45,175 million, 30 June 2018: $40,824 million). While the balances are required to be grossed up under accounting standards, they are netted down for the calculation of customer interest payments and the Group’s net interest margin. 120 121 122 123 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.2 Average balances and related interest (continued) 2.2 Average balances and related interest (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1 Group 1, 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Average Average Average Average Average Average Average Average Average balance balance balance Interest bearing balance Interest rate balance Interest rate balance Interest rate Non-interest earning assets $M $M $M liabilities $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % 2 Assets at fair value through Income Statement Insurance Time deposits OVERVIEW Australia – – – Australia 3 192,671 3,896 2. 0 203,750 5,181 2. 5 203,694 5,043 2. 5 Overseas – – 377 Overseas 56,599 1,589 2. 8 53,836 1,746 3. 2 51,291 1,532 3. 0 Property, plant and equipment 3 Savings deposits Australia 4,577 2,208 2,344 Australia 3 160,031 950 0. 6 144,686 1,588 1. 1 146,346 1,812 1. 2 Overseas 597 244 252 Overseas 15,655 146 0. 9 14,335 167 1. 2 14,414 205 1. 4 Other assets Other demand deposits Australia 4 86,398 79,169 87,901 Australia 126,355 601 0. 5 114,193 1,151 1. 0 112,195 1,120 1. 0 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Overseas 10,236 10,175 11,924 Overseas 9,910 122 1. 2 8,765 132 1. 5 8,136 136 1. 7 Provisions for impairment Payables to financial Australia (4,561) (4,026) (3,203) institutions Overseas (613) (599) (466) Australia 10,659 164 1. 5 8,852 221 2. 5 10,292 196 1. 9 Total non-interest earning assets 96,634 87,171 99,129 Overseas 14,258 227 1. 6 12,709 243 1. 9 16,648 222 1. 3 Assets held for sale 2 Liabilities at fair value Australia 5,043 15,128 13,046 through Income Statement Overseas 691 1,829 2,228 Australia 5,090 66 1. 3 9,372 162 1. 7 7,557 141 1. 9 Overseas 700 8 1. 1 1,054 10 0. 9 1,332 26 2. 0 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total assets 999,777 975,546 976,287 4 Percentage of total assets applicable to overseas operations (%) 17. 0 16. 7 16. 7 Debt issues Australia 129,461 2,106 1. 6 140,447 3,846 2. 7 138,666 3,463 2. 5 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 During the years ended 30 June 2020 and 30 June 2019, Insurance assets of CommInsure Life and PT Commonwealth Life are presented as Assets held for sale. Overseas 23,499 423 1. 8 26,676 717 2. 7 28,450 706 2. 5 During the year ended 30 June 2018, Insurance assets of CommInsure Life and Sovereign are presented as Assets held for sale. Loan capital 3 Current period amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. Australia 18,066 608 3. 4 15,655 668 4. 3 13,788 556 4. 0 4 For the purpose of reconciling to total average assets, other assets include average mortgage offset balances of $48,807 million (30 June 2019: $45,175 million, Overseas 6,439 217 3. 4 6,785 283 4. 2 6,774 280 4. 1 30 June 2018: $40,824 million) as these balances were excluded from average loans and interest earning assets. Lease liabilities 5 Australia 2,232 60 2. 7 – – – – – – FINANCIAL REPORT Overseas 357 11 3. 1 – – – – – – Bank levy Australia – 358 – – 370 – – 369 – Overseas – – – – – – – – – Total interest bearing liabilities and interest 771,982 11,552 1. 5 761,115 16,485 2. 2 759,583 15,807 2. 1 expense ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 3 Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest bearing liabilities. 4 Debt issues include bank acceptances. 5 Current period amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 122 123 124 125 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.2 Average balances and related interest (continued) 2.2 Average balances and related interest (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Changes in Net interest income: volume and rate analysis 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 The following tables show the movement in interest income and expense due to changes in volume and interest rates. Volume Average Average Average variances reflect the change in interest from the prior year due to movement in the average balance. Rate variances reflect the change balance balance balance in interest from the prior year due to changes in interest rates. Volume and rate variance for total interest earning assets and interest Non-interest bearing liabilities $M $M $M bearing liabilities have been calculated separately (rather than being the sum of the individual categories). Deposits not bearing interest June 2020 vs June 2019 June 2019 vs June 2018 1, 2 OVERVIEW Australia 1 105,261 91,316 83,949 Changes in net interest income: Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Overseas 6,301 4,897 4,193 Volume and rate analysis $M $M $M $M $M $M Insurance policy liabilities Interest earning assets Australia – – – Cash and liquid assets Overseas – – 466 Australia 53 (176) (123) (13) 67 54 Overseas 11 (104) (93) 14 45 59 Other liabilities Receivables from financial institutions Australia 29,134 25,532 37,250 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Australia 6 (20) (14) (5) 7 2 Overseas 11,193 9,430 10,255 Overseas 7 (64) (57) (4) 43 39 Total non-interest bearing liabilities 151,889 131,175 136,113 Assets at fair value through Income Statement Liabilities held for sale (excluding life insurance) Australia 4,515 13,855 13,413 Australia 29 (216) (187) 67 (30) 37 Overseas 502 1,025 1,308 Overseas 8 (5) 3 (43) (3) (46) Investment securities: 3 Total liabilities 928,888 907,170 910,417 Australia (10) (687) (697) (54) 103 49 Shareholders' Equity 70,889 68,376 65,870 Overseas 19 (93) (74) 31 78 109 Total liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 999,777 975,546 976,287 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Percentage of total liabilities applicable to overseas operations (%) DIRECTORS’ REPORT 15. 7 15. 4 15. 7 Australia 444 (3,405) (2,961) 266 (453) (187) 1 Includes average mortgage offset balance. Overseas 80 (424) (344) 166 155 321 Changes in interest income 874 (5,421) (4,547) 380 57 437 Interest bearing liabilities and loan capital Time deposits Australia (224) (1,061) (1,285) 1 137 138 Overseas 78 (235) (157) 83 131 214 Savings deposits Australia 91 (729) (638) (18) (206) (224) Overseas 12 (33) (21) (1) (37) (38) FINANCIAL REPORT Other demand deposits Australia 58 (608) (550) 20 11 31 Overseas 14 (24) (10) 9 (13) (4) Payables to financial institutions Australia 28 (85) (57) (36) 61 25 Overseas 25 (41) (16) (75) 96 21 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Australia (56) (40) (96) 31 (10) 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overseas (4) 2 (2) (3) (13) (16) Debt issues Australia (179) (1,561) (1,740) 49 334 383 Overseas (57) (237) (294) (48) 59 11 Loan capital Australia 81 (141) (60) 80 32 112 Overseas (12) (54) (66) – 3 3 Lease liabilities Australia 60 – 60 – – – Overseas 11 – 11 – – – Bank levy Australia – (12) (12) – 1 1 Overseas – – – – – – Changes in interest expense 163 (5,096) (4,933) 33 645 678 Changes in net interest income 539 (153) 386 199 (440) (241) 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 3 Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income and Investment securities at amortised cost have been compared to available-for-sale assets in the prior period. 124 125 126 127 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.3 Other operating income 2.3 Other operating income (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1, 2 Bank 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 ACCOUNTING POLICIES $M $M $M $M $M Lending fees and commission income are accounted for as follows: Other banking income • facility fees earned for managing and administering credit and other facilities for customers are generally charged to the customer on Commissions 2,557 2,677 2,716 2,148 2,277 a monthly or annual basis and are recognised as revenue over the service period. Annual fees are deferred on Balance Sheet in Bills payable and Other liabilities and recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Transaction based fees are charged and Lending fees 986 992 1,109 904 922 OVERVIEW recognised at the time of the transaction; Trading income 940 853 897 822 753 • commitment fees and fees in relation to guarantee arrangements are deferred and recognised over the life of the contractual Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments 3 139 (113) 58 29 (205) arrangements; Net gain/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment 32 (9) (17) 11 (11) • fee income is earned for providing advisory or arrangement services, placement and underwriting services. These fees are Net (loss)/gain from hedging ineffectiveness (14) 13 12 (93) 16 recognised and charged when the related service is completed which is typically at the time of the transaction; and Dividends Controlled entities 4 – – – 4,721 1,229 • trail commissions are recognised at the start of a contract when the performance obligation has been met, typically when a customer is introduced to a new project. The Group recognises the net present value of expected future trail commission income. For Dividends Other 3 5 10 88 122 investment referral services, the Group is unable to forecast the trail commission revenue in line with the highly probable test in HOW WE CREATE VALUE Share of profit from associates and joint ventures net of impairment 170 296 317 49 27 AASB 15. Therefore, trail commission revenue on investment referral balances is recognised when received or paid. 5, 6 Other 189 163 197 475 789 Establishment fees on financing facilities are deferred and amortised to interest income over the expected life of the loan and are not Total other banking income 5,002 4,877 5,299 9,154 5,919 recognised when the commitment is issued. Funds management income 196 292 330 – – Trading income represents both realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in the fair value of trading assets, liabilities and derivatives, which are recognised in the period in which they arise. Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense (23) (38) (16) – – Net funds management operating income 173 254 314 – – Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments includes realised gains and losses from non-trading financial assets and liabilities, as well as realised and unrealised gains and losses on non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. Net insurance operating income Premiums from insurance contracts 698 682 687 – – Net gain/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment is the difference between proceeds received and its carrying value. Investment revenue 2 5 4 – – Net hedging ineffectiveness is measured on fair value, cash flow and net investment hedges. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense from Dividends received on non-trading equity investments are recognised on the ex-dividend date or when the right to receive payment is (559) (537) (450) – – insurance contracts established. Net insurance operating income 141 150 241 – – Funds management operating income includes fees earned where the Group acts as the Responsible Entity, Trustee or Manager for a Total other operating income 5,316 5,281 5,854 9,154 5,919 number of wholesale, superannuation and investment funds or trusts. Fund management services are a single performance obligation and fees are recognised over the service period. Management fees are calculated and deducted from the funds on a monthly basis. 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Performance fees are deemed to be a variable component of the fund management service and only recognised when it is highly 2 Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect the changes in accounting policies detailed in Note 1.1. probable that a significant reversal of the fees will not occur. 3 Includes gains/(losses) on non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. 4 Current year includes $2,327 million dividend from the repatriation of ASB Bank Limited retained profits. During the current year, the Bank increased its investment General insurance premiums received and receivable are recognised as revenue when they are earned, based on actuarial assessment in ASB Bank Limited by $2,327 million. of the likely pattern in which risk will emerge. The portion not yet earned based on the pattern assessment is recognised as an unearned FINANCIAL REPORT 5 Includes depreciation of $83 million in relation to assets held for lease as lessor by the Group (30 June 2019: $72 million, 30 June 2018: $74 million). Includes premium liability. Claims are recognised as an expense when the liability is established. depreciation of $6 million in relation to assets held for lease as lessor by the Bank (30 June 2019: $8 million). The Group equity accounts for its share of the profits or losses of associate or joint venture investments, net of impairment recognised. 6 Current year includes a $92 million impairment loss recognised by the Group in relation to certain aircraft owned by the Group and leased to various airlines. The Dividends received are recognised as a reduction of the investment carrying amount. impairment loss was driven by the impact of COVID-19 on the aviation sector. This includes a loss of $11 million that was reclassified from the Cash flow hedge reserve. Other income includes rental income on operating leases which is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This is offset Group 1 Bank 1 by depreciation and impairment expense on the associated operating lease assets held by the Group. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M $M Other income also includes the impact of foreign currency revaluations for foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities. These assets and liabilities are retranslated at the spot rate at balance date. Exchange differences arising upon settling or translating monetary items Net hedging ineffectiveness comprises: at different rates to those at which they were initially recognised or previously reported, are recognised in the Income Statement. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Gain/(loss) on fair value hedges: Critical accounting judgements and estimates Hedging instruments 3,297 3,251 2,537 2,186 1,164 The amount of trail commission revenue is dependent on assumptions about the behavioural life of the underlying transaction Hedged items (3,302) (3,242) (2,529) (2,268) (1,154) generating the commission. Trail commission income is only recognised to the extent it is highly probable it will not reverse in future Cash flow and net investment hedge ineffectiveness (9) 4 4 (11) 6 periods. Net hedging ineffectiveness (14) 13 12 (93) 16 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 126 127 128 129 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.4 Operating expenses 2.4 Operating expenses (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1, 2 Bank 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 ACCOUNTING POLICIES $M $M $M $M $M Salaries and related on-costs include annual leave, long service leave, employee incentives and relevant taxes. Staff expenses are Staff expenses recognised over the period the employee renders the service. Long service leave is discounted to present value using assumptions relating to staff departures, leave utilisation and future salary. Salaries and related on-costs 5,239 5,224 4,806 4,772 4,998 Share-based compensation 103 96 66 107 115 Share-based compensation includes plans which may be both cash or equity settled. Cash settled share-based remuneration is OVERVIEW recognised as a liability and re-measured to fair value until settled. The changes in fair value are recognised as staff expenses. Equity Superannuation 409 385 392 403 388 settled remuneration is fair valued at the grant date and amortised to staff expenses over the vesting period, with a corresponding Total staff expenses 5,751 5,705 5,264 5,282 5,501 increase in the Employee compensation reserve. Occupancy and equipment expenses Superannuation expense includes expenses relating to defined contribution and defined benefit superannuation plans. Defined Lease expenses 3 163 639 650 153 580 contribution expense is recognised in the period the service is provided, whilst the defined benefit expense, which measures current and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 726 270 271 651 247 past service costs is determined by an actuarial calculation. Other occupancy expenses 167 173 197 139 164 Occupancy and equipment expenses include depreciation which is calculated using the straight-line method over the asset’s estimated useful life. The right-of-use assets recognised under AASB 16 Leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or the useful HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total occupancy and equipment expenses 1,056 1,082 1,118 943 991 life of the underlying asset, with the depreciation presented within depreciation of Property, plant and equipment. Information technology services IT services expenses are recognised as incurred, unless they qualify for capitalisation as computer software due to the expenditure Application maintenance and development 567 586 429 659 734 generating probable future economic benefits. If capitalised, the computer software is subsequently amortised over its estimated useful Data processing 182 183 200 177 179 life. The Group assesses, at each Balance Sheet date, useful lives and residual values and whether there is any objective evidence of Desktop 118 142 153 102 129 impairment. If an asset’s carrying value is greater than its recoverable amount, the carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount. Communications 192 217 179 178 205 Amortisation of software assets 4 925 585 551 869 563 Other expenses are recognised as the relevant service is rendered. Operating expenses related to provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where a payment to settle the obligation is probable and can be reliably estimated. Software write-offs 14 13 71 14 13 IT equipment depreciation 133 93 80 118 79 Critical accounting judgements and estimates DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total information technology services 2,131 1,819 1,663 2,117 1,902 Actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit superannuation plans’ obligations are dependent on a series of assumptions set out in Note 10.2, including inflation rates, discount rates and salary growth rates. Changes in these assumptions impact the fair value of the Other expenses plans’ obligations, assets, superannuation expense and actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income. Postage and stationery 148 156 171 142 151 Measurements of the Group’s share-based compensation is dependent on assumptions, including grant date fair values. Information on Transaction processing and market data 135 146 130 119 131 these is set out in Note 10.1. Fees and commissions: Refer to Note 6.2 for more information on the judgements and estimates associated with goodwill. Professional fees 404 492 679 374 470 Other 262 232 129 79 65 Advertising, marketing and loyalty 424 443 478 326 362 FINANCIAL REPORT Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding software and merger 5 10 12 – – related amortisation) Non-lending losses 5 563 615 838 541 617 Impairment on investments in subsidiaries – – – 405 – Other 16 124 171 127 148 Total other expenses 1,957 2,218 2,608 2,113 1,944 Operating expenses before restructuring, separation 10,895 10,824 10,653 10,455 10,338 and transaction costs ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Restructuring, separation and transaction costs 34 104 34 290 295 Total operating expenses 6 10,929 10,928 10,687 10,745 10,633 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 2 Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. 3 Current year includes rentals of $86 million in relation to short-term leases and low value leases, and variable lease payments based on usage or performance of $44 million. 4 The year ended 30 June 2020 includes approximately a $220 million one-off impact of accelerated amortisation following a review of the amortisation method and useful lives of certain technology assets. The year ended 30 June 2020 also includes $170 million of amortisation of prepaid software licences (30 June 2019: $161 million; 30 June 2018: $136 million). 5 The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $145 million professional indemnity insurance recovery in relation to AUSTRAC civil penalty. The year ended 30 June 2018 includes $700 million AUSTRAC civil penalty. 6 The year ended 30 June 2020 includes additional provisions for historical Aligned Advice remediation issues and associated program costs of $300 million, Wealth and Banking customer refunds and associated program costs of $94 million and other remediation of $60 million (30 June 2019: Aligned Advice remediation of $534 million, Wealth and Banking customer refunds and associated program costs of $301 million). 128 129 130 131 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.5 Income tax expense 2.5 Income tax expense (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 1 The income tax expense for the year is determined from the profit before income tax as follows: Group Bank 1 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Group Bank $M $M $M $M $M 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax asset balances comprise temporary differences Profit before income tax 10,479 11,376 12,553 12,730 10,407 attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Income Statement and opening Prima facie income tax at 30% 3,144 3,413 3,766 3,819 3,122 OVERVIEW retained profits: 2, 3 Effect of amounts which are non-deductible/(assessable) in Lease liability 952 – – 882 – calculating taxable income: Provision for employee benefits 472 425 452 418 398 Taxation offsets and other dividend adjustments – – (7) (1,416) (365) Provisions for impairment on loans, bills discounted and other Offshore tax rate differential (16) (40) (36) 7 (8) 1,758 1,345 991 1,580 1,230 receivables Offshore banking unit (19) (32) (39) (20) (32) Other provisions not tax deductible until expense incurred 674 497 221 592 331 Effect of changes in tax rates – 1 15 – 1 Defined benefit superannuation plan 360 357 339 360 357 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Income tax over provided in previous years (53) (101) (70) (39) (105) Unearned income 221 250 267 221 250 Non-deductible expense provision 2 – – 210 – – Intangible assets 184 76 45 184 76 Loss on disposals (74) – – (5) – Other 216 236 251 110 232 Other 38 34 (28) 216 11 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement and opening Total income tax expense 3,020 3,275 3,811 2,562 2,624 4,837 3,186 2,566 4,347 2,874 retained profits 2, 3 Effective tax rate (%) 28. 8 28. 8 30. 4 20. 1 25. 2 Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Cash flow hedge reserve 117 142 114 16 19 2 Relates to the AUSTRAC civil penalty, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. Other reserves 176 41 22 180 46 1 Group Bank DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total amount recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income 293 183 136 196 65 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Income tax expense attributable to profit from ordinary activities $M $M $M $M $M Total deferred tax assets (before set off) 5,130 3,369 2,702 4,543 2,939 Set off to tax (3,070) (1,694) (1,263) (2,575) (1,369) Australia Net deferred tax assets 2,060 1,675 1,439 1,968 1,570 Current tax expense 3,017 3,110 3,496 2,963 2,755 Deferred tax liability balances comprise temporary differences Deferred tax benefit (557) (380) (137) (631) (256) attributable to: Total Australia 2,460 2,730 3,359 2,332 2,499 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement and opening Overseas retained profits: 2, 3 Current tax expense 577 464 453 161 87 Right-of-use assets 875 – – 809 – FINANCIAL REPORT Deferred tax expense/(benefit) (17) 81 (1) 69 38 Lease financing relating to lessor activities 137 162 200 90 91 Total Overseas 560 545 452 230 125 Intangible assets 66 68 73 56 56 Income tax expense attributable to profit from ordinary activities 3,020 3,275 3,811 2,562 2,624 Financial instruments 13 3 30 16 13 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. Investments in associates 170 148 131 – – Other 257 106 66 78 38 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement and opening 1,518 487 500 1,049 198 retained profits 2, 3 Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Revaluation of properties 84 82 81 89 84 Foreign currency translation reserve 28 36 18 – – Cash flow hedge reserve 787 481 48 784 479 Defined benefit superannuation plan 502 487 498 502 487 Investment securities revaluation reserve 181 121 – 181 121 Available-for-sale investments reserve – – 118 – – Total amount recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income 1,582 1,207 763 1,556 1,171 Total deferred tax liabilities (before set off) 3,100 1,694 1,263 2,605 1,369 Set off to tax (3,070) (1,694) (1,263) (2,575) (1,369) Net deferred tax liabilities 30 – – 30 – 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 The adoption of AASB 16 on 1 July 2019 resulted in an increase in the Group’s Deferred tax asset of $859 million (Bank: $777 million) and an increase in the Group’s Deferred tax liability of $799 million (Bank: $717 million) recognised through opening Retained profits. 3 The adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 July 2018 resulted in an increase in the Group’s Deferred tax asset of $435 million (Bank: $353 million) and an increase in the Group’s Deferred tax liability of $101 million (Bank: $27 million) recognised through opening Retained profits. 130 131 132 133 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.5 Income tax expense (continued) 2.6 Earnings per share 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not considered probable that future taxable Group 3 profit will be available against which they can be realised: 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Group Bank Earnings per ordinary share 1 Cents per share 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Earnings per share from continuing operations: 2 Deferred tax assets not taken to account $M $M $M $M $M Basic 421. 8 458. 3 500. 0 Tax losses and other temporary differences on revenue account that: Diluted 408. 5 443. 2 485. 5 OVERVIEW Expire under current legislation – – – – – Earnings per share: Do not expire under current legislation 25 – 47 25 – Basic 544. 8 485. 6 534. 3 Total 25 – 47 25 – Diluted 523. 2 468. 6 517. 7 Tax consolidation 1 EPS calculations are based on actual amounts prior to rounding to the nearest million. 2 The information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. The Bank has recognised a tax consolidation contribution to the wholly-owned tax consolidated entity of $98 million (30 June 2019: $98 3 The difference between earnings per share from continuing operations and earnings per share represents earnings per share from discontinued operations. million). HOW WE CREATE VALUE Group The amount receivable by the Bank under the tax funding agreement was $209 million as at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $320 million Reconciliation of earnings from continuing operations 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 receivable). This balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. used in calculation of earnings per share 1 $M $M $M ACCOUNTING POLICIES Profit after income tax from continuing operations 7,459 8,101 8,742 Less: Non-controlling interests – (12) (13) Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 7,459 8,089 8,729 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 290 323 267 Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 7,749 8,412 8,996 Deferred tax is calculated using the Balance Sheet method where temporary differences are identified by comparing the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes to their tax bases. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Reconciliation of earnings used in calculation of earnings per share The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities (i.e. through use or through sale), using tax rates which are expected to apply when the Deferred tax asset is realised or Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 7,459 8,089 8,729 the Deferred tax liability is settled. Discontinued operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 2,175 482 600 The Group recognised and disclosed separate deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities arising from arrangements where the Earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 9,634 8,571 9,329 Group is lessee. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where they relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 290 323 267 either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the same taxable group. Earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 9,924 8,894 9,596 The Bank and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries elected to be treated as a single entity (“the tax consolidated group”) under the 1 The information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. tax consolidation regime from 1 July 2002. CommInsure Life will remain a member of the tax consolidated group until final completion of the share sale. The members of the tax consolidated group have entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements, which set out the Number of shares (in millions) funding obligations and members. FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Any current tax liabilities/assets and deferred tax assets from unused tax losses from subsidiaries in the tax consolidated group are Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 1,768 1,765 1,746 recognised by the Bank legal entity and funded in line with the tax funding arrangement. Effect of dilutive securities – executive share plans and convertible loan capital instruments 127 132 106 The measurement and disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities have been performed on a modified stand-alone basis under UIG 1052 Tax Consolidation Accounting. Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per 1,895 1,897 1,852 share Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions for taxation require significant judgement with respect to outcomes that are uncertain. For such uncertainties, the Group has ACCOUNTING POLICIES estimated the tax provisions based on the expected outcomes. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable ADDITIONAL INFORMATION that future taxable profits will be available for it to be used against. Basic earnings per share (EPS) amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue during the year, adjusted for any bonus element included in ordinary shares issued and excluding treasury shares held. Diluted EPS is basic EPS adjusted for the impact of all securities on issue that can convert to CBA ordinary shares and would dilute basic EPS on conversion. It is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank (after adding back interest on the convertible redeemable loan capital instruments) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year (as calculated under basic earnings per share adjusted for the effects of dilutive convertible non-cumulative redeemable loan capital instruments and shares issuable under executive share plans). 132 133 134 135 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.7 Financial reporting by segments 2.7 Financial reporting by segments (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The principal activities of the Group are carried out in the business segments described below. These segments are based on the 30 Jun 20 1 distribution channels through which customer relationships are managed. Retail Business Institutional IFS and Banking and Private Banking and New Corporate Wealth During the year, the Group announced the sale of its funds management business, CFS. The Group’s business segment performance has Services Banking Markets Zealand Centre Management Total been updated and presented on a continuing operations basis to exclude CFS businesses, which is disclosed as a discontinued operation. $M $M $M $M $M $M $M During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group made the following structural changes to its operating segments: Net interest income 9,388 5,654 1,403 1,927 238 – 18,610 • enhancing the classification of its business banking portfolios which resulted in a transfer of some customers from Retail Banking OVERVIEW Services to Business and Private Banking and Institutional Banking and Markets; Other banking income: • Aligned Advice related businesses (including Financial Wisdom Limited, Count Financial Limited and Commonwealth Financial Commissions 1,219 878 158 287 15 – 2,557 Planning Limited-Pathways) were transferred out of the Wealth Management division and consolidated into the Retail Banking Lending fees 157 440 332 63 (6) – 986 Services division; and Trading and other income 249 247 407 25 366 – 1,294 • other re-segmentations, allocations and reclassifications, including refinements to the allocation of support unit and other costs. Total other banking income 1,625 1,565 897 375 375 – 4,837 These changes have not impacted the Group’s net profit, but have resulted in changes to the presentation of the Income Statement and Total banking income 11,013 7,219 2,300 2,302 613 – 23,447 the Balance Sheet of the affected segments. These changes have been applied retrospectively. Funds management income 67 – – 136 (31) – 172 HOW WE CREATE VALUE The Group’s primary sources of revenue are interest and fee income (Retail Banking Services, Business and Private Banking, Insurance income 140 – – – (1) – 139 Institutional Banking and Markets, New Zealand and International Financial Services (IFS)) and insurance premiums (Retail Banking Services) and funds management income (Retail Banking Services, New Zealand). Total operating income 11,220 7,219 2,300 2,438 581 – 23,758 2 Investment experience 16 – – – (13) – 3 Revenues and expenses occurring between segments are subject to transfer pricing arrangements. All intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Total income 11,236 7,219 2,300 2,438 568 – 23,761 Business segments are managed on the basis of net profit after income tax (“cash basis”). Management uses “cash basis” to assess Operating expenses (4,529) (2,606) (1,022) (1,021) (1,717) – (10,895) performance and it provides the basis for the determination of the Bank’s dividends. The “cash basis” presents the Group’s underlying Loan impairment expense (1,010) (814) (347) (292) (55) – (2,518) operating results, excluding a number of items that introduce volatility and/or one-off distortions of the Group’s current period Net profit before income tax 5,697 3,799 931 1,125 (1,204) – 10,348 performance. These items, such as hedging and IFRS volatility, are calculated consistently year on year and do not discriminate Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (1,700) (1,145) (276) (314) 383 – (3,052) between positive and negative adjustments. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (i) Retail Banking Services Net profit after tax from Retail Banking Services provides banking and general insurance products and services to personal customers. Retail Banking Services continuing operations 3,997 2,654 655 811 (821) – 7,296 also includes the financial results of retail banking activities provided under the Bankwest brand. cash basis (ii) Business and Private Banking Net profit after tax from – – – – 16 137 153 Business and Private Banking serves the banking needs of business, corporate and agribusiness customers across the full range of discontinued operations financial services solutions as well as providing banking and advisory services for high net worth individuals. It also provides equities Net profit after tax trading and margin lending services through the CommSec business. Business and Private Banking also includes the financial results of 3,997 2,654 655 811 (805) 137 7,449 cash basis 3 business banking activities conducted under the Bankwest brand. Gain/(loss) on disposal and (iii) Institutional Banking and Markets FINANCIAL REPORT acquisition of entities net of 41 (16) – 8 161 1,898 2,092 Institutional Banking and Markets serves the commercial and wholesale banking needs of large corporate, institutional and government transaction costs clients across a full range of financial services solutions including access to debt capital markets, transaction banking, working capital Hedging and IFRS volatility – – – 126 (33) – 93 and risk management through dedicated product and industry specialists. Other non-cash items – – – – – – – (iv) Wealth Management Net profit after tax Wealth Management provides superannuation, investment and retirement products. 4,038 2,638 655 945 (677) 2,035 9,634 statutory basis (v) New Zealand Additional information New Zealand includes the banking and funds management businesses operating in New Zealand primarily under the ASB brand. ASB Amortisation and depreciation (194) (181) (71) (124) (1,219) – (1,789) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION provides a range of banking, wealth and insurance products and services to its personal, business, rural and corporate customers in Balance Sheet New Zealand. Total assets 4 406,962 196,710 171,110 98,539 138,253 2,486 1,014,060 (vi) International Financial Services and Corporate Centre Total liabilities 4 266,685 178,192 186,387 91,796 210,034 8,953 942,047 International Financial Services (IFS) include the Indonesian retail and business banking operations (PT Bank Commonwealth), and 1 Information is presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated. minority investments in China (Bank of Hangzhou and Qilu Bank) and Vietnam (Vietnam International Bank). 2 Investment experience is presented on a pre-tax basis. Corporate Centre includes the results of unallocated Bank support functions such as Treasury, Investor Relations, Group Strategy, 3 This balance excludes non-cash items, such as unrealised gains and losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility, gains and losses net of transaction and separation Legal and Corporate Affairs. It also includes Bank wide elimination entries arising on consolidation, centrally raised provisions and other costs associated with disposal of Aegis, AUSIEX, CFS, CFSGAM, Count Financial, PT Commonwealth Life and other businesses, the dilution of the Group’s interest in Bank of Hangzhou, the deconsolidation of CommInsure Life, and other non-cash items. unallocated revenue and expenses. Treasury is primarily focused on the management of the Bank’s interest rate risk, funding and 4 Total assets and total liabilities reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16, comparative information has not been restated. liquidity requirements, and management of the Bank’s capital. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. The Treasury function includes: • Portfolio management: manages the interest rate risk of the Bank’s non-traded Balance Sheet using transfer pricing to consolidate risk into Treasury, and hedging the residual mismatch between assets and liabilities using swaps, futures and options; and • Group funding and liquidity: manages the Bank’s long-term and short-term wholesale funding requirements, and the Bank’s prudent liquidity requirements; and • Capital and regulatory strategy: manages the Bank’s capital requirements. 134 135 136 137 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.7 Financial reporting by segments (continued) 2.7 Financial reporting by segments (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 30 Jun 19 1, 2 30 Jun 18 1, 2 Retail Business Institutional IFS and Retail Business Institutional IFS and Banking and Private Banking and New Corporate Wealth Banking and Private Banking and New Corporate Wealth Services Banking Markets Zealand Centre Management Total Services Banking Markets Zealand Centre Management Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Net interest income 8,748 5,655 1,533 1,909 379 – 18,224 Net interest income 9,070 5,646 1,605 1,760 384 – 18,465 OVERVIEW Other banking income: Other banking income 1,756 1,498 1,104 415 318 – 5,091 Commissions 1,357 813 176 302 29 – 2,677 Total banking income 10,826 7,144 2,709 2,175 702 – 23,556 Lending fees 168 418 345 60 1 – 992 Funds management income 199 – – 112 2 – 313 Trading and other income 147 293 426 80 336 – 1,282 Insurance income 242 – – – (4) – 238 Total other banking income 1,672 1,524 947 442 366 – 4,951 Total operating income 11,267 7,144 2,709 2,287 700 – 24,107 3 Total banking income 10,420 7,179 2,480 2,351 745 – 23,175 Investment experience 8 – – – (4) – 4 Funds management income 139 – – 130 (14) – 255 Total income 11,275 7,144 2,709 2,287 696 – 24,111 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Insurance income 149 – – – (2) – 147 Operating expenses (4,267) (2,406) (1,035) (860) (2,085) – (10,653) Total operating income 10,708 7,179 2,480 2,481 729 – 23,577 Loan impairment expense (632) (262) (80) (74) (31) – (1,079) 3 Investment experience 26 – – – (24) – 2 Net profit before income tax 6,376 4,476 1,594 1,353 (1,420) – 12,379 Total income 10,734 7,179 2,480 2,481 705 – 23,579 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (1,911) (1,342) (368) (378) 220 – (3,779) Operating expenses (4,462) (2,604) (1,014) (912) (1,832) – (10,824) Non-controlling interests – – – – (13) – (13) Loan impairment expense (672) (384) (17) (102) (26) – (1,201) Net profit after tax from Net profit before income tax 5,600 4,191 1,449 1,467 (1,153) – 11,554 continuing operations 4,465 3,134 1,226 975 (1,213) – 8,587 Corporate tax (expense)/benefit (1,693) (1,260) (332) (408) 372 – (3,321) cash basis Net profit after tax from DIRECTORS’ REPORT Non-controlling interests – – – – (12) – (12) – – – 96 (53) 782 825 discontinued operations Net profit after tax from continuing operations 3,907 2,931 1,117 1,059 (793) – 8,221 Net profit after tax 4,465 3,134 1,226 1,071 (1,266) 782 9,412 cash basis cash basis 4 Net profit after tax from Gain/(loss) on disposal and – – – – (43) 528 485 acquisition of entities net 58 – – (18) (84) (139) (183) discontinued operations of transaction costs Net profit after tax 3,907 2,931 1,117 1,059 (836) 528 8,706 Hedging and IFRS volatility – – – 87 14 – 101 cash basis 4 (Loss)/gain on disposal and Other non-cash items (3) – – – – 2 (1) FINANCIAL REPORT acquisition of entities net (32) – 13 179 (13) (208) (61) Net profit after tax 4,520 3,134 1,226 1,140 (1,336) 645 9,329 of transaction costs statutory basis Hedging and IFRS volatility – – – (48) (31) – (79) 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. Other non-cash items (1) – – – – 6 5 2 Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect changes in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 3 Investment experience is presented on a pre-tax basis. Net profit after tax 3,874 2,931 1,130 1,190 (880) 326 8,571 4 This balance excludes non-cash items, such as unrealised gains and losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility, gains and losses net of transaction and statutory basis separation costs associated with disposal of CommInsure Life, Sovereign, and other businesses, net gains on acquisition of AHL and other businesses, an Additional information impairment due to the reclassification of TymeDigital SA as a discontinued operation, the demerger costs for NewCo, and other non-cash items. Amortisation and depreciation (198) (162) (38) (80) (480) – (958) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Balance Sheet Total assets 390,976 197,047 148,027 94,320 125,563 20,569 976,502 Total liabilities 247,919 159,057 158,579 88,466 229,264 23,568 906,853 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. 2 Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect changes in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 3 Investment experience is presented on a pre-tax basis. 4 This balance excludes non-cash items, such as unrealised gains and losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility, gains and losses net of transaction and separation costs associated with disposal of CFSGAM, Count Financial, PT Commonwealth Life, Sovereign, TymeDigital SA and other businesses, the deconsolidation and planned divestment of CommInsure Life, the demerger costs for NewCo, and other non-cash items. 136 137 138 139 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 2.7 Financial reporting by segments (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 3. Our lending activities Group 1 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Financial performance and position $M % $M % $M % OVERVIEW Income Lending is the Group’s primary business activity, generating most of its Net interest income and lending fees. The Group satisfies Australia 20,391 85. 2 20,162 85. 8 21,026 86. 5 customers’ needs for borrowed funds by providing a broad range of lending products in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. New Zealand 2,504 10. 5 2,444 10. 4 2,297 9. 4 As a result of its lending activities the Group assumes credit risk arising from the potential that borrowers will fail to meet their OVERVIEW 2 obligations in accordance with agreed lending terms. Other locations 1,031 4. 3 899 3. 8 996 4. 1 This section provides details of the Group’s lending portfolio by type of product and geographical region, analysis of the credit quality of Total Income 23,926 100. 0 23,505 100. 0 24,319 100. 0 the Group’s lending portfolio and the related impairment provisions. 3 Non-current assets Australia 14,488 93. 0 12,453 93. 2 13,473 93. 3 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables New Zealand 857 5. 5 635 4. 8 581 4. 0 1 1 Group Bank Other locations 2 235 1. 5 261 2. 0 387 2. 7 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total non-current assets 15,580 100. 0 13,349 100. 0 14,441 100. 0 Note $M $M $M $M 1 Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. Australia 2 Other locations include: United Kingdom, Netherlands, United States, Japan, Singapore, Malta, Hong Kong, Indonesia, China and Vietnam. 3 Non-current assets include Property, plant and equipment, Investments in associates and joint ventures, and Intangibles. Overdrafts 27,593 26,297 27,593 26,297 Home loans 2, 3 485,795 467,361 478,419 459,690 The geographical segment represents the location in which the transaction was recognised. Credit card outstandings 9,005 11,271 9,005 11,271 Lease financing 4,073 4,410 3,487 3,532 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Bills discounted 354 1,955 354 1,955 Operating segments are reported based on the Group’s organisational and management structures. Senior management review the Term loans and other lending 146,225 141,727 146,238 141,711 Group’s internal reporting based around these segments, in order to assess performance and allocate resources. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total Australia 673,045 653,021 665,096 644,456 All transactions between segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis, with inter-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in Overseas ‘Corporate Centre’. Overdrafts 1,481 1,842 257 306 Home loans 2, 3 57,085 55,581 259 341 Credit card outstandings 911 1,069 – – Lease financing 6 8 1 1 Term loans and other lending 46,147 49,492 18,061 20,662 Total overseas 105,630 107,992 18,578 21,310 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 778,675 761,013 683,674 665,766 FINANCIAL REPORT Less Provisions for loan impairment: 3.2 Collective provision (5,277) (3,820) (4,766) (3,455) Individually assessed provisions (967) (895) (813) (801) Unearned income: Term loans (627) (739) (621) (730) Lease financing (257) (386) (206) (272) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (7,128) (5,840) (6,406) (5,258) Net loans, bills discounted and other receivables 771,547 755,173 677,268 660,508 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Home loans balance includes residential mortgages that have been assigned to securitisation vehicles and covered bond trusts. Further details on these residential mortgages are disclosed in Note 4.4. 3 These balances are presented gross of mortgage offset balances as required under accounting standards. Based on behavioural terms and current market conditions, the amounts expected to be repaid within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date are $178,113 million (2019: $185,208 million) for the Group, and $159,783 million (2019: $167,316 million) for the Bank. 138 139 140 141 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (continued) 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Finance lease receivables Contractual maturity tables The Group and the Bank provide finance leases to a broad range of clients to support financing needs in acquiring transportation assets Group such as trains, aircraft, ships and major production and manufacturing equipment. Maturity Period at 30 June 2020 Maturing Maturing Maturing Finance lease receivables are included within Loans, bills discounted and other receivables. 1 year between 1 after Group 1 or less and 5 years 5 years Total 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 OVERVIEW Industry 1 $M $M $M $M Gross Present value Gross Present value investment in of minimum investment in of minimum Australia finance lease Unearned lease payment finance lease Unearned lease payment Sovereign 22,376 711 434 23,521 receivable income receivable receivable income receivable Agriculture 3,417 5,969 294 9,680 $M $M $M $M $M $M Bank and other financial 9,474 3,404 258 13,136 Not later than one year 1,584 (130) 1,454 1,665 (176) 1,489 Home loans 16,452 68,258 401,085 485,795 One to two years 1,047 (66) 981 939 (66) 873 Construction 1,454 1,729 417 3,600 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Two to three years 668 (34) 634 792 (51) 741 Other personal 5,996 10,363 1,336 17,695 Three to four years 480 (16) 464 487 (41) 446 Asset financing 1,175 8,556 703 10,434 Four to five years 160 (6) 154 413 (40) 373 Other commercial and industrial 34,877 66,267 8,040 109,184 Over five years 140 (5) 135 122 (12) 110 Total Australia 95,221 165,257 412,567 673,045 4,079 (257) 3,822 4,418 (386) 4,032 Overseas Bank 1 Sovereign 69 – – 69 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Agriculture 3,882 4,648 1,071 9,601 Gross Present value Gross Present value Bank and other financial 2,686 3,635 61 6,382 investment in of minimum investment in of minimum Home loans 4,729 8,233 44,123 57,085 DIRECTORS’ REPORT finance lease Unearned lease payment finance lease Unearned lease payment receivable income receivable receivable income receivable Construction 188 218 187 593 $M $M $M $M $M $M Other personal 1,061 408 407 1,876 Not later than one year 1,431 (102) 1,329 1,363 (127) 1,236 Asset financing 48 495 236 779 One to two years 844 (54) 790 791 (39) 752 Other commercial and industrial 14,980 8,406 5,859 29,245 Two to three years 607 (28) 579 589 (39) 550 Total overseas 27,643 26,043 51,944 105,630 Three to four years 318 (12) 306 421 (32) 389 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 122,864 191,300 464,511 778,675 Four to five years 152 (5) 147 257 (24) 233 1 The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2. Over five years 136 (5) 131 112 (11) 101 Maturing Maturing Maturing FINANCIAL REPORT 3,488 (206) 3,282 3,533 (272) 3,261 1 year between 1 after or less and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Interest rate $M $M $M $M ACCOUNTING POLICIES Australia 85,170 142,694 319,877 547,741 Overseas 23,202 16,156 9,163 48,521 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include overdrafts, home loans, credit card and other personal lending, term loans, and discounted bills. These financial assets are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect Total variable interest rates 108,372 158,850 329,040 596,262 contractual cash flows. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise the payment of principal and interest only. These Australia 10,051 22,563 92,690 125,304 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION instruments are accordingly measured at amortised cost. Overseas 4,441 9,887 42,781 57,109 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables are recognised on settlement date, when funding is advanced to the borrowers. They are Total fixed interest rates 14,492 32,450 135,471 182,413 initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs such as broker fees. Subsequent to initial recognition, Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 122,864 191,300 464,511 778,675 they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. For the accounting policy for provisions for impairment, refer to Note 3.2. For information on the Group’s management of credit risk, refer to Note 9.2. Finance leases, where the Group acts as lessor, are also included in Loans, bills discounted and other receivables. Finance leases are those where substantially all the risks and rewards of the lease asset have been transferred to the lessee. Lease receivables are recognised at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance lease income reflects a constant periodic return on this net investment and is recognised within interest income in the Income Statement. Critical accounting judgements and estimates When applying this effective interest method the Group has estimated the behavioural term of each loan portfolio by reference to historical prepayment rates and the contractual maturity. 140 141 142 143 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 Group Group Bank Maturity Period at 30 June 2019 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Maturing Maturing Maturing Provisions for impairment losses $M $M $M $M $M 1 year between after or less 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Collective provision Industry 2 $M $M $M $M Opening balance 3,904 2,763 2,747 3,537 2,510 Change on adoption of AASB 9 – 1,055 – – 979 OVERVIEW Australia Sovereign 21,303 592 509 22,404 Net collective provision funding 2,043 724 716 1,804 629 Agriculture 3,631 5,066 443 9,140 Impairment losses written off (763) (901) (871) (690) (818) Bank and other financial 7,857 3,854 241 11,952 Impairment losses recovered 185 206 201 172 191 Home loans 11,859 51,092 404,410 467,361 Other 27 57 (30) 56 46 Construction 1,492 1,248 454 3,194 Closing balance 5,396 3,904 2,763 4,879 3,537 Other personal 6,848 12,978 1,682 21,508 Individually assessed provisions HOW WE CREATE VALUE Asset financing 969 8,960 542 10,471 Opening balance 895 870 980 801 779 Other commercial and industrial 36,289 61,096 9,606 106,991 Net new and increased individual provisioning 658 619 625 519 556 Total Australia 90,248 144,886 417,887 653,021 Write-back of provisions no longer required (183) (142) (262) (168) (127) Overseas Discount unwind to interest income (16) (23) (25) (16) (23) Sovereign 81 1 – 82 Impairment losses written off (444) (500) (548) (371) (446) Agriculture 4,076 5,116 1,420 10,612 Other 57 71 100 48 62 Bank and other financial 1,940 3,811 23 5,774 Closing balance 967 895 870 813 801 Home loans 4,954 7,082 43,545 55,581 Total provisions for impairment losses 6,363 4,799 3,633 5,692 4,338 Construction 255 105 213 573 Less: off Balance Sheet provisions (119) (84) (28) (113) (82) DIRECTORS’ REPORT Other personal 1,264 378 282 1,924 Total provisions for loan impairment 6,244 4,715 3,605 5,579 4,256 Asset financing 44 436 242 722 Of the total $1,207 million loans written-off by the Group during the year ended 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $1,401 million), $475 Other commercial and industrial 16,307 9,288 7,129 32,724 million remain subject to enforcement activity (30 June 2019: $424 million). Of the total $1,061 million loans written-off by the Bank Total Overseas 28,921 26,217 52,854 107,992 during the year ended 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $1,264 million), $397 million remain subject to enforcement activity Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 119,169 171,103 470,741 761,013 (30 June 2019: $394 million). 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Group Bank 2 The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Maturing Maturing Maturing Provision ratios % % % % % FINANCIAL REPORT 1 year between after 1 Total provisions for impaired assets as a % of gross impaired assets 35. 37 32. 77 33. 60 37. 74 35. 36 or less 1 1 and 5 years 1 1 5 years Total Interest rate $M $M $M $M Total provisions for impairment losses as a % of gross loans and 0. 82 0. 63 0. 49 0. 83 0. 65 acceptances Australia 76,743 126,963 332,718 536,424 1 Gross impaired assets include non-performing facilities, restructured facilities and unsecured retail managed facilities 90 days or more past due. For impaired assets Overseas 25,363 16,890 10,368 52,621 classification refer to Note 9.2. Total variable interest rates 102,106 143,853 343,086 589,045 Group Bank Australia 13,505 17,923 85,169 116,597 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Loan impairment expense $M $M $M $M $M ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overseas 3,558 9,327 42,486 55,371 Total fixed interest rates 17,063 27,250 127,655 171,968 Net collective provision funding 2,043 724 716 1,804 629 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 119,169 171,103 470,741 761,013 Net new and increased individual provisioning 658 619 625 519 556 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Write-back of individually assessed provisions (183) (142) (262) (168) (127) Total loan impairment expense 2,518 1,201 1,079 2,155 1,058 142 143 144 145 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Movement in provisions for impairment and credit exposures by ECL stage 1, 2 Group Stage 1 3 Stage 2 4 Stage 3 5 The tables below provide movements in the Group’s and the Bank’s impairment provisions and credit exposures by expected credit loss Collectively and (ECL) stage for the year ended 30 June 2020. individually assessed Total Collectively assessed Collectively assessed Movements in credit exposures and provisions for impairment in the tables below represent the sum of monthly movements over the Gross Gross Gross Gross year and are attributable to the following items: exposure Provisions exposure Provisions exposure Provisions exposure Provisions • Transfers to/(from): movements due to transfers of credit exposures between Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3. Excludes the impact of $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW re-measurements of provisions for impairment between 12 months and lifetime ECL. Opening balance as at • Net re-measurement on transfers between stages: movements in provisions for impairment due to re-measurement between 12 709,924 873 191,009 2,525 5,976 1,290 906,909 4,688 1 July 2018 months and lifetime ECL as a result of transfers of credit exposures between stages. Transfers to/(from) • Net financial assets originated: net movements in credit exposures and provisions for impairment due to new financial assets originated as well as changes in existing credit exposures due to maturities, repayments or credit limit changes. Stage 1 111,753 1,312 (111,687) (1,309) (66) (3) – – • Movements in existing IAP (including IAP write-backs): net movements in existing Individually Assessed Provisions (IAP) Stage 2 (135,041) (607) 138,440 935 (3,399) (328) – – excluding write-offs. Stage 3 (350) (10) (7,088) (460) 7,438 470 – – Net re-measurement on transfers HOW WE CREATE VALUE • Movement due to risk parameter and other changes: movements in provisions for impairment due to changes in credit risk – (1,072) – 1,596 – 568 – 1,092 parameters, forward looking economic scenarios or other assumptions as well as other changes in underlying credit quality that do between stages not lead to transfers between Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3. Net financial assets originated 56,075 341 (47,598) (999) (1,953) (143) 6,524 (801) • Write-offs: derecognition of credit exposures and provisions for impairment upon write-offs. Movement in existing IAP (including IAP – – – – – 358 – 358 • Recoveries: increases in provisions for impairment due to recoveries of loans previously written off. write-backs) • Foreign exchange and other movements: other movements in credit exposures and provisions for impairment including the impact Movements due to risk parameters and – 57 – 191 – 304 – 552 of changes in foreign exchange rates. other changes Loan impairment expense for the 21 (46) 1,226 1,201 year Write-offs – – – – (1,401) (1,401) (1,401) (1,401) Recoveries – – – – – 206 – 206 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Foreign exchange and other 5,408 11 1,216 40 102 54 6,726 105 movements Closing balance as at 30 June 2019 747,769 905 164,292 2,519 6,697 1,375 918,758 4,799 Transfers to/(from) Stage 1 92,253 1,384 (92,543) (1,372) 290 (12) – – Stage 2 (179,232) (636) 182,069 1,011 (2,837) (375) – – Stage 3 (393) (8) (6,027) (413) 6,420 421 – – Net re-measurement on transfers – (1,079) – 1,614 – 535 – 1,070 between stages FINANCIAL REPORT Net financial assets originated 75,315 376 (49,188) (765) (2,351) (188) 23,776 (577) Movement in existing IAP (including IAP – – – – – 399 – 399 write-backs) Movements due to risk parameters and – 618 – 736 – 272 – 1,626 other changes Loan impairment expense for the 655 811 1,052 2,518 year Write-offs – – – – (1,207) (1,207) (1,207) (1,207) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Recoveries – – – – – 185 – 185 Foreign exchange and other (435) 9 (60) 16 (77) 43 (572) 68 movements Closing balance as at 30 June 2020 735,277 1,569 198,543 3,346 6,935 1,448 940,755 6,363 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Refer to Note 9.2 for further analysis of provisions for impairment and credit exposures. 3 Movements in credit exposures exclude Cash and liquid assets and Receivables from financial institutions. Movements in provisions for impairment losses include provisions in relation to Cash and liquid assets and Receivables from financial institutions. As at 30 June 2020, collective provisions in Stage 1 include $12 million in relation to these financial assets (30 June 2019: $9 million). 4 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risks at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: 65%). 5 As at 30 June 2020, Stage 3 includes $4,598 million of collectively assessed (30 June 2019: $4,604 million) and $2,337 million of individually assessed credit exposures (30 June 2019: $2,093 million). Stage 3 provisions for impairment include $481 million of collective provisions (30 June 2019: $480 million) and $967 million of individually assessed provisions (30 June 2019: $895 million). 144 145 146 147 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank 1, 2 Stage 1 3 Stage 2 4 Stage 3 5 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Collectively and individually assessed By providing loans to customers, the Group bears the risk that the future circumstances of customers might change, including their Collectively assessed Collectively assessed Total ability to repay their loans in part or in full. While the Group’s credit and responsible lending policies aim to minimise this risk, there will Gross Gross Gross Gross always be instances where the Group will not receive the full amount owed and hence a provision for impaired loans will be necessary. exposure Provisions exposure Provisions exposure Provisions exposure Provisions A description of the key components of the Group’s AASB 9 impairment methodology is provided below. $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Opening balance as at Expected credit loss (ECL) model 631,818 783 171,198 2,313 5,177 1,172 808,193 4,268 1 July 2018 The ECL model applies to all financial assets measured at amortised cost, debt securities measured at fair value through Transfers to/(from) other comprehensive income, finance lease receivables, loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts not measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The model uses a three-stage approach to recognition of expected credit losses. Financial assets Stage 1 107,627 1,268 (107,567) (1,266) (60) (2) – – migrate through these stages based on changes in credit risk since origination: Stage 2 (129,835) (572) 132,931 878 (3,096) (306) – – • Stage 1 12 months ECL Performing loans Stage 3 (203) (9) (6,636) (445) 6,839 454 – – On origination, financial assets recognise an impairment provision equivalent to 12 months ECL. 12 months ECL is the credit losses Net re-measurement on transfers HOW WE CREATE VALUE – (1,037) – 1,562 – 528 – 1,053 expected to arise from defaults occurring over the next 12 months. between stages • Stage 2 Lifetime ECL Performing loans that have experienced a significant increase in credit risk (SICR) Net financial assets originated 49,839 323 (46,367) (981) (1,843) (122) 1,629 (780) Financial assets that have experienced a SICR since origination are transferred to Stage 2 and recognise an impairment provision Movement in existing IAP (including IAP – – – – – 311 – 311 equivalent to lifetime ECL. Lifetime ECL is the credit losses expected to arise from defaults occurring over the remaining life of write-backs) financial assets. If credit quality improves in a subsequent period such that the increase in credit risk since origination is no longer Movements due to risk parameters and considered significant the exposure is reclassified to Stage 1 and the impairment provision reverts to 12 months ECL. – 34 – 202 – 238 – 474 other changes • Stage 3 Lifetime ECL Non-performing loans Loan impairment expense for the 7 (50) 1,101 1,058 Financial assets in default recognise a provision equivalent to lifetime ECL. This includes assets that are considered impaired as well year as assets that are considered to be in default but are not impaired because, for example, no loss is expected based on the security Write-offs – – – – (1,264) (1,264) (1,264) (1,264) position. Recoveries – – – – – 191 – 191 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Credit losses for financial assets in Stage 1 and Stage 2 are assessed for impairment collectively, whilst those in Stage 3 are subjected Foreign exchange and other to either collective or individual assessment of expected credit losses. 2,410 11 456 30 74 44 2,940 85 movements Closing balance as at 30 June 2019 661,656 801 144,015 2,293 5,827 1,244 811,498 4,338 Significant increase in credit risk (SICR) Transfers to/(from) SICR is assessed by comparing the risk of default occurring over the expected life of the financial asset at reporting date to the corresponding risk of default at origination. The Group considers all available qualitative and quantitative information that is relevant to Stage 1 91,183 1,333 (91,097) (1,327) (86) (6) – – assessing SICR. Stage 2 (172,270) (599) 175,655 946 (3,385) (347) – – For non-retail portfolios, such as the corporate risk rated portfolio and the asset finance portfolio, the risk of default is defined using the Stage 3 (311) (6) (6,302) (372) 6,613 378 – – existing Risk Rated Probability of Default (PD) Masterscale. The PD Masterscale is used in internal credit risk management and Net re-measurement on transfers includes 23 risk grades that are assigned at a customer level using rating tools reflecting customer specific financial and non-financial – (1,038) – 1,559 – 474 – 995 between stages information and management’s experienced credit judgement. Internal credit risk ratings are updated regularly on the basis of the most FINANCIAL REPORT Net financial assets originated 70,949 342 (47,613) (746) (2,140) (162) 21,196 (566) recent financial and non-financial information. Movement in existing IAP (including IAP The Group has developed a Retail Masterscale for use in the ECL measurement on personal loans, credit cards, home loans and SME – – – – – 296 – 296 write-backs) retail portfolios. The Retail Masterscale has 15 risk grades that are assigned to retail accounts based on their credit quality scores Movements due to risk parameters and determined through a credit quality scorecard. Risk grades for retail exposures are updated monthly as credit quality scorecards are – 569 – 581 – 280 – 1,430 other changes recalculated based on new behavioural information. Loan impairment expense for the For significant portfolios, the primary indicator of SICR is a significant deterioration in an exposure’s internal credit rating grade between 601 641 913 2,155 year origination and reporting date. Application of the primary SICR indicator uses a sliding threshold such that an exposure with a higher credit Write-offs – – – – (1,061) (1,061) (1,061) (1,061) quality at origination would need to experience a more significant downgrade compared to a lower credit quality exposure before SICR is ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Recoveries – – – – – 172 – 172 triggered. The level of downgrade required to trigger SICR for each origination grade have been defined for each significant portfolio. Foreign exchange and other The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risks at an 1,305 16 384 35 – 37 1,689 88 movements industry, geographic location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating Closing balance as at 30 June 2020 652,512 1,418 175,042 2,969 5,768 1,305 833,322 5,692 grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 exposures for the Group and 64% for the Bank as at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: 65% for the Group and the Bank). 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Refer to Note 9.2 for further analysis of provisions for impairment and credit exposures. The Group also uses secondary SICR indicators as backstops in combination with the primary SICR indicator, including: 3 Movements in credit exposures exclude Cash and liquid assets and Receivables from financial institutions. Movements in provisions for impairment losses include • arrears status, including the AASB 9 rebuttable presumption of 30 days past due; provisions in relation to Cash and liquid assets and Receivables from financial institutions. As at 30 June 2020, collective provisions in Stage 1 include $10 million in relation these financial assets (30 June 2019: $9 million). • a retail exposure entering a financial hardship status; 4 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risks at an industry, geographical location or a • a non-retail exposure’s referral to Group Credit Structuring. particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 64% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: 65%). The offer or uptake of a COVID-19 related repayment deferral does not itself constitute a SICR event unless the exposure is considered 5 As at 30 June 2020, Stage 3 includes $3,950 million of collectively assessed (30 June 2019: $4,168 million) and $1,818 million of individually assessed credit to have experienced a SICR based on other available information. For most retail exposures on repayment deferrals, SICR has been exposures (30 June 2019: $1,659 million). Stage 3 provisions for impairment include $492 million of collective provisions (30 June 2019: $443 million) and $813 assessed with reference to credit quality score that is strongly associated with a heightened loan-to-value ratio and low levels of million of individually assessed provisions (30 June 2019: $801 million). prepayment. The Group reassessed the internal credit risk ratings for the majority of non-retail exposures in segments most impacted by COVID-19 in the last quarter of the financial year 2020, including those on repayment deferrals, to determine if changes in customers’ circumstances were sufficient to constitute SICR. For a number of small portfolios, which are not considered significant individually or in combination, the Group applies simplified provisioning approaches that differ from the description above. 30 days past due is used as a primary indicator of SICR on exposures in these portfolios. 146 147 148 149 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Definition of default, impaired and write-offs • Severe downside scenario: This scenario is included to account for a potentially severe impact of less likely, extremely adverse macro-economic conditions. Relative to the Central and Downside scenarios, this scenario features a sharper contraction with a slow The definition of default used in measuring ECL is aligned to the definition used for internal credit risk management purposes across all recovery in economic output, heightened and prolonged weakness in the labour market, and more severe declines in house prices portfolios. This definition is also in line with the regulatory definition of default. Default occurs when there are indicators that a debtor is and the share market. In addition to this, the scenario features a more severe and prolonged contraction in business investment and a unlikely to meet contractual credit obligations to the Group in full, or the exposure is 90 days past due. weaker exchange rate, while interest rates remain accommodative. Facilities are classified as impaired where there is doubt as to whether the full amounts due, including interest and other payments, will The table below provides a summary of macro-economic variables used in the Central and Downside scenarios as at 30 June 2020. be received in a timely manner. Loans are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. OVERVIEW Central Downside The offer or uptake of a COVID-19 related repayment deferral does not constitute a default or credit impairment unless the exposure is Calendar year Calendar year considered to be in default or impaired based on the criteria outlined above. 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 ECL measurement GDP (annual % change) (6.0) 6.0 3.0 (7.1) 1.4 2.3 ECL is a probability weighted expected credit loss estimated by evaluating a range of possible outcomes and taking into account the 1 Unemployment rate (%) 9.0 7.5 6.3 10.0 8.5 6.9 time value of money, past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. Cash rate (%) 1 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 The Group uses the following AASB 9 collective provisioning models in calculating ECL for significant portfolios: House prices (annual % change) (7.0) (1.4) 3.8 (12.8) (12.5) (2.5) • Retail lending: Personal Loans model, Credit Cards model, Home Loans model, Retail SME model; HOW WE CREATE VALUE Business investment (annual % change) (13.0) 4.0 4.4 (14.0) (7.5) 0.6 • Non-retail lending: Corporate Risk rated model, Asset Finance model. 1 AUD/USD exchange rate 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.60 0.60 0.60 For each significant portfolio ECL is calculated as a product of the following credit risk factors at a facility level: Disposable income (annual % change) (1.8) 1.7 1.8 (3.6) (3.1) 0.1 • Probability of default (PD): The likelihood that a debtor will be unable to pay its obligations in full without having to take actions such ASX 200 (annual % change) (5.7) 8.7 5.5 (27.0) (7.5) 3.4 as realising on security or that the debtor will become 90 days overdue on obligation or contractual commitment; • Exposure at default (EAD): Expected Balance Sheet exposure at default. The Group generally calculates EAD as the higher of the NZ unemployment rate (%) 1 7.8 6.4 5.5 9.0 8.0 6.8 1 drawn balance and total credit limit, except for the credit cards portfolio, for which EAD calculation also takes into account the NZ cash rate (%) 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.25 probability of unused limits being drawn down; and NZ house prices (annual % change) (3.9) 0.6 2.3 (9.5) (7.5) (0.1) • Loss given default (LGD): The amount that is not expected to be recovered following default. 1 Spot rate at December of each year, unless otherwise stated. Secured retail exposures and defaulted non retail exposures are assessed for impairment through an Individually Assessed Provisions DIRECTORS’ REPORT (IAP) process if expected losses are in excess of $20,000. Impairment provisions on these exposures are calculated directly as the The requirement to probability-weight possible future outcomes captures the uncertainty inherent in the credit outlook, and changes in difference between the defaulted asset’s carrying value and the present value of expected future cash flows including cash flows from that uncertainty over time. Weights are assigned to each scenario based on management’s best estimate of the proportion of potential realisation of collateral, where applicable. future loss outcomes that each scenario represents. The same economic scenarios and probability weights apply across all portfolios. The Group’s assessment of SICR also incorporates the impact of multiple probability-weighted future forecast economic scenarios on Lifetime of an exposure exposures’ internal risk grades using the same four forecast macro-economic scenarios as described above. For exposures in Stage 2 and Stage 3 impairment provisions are determined as a lifetime expected loss. The Group uses a range of In estimating impairment provisions on individually significant defaulted exposures, the Group generally applies conservative approaches to estimate expected lives of financial instruments subject to ECL requirements: assumptions in estimating recovery cash flows. Incorporating multiple forecast economic scenarios in estimates is not expected to • Non-revolving products in corporate portfolios: Expected life is determined as a maximum contractual period over which the significantly affect the level of impairment provisions on these credit exposures. Group is exposed to credit risk; Incorporation of experienced credit judgement • Non-revolving retail products: For fixed term products such as personal loans and home loans, expected life is determined using FINANCIAL REPORT behavioural term analysis and does not exceed the maximum contractual period; and Management exercises credit judgement in assessing if an exposure has experienced SICR and in determining the amount of impairment provisions at each reporting date. Where applicable, credit risk factors (PD and LGD) are adjusted upwards to incorporate • Revolving products in corporate and retail portfolios: For revolving products that include both a loan and an undrawn reasonable and supportable forward looking information about known or expected risks for specific segments of portfolios that would commitment, such as credit cards and corporate lines of credit, the Group’s contractual ability to cancel the undrawn limits and otherwise not have been considered in the modelling process. Credit judgement is used to determine the degree of adjustment to be demand repayments does not limit the exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For such products, ECL is measured applied and considers information such as emerging risks at an industry, geographical and portfolio segment level. over the behavioural life. Sensitivity of provisions for impairment to changes in forward looking assumptions Forward-looking information As described above, the Group applies four alternative macro-economic scenarios (Central, Upside, Downside and Severe downside Credit risk factors of PD and LGD used in ECL calculation are point-in-time estimates based on current conditions and adjusted to scenarios) to reflect unbiased probability-weighted range of possible future outcomes in estimating ECL. include the impact of multiple probability-weighted future forecast economic scenarios. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The table below provides approximate levels of provisions for impairment under the Central and Downside scenarios for the Group and Forward looking PD and LGD factors are modelled for each significant portfolio based on macro-economic factors that are most closely the Bank assuming 100% weighting was applied to each scenario and holding all other assumptions constant. As noted above, these correlated with credit losses in the relevant portfolios. Each of the four scenarios (refer below) includes a forecast of relevant scenarios and their associated weights have been selected based on the expected range of potential future loss outcomes. macro-economic variables which differ by portfolio: Group Bank • Retail portfolios: Cash rate, unemployment rate, GDP per capita and House price index. $M $M • Non-retail lending: Unemployment rate, business investment index, disposable income, ASX 200 and the AUD/USD exchange rate. New Zealand equivalents of a subset of the above macro-economic variables are used for retail credit exposures originated in New Zealand. 100% Central scenario 5,262 4,659 100% Downside scenario 9,014 8,220 The Group uses the following four alternative macro-economic scenarios to reflect an unbiased probability-weighted range of possible future outcomes in estimating ECL for significant portfolios: Sensitivity of provisions for impairment to SICR assessment criteria • Central scenario: This scenario considers Central Bank forecasts as well as the Group’s base case assumptions used in business If 1% of Stage 1 credit exposures as at 30 June 2020 was included in Stage 2 provisions for impairment would increase by planning and forecasting. approximately $108 million for the Group and $96 million for the Bank. • Downside scenario: This scenario is set relative to the Central scenario based on macro-economic conditions that represent If 1% of Stage 2 credit exposures as at 30 June 2020 was included in Stage 1 provisions for impairment would decrease by plausible but less likely alternatives to the Central scenario. approximately $29 million for the Group and $26 million for the Bank. • Upside scenario: This scenario is included to account for the potential impact of less likely, more favourable macro-economic conditions. Relative to the Central scenario, the Upside scenario features a more rapid recovery in economic output and return to normal labour market conditions over the short-term with further improvement over the medium-term. In addition to this, the scenario features a stronger exchange rate, consistent growth in house prices, business investment, disposable income and the share market as well as modest increases in interest rates over the medium-term. 148 149 150 151 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Modifications relating to COVID-19 Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 The Group has introduced a number of support measures for customers impacted by COVID-19, which include loan repayment deferrals for retail and small business customers. The Bank recognised approximately $310 million of interest related to retail loans in Individually assessed provisions by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M deferral and approximately $150 million of interest related to non-retail loans in deferral. Australia The repayment deferral arrangements were considered to be continuations of the existing loans and were therefore accounted for as Sovereign – – – – – non-substantial loan modifications. A total modification loss of $6 million was recognised in relation to payment deferrals on home loans Agriculture 54 51 56 47 42 OVERVIEW in Net interest income. No other modification gains or losses were recognised as a result of the payment deferral arrangements. Bank and other financial 4 14 16 27 29 Loans with a gross carrying value of approximately $26,886 million were subject to COVID-19 related repayment deferrals when they Home loans 207 246 236 249 193 were included in either Stage 2 or Stage 3. Of these exposures, loans with a gross carrying value of approximately $25,179 million remained in either Stage 2 or Stage 3 as at 30 June 2020. Construction 40 76 21 25 25 The table below provides a summary of gross carrying values of credit exposures subject to COVID-19 related modifications as at Other personal 3 3 6 9 7 30 June 2020. Asset financing 35 10 16 18 28 Group Bank Other commercial and industrial 311 369 343 442 483 HOW WE CREATE VALUE $M $M Total Australia 654 769 694 817 807 Overseas Retail secured Sovereign – – – – – Stage 1 35,889 31,313 Agriculture 19 46 25 25 23 Stage 2 19,992 18,734 Bank and other financial – – – – 4 Stage 3 1,228 1,120 Home loans 4 4 5 4 6 Total retail secured 57,109 51,167 Construction 1 – 1 1 8 Retail unsecured Other personal 4 3 – – 1 Stage 1 591 39 Asset financing 1 – – 10 10 Stage 2 127 81 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Other commercial and industrial 284 73 145 123 85 Stage 3 17 4 Total overseas 313 126 176 163 137 Total retail unsecured 735 124 Total individually assessed provisions 967 895 870 980 944 Non–retail Stage 1 6,400 6,157 Stage 2 10,508 9,281 Stage 3 251 236 Total non-retail 17,159 15,674 Total credit exposures FINANCIAL REPORT Stage 1 42,880 37,509 Stage 2 30,627 28,096 Stage 3 1,496 1,360 Total 75,003 66,965 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 150 151 152 153 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 3.2 Provisions for impairment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Loans written off by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Loans recovered by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Australia Sovereign – – – – – Sovereign – – – – – Agriculture 1 59 28 17 84 Agriculture 4 – – – 1 OVERVIEW Bank and other financial 1 1 3 1 10 Bank and other financial – – 1 1 27 Home loans 117 134 126 115 82 Home loans 4 4 2 3 3 Construction 35 44 13 16 11 Construction 1 1 – 1 1 Other personal 655 787 764 792 747 Other personal 152 169 165 170 154 Asset financing 19 17 23 41 54 Asset financing 2 2 5 7 4 Other commercial and industrial 221 126 179 210 249 Other commercial and industrial 9 14 14 12 21 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total Australia 1,049 1,168 1,136 1,192 1,237 Total Australia 172 190 187 194 211 Overseas Overseas Sovereign – – – – – Sovereign – – – – – Agriculture 36 2 3 15 7 Agriculture – – – – – Bank and other financial 4 5 5 5 – Bank and other financial – – – – 1 Home loans 4 2 2 4 7 Home loans 1 1 1 1 1 Construction 2 2 1 8 – Construction – – 1 1 – Other personal 61 70 65 60 54 Other personal 12 11 10 11 10 Asset financing – – – – – Asset financing – – – – – DIRECTORS’ REPORT Other commercial and industrial 51 152 207 64 112 Other commercial and industrial – 4 2 3 2 Total overseas 158 233 283 156 180 Total overseas 13 16 14 16 14 Gross loans written off 1,207 1,401 1,419 1,348 1,417 Total loans recovered 185 206 201 210 225 Less recovery of amounts previously written off: Australia 172 190 187 194 211 Overseas 13 16 14 16 14 Total amounts recovered 185 206 201 210 225 Net loans written off 1,022 1,195 1,218 1,138 1,192 FINANCIAL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 152 153 154 155 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 4.1 Deposits and other public borrowings (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 4. Our deposits and funding activities Group At 30 June 2019 OVERVIEW Maturing Maturing Maturing between between Maturing Stable and well diversified funding sources are critical to the Group’s ability to fund its lending and investing activities, and support 3 months 3 and 6 6 and 12 after 12 growing its business. or less months months months Total $M $M $M $M $M Our main sources of funding include customer deposits and term funds raised in domestic and offshore wholesale markets via issuing OVERVIEW debt securities and loan capital. The Group also relies on repurchase agreements as a source of short-term wholesale funding. Refer to Australia Note 9.4 for the Group’s management of liquidity and funding risk. Certificates of deposit 1 14,674 13,182 1,232 1,836 30,924 Term deposits 92,825 39,389 13,835 2,264 148,313 4.1 Deposits and other public borrowings Total Australia 107,499 52,571 15,067 4,100 179,237 Group Bank Overseas 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Certificates of deposit 1 5,938 3,156 3,005 45 12,144 $M $M $M $M HOW WE CREATE VALUE Term deposits 17,820 13,129 6,127 2,071 39,147 Australia Total overseas 23,758 16,285 9,132 2,116 51,291 Certificates of deposit 30,126 30,924 30,261 33,331 Total certificates of deposits and term deposits 131,257 68,856 24,199 6,216 230,528 Term deposits 129,338 148,313 129,388 148,491 1 All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000. On-demand and short-term deposits 371,165 308,299 371,200 308,338 Deposits not bearing interest 69,143 49,274 69,122 49,245 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 14,717 19,099 15,018 19,215 Deposits from customers include certificates of deposit, term deposits, savings deposits, other demand deposits and debentures. Total Australia 614,489 555,909 614,989 558,620 Deposits are initially recognised at their fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are Overseas measured at amortised cost. Interest incurred is recognised within Net interest income using the effective interest method. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Certificates of deposit 13,669 12,144 9,818 8,818 Securities sold under repurchase agreements are retained on the Balance Sheet where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Term deposits 35,408 39,147 3,931 5,869 remain with the Group. A liability for the agreed repurchase amount is recognised within Deposits and other public borrowings. On-demand and short-term deposits 28,496 23,491 307 481 Deposits not bearing interest 7,777 5,349 190 63 4.2 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 2,160 – 2,066 – Group Bank Total overseas 87,510 80,131 16,312 15,231 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Total external deposits and other public borrowings 701,999 636,040 631,301 573,851 $M $M $M $M The majority of the amounts are due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Deposits and other borrowings 97 6,217 97 6,217 FINANCIAL REPORT The contractual maturity profile of Certificates of deposit and Term deposits are shown in the table below: Debt instruments 661 714 152 155 Trading liabilities 3,639 1,589 3,639 1,589 Group At 30 June 2020 Total liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4,397 8,520 3,888 7,961 Maturing Maturing As at 30 June 2020, $4,363 million of the Group’s total Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement (Bank: $3,854 million) are Maturing between between Maturing expected to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. As at 30 June 2019, $5,201 million of the Group’s total Liabilities at 3 months 3 and 6 6 and 12 after 12 fair value through Income Statement (Bank: $4,642 million) were expected to be settled within 12 months. or less months months months Total $M $M $M $M $M The amount that would be contractually required to be paid at maturity to the holders of the financial liabilities designated at fair value through Income Statement for the Group is $4,397 million (2019: $8,524 million) and for the Bank is $3,888 million ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Australia (2019: $7,960 million). Certificates of deposit 1 20,056 8,862 1,138 70 30,126 Term deposits 78,434 24,808 23,702 2,394 129,338 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Total Australia 98,490 33,670 24,840 2,464 159,464 The Group designates certain Liabilities at fair value through the Income Statement on origination when doing so eliminates or reduces Overseas an accounting mismatch, or where the liabilities contain embedded derivatives which must otherwise be separated and carried at fair Certificates of deposit 1 8,513 4,194 914 48 13,669 value. Trading liabilities are incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing or settling in the near term. Term deposits 17,380 10,947 5,060 2,021 35,408 Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value (except those due to changes in credit risk) are recognised in Other banking income. Changes in fair value relating to the Group’s own credit risk are recognised in other Total overseas 25,893 15,141 5,974 2,069 49,077 comprehensive income. Interest incurred is recognised within Net interest income using the effective interest method. Total certificates of deposits and term deposits 124,383 48,811 30,814 4,533 208,541 1 All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000. 154 155 156 157 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 4.3 Debt issues 4.3 Debt issues (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 1 Group Bank Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M Short-term borrowings by commercial paper program 1 $M (except where indicated) Medium-term notes 80,877 98,342 67,602 84,014 Total Commercial paper 12,468 20,158 12,104 17,596 Outstanding at year end 2 12,468 20,158 26,868 Securitisation notes 4.4 11,677 12,177 – – Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 19,937 24,557 32,336 OVERVIEW Covered bonds 4.4 37,456 33,313 33,592 29,452 Average amount outstanding 16,546 21,592 30,007 Bank acceptances 25 32 25 32 US Commercial Paper Program Total debt issues 2 142,503 164,022 113,323 131,094 Outstanding at year end 2 12,406 20,120 26,792 Short-term debt issues by currency Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 19,683 24,481 32,127 USD 12,410 20,147 12,047 17,585 Average amount outstanding 16,392 21,494 29,887 AUD 29 42 29 42 Weighted average interest rate on: HOW WE CREATE VALUE GBP 5,175 3,470 5,175 3,470 Average amount outstanding 1. 9% 2. 6% 1. 8% Other currencies 28 227 28 227 Outstanding at year end 0. 8% 2. 7% 2. 3% Total short-term debt issues 17,642 23,886 17,279 21,324 Euro Commercial Paper Program Long-term debt issues by currency 3 Outstanding at year end 2 62 38 76 USD 39,568 48,293 34,779 43,802 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 390 163 219 EUR 33,556 36,172 25,992 28,601 Average amount outstanding 154 98 120 AUD 34,912 37,909 23,015 24,770 Weighted average interest rate on: GBP 4,938 3,653 4,298 2,510 Average amount outstanding 0. 9% 2. 2% 1. 5% NZD 3,351 3,596 494 834 Outstanding at year end 0. 4% 2. 7% 2. 2% DIRECTORS’ REPORT JPY 1,662 2,115 1,534 1,989 1 Short-term borrowings include callable medium-term notes of $5,149 million (2019: $3,696 million) which have been excluded from the table above. Other currencies 6,806 8,331 5,864 7,197 2 The amount outstanding at year end is measured at amortised cost. Offshore loans (all JPY) 68 67 68 67 As at As at Total long-term debt issues 124,861 140,136 96,044 109,770 Exchange rates utilised 1 Currency 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Maturity distribution of debt issues 4 Less than twelve months 36,406 50,127 31,029 43,025 AUD 1.00 = USD 0.6854 0.7013 Greater than twelve months 106,097 113,895 82,294 88,069 EUR 0.6114 0.6170 Total debt issues 142,503 164,022 113,323 131,094 GBP 0.5584 0.5533 NZD 1.0705 1.0460 FINANCIAL REPORT 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Debt issues include unrealised movements of $3,095 million predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value hedge adjustments. JPY 73.8002 75.6460 3 Long-term debt disclosed relates to debt issues which have a maturity at inception of greater than 12 months. 1 End of day, Sydney time. 4 Represents the remaining contractual maturity of the underlying instrument. Guarantee arrangement The Group’s long-term debt issues include notes issued under the: USD70 billion Euro Medium Term Note Program; the USD50 billion US Medium Term Note Program; USD30 billion Covered Bond Program; Unlimited Domestic Debt Program; Unlimited ASB Domestic Guarantee under the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act Medium Term Note Program; USD25 billion CBA New York Branch Medium Term Note Program; EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Historically, the due payment of all monies payable by the Bank was guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia under section 117 Program; USD10 billion ASB US Medium Term Note Program and other applicable debt documentation. Notes issued under debt of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 (as amended) at 30 June 1996. With the sale of the Commonwealth’s shareholding in the Bank programs are both fixed and variable rate. Interest rate risk associated with the notes is incorporated within the Bank’s interest rate risk this guarantee has been progressively phased out under transitional arrangements found in the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act 1995. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION framework. The Bank, from time to time, as part of its Balance Sheet management, may consider opportunities to repurchase Demand deposits are no longer guaranteed by the Commonwealth under this guarantee. However, debt issues payable by the Bank outstanding long-term debt pursuant to open-market purchases or other means. Such repurchases help manage the Bank’s debt under a contract entered into prior to 19 July 1996 remain guaranteed until maturity. maturity profile, overall funding costs and assist in meeting regulatory changes and requirements. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Debt issues include short and long-term debt issues of the Group and consist of commercial paper, securitisation notes, covered bonds and medium-term notes. Debt issues are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Premiums, discounts and associated issue expenses are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method from the date of issue, to ensure the carrying value of securities equals their redemption value by maturity date. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. Any profits or losses arising from redemption prior to maturity are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they are realised. The Group hedges interest rate and foreign currency rate risk on certain debt issues. When fair value hedge accounting is applied to fixed rate debt issues, the carrying values are adjusted for changes in fair value related to the hedged risks. 156 157 158 159 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 4.4 Securitisation, covered bonds and transferred assets 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 5. Our investing, trading and other banking activities The Group enters into transactions in the normal course of business that transfers financial assets to counterparties or to Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). Transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are typically associated with repurchase agreements and our covered bonds and securitisation programs. The underlying assets remain on the Group’s Balance Sheet. OVERVIEW At the Balance Sheet date, transferred financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their associated liabilities are as follows: In addition to loans, the Group holds other assets to support its activities. Cash and liquid assets, Receivables from financial institutions, Group trading assets and investment securities are held for liquidity purposes, to generate returns and to meet customer demand. The mix and Repurchase nature of assets is driven by multiple factors including the Board’s risk appetite, regulatory requirements, customer demand and the OVERVIEW agreements Covered bonds Securitisation 1 generation of shareholder returns. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 The Group also transacts derivatives to meet customer demand and to manage its financial risks (interest rate, foreign currency, $M $M $M $M $M $M commodity and credit risks). Carrying amount of transferred assets 19,119 19,129 43,190 39,129 12,791 13,521 Refer to Note 9.1 for additional information relating to the Group’s approach to managing financial risks through the use of derivatives. Carrying amount of associated liabilities 16,876 19,099 37,456 33,313 11,677 12,177 For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred 5.1 Cash and liquid assets assets: Group Bank HOW WE CREATE VALUE Fair value of transferred assets 12,813 13,524 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Fair value of associated liabilities 11,693 12,177 $M $M $M $M Net position 1,120 1,347 Notes, coins, cash at banks and money at short call 27,307 16,655 24,010 15,534 Bank Securities purchased under agreements to resell 16,858 12,732 16,290 11,378 Repurchase 2, 3, 4 Total cash and liquid assets 44,165 29,387 40,300 26,912 agreements Covered bonds Securitisation 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M $M $M ACCOUNTING POLICIES Carrying amount of transferred assets 19,326 19,245 38,359 34,160 12,791 13,871 Cash and liquid assets include cash at branches, cash at banks, nostro balances, money at call with an original maturity of three months DIRECTORS’ REPORT Carrying amount of associated liabilities 17,084 19,215 33,592 29,452 12,514 13,637 or less and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Cash and liquid assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred assets: Securities, including bonds and equities, purchased under agreements to resell are not recognised in the financial statements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty. An asset for the agreed resale amount by the Fair value of transferred assets 12,813 13,874 counterparty is recognised within Cash and liquid assets. Fair value of associated liabilities 12,514 13,637 Net position 299 237 5.2 Receivables from and payables to financial institutions 1 Securitisation liabilities of the Group include RMBS notes issued by securitisation SPVs and held by external investors. Group Bank 2 Information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 3 Securitisation liabilities of the Bank include borrowings from securitisation SPVs, recognised on transfer of residential mortgages by the Bank. The carrying amount FINANCIAL REPORT $M $M $M $M of associated liabilities from securitisation SPVs is recorded under loans due to controlled entities. 4 Securitisation assets exclude $129,124 million of assets (30 June 2019: $56,403 million), where the Bank holds all of the issued instruments of the securitisation vehicle. Collateral placed 7,425 4,184 7,576 4,132 Other receivables 1,122 3,909 733 3,202 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Receivables from financial institutions 8,547 8,093 8,309 7,334 Repurchase agreements Collateral received 4,820 5,484 4,070 4,905 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase are retained on the Balance Sheet when substantially all the risks and rewards of Term funding facility from RBA 1,500 – 1,500 – ownership remain with the Group, and the counterparty liability is included separately on the Balance Sheet when cash consideration is Other payables 10,109 17,886 9,780 17,713 received. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Payables to financial institutions 16,429 23,370 15,350 22,618 Securitisation programs The Group pools and equitably assigns residential mortgages as securities to investors through a series of wholly controlled ACCOUNTING POLICIES securitisation vehicles. Where the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The Group is entitled to any residual income of the Receivables from and payables to financial institutions include cash collateral, short-term deposits and other balances. Cash collateral securitisation programs after all payments due to investors have been met, where the Group is the income unitholder. The investors includes initial and variation margins in relation to derivative transactions and varies based on trading activities. Receivables from and have recourse only to the pool of mortgages in the SPV they have invested in. payables to financial institutions are measured at amortised cost. Covered bonds programs The Term Funding Facility (TFF) is provided by The Reserve Bank of Australia, and is collateralised by residential mortgage backed securities issued by the Group. The TFF is initially recognised at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the To complement existing wholesale funding sources, the Group has established two global covered bond programs for the Bank and effective interest rate method. ASB. Certain residential mortgages have been assigned to SPV’s associated with covered bond programs to provide security on the payments to investors. Similarly to securitisation programs, the Group is entitled to any residual income after all payments due to covered bond investors have been met. As the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The covered investors have dual recourse to the Bank and the covered pool assets. Critical accounting judgements and estimates The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether a structured entity should be consolidated based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the structured entity. Such assessments are predominantly required for the Group’s securitisation programs, and structured transactions such as covered bond programs. 158 159 160 161 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.3 Assets at fair value through Income Statement 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1 Bank 1 Derivatives are classified as “held for trading” or “held for hedging”. Held for trading derivatives are contracts entered into in order to 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 meet customers’ needs, to undertake market making and positioning activities, or for risk management purposes that are not designated Assets at fair value through Income Statement $M $M $M $M in hedge accounting relationships. Held for hedging derivatives are instruments held for risk management purposes, which meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Derivative financial instruments are contracts whose values are derived from one or more underlying Trading prices, indexes or other variables. Government bonds, notes and securities 31,255 21,955 31,245 21,949 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is set out in the following tables: Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 3,750 3,264 3,750 3,264 OVERVIEW Group Commodities 3,418 404 3,418 404 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Shares and equity investments – 29 – 5 Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Total trading assets 38,423 25,652 38,413 25,622 asset liability asset liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M Other Commodities financing and other lending 7,869 7,272 7,871 7,271 Held for trading Receivables from corporate/financial institutions 159 434 – 235 Foreign exchange rate related contracts: HOW WE CREATE VALUE Government securities 77 81 – – Forwards 6,899 (6,677) 5,404 (5,492) Shares and equity investments 17 238 – – Swaps 7,443 (12,638) 4,078 (7,327) Total other assets at fair value through Income Statement 8,122 8,025 7,871 7,506 Options 441 (455) 349 (346) Total assets at fair value through Income Statement 46,545 33,677 46,284 33,128 Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 14,783 (19,770) 9,831 (13,165) Maturity distribution of assets at fair value through Income Statement Interest rate related contracts: Less than twelve months 45,548 33,450 45,364 32,947 Swaps 8,732 (4,252) 6,978 (3,758) More than twelve months 997 227 920 181 Futures 148 (69) 46 (132) Total assets at fair value through Income Statement 46,545 33,677 46,284 33,128 Options 845 (572) 554 (463) Total interest rate related contracts 9,725 (4,893) 7,578 (4,353) 1 Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. DIRECTORS’ REPORT Credit related swaps 31 (74) 21 (49) ACCOUNTING POLICIES Equity related contracts: Swaps 5 – 10 (26) Assets at fair value through Income Statement include financial assets held for trading, commodity financing transactions, and other financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. Trading assets are those acquired principally for sale in the near term. Options – – 1 (3) Commodity inventories are measured at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with the broker trader exemption under AASB 102 Total equity related contracts 5 – 11 (29) Inventories. Commodity financing and other lending are mandatorily recognised at fair value through profit or loss, because the Commodity related contracts: contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest. Other financial assets are designated at fair value through profit or loss, because they are managed with the objective of realising cash flows through sale. Assets at fair value through Income Swaps 558 (407) 207 (193) Statement are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in Other banking income. Options 103 (66) 57 (76) FINANCIAL REPORT Total commodity related contracts 661 (473) 264 (269) Identified embedded derivatives 95 (70) 160 (60) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 25,300 (25,280) 17,865 (17,925) Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value asset liability asset liability ADDITIONAL INFORMATION $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Foreign exchange rate related swaps 3,797 (3,842) 5,089 (2,384) Interest rate related swaps 493 (977) 379 (1,440) Total fair value hedges 4,290 (4,819) 5,468 (3,824) Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange rate related swaps 531 (1,007) 1,470 (643) Interest rate related swaps 156 (211) 411 (365) Commodity price related swaps – (30) – (5) Total cash flow hedges 687 (1,248) 1,881 (1,013) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange rate related forwards 8 – 1 (15) Total net investment hedges 8 – 1 (15) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 4,985 (6,067) 7,350 (4,852) The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 160 161 162 163 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value asset liability asset liability asset liability asset liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Held for trading Fair value hedges OVERVIEW Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Forwards 6,881 (6,633) 5,392 (5,465) Swaps 2,341 (2,852) 3,707 (1,670) Swaps 8,254 (13,736) 5,036 (8,161) Derivatives held with controlled entities 9 (2,791) – (1,948) Options 439 (452) 348 (345) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 2,350 (5,643) 3,707 (3,618) Derivatives held with controlled entities 22 (2,127) 41 (2,015) Interest rate related contracts: Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 15,596 (22,948) 10,817 (15,986) Swaps 457 (950) 333 (1,393) Interest rate related contracts: Derivatives held with controlled entities – (82) – (68) HOW WE CREATE VALUE Swaps 8,483 (4,174) 6,735 (3,653) Total interest rate related contracts 457 (1,032) 333 (1,461) Futures 148 (69) 47 (132) Total fair value hedges 2,807 (6,675) 4,040 (5,079) Options 845 (572) 554 (463) Cash flow hedges Derivatives held with controlled entities 20 (1) 16 (91) Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Total interest rate related contracts 9,496 (4,816) 7,352 (4,339) Swaps 413 (862) 1,329 (471) Credit related swaps 31 (74) 21 (49) Derivatives held with controlled entities 129 (128) – (97) Equity related contracts: Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 542 (990) 1,329 (568) Swaps 5 – 10 (26) Interest rate related contracts: DIRECTORS’ REPORT Options – – 1 (3) Swaps 79 (172) 316 (255) Total equity related contracts 5 – 11 (29) Derivatives held with controlled entities 2 – – – Commodity related contracts: Total interest rate related contracts 81 (172) 316 (255) Swaps 557 (407) 207 (193) Commodity price related contracts: Options 104 (66) 57 (76) Swaps – (30) – (5) Total commodity related contracts 661 (473) 264 (269) Total commodity price related contracts – (30) – (5) Identified embedded derivatives 95 (70) 160 (60) Total cash flow hedges 623 (1,192) 1,645 (828) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 25,884 (28,381) 18,625 (20,732) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange rate related forward contracts 8 – 1 (15) FINANCIAL REPORT Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Total net investment hedges 8 – 1 (15) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 3,438 (7,867) 5,686 (5,922) The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. The Bank will be required to post collateral on hedging derivatives with securitisation and covered bond trusts, its controlled entities, or novate the derivatives to other appropriately rated counterparties in the event that the Bank’s credit rating falls below specified thresholds. The thresholds for collateral posting vary between two and three notches from the current rating, depending on the ratings agency. The thresholds for novation vary between four and six notches from the current rating, depending on the ratings agency. The fair value of funding these collateral arrangements has been recognised by the Bank as a funding valuation adjustment. The adjustment ADDITIONAL INFORMATION did not have a material impact on the Bank’s Income Statement for the year. As the arrangement is between the Bank and the trusts, the fair value is eliminated on consolidation and will only be recognised by the Group if the trusts are deconsolidated. 162 163 164 165 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The table below shows the deferred gains and losses, which are expected to be transferred to the Income Statement in the same period Risk components when the hedge items impact the Income Statement: In some hedging relationships, the Group and the Bank designate risk components of hedged items as follows: Group Bank • benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the Bank Bill Benchmark Rate component; and Total Total • spot exchange rate risk as a component of foreign currency risk for foreign currency financial assets and liabilities. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M Hedging the benchmark interest rate risk or spot exchange rate risk components results in other risks, such as credit risk and liquidity risk, being excluded from the hedge accounting relationship. OVERVIEW Within 6 months (89) 47 (43) 57 Economic relationships and hedge effectiveness 6 months–1 year (173) (103) (59) (32) The Group performs both prospective and retrospective tests to determine the economic relationship between the hedged item and the 1–2 years (40) (340) 224 (215) hedging instrument, and to assess hedge effectiveness. At inception of the hedge relationship, prospective testing is performed on a 2–5 years 2,320 1,476 2,126 1,516 matched terms basis. This test checks that the critical terms are matched between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. At the same time a hedging ratio is established by matching the notional of the derivatives with the principal of the portfolio or financial After 5 years 161 53 287 207 instruments being hedged, in most cases the ratio is 100%. Retrospective testing for each reporting period uses a regression model, Net deferred gains/(losses) 2,179 1,133 2,535 1,533 which compares the change in the fair value of the hedged item and the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument. For a hedge to be deemed effective, the change in fair values should be within 80% to 125% of each other. Should the result fall outside this range HOW WE CREATE VALUE ACCOUNTING POLICIES the hedge would be deemed ineffective and recognised immediately through the Income Statement in line with each hedge relationship policy above. Derivatives transacted for hedging purposes Sources of hedge ineffectiveness affecting hedge accounting are: Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, gains or losses on derivatives are recognised in the • differences in discounting between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Collateralised derivatives are discounted using Income Statement, unless they are entered into for hedging purposes and designated in a cash flow hedge. Overnight Indexed Swaps (OIS) discount curves, which are not applied to the hedged item; Hedging strategy and hedge accounting • change in the credit risk of the hedging instrument; and The Group risk management strategy (refer to notes 9.1 and 9.3) is to manage market risks within risk limits to minimise profit and • mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and the hedging instrument. capital volatility. The use of derivative and other hedging instruments for hedging purposes gives rise to potential volatility in the No other sources of hedge ineffectiveness have arisen during the year. Income Statement because of mismatches in the accounting treatment between derivatives and other hedging instruments and the underlying exposures being hedged. The Group’s and the Bank’s objective is to reduce volatility in the Income Statement by applying Embedded derivatives DIRECTORS’ REPORT hedge accounting. In certain instances, a derivative may be embedded within a host contract. It is accounted for separately as a stand-alone derivative at Fair value hedges fair value, where: Fair value hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or unrecognised firm • the host contract is not carried at fair value through the Income Statement; and commitments, predominantly associated with investment securities, debt issues and loan capital. Changes in fair values can arise from • the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract. fluctuations in interest or foreign exchange rates. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and futures to protect against such fluctuations. Changes in the value of fair value hedges are recognised in the Income Statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. All gains and losses associated with the ineffective portion of fair value hedge relationships are recognised immediately as Other banking income. FINANCIAL REPORT If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, it is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the Income Statement from the date of discontinuation over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to variability in future cash flows, which could affect profit or loss and may result from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates or in commodity prices on financial assets, financial liabilities or highly probable forecast transactions, predominantly associated with floating rate domestic loans and deposits. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, futures and equity related swaps to protect against such fluctuations. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Changes in fair value associated with the effective portion of a cash flow hedge are recognised through other comprehensive income in the Cash flow hedge reserve within equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the period in which the hedged forecast transaction takes place. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is recycled immediately to the Income Statement. Where it is appropriate, non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are also designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships. Net investment hedges The Group holds investments in foreign operations, where changes in net assets resulting from changes in foreign currency rates are recognised in Foreign currency translation reserve and results in volatility in shareholders’ equity. To protect against the foreign currency risk, the Group enters into foreign currency forwards that are designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges. Gains and losses on derivative contracts relating to the effective portion of the net investment hedge are recognised in the Foreign currency translation reserve in equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign subsidiary or branch is disposed of. 164 165 166 167 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Hedging instruments The table below provides maturity analysis of expected notional values of the Group’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge relationship in which they are designated and the type of hedged risk. The following table provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge relationship in which they are designated and the type of hedged risk. Group 30 Jun 20 Group Bank Notional amounts 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 Due within Due from Due beyond Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value OVERVIEW 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total derivative derivative derivative derivative Notional assets liability Notional assets liability Hedged risk $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 12,545 42,759 41,703 97,007 Fair value hedges Foreign exchange 405 – – 405 Interest rate 97,007 493 (977) 80,899 457 (1,032) Interest rate and foreign exchange 4,940 26,364 14,694 45,998 Foreign exchange 405 23 (3) – – – Cash flow hedges Interest rate 258,881 179,302 5,225 443,408 Interest rate and foreign exchange 45,998 3,774 (3,839) 45,063 2,350 (5,643) Foreign exchange 6,762 4,179 4,005 14,946 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total fair value hedges 143,410 4,290 (4,819) 125,962 2,807 (6,675) Commodity price 5 32 38 75 Cash flow hedges Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 524 – – 524 Interest rate 443,408 156 (211) 397,136 81 (172) Group 1 Foreign exchange 14,946 531 (1,007) 16,221 542 (990) 30 Jun 19 Notional amounts Commodity price 75 – (30) 75 – (30) Due within Due from Due beyond Total cash flow hedges 458,429 687 (1,248) 413,432 623 (1,192) 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total Net investment hedges Hedged risk $M $M $M $M Foreign exchange 524 8 – 524 8 – Fair value hedges Interest rate 16,714 45,248 50,763 112,725 Total net investment hedges 524 8 – 524 8 – DIRECTORS’ REPORT Foreign exchange 709 – – 709 Total hedging instrument assets/(liabilities) 602,363 4,985 (6,067) 539,918 3,438 (7,867) Interest rate and foreign exchange 12,575 29,577 16,918 59,070 Group Bank Cash flow hedges Interest rate 338,071 185,963 5,397 529,431 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Foreign exchange 12,386 4,722 2,292 19,400 Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value derivative derivative derivative derivative Commodity price 5 23 52 80 Notional assets liability Notional assets liability Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 481 – – 481 $M $M $M $M $M $M 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Fair value hedges As at 30 June 2020, the weighted average fixed interest rate of interest rate swaps hedging interest rate risk was 1.36% (30 June 2019: FINANCIAL REPORT Interest rate 112,725 379 (1,440) 98,365 333 (1,461) 2.00%). The major currency pairs of cross currency swaps designated in hedge relationships are receive USD/pay AUD and receive Foreign exchange 709 7 (6) – – – EUR/pay USD with weighted average foreign currency rates of: AUD/USD 0.75 and USD/EUR 0.83 (30 June 2019: AUD/USD 0.85, USD/EUR 0.82). Interest rate and foreign exchange 59,070 5,082 (2,378) 55,587 3,707 (3,618) Total fair value hedges 172,504 5,468 (3,824) 153,952 4,040 (5,079) Cash flow hedges Interest rate 529,431 411 (365) 481,685 316 (255) Foreign exchange 19,400 1,470 (643) 16,835 1,329 (568) Commodity price 80 – (5) 80 – (5) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total cash flow hedges 548,911 1,881 (1,013) 498,600 1,645 (828) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 481 1 (15) 481 1 (15) Total net investment hedges 481 1 (15) 481 1 (15) Total hedging instrument assets/(liabilities) 721,896 7,350 (4,852) 653,033 5,686 (5,922) In addition to derivative instruments used to hedge foreign currency risk, the Group and the Bank designate debt issues as hedging instruments of certain foreign exchange risk exposures. The carrying value of debt issues designated as cash flow hedging instruments as at 30 June 2020 was $1,136 million with average maturity of five years for the Group (30 June 2019: $949 million with average maturity of four years) and $54 million with average maturity of one year for the Bank (30 June 2019: $62 million with average maturity of two years). 166 167 168 169 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The table below provides maturity analysis of expected notional values of the Bank’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge Hedged items in fair value hedges relationship in which they are designated and the type of hedged risk. The table below provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedged items designated in fair value hedge relationships by the type of Bank hedged risk. 30 Jun 20 Group Bank Notional amounts 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 Due within Due from Due beyond Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair Value OVERVIEW 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total 1, 2 1, 2 amount adjustment amount adjustment Hedged risk $M $M $M $M Hedged items Hedged risk $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 9,952 32,216 38,731 80,899 Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate Foreign exchange – – – – Other Comprehensive Income 49,892 5,901 44,381 5,893 Interest rate and foreign exchange 6,768 23,662 14,633 45,063 Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate and Cash flow hedges Interest rate 242,158 150,029 4,949 397,136 Other Comprehensive Income foreign exchange 4,557 555 4,318 555 Foreign exchange 6,177 6,039 4,005 16,221 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Interest rate 1,743 109 1,585 104 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Commodity price 5 32 38 75 Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate – – 1,546 78 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 524 – – 524 Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate and foreign exchange – – 21,300 1,447 Bank 1 30 Jun 19 Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate (58) (8) (58) (8) Notional amounts Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate and Due within Due from Due beyond foreign exchange (50) (3) (50) (3) 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total Assets held for sale Foreign exchange 403 24 – – Hedged risk $M $M $M $M Debt issues Interest rate (27,139) (2,146) (18,740) (1,810) Fair value hedges Interest rate 14,685 36,050 47,630 98,365 Debt issues Interest rate and DIRECTORS’ REPORT Foreign exchange – – – – foreign exchange (55,444) (3,449) (39,366) (2,596) Interest rate and foreign exchange 10,649 29,850 15,088 55,587 Loan capital Interest rate (9,757) (1,212) (9,371) (1,200) Cash flow hedges Interest rate 316,484 160,217 4,984 481,685 Loan capital Interest rate and Foreign exchange 9,955 4,588 2,292 16,835 foreign exchange (9,274) (474) (9,274) (474) Commodity price 5 23 52 80 3 Group Bank Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 481 – – 481 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value 1, 2 1, 2 amount adjustment amount adjustment As at 30 June 2020, the weighted average fixed interest rate of interest rate swaps hedging interest rate risk was 1.36% (30 June 2019: Hedged items Hedged risk $M $M $M $M FINANCIAL REPORT 2.00%). The major currencies of cross currency swaps designated in hedge relationships are receive USD/pay AUD and receive EUR/pay USD with weighted average foreign currency rates of: AUD/USD 0.73 and USD/EUR 0.83 (30 June 2019: AUD/USD 0.84, Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate Other Comprehensive Income 44,493 4,438 40,064 4,425 USD/EUR 0.83). Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate and Other Comprehensive Income foreign exchange 10,130 201 10,130 201 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Interest rate 2,136 63 1,900 57 Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate – – 1,533 65 Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate and foreign exchange – – 19,690 853 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate (557) (7) (557) (7) Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate and foreign exchange (49) (5) (49) (5) Assets held for sale Foreign exchange 1,161 49 – – Debt issues Interest rate (26,319) (746) (17,713) (573) Debt issues Interest rate and foreign exchange (63,566) (2,155) (47,585) (1,368) Loan capital Interest rate (5,974) (326) (5,582) (316) Loan capital Interest rate and foreign exchange (9,443) (192) (9,443) (193) 1 Represents the accumulated amount of the fair value adjustment included in the carrying amount. The cumulative amount that is related to ceased hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was interest rate and foreign exchange risk is nil. 2 Changes in fair value of the hedged item used as a basis to determine effectiveness. The changes in fair value of the hedged items are recognised in Other banking income. 3 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 168 169 170 171 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Hedge items in cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 The table below provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedged items designated in cash flow and net investment hedge Foreign Foreign relationships by the type of hedged risk. Cash flow currency Cash flow currency Group Bank hedge translation hedge translation 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 reserve 1 reserve 2 reserve 1 reserve 2 Foreign Foreign Hedged items Hedged risk $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Cash flow currency Cash flow currency hedge translation hedge translation Cash flow hedges reserve 1 reserve 2 reserve 1 reserve 2 Investment securities at fair value through Foreign exchange 15 – 15 – Hedged items Hedged risk $M $M $M $M Other Comprehensive Income Cash flow hedges Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Interest rate 4,085 – 3,834 – Investment securities at fair value through Foreign exchange 26 – 26 – Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate – – 3 – Other Comprehensive Income Shares in and loans to controlled entities Foreign exchange – – 68 – HOW WE CREATE VALUE Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Interest rate 4,906 – 4,471 – Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate (2,741) – (2,447) – Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Foreign exchange 19 – 19 – Debt issues Interest rate (7) – (6) – Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate – – 3 – Debt issues Foreign exchange (117) – 76 – Shares in and loans to controlled entities Foreign exchange – – 88 – Loan capital Interest rate (3) – (3) – Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate (2,665) – (2,194) – Loan capital Foreign exchange 10 – 10 – Debt issues Interest rate (60) – (55) – Highly probable forecast transactions Foreign exchange (92) – – – Debt issues Foreign exchange (18) – 140 – Highly probable forecast transactions Commodity price (17) – (17) – Loan capital Interest rate (4) – (4) – Net investment hedges Loan capital Foreign exchange 85 – 85 – Foreign operations Foreign exchange – (33) – (33) DIRECTORS’ REPORT Highly probable forecast transactions 3 Foreign exchange (66) – – – Total 1,133 (33) 1,533 (33) Highly probable forecast transactions Commodity price (44) – (44) – 1 Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Cash flow hedge reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased hedge Net investment hedges relationships where the risk being hedged was interest rate and foreign exchange risk is a loss of $13 million for the Group and the Bank. A cumulative loss of $1 million related to ceased hedge relationships was amortised to Income Statement during the period. Foreign operations Foreign exchange – (14) – (14) 2 Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Foreign currency translation reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased Total 2,179 (14) 2,535 (14) hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was foreign exchange risk is nil. 1 Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Cash flow hedge reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was interest rate and foreign exchange risk is a loss of $11 million for the Group and the Bank. A cumulative gain of $5 million related to ceased hedge relationships was amortised to Income Statement during the period. 2 Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Foreign currency translation reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased FINANCIAL REPORT hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was foreign exchange risk is nil. 3 A cumulative loss of $12 million was reclassified to the Income Statement during the period as a result of highly probable forecast transactions no longer meeting the required criteria. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 170 171 172 173 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 5.4 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Hedge effectiveness IBOR reform The table below details effectiveness of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedges by the type of hedge relationship and the type of hedged The Group has designated hedging relationships where hedged items and/or hedging instruments reference LIBOR. These rates are in risk. the process of being transitioned to RFRs, as discussed in note 12.4. The table below provides more information on the hedge accounting relationships that are impacted by IBOR reform. Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 Hedging instruments Hedge Hedge Notional designated beyond 31 Dec 2021 OVERVIEW Change in Change in ineffectiveness Change in Change in ineffectiveness Notional value of value of recognised in value of value of recognised in designated Other not hedged hedging Income hedged hedging Income up to impacted by 1 2 1 2 item instrument Statement item instrument Statement USD Libor GBP Libor CHF Libor JPY Libor Total 1 31 Dec 2021 2 IBOR reform 3 Total notional $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges 5,785 – – – 5,785 13,049 439,595 458,429 Interest rate (590) 606 16 (553) 510 (43) Fair value hedges 38,534 3,169 2,305 705 44,713 12,788 85,909 143,410 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Interest rate and foreign exchange (2,687) 2,666 (21) (1,715) 1,676 (39) Hedged items Foreign exchange (25) 25 – – – – Carrying values of financial Total fair value hedges (3,302) 3,297 (5) (2,268) 2,186 (82) instruments designated as Cash flow hedges and net hedged items beyond 31 Dec 2021 4 investment hedges USD Libor GBP Libor CHF Libor JPY Libor Interest rate (954) 945 (9) (955) 944 (11) $M $M $M $M Foreign exchange (175) 175 – (90) 90 – Investment securities through OCI 10,346 1,946 – – Commodity prices 29 (29) – 29 (29) – Debt issues 27,077 1,527 2,360 261 Total cash flow hedges and net Loan capital 8,635 – – 541 (1,100) 1,091 (9) (1,016) 1,005 (11) DIRECTORS’ REPORT investment hedges Deposits and other public borrowings 1,030 – – – 1 Changes in value of hedged item for Fair value hedges is recognised in Other banking income. Changes in value of the hedged item for Cash flow hedges is only Loans 2,207 – – – used as basis for recognising ineffectiveness and represents the lower of the change in the hedged item and the hedging instrument. During the year, the unrealised gains deferred to the Cash flow hedge reserve were $1,042 million for the Group and $1,001 million for the Bank, and no gain or loss was recognised in the Net 1 Hedging instrument notional directly impacted by IBOR reform. investment hedge reserve for the Group and the Bank. 2 Hedging instrument notional linked to IBOR (impacted by the IBOR reform) that matures before 1 January 2022. 2 Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in Other banking income. 3 Hedging instrument notional not impacted by IBOR reform. 1 1 4 Hedged item carrying value directly impacted by IBOR reform. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Hedge Hedge Change in Change in ineffectiveness Change in Change in ineffectiveness FINANCIAL REPORT value of value of recognised in value of value of recognised in hedged hedging Income hedged hedging Income item 2 3 item 2 3 instrument Statement instrument Statement $M $M $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 1,257 (1,269) (12) 1,384 (1,397) (13) Interest rate and foreign exchange (4,548) 4,569 21 (2,538) 2,561 23 Foreign exchange 49 (49) – – – – ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total fair value hedges (3,242) 3,251 9 (1,154) 1,164 10 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Interest rate (1,279) 1,283 4 (1,302) 1,308 6 Foreign exchange (669) 669 – (667) 667 – Commodity prices (5) 5 – (5) 5 – Total cash flow hedges and net (1,953) 1,957 4 (1,974) 1,980 6 investment hedges 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Changes in value of hedged item for Fair value hedges is recognised in Other banking income. Changes in value of the hedged item for Cash flow hedges is only used as basis for recognising ineffectiveness and represents the lower of the change in the hedged item and the hedging instrument. During the year, the unrealised gains deferred to the Cash flow hedge reserve were $1,355 million for the Group and $1,428 million for the Bank, and a loss recognised in the Foreign currency translation reserve was $20 million for the Group and the Bank. 3 Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in Other banking income. 172 173 174 175 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 5.5 Investment securities 5.5 Investment securities (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Maturity distribution and yield analysis Group Bank Group 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Maturity period at 30 June 2020 $M $M $M $M Non0 to 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 or more years maturing Total Investment securities at fair value through OCI $M % $M % $M % $M % $M $M OVERVIEW Government bonds, notes and securities 57,190 50,560 53,558 48,454 Investment securities Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 12,971 18,075 11,502 16,407 at fair value through Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA 1 8,818 10,210 6,719 8,306 OCI Shares and equity investments 570 67 556 45 Government bonds, 9,239 0. 37 18,672 0. 78 24,262 0. 95 5,017 1. 47 – 57,190 Total investment securities at fair value through OCI 79,549 78,912 72,335 73,212 notes and securities Investment securities at amortised cost Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes 2,479 0. 53 10,377 0. 90 110 1. 95 5 1. 66 – 12,971 Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA 1 5,168 7,349 5,167 7,349 and securities HOW WE CREATE VALUE Government bonds, notes and securities 5 6 – – Covered bonds, Total investment securities at amortised cost 5,173 7,355 5,167 7,349 mortgage backed 687 1. 03 6,234 1. 18 1,078 0. 99 819 1. 66 – 8,818 Total investment securities 84,722 86,267 77,502 80,561 securities and SSA Shares and equity 1 Supranational, Sovereign and Agency Securities (SSA). – – – – – – – – 570 570 investments As at 30 June 2020, Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income expected to be recovered within 12 months Total investment of the Balance Sheet date were $12,679 million (2019: $10,409 million) for the Group, and $10,494 million (2019: $8,639 million) for the securities at fair value 12,405 35,283 25,450 5,841 570 79,549 Bank. As at 30 June 2020, Investment securities at amortised cost amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance through OCI Sheet date were $1,655 million (2019: $1,622 million) for the Group and the Bank. Investment securities at amortised cost DIRECTORS’ REPORT Covered bonds, mortgage backed 10 2. 20 – – 163 1. 38 4,995 1. 34 – 5,168 securities and SSA Government bonds, 5 0. 61 – – – – – – – 5 notes and securities Total investment securities at amortised 15 – 163 4,995 – 5,173 cost Total investment 12,420 35,283 25,613 10,836 570 84,722 securities FINANCIAL REPORT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investment securities primarily include public debt securities held as part of the Group’s liquidity portfolio. Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income Debt securities This category includes debt securities held within the business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the assets. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise payments of principal and interest only. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION These securities are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses on these securities are recognised in the Income Statement. The securities are assessed for impairment using the expected credit loss approach described in Note 3.2. Impairment is recognised in the Loan impairment expense line in the Income Statement. When debt securities at fair value through other comprehensive income are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the Other banking income line in the Income Statement. Equity securities This category also includes non-traded equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair value gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on these equity instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reclassified to the Income Statement on derecognition. Investment securities at amortised cost This category includes debt securities held within the business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise the payment of principal and interest only. These securities are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. For the accounting policy for provisions for impairment, refer to Note 3.2. 174 175 176 177 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 6.1 Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 6. Other assets Reconciliation of movements in the carrying amount of Property, plant and equipment is set out below: Group Bank OVERVIEW 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M The Group’s other assets comprise of assets not included in its lending, investing, trading and other banking activities. Other assets include right-of-use assets and Property, plant and equipment held for own use and for lease through our asset finance businesses. Right-of-use assets 1 Other assets also include software, brand names and goodwill. These assets support the Group’s business activities. Adoption of AASB 16 2 2,659 – 2,385 – OVERVIEW Additions 963 – 894 – 6.1 Property, plant and equipment Disposals (111) – (82) – Group Bank Depreciation (521) – (470) – 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Foreign currency translation adjustment (6) – (2) – $M $M $M $M Carrying amount at the end of the period 2,984 – 2,725 – Right-of-use assets 1 Land and buildings At cost 3,505 – 3,195 – HOW WE CREATE VALUE Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 442 440 399 397 Accumulated depreciation (521) – (470) – Additions 15 10 15 9 Closing balance 2,984 – 2,725 – Disposals (8) (18) (5) (15) Land and buildings Net revaluations 24 38 20 37 At 30 June valuation 438 442 394 399 Depreciation (34) (34) (34) (34) Total land and buildings 438 442 394 399 Foreign currency translation adjustment (1) 6 (1) 5 Leasehold improvements Carrying amount at the end of the year 438 442 394 399 At cost 1,645 1,587 1,465 1,409 Leasehold improvements Accumulated depreciation (1,109) (1,041) (999) (935) Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 546 537 474 444 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Closing balance 536 546 466 474 Additions 117 154 102 140 Equipment Disposals (5) (12) (4) (13) At cost 2,171 2,163 1,823 1,857 Depreciation (118) (135) (105) (117) Accumulated depreciation (1,671) (1,653) (1,456) (1,446) Reclassification to assets held for sale – (23) – – Closing balance 500 510 367 411 Foreign currency translation adjustment (4) 25 (1) 20 Total right-of-use assets and property, plant and equipment held for own use 4,458 1,498 3,952 1,284 Carrying amount at the end of the year 536 546 466 474 Assets held as lessor Equipment At cost 1,503 1,202 136 136 Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 510 531 411 457 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (359) (317) (37) (31) FINANCIAL REPORT Additions 146 170 81 122 Closing balance 1,144 885 99 105 Disposals (6) – (3) (4) Total property, plant and equipment 5,602 2,383 4,051 1,389 Depreciation (186) (194) (159) (175) 1 The adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019 resulted in recognition of $2,659 million right-of-use asset by the Group (the Bank: $2,385 million). For details on Reclassification to assets held for sale – (14) – – the adoption of AASB 16, refer to Note 1.1. Foreign currency translation adjustment 36 17 37 11 Carrying amount at the end of the year 500 510 367 411 Assets held as lessor 885 105 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 1,068 162 Additions 567 – – – Disposals (144) (111) – (49) Impairment losses 3 (81) – – – Depreciation (83) (72) (6) (8) Foreign currency translation adjustment – – – – Carrying amount at the end of the year 1,144 885 99 105 1 Right-of-use assets primarily relate to leases of commercial and retail premises. 2 The adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019 resulted in recognition of $2,659 million right-of-use asset by the Group (the Bank: $2,385 million). For details on the adoption of AASB 16, refer to Note 1.1. 3 Due to the impact of COVID-19 on the aviation sector, a total impairment of $81 million was recognised in Other banking income relating to aircraft which are owned by the Group and leased to various airlines. 176 177 178 179 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 6.1 Property, plant and equipment (continued) 6.2 Intangible assets 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Bank ACCOUNTING POLICIES 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M The Group measures its land and buildings at fair value, based on annual independent market valuations performed during the year. These fair values fall under the Level 3 category of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Note 9.5. Revaluation adjustments are reflected Goodwill in the Asset revaluation reserve, except to the extent they reverse a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in Purchased goodwill at cost 5,284 5,974 2,522 2,522 the Income Statement. Upon disposal, realised amounts in the Asset revaluation reserve are transferred to Retained profits. Closing balance 5,284 5,974 2,522 2,522 OVERVIEW Other property, plant and equipment assets are stated at cost, including direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and impairment if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised where it enhances the asset. Depreciation is calculated using Computer software costs the straight-line method over the asset’s estimated useful economic life. Cost 4,438 4,837 3,960 4,396 The useful lives of major depreciable asset categories are as follows: Accumulated amortisation (3,089) (3,125) (2,807) (2,842) Right-of-use assets Unexpired lease term Closing balance 1,349 1,712 1,153 1,554 1 Land Indefinite, not depreciated Brand names Cost 201 203 186 186 Buildings Up to 30 years HOW WE CREATE VALUE Accumulated amortisation – (2) – – Equipment 3–8 years Closing balance 201 201 186 186 Leasehold improvements Lower of unexpired lease term or lives as above Other intangibles 2 Assets held as lessor: Cost 267 351 231 219 Aircraft 25 years Accumulated amortisation (157) (273) (141) (164) Rail 35–40 years Closing balance 110 78 90 55 Ships 25–40 years Total intangible assets 6,944 7,965 3,951 4,317 Leases are entered into to meet the business needs of entities in the Group. Leases are primarily over commercial and retail premises 1 Brand names predominantly represent the value of royalty costs foregone by the Group through acquiring the Bankwest brand name. The royalty costs that would and plant and equipment. Where the Group is a lessee, all leases will be recognised on the Balance Sheet as a lease liability and righthave been incurred by an entity using the Bankwest brand name are based on an annual percentage of income generated by Bankwest. The Bankwest brand name DIRECTORS’ REPORT of-use asset, unless the underlying asset is of low value or the lease has a term of 12 months or less. Rentals of leases with low value has an indefinite useful life, as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand name is expected to generate cash flows. This balance also includes the Aussie Home Loans brand name ($16 million) which has an indefinite useful life. They are not subject to amortisation, but require annual impairment testing. No underlying assets or where the lease term is 12 months or less are recognised over the lease term as Operating expenses in the impairment was recognised during the year. The Count Financial brand name of $3 million was impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. Income Statement. 2 Other intangibles include the value of customer and credit card relationships acquired from Bankwest and Aussie Home Loans. This value represents future net Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost comprising the following: income generated from the relationships that existed at Balance Sheet date. The assets have a useful life of between 6 and 10 years based on the attrition rates of customers. Other intangibles also include prepaid software licences with a net book value of $99 million (30 June 2019: $54 million). Customer relationship • the initial amount of the lease liability measured at the present value of the future lease payments; intangibles in relation to Count Financial of $13 million were impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. • any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received; Impairment tests for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives • any initial direct costs; and To assess whether goodwill and other assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired, the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit or a • an estimate of the costs to be incurred upon disassembling or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms of group of cash-generating units are compared to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined based on fair value the lease. less cost to sell, primarily using an earnings multiple applicable to that type of business. The category of this fair value is Level 3 as FINANCIAL REPORT The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the lease term on a straight-line basis within Operating expenses in the Income Statement. defined in Note 9.5. When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is Earnings multiples relating to the Group’s banking cash-generating units are sourced from publicly available data associated with recognised in the Income Statement if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been fully written down. Australian businesses displaying similar characteristics to those cash-generating units, and are applied to current earnings. The key assumption is the Price-Earnings (P/E) multiple observed for these businesses, which for the banking businesses were in the range of Critical accounting judgements and estimates 11.8x–12.7x (2019: 11.6x–12.0x). Judgement has been applied by the Group in assessing which arrangements contain a lease, the period over which the lease exists and Goodwill allocation to cash generating units the variability of future cash flows when recognising right-of-use assets. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date useful lives Group Bank and residual values and whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 In determining the value in use of assets held as lessor, the Group incorporates the cash inflows over the lease term, as well as the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION $M $M $M $M expected selling price on expiry of the lease. Market disruption, lower demand for assets, decline in asset prices as well as credit events specific to individual lessees can result in a reduction of the asset’s recoverable values. There remains significant uncertainty regarding Retail Banking Services 3,744 3,744 1,988 1,988 the severity of the impact of COVID-19 on the aviation sector, and the duration of restrictions on domestic and international travel. Business and Private Banking 1,267 1,271 534 534 If an asset’s carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount, the carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable Wealth Management – 679 – – amount. New Zealand 262 269 – – IFS and Other 11 11 – – Total 5,284 5,974 2,522 2,522 178 179 180 181 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 6.2 Intangible assets (continued) 6.2 Intangible assets (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Reconciliation of the carrying amounts of Intangible assets is set out below: ACCOUNTING POLICIES Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. They are recognised only if it is probable the asset $M $M $M $M will generate future benefits for the Group. Those assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually. All intangible assets must be tested for impairment when there is an indication that its carrying amount may be greater than its recoverable amount. Goodwill Opening balance 5,974 6,941 2,522 2,522 Goodwill OVERVIEW Additions – – – – Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business and represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually through allocation to a group of Cash Generating Units (CGUs). The Transfers/disposals/other adjustments 1 (690) (967) – – CGUs’ recoverable amount is then compared to the carrying amount of the CGUs including goodwill and an impairment is recognised Closing balance 5,284 5,974 2,522 2,522 for any excess carrying value. Computer software costs Computer software costs Opening balance 1,712 1,819 1,554 1,682 Certain internal and external costs directly incurred in acquiring and developing software, are capitalised and amortised over the Additions 2 407 343 384 287 estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. The majority of software projects are amortised over two to five years. Software HOW WE CREATE VALUE Amortisation and write-offs 3 (769) (450) (785) (415) maintenance is expensed as incurred. Reclassification to assets held for sale (1) – – – During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group changed the amortisation method for its core banking software, which was previously Closing balance 1,349 1,712 1,153 1,554 amortised on a straight-line basis over ten years. The core banking software is now amortised applying a diminishing balance methodology, over a useful life of approximately nine years. The financial impact of this change is presented in Note 2.4. Brand names Opening balance 201 205 186 186 Brand names Additions – – – – Brand names acquired in a business combination include Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and Count Financial Limited and these were 4 initially recognised at fair value. Aussie Home Loans and Bankwest brand names are assessed as having an indefinite useful life as Impairment – (4) – – there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand names are expected to generate cash flows. Count Financial brand Closing balance 201 201 186 186 name was fully impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. Other intangibles Other intangibles DIRECTORS’ REPORT Opening balance 78 125 55 76 Other intangibles predominantly comprise customer relationships and prepaid software licences. Customer relationships acquired as Additions 210 140 209 142 part of a business combination are initially measured at fair value. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated Amortisation and impairment 5 (178) (187) (174) (163) amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated based on the timing of projected cash flows associated with those relationships. Closing balance 110 78 90 55 1 Includes reclassifications to Assets held for sale and foreign currency revaluation. Critical accounting judgements and estimates 2 Primarily relates to internal development costs. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs whose recoverable amount is calculated for the purpose of impairment testing. The recoverable amount 3 Includes amounts associated with discontinued operations. calculation relies primarily on publicly available earnings multiples, which are disclosed on page 179. 4 The Count Financial brand name of $3 million was impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. 5 Customer relationship intangibles in relation to Count Financial of $13 million were impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. FINANCIAL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 180 181 182 183 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 6.3 Other assets 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 7. Other liabilities Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Note $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Accrued interest receivable 1,901 2,421 1,980 2,527 Other liabilities include provisions, interest payable, fees and bills payable and unsettled trades. Provisions principally cover annual Accrued fees and reimbursements receivable 2 1,067 1,117 216 258 leave and long service leave employee entitlements as well as general insurance claims, provisions for customer remediation, Securities sold not delivered 3,640 1,893 3,002 1,323 compliance and regulation programs and litigations. It also includes provisions for impairment losses on financial guarantees and other OVERVIEW off Balance Sheet instruments issued by the Group. Intragroup current tax receivable – – 209 320 Certain provisions involve significant judgement to determine the likely outcome of events as well as a reliable estimate of the outflow. Current tax assets 16 624 10 609 Where future events are uncertain, or where the outflow cannot be reliably determined, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities. Prepayments 333 291 217 190 Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the Group’s Balance Sheet but are disclosed in Note 12.1. Contingent liabilities in respect of Defined benefit superannuation plan surplus 10.2 681 462 681 462 litigation, investigations and reviews are disclosed in Note 7.1. 3 Other 1,201 307 602 171 Total other assets 8,839 7,115 6,917 5,860 7.1 Provisions HOW WE CREATE VALUE 1 1 1 Information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. Group Bank 2 Accrued fees and reimbursements receivable as at 30 June 2020 include trail commission receivable of $453 million for the Group (30 June 2019: $442 million). 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 3 As at 30 June 2020, other assets include $654 million of proceeds receivable in relation to divestments of businesses. Note $M $M $M $M Except for the defined benefits superannuation plan surplus, the majority of the above amounts are expected to be recovered within Employee entitlements 1,039 970 910 906 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. General insurance claims 338 292 – – Customer remediation 1,031 959 1,034 901 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dividends 8.4 121 119 121 119 Other assets include interest and fee receivables, current tax assets, prepayments receivables on unsettled trades and the surplus Compliance and regulation 188 213 188 213 within defined benefit plans. Interest receivables are recognised on an accruals basis, fees and reimbursements receivable are recognised once the service is provided and trade date accounted securities sold not delivered are recognised between trade execution Restructuring 324 240 321 242 DIRECTORS’ REPORT and final settlement. The remaining other assets are recognised on an accrual or service performed basis and amortised over the period Off Balance Sheet instruments 119 84 113 82 in which the economic benefits from these assets are received. Further defined benefit plan details are provided in Note 10.2. Other 2 248 91 227 91 Total provisions 3,408 2,968 2,914 2,554 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 The adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019 resulted in an increase of $135 million in the Group’s make-good provisions in relation to property leases (Bank: $121 million). As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16, refer to Note 1.1. Maturity distribution of provisions Group 1 Bank 1 FINANCIAL REPORT 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M Less than 12 months 2,826 2,501 2,416 2,042 More than 12 months 582 467 498 512 Total provisions 3,408 2,968 2,914 2,554 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 182 183 184 185 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 7.1 Provisions (continued) 7.1 Provisions (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1 Bank 1 Provisions for employee entitlements (such as long service leave, annual leave and other employee benefits) 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 This provision is calculated based on expected payments. Where the payments are expected to be more than one year in the future, Reconciliation $M $M $M $M these provisions factor in the expected period of service by employees, as well as salary increases. These future obligations are General insurance claims: discounted using a market observable rate. Opening balance 292 219 – – General insurance claims Movement in reinsurance and other recoveries on outstanding claims 61 19 – – This provision is to cover future claims on general insurance contracts that have been incurred but not reported and reinsurance OVERVIEW Net claims incurred 573 528 – – arrangements. The provision will be realised upon settlement of claims whose maturities were uncertain at the reporting date. Movement in prior year claims (16) 7 – – Customer remediation Amounts utilised during the year (572) (481) – – This provision covers customer remediation costs and related program costs. Closing balance 338 292 – – Compliance and regulation Customer remediation: This provision relates to project and other administrative costs associated with certain compliance and regulatory programs of the Group. Opening balance 959 162 901 134 Restructuring provision HOW WE CREATE VALUE Additional provisions 2 445 963 448 903 The provision includes direct expenditures arising from changes in the scope of the Group’s business relating primarily to divestment Amounts utilised during the year (327) (166) (315) (136) transactions. The provision includes costs, which are both necessarily entailed by the divestment and are not associated with the Reclassification to liabilities held for sale (46) – – – ongoing activities of the Group. A provision for restructuring costs is only recognised when the Group has a detailed formal restructuring Closing balance 1,031 959 1,034 901 plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced. Compliance and regulation: Other provisions Opening balance 213 283 213 283 Other provisions include self-insurance provisions, make-good provisions in relation to property leases, and provisions for certain other Additional provisions 3 107 125 107 125 costs. Amounts utilised during the year (132) (188) (132) (188) Critical accounting judgements and estimates Release of provisions – (7) – (7) Provisions are held in respect of a range of future obligations, some of which involve significant judgement about the likely outcome of DIRECTORS’ REPORT Closing balance 188 213 188 213 various events and estimated future cash flows. Restructuring: Opening balance 240 174 242 172 Customer remediation Additional provisions 223 220 218 222 Provisions for customer remediation require significant levels of estimation and judgement. The amount raised depends on a number of Amounts utilised during the year (115) (154) (115) (152) different assumptions, such as the number of years impacted, the forecast refund rate and the average cost per case. The Group is committed to comprehensively and efficiently addressing the full range of remediation issues impacting customers of the Banking and Release of provisions (24) – (24) – Wealth Management businesses. Significant resources have been committed to a comprehensive program of work, to ensure that all Closing balance 324 240 321 242 issues are identified and addressed. Off Balance sheet instruments: Aligned Advice remediation – ongoing service fees FINANCIAL REPORT Opening balance 84 28 82 28 Aligned advisors were not employed by the Group but were representatives authorised to provide financial advice under the licences of Changes on adoption of AASB 9 – 87 – 84 the Group’s subsidiaries, Financial Wisdom Limited (FWL), Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) and Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited Pathways (CFP-Pathways). Additional provisions 48 – 44 – Amounts utilised during the year (13) – (13) – The Group completed the sale of Count Financial to CountPlus Limited (CountPlus) on 1 October 2019, and ceased providing licensee services through CFP-Pathways and Financial Wisdom in March and June 2020, respectively. The Bank entered into reimbursement Release of provisions – (31) – (30) agreements with Financial Wisdom and CFP-Pathways, and an indemnity deed with CountPlus, to cover potential remediation of past Closing balance 119 84 113 82 issues including ongoing service fees. For details on the reimbursement agreements and the indemnity deed, refer to Note 11.2. Other: During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group recognised a net increase in the provision for Aligned Advice remediation issues and Opening balance 91 155 91 150 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION program costs of $300 million, including ongoing service fees charged where no service was provided. As at 30 June 2020, the Changes on adoption of AASB 16 4 135 – 121 – provision held by the Group in relation to Aligned Advice remediation was $804 million (30 June 2019: $534 million). The provision includes $418 million for customer fee refunds (30 June 2019: $251 million), $280 million for interest on fees subject to refunds (30 June Additional provisions 46 32 43 31 2019: $123 million) and $106 million for costs to implement the remediation program (30 June 2019: $160 million). Amounts utilised during the year (24) (90) (28) (90) The Group’s estimate of the proportion of fees to be refunded is based on sample testing and assumes a refund rate of 37% Reclassification to liabilities held for sale – (6) – – (30 June 2019: 24%). This compares to a refund rate of 22%, which was paid for our salaried advisors. An increase/(decrease) in the Closing balance 248 91 227 91 failure rate by 1% would result in an increase/(decrease) in the provision of approximately $20 million (30 June 2019: $15 million). 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. The Group is continuing to engage with ASIC in relation to its remediation approach. 2 Customer remediation includes provisions for Aligned Advice, Banking and other Wealth Management remediation including related program costs. Banking and other Wealth customer remediation 3 Compliance and regulation includes additional provisions recognised during the current year for Financial Crimes Compliance Program of Action, Better Risk Outcomes Program (BROP) and litigation related costs. During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group raised an additional $94 million provision for Banking and other Wealth customer 4 The adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019 resulted in an increase of $135 million in the Group’s make-good provisions in relation to property leases remediation programs (30 June 2019: $384 million). As at 30 June 2020, the provision held by the Group in relation to Banking and (Bank: $121 million). As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16, refer to Note 1.1. other Wealth customer remediation was $227 million (30 June 2019: $384 million). The provision for Banking remediation includes an estimate of customer refunds (including interest) relating to business banking ACCOUNTING POLICIES products (including bank guarantees, cash deposit accounts, merchants billing and certain commercial lending products), retail banking products (including home loans and other retail products), and the related program costs. Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where a payment to settle the obligation is probable and can be reliably estimated. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision is measured as the present The Wealth remediation provision includes an estimate of customer refunds (including interest) relating to advice quality, transactions value of expenditures required to settle the obligation, based on a market observable rate. with deceased estates, the Loan Protection Insurance product, certain superannuation and other products, and the related program costs. 184 185 186 187 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 7.1 Provisions (continued) 7.1 Provisions (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of this claim, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for legal costs Litigation, investigations and reviews expected to be incurred in the defence of this class action. The Group is party to a number of legal proceedings, and the subject of various investigations and reviews. Provisions have been raised Consumer credit insurance class action where indicated in accordance with the principles outlined in the accounting policy section of this note. On 10 June 2020 a class action was commenced against CBA and CMLA in the Federal Court of Australia. The claim relates to Litigation consumer credit insurance for credit cards and personal loans that was sold between 1 January 2010 and 7 March 2018. The class The main litigated claims against the Group as at 30 June 2020 are summarised below. action alleges that CBA and CMLA engaged in unconscionable and misleading or deceptive conduct, failed to act in the best interests of OVERVIEW customers and provided them with inappropriate advice. In particular, it is alleged that some customers were excluded from claiming Shareholder class actions certain benefits under the policies and the insurance was therefore unsuitable or of no value. Allegations are also made in relation to the In October 2017 and June 2018 two separate shareholder class action proceedings were filed against CBA in the Federal Court of manner in which the insurance was sold. The Court has made orders requiring CBA and CMLA to file their responses to the claim by 21 Australia, alleging breaches of CBA’s continuous disclosure obligations and misleading and deceptive conduct in relation to the subject September 2020. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of this claim, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided matter of the civil penalty proceedings brought against CBA by the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC). for legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of this class action. The AUSTRAC proceedings concerned contraventions of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth). ASIC regulatory enforcement proceedings The resolution of the AUSTRAC civil penalty proceedings was approved by the Federal Court on 20 June 2018 with CBA paying a CFSIL My Super penalty of $700 million and legal costs. On 17 March 2020 ASIC commenced civil penalty proceedings against CFSIL in the Federal Court of Australia for alleged breaches of HOW WE CREATE VALUE It is alleged in the class actions that CBA shareholders who acquired an interest in CBA shares between 16 June 2014 and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) and Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (Corporations Act) arising from 3 August 2017 suffered losses as a result of the alleged conduct. The two class actions are being case managed together, with a single communications with members of the FirstChoice Fund. In 2012, the Australian government passed legislation requiring trustees, such harmonised statement of claim. CBA denies the allegations made against it, and it is currently not possible to determine the ultimate as CFSIL to allocate member contributions to a default “MySuper” superannuation product in certain circumstances. ASIC alleges, impact of these claims, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of the amongst other things, that CFSIL communicated with members both in template letters and on telephone calls, in a misleading or claims. deceptive manner regarding the provision of investment directions to stay with CFSIL’s FirstChoice Fund rather than transitioning to CFSIL’s MySuper product. Superannuation class actions The Group is also defending four class action claims in relation to superannuation products. CFSIL filed its response to the claim on 17 July 2020. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of this claim. The Group has provided for legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of this claim. On 9 October 2018, a class action was filed against Colonial First State Investments Limited (CFSIL) and CBA in the Federal Court of Australia. The claim initially related to investment in cash and deposit options (which are cash and deposit products provided by CBA) in Commonwealth Essential Super the Colonial First State First Choice Superannuation Trust and Commonwealth Essential Super. A second further amended statement of On 22 June 2020 ASIC commenced civil penalty proceedings against CFSIL and CBA in the Federal Court of Australia for alleged DIRECTORS’ REPORT claim and amended application was filed on 2 June 2020, joining Avanteos Investments Limited (AIL) as a party in respect of claims contraventions of the conflicted remuneration provisions in the Corporations Act relating to the arrangements between CFSIL and CBA for regarding the FirstWrap Pooled Cash Account and expanding the existing claims made against CFSIL and CBA. The main claims are the distribution of Commonwealth Essential Super (CES). CES is a superannuation product issued by CFSIL. It is currently not possible to that members invested in these cash and deposit options received lower interest rates than they could have received had CFSIL/AIL determine the ultimate impact of this claim, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for legal costs expected to be incurred in the offered similar products made available in the market by another bank with comparable risk and that CFSIL/AIL retained the margin that defence of this claim. arises through the internal transfer pricing process in respect of deposits made with CBA, for their own benefit. It is claimed CFSIL/AIL Ongoing regulatory investigations and reviews breached their duties as a trustee of the funds, CFSIL breached its duties as a Responsible Entity of the underlying managed investment schemes and that CBA was involved in CFSIL/AIL’s breaches. CBA, CFSIL and AIL deny the allegations and are defending The Group undertakes ongoing compliance activities, including breach reporting, reviews of products, advice, conduct and services the proceedings. The Court has ordered the parties to participate in a mediation of this matter, which is scheduled to take place on 3 provided to customers, as well as interest, fees and premiums charged. Some of these activities have resulted in remediation programs September 2020. and where required the Group consults with the relevant regulator on the proposed remediation action. On 18 October 2019 another class action was commenced against CFSIL in the Federal Court of Australia. The claim relates to certain Provisions have been recognised by the Group where the criteria outlined in the accounting policy section of this note are satisfied. fees charged to members of the Colonial First State First Choice Superannuation Trust. It is alleged that CFSIL breached its duties as Contingent liabilities exist with respect to these matters where it is not possible to determine the extent of any obligation to remediate or FINANCIAL REPORT trustee and acted unconscionably because it failed, between 2013 and 2019, to take steps to avoid the payment of grandfathered the potential liability cannot be reliably estimated. commissions to financial advisers, which would have resulted in a reduction of the fees paid by members in respect of whom those There are also a number of ongoing matters where regulators are investigating whether CBA or a Group entity has breached legal or commissions were paid. CFSIL denies the allegations and is defending the proceedings. The Court has ordered the parties to regulatory obligations. Where a breach has occurred, regulators are likely to impose, or apply to a Court for, fines and/or other participate in a mediation of this matter by 18 December 2020. sanctions. These matters include investigations by APRA and ASIC of issues which were referred to them by the Financial Services On 24 October 2019 a third class action was filed against CFSIL and a former executive director of CFSIL in the Federal Court of Royal Commission, as well as a number of other matters notified to, or identified by, regulators. Australia, relating to alleged contraventions of statutory obligations under superannuation law and trustee breaches in the period 2013 In addition to possible regulatory action, there may also be financial exposure to claims by customers and this could include further to 2017. The class action relates to the transfer of certain default balances held by members of FirstChoice Employer Super to a class actions, customer remediation or claims for compensation. The outcomes and total costs associated with such regulatory MySuper product. The key allegation is that members should have been transferred to a MySuper product earlier than they were, and investigations and possible customer claims remain uncertain. that the alleged failure to effect the transfer as soon as reasonably practical caused affected members to pay higher fees and receive ADDITIONAL INFORMATION lower investment returns during the point of delay. The allegations are denied and CFSIL and its former director are defending the class These investigations include ASIC’s investigation regarding the AUSTRAC proceedings noted above. In September 2017, following the action. The Court has ordered the parties to participate in a mediation which will take place on 20 November 2020. commencement of the civil proceedings against CBA by AUSTRAC, ASIC launched an investigation in relation to the Group’s disclosure concerning the matters the subject of the AUSTRAC proceedings. ASIC is also investigating, among other things, whether the directors On 22 January 2020, a fourth class action was filed against CFSIL and The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (CMLA) in and officers of CBA complied with other specific obligations under the Corporations Act. It is currently not possible to determine the the Federal Court of Australia. The class action alleges that CFSIL did not act in the best interests of members and breached its trustee ultimate impact of this investigation, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for the legal costs expected to be incurred in relation duties when taking out group insurance policies obtained from CMLA. The key allegation is that CFSIL entered into and maintained to this investigation. insurance policies with CMLA on terms that were less favourable to members than would have reasonably been available in the market. It is alleged that CMLA was knowingly involved in CFSIL’s contraventions as trustee and profited from those contraventions. The Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO) investigation allegations are denied and CFSIL and CMLA are defending the class action. The FWO’s investigation in relation to CBA’s self-disclosure of discrepancies in employee arrangements and entitlements is ongoing, and CBA continues to engage with FWO and respond to its requests for information. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate The Group has provided for the legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of the claims. impact of this investigation on the Group. US BBSW class action CBA is continuing with its broad review of employee entitlements and is remediating impacted current and former employees as the In 2016 a class action was commenced in the United States District Court in New York against CBA, other banks and two brokers, review progresses. We continue to update both the FWO and the Finance Sector Union and will provide a broader update on progress claiming a conspiracy among competitors to manipulate the BBSW benchmark for mutual gain. The claims include allegations that in due course. The Group holds a provision for remediation and program costs related to this matter. United States racketeering and antitrust legislation have been contravened. In November 2018, the Court dismissed the claims against CBA and the other foreign defendants, but in April 2019, an amended complaint was filed that included new allegations and added a new named plaintiff. The defendants applied to the Court to dismiss the amended complaint. In February 2020, the judge determined that the new named plaintiff’s claims could proceed against CBA and nine other banks. CBA denies the allegations and will be defending the class action. The breadth of the putative class (if any) that may be allowed to claim against CBA will not be determined until at the earliest August 2021. The preparation of the substantive proceedings has now commenced. 186 187 188 189 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 7.1 Provisions (continued) 7.1 Provisions (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT New Zealand compliance audit findings Enforceable undertaking to ASIC (BBSW) The Labour Inspectorate in New Zealand is undertaking a programme of compliance audits on a number of organisations in respect of On 21 June 2018, the Federal Court approved an agreement between CBA and ASIC to resolve proceedings concerning alleged market the Holidays Act 2003 (Holidays Act). On 18 December 2018, ASB Bank Limited (ASB) received the Labour Inspectorate’s report of its manipulation and unconscionable conduct in respect of the bank bill market. CBA paid a civil penalty of $5 million and a community findings on ASB’s compliance with the Holidays Act. The findings, based on a sample of employees, include that ASB has not complied benefit payment of $15 million to Financial Literacy Australia. It also agreed to pay ASIC’s costs of the investigation and legal costs. The with the requirements of the Holidays Act by not including certain incentive payments in ASB’s calculation of gross earnings under the Group provided for these costs in an earlier period. Holidays Act. ASB’s position in relation to that finding is that the application of the law is yet to be finally determined. That finding, if As part of the settlement CBA also entered into an EU with ASIC under which CBA undertook to engage an independent expert to extrapolated to ASB’s entire workforce, would result in an estimated liability of NZD 33 million in total for the preceding six years’ annual OVERVIEW assess changes it has made (and will make) to its policies, procedures, controls systems, training, guidance and framework for the holiday payments. ASB continues to engage with the Labour Inspectorate on the matter. The Group holds a provision for this matter. monitoring and supervision of employees and trading in Prime Bank Bills and CBA’s BBSW-referenced product businesses. On Home loan pricing inquiry 5 October 2018, CBA appointed EY as the independent expert. CBA provided its BBSW Program of remediation work to ASIC and EY In October 2019, the ACCC commenced an industry-wide inquiry into home loan pricing. The inquiry involves consideration of a wide on 21 December 2018. EY reviewed the BBSW Program and provided certain recommendations in its report dated 23 April 2019. CBA range of issues including the interest rates paid by new and existing customers, how the cost of financing for banks has affected bank considered those recommendations with ASIC and EY and delivered its Final BBSW Program to ASIC and EY on 23 July 2019. decisions on interest rates and barriers to customers switching home loans with the focus on the period since 1 January 2019. CBA is EY delivered its report on CBA’s Final BBSW Program on 30 August 2019. Once the terms of the Final BBSW Program are agreed to co-operating with the ACCC in its requests for information. The ACCC published an interim report on 27 April 2020. The final report from by ASIC, that program will be implemented. The Group has provided for costs associated with implementation of the BBSW program. the inquiry is due by 30 November 2020. Enforceable undertaking to the Office of Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) Other regulatory matters HOW WE CREATE VALUE In June 2019, the Australian Information Commissioner (Commissioner) accepted an EU offered by CBA, which requires further The following matters were significant regulatory investigations and reviews, which have been completed, but have resulted in ongoing enhancements to the management and retention of customer personal information within CBA and certain subsidiaries. action required by the Group. The EU follows CBA’s work to address two incidents: one relating to the disposal by a third party of magnetic data tapes containing Enforceable undertaking to ASIC (foreign exchange) historical customer statements and the other relating to potential unauthorised internal user access to certain systems and applications In December 2016 CBA provided an enforceable undertaking (EU) to ASIC arising from an investigation into wholesale spot foreign containing customer personal information. CBA reported the incidents to the Commissioner in 2016 and 2018 respectively and has exchange (FX) trading between 2008 and 2013. The EU included the engagement of an independent expert, to review and assess the since been working to address these incidents. CBA found no evidence that its customers’ personal information was compromised by changes we have made to our trading operating model in recent years, including in training, procedures and oversight. the incident reported in 2016, and has found no evidence to date that there have been any instances of unauthorised access by CBA It also included a voluntary contribution of $2.5 million to support the further development of financial literacy education relating to employees or third parties as a result of the incident reported in 2018. changes to delivery of care in the aged care sector. The Group has provided for certain costs associated with implementation and compliance with the EU provided to the Commissioner. CBA provided details of the implementation of its Final FX EU Program to ASIC in March 2019. The independent expert conducted an Other matters DIRECTORS’ REPORT assessment of CBA’s implementation and submitted its final expert report on 31 May 2019. The report highlighted certain terms of the Exposures to divested businesses consolidated Final FX EU Program, which were yet to be implemented, certain matters that could not be assessed and some other The Group has potential exposures to divested businesses, including through the provision of services, warranties and indemnities. areas for improvement. CBA has steps underway to address the matters raised in the independent expert’s report and is having ongoing These exposures may have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance and position. The Group has recognised discussions with ASIC in respect of the FX EU Program. provisions where payments in relation to the exposures are probable and reliably measurable. Prudential inquiry into CBA and enforceable undertaking to APRA On 28 August 2017 APRA announced it would establish an independent prudential inquiry (the Inquiry) into the Group focusing on the governance, culture and accountability frameworks and practices within the Group. The final report of the Inquiry was released on 1 May 2018 (the Final Report). The Final Report made a number of findings regarding the complex interplay of organisational and cultural factors within the Group and the need for enhanced management of non-financial risks. In response to the Final Report, the Group acknowledged that it will implement all of the recommendations and agreed to adjust its minimum operational risk capital requirements FINANCIAL REPORT by an additional $1 billion (an impact to risk weighted assets of $12.5 billion) until such time as the recommendations are implemented to APRA’s satisfaction. CBA has entered into an EU under which CBA’s remedial action (Remedial Action Plan) in response to the Final Report would be agreed and monitored regularly by APRA. The Remedial Action Plan provides a detailed program of change outlining how CBA will improve the way it runs its business, manages risk, and works with regulators. The Remedial Action Plan also provides a comprehensive assurance framework, with Promontory Australasia (Sydney) Pty Ltd (Promontory) having been appointed as the independent reviewer, and which is required to report to APRA on the Group’s progress against committed milestones every 3 months. Promontory is continuing to provide APRA with quarterly progress reports, and CBA is committed to report publicly on its progress against the Remedial Action Plan twice a year. Six Promontory reports have been released by CBA. Promontory has noted that the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remedial Action Plan program of work remains on track and CBA’s commitment to implementing the Inquiry’s recommendations in a timely and comprehensive way continued to be strong with all 176 milestones on schedule to be delivered by the applicable due dates. The Group has provided for costs associated with the implementation of the Remedial Action Plan. Financial crime compliance As noted above, in 2018 the Group resolved the AUSTRAC proceedings relating to contraventions of anti-money laundering/counterterrorism financing (AML/CTF) laws. Recognising the crucial role that the Group plays in fighting financial crime, it continues to strengthen and invest significantly in its financial crime capabilities, including in its AML/CTF Compliance team and through the Program of Action with coverage across all aspects of financial crime (including anti-money laundering/counter-terrorism financing, sanctions and anti-bribery and corruption) and all business units. The Group has provided for costs of running the Program of Action. The Group provides updates to AUSTRAC and the Group’s other regulators on the Program of Action implemented by the Group following the civil penalty proceedings commenced against it by AUSTRAC. However, there is no assurance that AUSTRAC or the Group’s other regulators will agree that the Group’s Program of Action will be adequate or that the Program of Action will effectively enhance the Group’s financial crime compliance programs across its business units and the jurisdictions in which it operates. While the Group is not currently aware of any other enforcement action by other domestic or foreign regulators in respect of its financial crime compliance, there can be no assurance that the Group will not be subject to such enforcement actions in the future. 188 189 190 191 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 7.2 Bills payable and other liabilities 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 8. Our capital, equity and reserves Group 1 Bank 1, 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Bills payable 657 756 582 664 The Group maintains a strong capital position in order to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, provide financial security to its Accrued interest payable 1,693 2,676 1,366 2,238 depositors and creditors and adequate return to its shareholders. The Group’s shareholders’ equity includes issued ordinary shares, Accrued fees, employee incentives and other items payable 3 1,738 2,173 1,434 1,689 retained earnings and reserves. OVERVIEW Securities purchased not delivered 3,850 2,414 3,061 1,774 This section provides analysis of the Group’s shareholders’ equity including changes during the period. 4 Unearned income 1,415 1,439 888 1,011 Lease liabilities 5 3,112 – 2,861 – 8.1 Capital adequacy Other 723 610 1,674 1,311 The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution (ADI) regulated by APRA under the authority of the Banking Act 1959. APRA has Total bills payable and other liabilities 13,188 10,068 11,866 8,687 set minimum regulatory capital requirements for banks based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) guidelines. 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. The Basel III measurement and monitoring of capital has been effective from 1 January 2013. APRA has adopted a more conservative approach than the minimum standards published by the BCBS and also adopted an accelerated timetable for implementation. The HOW WE CREATE VALUE 2 Comparative information has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 3 Accrued fees payable as at 30 June 2020 include trail commissions payable of $200 million for the Group (30 June 2019: $265 million). requirements define what is acceptable as capital and provide methods of measuring the risks incurred by the Bank. 4 Unearned income includes annual facility fees, commitment fees and upfront fees that are deferred and recognised over the service periods. Of the unearned The regulatory capital requirements are measured for the Extended Licenced Entity Group (known as “Level 1”, comprising the Bank income recognised at the beginning of the period, the Group and the Bank has recognised $616 million and $592 million, respectively, as income for the period and APRA approved subsidiaries) and for the Bank and all of its banking subsidiaries, which includes ASB Bank (known as “Level 2” or ended 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $643 million for the Group and $622 million for the Bank). the “Group”). 5 Current period amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 refer to Note 1.1. All entities which are consolidated for accounting purposes are included within the Group capital adequacy calculations except for: • the insurance and funds management operating subsidiaries; and ACCOUNTING POLICIES • the entities through which securitisation of Group assets are conducted. Bills payable and Other liabilities include accrued interest payable, accrued incentives payable, accrued fees payable, lease liabilities Regulatory capital is divided into Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital. CET1 primarily consists of and unearned income. Bills payable and Other liabilities are measured at the contractual amount payable. As most payables are shortshareholders’ equity, less goodwill and other prescribed adjustments. Additional Tier 1 Capital is comprised of high quality capital DIRECTORS’ REPORT term in nature, the contractual amount payable approximates fair value. providing a permanent and unrestricted commitment of funds, is freely available to absorb losses, ranks behind the claims of depositors Where the Group is a lessee, all leases will be recognised on the Balance Sheet as a lease liability and right-of-use asset, unless the and other more senior creditors and provides for fully discretionary capital distributions. Tier 1 capital is the aggregate of CET1 and underlying asset is of low value or the lease has a term of 12 months or less. Rentals of leases with low value underlying assets or Additional Tier 1 Capital. Tier 2 Capital is hybrid and debt instruments that fall short of necessary conditions to qualify as Additional Tier where the lease term is 12 months or less are recognised over the lease term as Operating expenses in the Income Statement. Lease 1 to APRA. Total Capital is the aggregate of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital. liabilities are initially measured at the net present value of the following lease payments (if applicable): The tangible component of the investment in the insurance and funds management operations are deducted 100% from CET1. • fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable; Capital adequacy is measured by means of risk based capital ratios. The capital ratios reflect capital (CET1, Additional Tier 1, Tier 2 • variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate; and Total Capital) as a percentage of total Risk Weighted Assets (RWA). RWA represents an allocation of risks associated with the • amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees; Group’s assets and other related exposures. • the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and The Group has a range of instruments and methodologies available to effectively manage capital. These include share issues and FINANCIAL REPORT • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option. buybacks, dividend and DRP policies, hybrid capital raising and dated and undated subordinated loan capital issuances. All major capital related initiatives require approval of the Board. Lease liabilities are remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in the above. When lease liabilities are remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recognised in the The Group’s capital position is monitored on a continuous basis and reported monthly to the Executive Leadership Team, Asset and Income Statement if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been fully written down. Lease liabilities are measured at Liability Committee and at regular intervals throughout the year to the Board. amortised cost using the effective interest method. The Group’s capital ratios throughout the 2018, 2019 and 2020 financial years were in compliance with both APRA minimum capital adequacy requirements and the Board approved minimums. The Group is required to inform APRA immediately of any breach or potential breach of its minimum prudential capital adequacy requirements, including details of remedial action taken or planned to be taken. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 190 191 192 193 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 8.2 Loan capital 8.2 Loan Capital (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Bank 4. USD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances Currency 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 • USD1,250 million subordinated notes issued December 2015, due December 2025; amount (M) Endnotes $M $M $M $M • USD750 million subordinated EMTN issued October 2016, due October 2026; Tier 1 loan capital • USD1,250 million subordinated notes issued January 2018, due in January 2048; Undated FRN USD 100 1 146 143 146 143 • USD1,250 million subordinated Medium Term Notes (MTN) issued September 2019, due September 2034; and Undated PERLS VII AUD 3,000 2 2,991 2,985 2,991 2,985 OVERVIEW • USD1,250 million subordinated MTN issued September 2019, due in September 2039. Undated PERLS VIII AUD 1,450 2 1,446 1,441 1,446 1,441 5. JPY denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances Undated PERLS IX AUD 1,640 2 1,633 1,628 1,633 1,628 • JPY20 billion perpetual subordinated EMTN, issued February 1999; Undated PERLS X AUD 1,365 2 1,358 1,356 1,354 1,352 • JPY40 billion subordinated EMTNs issued December 2016 (three tranches JPY20 billion, JPY10 billion and JPY10 billion), due Undated PERLS XI AUD 1,590 2 1,581 1,580 1,578 1,576 December 2026; and Undated PERLS XII AUD 1,650 2 1,636 – 1,634 – • JPY13.3 billion subordinated EMTN issued March 2017, due March 2027. Total Tier 1 loan capital 10,791 9,133 10,782 9,125 6. NZD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances HOW WE CREATE VALUE Tier 2 loan capital • NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes, issued November 2016, due December 2026: AUD denominated 3 1,364 1,774 1,364 1,774 On 30 November 2016, ASB Bank Limited issued NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes (ASB Notes 2) with a face value of USD denominated 4 8,362 4,616 8,362 4,616 NZD1 each. ASB Notes 2 are listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange (NZX) debt market and are subject to New South Wales JPY denominated 5 993 968 993 968 and New Zealand law. They qualify as Tier 2 Capital of the Bank and ASB under Basel III as implemented by APRA and the RBNZ. NZD denominated 6 372 379 – – 7. EUR denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances EUR denominated 7 3,674 5,259 3,674 5,259 • EUR1,000 million subordinated notes, issued August 2009, and redeemed in August 2019; Other currencies denominated 8 114 318 114 318 • EUR1,250 million subordinated notes issued April 2015, due April 2027; and Total Tier 2 loan capital 14,879 13,314 14,507 12,935 • EUR1,000 million subordinated EMTN, issued October 2017, due October 2029. Fair value hedge adjustments 1,687 519 1,675 509 8. Other foreign currency denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total loan capital 1 27,357 22,966 26,964 22,569 • CNY1,000 million subordinated notes issued March 2015, and redeemed in March 2020; and 1 Loan capital includes unrealised movements of $1,350 million predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value hedge adjustments. • HKD608 million subordinated EMTN issued March 2017, due March 2027. As at 30 June 2020, there were no securities issued by the Group and the Bank that were contractually due for redemption in the next All Tier 2 Capital securities issued prior to 1 January 2013 qualify as Tier 2 Capital of the Bank under the Basel III transitional 12 months (30 June 2019: $1,604 million for the Group, $1,620 for the Bank). The Group has the right to call some securities before the arrangements for capital instruments as implemented by APRA. All Tier 2 Capital securities issued after 1 January 2013 qualify as Tier contractual maturity. 2 Capital of the Bank under Basel III as implemented by APRA. PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X, PERLS XI and PERLS XII, and all Tier 2 Capital securities issued after 1 January 2013, 1. USD100 million floating rate notes are subject to Basel III, under which these securities must be exchanged for a variable number of CBA ordinary shares or written down On 15 October 1986, the State Bank of Victoria issued USD125 million of floating rate notes, the current outstanding balance is if a capital trigger event (PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X, PERLS XI and PERLS XII only) or a non-viability trigger event USD100 million. The floating rate notes are perpetual but were able to be redeemed from October 1991. They were assigned to the (all securities) occurs. Any exchange will occur as described in the terms of the applicable instrument documentation. FINANCIAL REPORT Bank on 1 January 1991. The Bank entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth of Australia on 31 December 1991 which provides that, if certain events ACCOUNTING POLICIES occur, the Bank may either issue CBA ordinary shares to the Commonwealth of Australia, or (with the consent of the Commonwealth of Loan capital consists of instruments issued by the Group, which qualify as regulatory capital under the Prudential Standards set by the Australia) conduct a renounceable rights issue for CBA ordinary shares to all shareholders. The capital raised must be used to pay any Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ). Loan capital is initially measured at amounts due and payable on the floating rate notes. fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest expense incurred is The floating rate notes were issued into the international markets and are subject to English law. They qualify as Additional Tier 1 recognised in Net interest income. Capital of the Bank under the Basel III transitional arrangements for capital instruments as implemented by APRA. 2. PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X, PERLS XI and PERLS XII ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On 1 October 2014, the Bank issued $3,000 million of CommBank PERLS VII Capital Notes (PERLS VII). On 30 March 2016, the Bank issued $1,450 million of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes (PERLS VIII). On 31 March 2017, the Bank issued $1,640 million of CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (PERLS IX). On 6 April 2018, the Bank issued $1,365 million of CommBank PERLS X Capital Notes (PERLS X). On 17 December 2018, the Bank issued $1,590 million of CommBank PERLS XI Capital Notes (PERLS XI). On 14 November 2019, the Bank issued $1,650 million of CommBank PERLS XII Capital Notes (PERLS XII). PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X, PERLS XI and PERSL XII are subordinated, unsecured notes. PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X, PERLS XI and PERLS XII are listed on the ASX and are subject to New South Wales law. They qualify as Additional Tier 1 Capital of the Bank under Basel III as implemented by APRA. 3. AUD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances • $25 million subordinated floating rate notes, issued April 1999, due April 2029; • $1,000 million subordinated notes issued November 2014, and redeemed in November 2019 • $750 million subordinated notes issued June 2016, due June 2026; • $100 million subordinated Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) issued September 2019, due September 2034; • $280 million subordinated notes issued March 2020, due March 2035; and • $210 million subordinated notes issued May 2020, due May 2035. 192 193 194 195 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 8.3 Shareholders’ equity 8.3 Shareholders’ equity (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Bank Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M Retained profits $M $M $M $M Ordinary share capital Opening balance 28,482 28,360 23,099 23,819 Shares on issue: Changes on adoption of AASB 16 1 (146) – (146) – Opening balance 38,283 37,535 38,281 37,533 Changes on adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 – (955) – (868) OVERVIEW Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 1, 2 (1) 748 (1) 748 Restated opening balance 28,336 27,405 22,953 22,951 38,282 38,283 38,280 38,281 Actuarial gains/(losses) from defined benefit superannuation plans 116 (49) 115 (50) Less treasury shares: Realised gains and dividend income on treasury shares 13 12 – – Opening balance (263) (265) (69) – Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 9,634 8,571 10,168 7,783 3, 4 (65) (93) (65) (69) Total available for appropriation 38,099 35,939 33,236 30,684 Purchase of treasury shares Sale and vesting of treasury shares 3, 4 98 95 34 – Transfers from/(to) general reserve 2 733 126 586 (2) HOW WE CREATE VALUE Decrease in treasury shares on deconsolidation of CommInsure Life 79 – – – Transfer from capital reserve 3 – – 1,254 – (151) (263) (100) (69) Transfers from asset revaluation reserve 8 23 4 23 Closing balance 38,131 38,020 38,180 38,212 Interim dividend – cash component (3,021) (2,949) (3,021) (2,949) Interim dividend – dividend reinvestment plan 4 (519) (592) (519) (592) 1 The DRP in respect of the interim 2019/2020, final 2018/2019 and interim 2018/2019 dividends were satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 7,080,363 shares at $73.37, 7,810,285 shares at $78.61 and 8,080,558 shares at $73.21 respectively to participating shareholders. Final dividend – cash component (3,474) (3,316) (3,474) (3,316) 2 The determined dividend includes an amount attributable to the final 2017/2018 dividend reinvestment plan of $749 million. The value of shares issued under plan Final dividend – dividend reinvestment plan 4, 5 (615) (749) (615) (749) rules net of issue costs was $748 million. Closing balance 31,211 28,482 27,451 23,099 3 Relates to the movements in treasury shares held within the employee share plans and treasury shares held within life insurance statutory funds (prior to deconsolidation of CommInsure Life on 1 November 2019). 1 The Group adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. As permitted by AASB 16, the Group recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the new 4 Movement in treasury shares includes 649,480 shares acquired at an average price of $79.62 for satisfying the Company’s obligations under various equity settled requirements as an adjustment to opening Retained profits at 1 July 2019. Comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 16 DIRECTORS’ REPORT share plans (30 June 2019: 1,178,102 shares acquired at an average price of $69.95). Other than shares purchased as part of the Non-Executive Director fee refer to Note 1.1. sacrifice arrangements disclosed in Note 10.3, shares purchased were not on behalf of or initially allocated to a director. 2 Following deconsolidation of CommInsure Life on 1 November 2019, the Group is no longer required to quarantine undistributable profits in general reserve. As a result, general reserve was reclassified to Retained profits. Group Bank 3 The capital reserve previously held by the Bank was related to historic internal restructuring of the Group’s life insurance and funds management businesses. The 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 reserve was eliminated on consolidation. The reserve was reclassified to the Bank’s retained earnings following deconsolidation of CFSGAM and CommInsure Life during the year ended 30 June 2020. Number of shares on issue Shares Shares Shares Shares 4 The DRP in respect of the interim 2019/2020, final 2018/2019 and interim 2018/2019 dividends were satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of Opening balance (excluding treasury shares deduction) 1,770,239,507 1,759,842,930 1,770,239,507 1,759,842,930 7,080,363 shares at $73.37, 7,810,285 shares at $78.61 and 8,080,558 shares at $73.21, respectively to participating shareholders. 5 The determined dividend includes an amount attributable to the final 2017/2018 dividend reinvestment plan of $749 million. The value of shares issued under plan Dividend reinvestment plan issues: rules net of issue costs was $748 million. 2017/2018 Final dividend fully paid ordinary – 10,396,577 – 10,396,577 shares $72.05 FINANCIAL REPORT 2018/2019 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary – – – – shares $73.21 1 2018/2019 Final dividend fully paid ordinary – – – – shares $78.61 1 2019/2020 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary shares – – – – $73.37 1 Closing balance (excluding treasury shares deduction) 1,770,239,507 1,770,239,507 1,770,239,507 1,770,239,507 Less: treasury shares 2, 3 (2,095,440) (3,503,541) (1,365,183) (994,913) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Closing balance 1,768,144,067 1,766,735,966 1,768,874,324 1,769,244,594 1 The DRP in respect of the interim 2019/2020, final 2018/2019 and interim 2018/2019 dividends were satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 7,080,363 shares at $73.37, 7,810,285 shares at $78.61 and 8,080,558 shares at $73.21, respectively to participating shareholders. 2 Relates to treasury shares held within the employee share plans and life insurance statutory funds (prior to deconsolidation of CommInsure Life on 1 November 2019). 3 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Ordinary shares have no par value and the Company does not have a limited amount of share capital. Ordinary shares entitle holders to receive dividends payable to ordinary shareholders and to participate in the proceeds available to ordinary shareholders on winding up of the Company in proportion to the number of fully paid ordinary shares held. On a show of hands every holder of fully paid ordinary shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll one vote for each share held. 194 195 196 197 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 8.3 Shareholders’ equity (continued) 8.3 Shareholders’ equity (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Bank Group Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Reserves $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M General reserve Investment securities revaluation reserve Opening balance 733 859 586 584 Opening balance 253 – 221 – 1 Transfer (to)/from retained profits (733) (126) (586) 2 Change on adoption of AASB 9 – 149 – 227 OVERVIEW Closing balance – 733 – 586 Restated opening balance 253 149 221 227 Capital reserve Net (losses)/gains on revaluation of investment securities (200) 140 (184) 18 Opening balance – – 1,254 1,254 Net losses on investment securities transferred to Income Statement on disposal (49) (42) (49) (42) Transfer to retained profits 2 – – (1,254) – Income tax effect 76 6 73 18 Closing balance – – – 1,254 Closing balance 80 253 61 221 Asset revaluation reserve Available-for-sale investments reserve HOW WE CREATE VALUE Opening balance 246 235 216 206 Opening balance – 149 – 227 Revaluation of properties 24 38 20 37 Change on adoption of AASB 9 – (149) – (227) Transfer to retained profits (8) (23) (4) (23) Restated balance – – – – Income tax effect (5) (4) (5) (4) Total reserves 2,666 3,092 2,444 3,813 Closing balance 257 246 227 216 Shareholders' Equity attributable to equity holders of the Bank 72,008 69,594 68,075 65,124 Foreign currency translation reserve Shareholders' Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 5 55 – – Opening balance 912 448 302 88 Total Shareholders' Equity 72,013 69,649 68,075 65,124 Currency translation adjustments of foreign operations (237) 491 (46) 233 Currency translation on net investment hedge (5) (20) (5) (19) DIRECTORS’ REPORT Income tax effect 8 (7) – – Closing balance 678 912 251 302 Cash flow hedge reserve 3 Opening balance 787 (160) 1,073 70 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging instruments: Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 1,243 1,603 1,505 1,928 Transferred to Income Statement: Interest income (2,008) (859) (1,979) (875) FINANCIAL REPORT Interest expense 1,854 1,044 1,487 771 Other banking income (44) (433) (11) (396) Income tax effect (319) (408) (308) (425) Closing balance 1,513 787 1,767 1,073 Employee compensation reserve Opening balance 161 145 161 139 Current period movement (23) 16 (23) 22 Closing balance 138 161 138 161 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 Following deconsolidation of CommInsure Life on 1 November 2019, the Group is no longer required to quarantine undistributable profits in general reserve. As a result, general reserve was reclassified to Retained profits. 2 The capital reserve previously held by the Bank was related to historic internal restructuring of the Group’s life insurance and funds management businesses. The reserve was eliminated on consolidation. The reserve was reclassified to the Bank’s retained earnings following deconsolidation of CFSGAM and CommInsure Life during the year ended 30 June 2020. 3 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 196 197 198 199 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 8.3 Shareholders’ equity (continued) 8.4 Dividends 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Bank ACCOUNTING POLICIES 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Note $M $M $M $M $M Shareholders’ equity includes Ordinary share capital, Retained profits and Reserves. Policies for each component are set out below: Ordinary shares Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are recognised at the amount paid up per ordinary share, net of directly attributable issue costs. Where the Bank or Interim ordinary dividend (fully franked) entities within the Group purchase shares in the Bank, the consideration paid is deducted from total shareholders’ equity and the shares (2020: 200 cents; 2019: 200 cents; 2018: 200 cents) OVERVIEW are treated as treasury shares until they are subsequently sold, reissued or cancelled. Where such shares are sold or reissued, any Interim ordinary dividend paid – cash component only 3,021 2,949 2,969 3,021 2,949 consideration received is included in shareholders’ equity. Interim ordinary dividend paid – Dividend Reinvestment Plan 1 519 592 536 519 592 Retained profits Total dividend paid 3,540 3,541 3,505 3,540 3,541 Retained profits includes the accumulated profits for the Group including certain amounts recognised directly in retained profits less Other provision carried 121 119 113 121 119 dividends paid. Dividend proposed and not recognised as a liability (fully franked) Reserves (2020: 98 cents; 2019: 231 cents; 2018: 231 cents) 2 1,735 4,089 4,065 1,735 4,089 Provision for dividends HOW WE CREATE VALUE General reserve In prior periods General reserve was derived from profits and was available for dividend payments except for undistributable profits in Opening balance 119 113 100 119 113 respect of the Group’s life insurance business. Following deconsolidation of CommInsure Life on 1 November 2019, the Group is no longer Provision made during the year 7,630 7,606 7,484 7,630 7,606 required to quarantine undistributable profits in General reserve. As a result General reserve was reclassified to Retained profits. Provision used during the year (7,628) (7,600) (7,471) (7,628) (7,600) Capital reserve Closing balance 7.1 121 119 113 121 119 The Capital reserve previously held by the Bank was related to historic internal restructuring of the Group’s life insurance and funds 1 The DRP in respect of the interim 2019/2020 and interim 2018/2019 dividends were satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 7,080,363 and management businesses. The reserve was eliminated on consolidation. The reserve was reclassified to the Bank’s retained earnings 8,080,558 shares, respectively to participating shareholders. The DRP in respect of the interim 2017/2018 dividend was satisfied by the issue of shares. following deconsolidation of CFSGAM and CommInsure Life during the year ended 30 June 2020. 2 The 2020 final dividend will be satisfied by cash disbursements with the DRP anticipated to be satisfied by the issuance of shares. The 2019 final dividend was Asset revaluation reserve satisfied by cash disbursements with the DRP satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 7,810,285 shares. The 2018 final dividend was satisfied by cash disbursements of $3,316 million and $749 million being reinvested by the participants through the DRP. The Asset revaluation reserve is used to record revaluation adjustments on the Group’s property assets. Where an asset is sold or DIRECTORS’ REPORT disposed of, any balance in the reserve in relation to the asset is transferred directly to Retained profits. Final dividend Foreign currency translation reserve The Directors have determined a fully franked (30%) final dividend of 98 cents per share amounting to $1,735 million. The dividend will be payable on 30 September 2020 to shareholders on the register at 5pm AEST on 20 August 2020. The ex-dividend date is Exchange differences arising on translation of the Group’s foreign operations are accumulated in the Foreign currency translation 19 August 2020. reserve. Specifically assets and liabilities are translated at the prevailing exchange rate at Balance Sheet date; revenue and expenses are translated at the transaction date; and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in the Foreign currency translation reserve. Dividend policy When a foreign operation is disposed of, exchange differences are recycled out of the reserve and recognised in the Income Statement. In determining the dividend, the Board considers a range of factors in accordance with Bank’s dividend policy including: • paying cash dividends at strong and sustainable levels; Cash flow hedge reserve • targeting a full-year payout ratio of 70% to 80%; and The Cash flow hedge reserve is used to record fair value gains or losses associated with the effective portion of designated cash flow hedging instruments. Amounts are reclassified to the Income Statement when the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. • maximising the use of its franking account by paying fully franked dividends. FINANCIAL REPORT Employee compensation reserve In light of the heightened economic risk caused by COVID-19, the Bank has taken into consideration APRA’s guidance on capital The Employee compensation reserve is used to recognise the fair value of shares and other equity instruments issued to employees distributions outlined in its letter on 29 July 2020. For 2020, APRA expects that ADIs will retain at least half of their earnings, and actively use dividend reinvestment plans and/or other capital management initiatives to at least partially offset the diminution in capital under the employee share plans and bonus schemes. from distributions. Investment securities revaluation reserve The Investment securities revaluation reserve includes changes in the fair value of Investment securities measured at fair value through Dividend franking account other comprehensive income. For debt securities, these changes are reclassified to the Income Statement when the asset is After fully franking the final dividend to be paid for the year, the amount of credits available at the 30% tax rate as at 30 June 2020 to derecognised. For equity securities, these changes are not reclassified to the Income Statement when derecognised. frank dividends for subsequent financial years, is $2,007 million (2019: $1,190 million). This figure is based on the franking accounts of the Bank at 30 June 2020, adjusted for franking credits that will arise from the payment of income tax payable on profits for the year and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION prior years, franking debits that will arise from the payment of dividends proposed, and franking credits that may not be available to be distributed in subsequent financial periods. The Bank expects that future tax payments will generate sufficient franking credits for the Bank to be able to continue to fully frank future dividend payments. These calculations have been based on the taxation law as at 30 June 2020. 198 199 200 201 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 8.4 Dividends (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 9. Risk management Dividend history Half year Full year DRP payout payout DRP participation OVERVIEW Cents per ratio 1 ratio 1 price rate 2 The Group is exposed to financial risks, non-financial risks and strategic risks arising from its operations. The Group manages these Half year ended share Payment date % % $ % risks through its Risk Management Framework (the Framework), which evolves to accommodate changes in the business operating 31 December 2017 200 28/03/2018 71. 45 – 75. 38 15. 3 environment, better practice approaches, and regulatory and community expectations. The components of the Framework are illustrated OVERVIEW below, including the governance that enables executive and Board oversight of these risks. 30 June 2018 231 28/09/2018 91. 93 81. 15 72. 05 18. 4 31 December 2018 200 28/03/2019 76. 98 – 73. 21 16. 7 30 June 2019 231 26/09/2019 102. 95 89. 02 78. 61 15. 0 31 December 2019 200 31/03/2020 57. 47 – 73. 37 14. 7 30 June 2020 98 30/09/2020 49. 95 54. 76 – – HOW WE CREATE VALUE 1 Dividend payout ratio: dividends divided by statutory earnings (earnings are net of dividends on other equity instruments). 2 DRP participation rate: the percentage of total issued share capital participating in the DRP. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dividends represent a distribution of profits that holders of ordinary shares receive from time to time. Dividends determined by the Board of the Bank are recognised with a corresponding reduction of retained earnings when the dividend is paid. The Board takes into consideration factors including the Group’s relative capital strength and the Group’s existing dividend payout ratio guidelines in determining the amount of dividends to be paid. DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Further details on each of the material risks, and how the Group manages them, are outlined in this note. 200 201 202 203 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.1 Risk management framework 9.1 Risk management framework (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Framework enables the appropriate development and implementation of strategies, policies and procedures to manage risk. The Risk culture and conduct risk Framework incorporates the requirements of APRA Prudential Standard CPS 220 “Risk Management” supported by the three key Risk culture is the beliefs, values and practices within the organisation that determine how risks are identified, measured, governed, and documentary components: acted upon. A positive risk culture drives the right risk decisions and helps the Group make sound judgements in new and unfamiliar • The Group Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) articulates the type and degree of risk the Board is prepared to accept and the circumstances. The risk behaviours that demonstrate a positive risk culture and are expected of employees by the Board, senior maximum level of risk that the institution must operate within. management, customers, communities, shareholders and regulators, are guided by CBA values that emphasise doing what is right, • The Group Risk Management Approach (RMA) describes the Group’s approach to ensure comprehensive management of its risks accountability, service, excellence and getting things done the right way. OVERVIEW in support of achieving its strategic goals and objectives. The Board’s RAS in relation to conduct risk requires business practices that are fair to customers, protect the fair and efficient operation • The Group Business Plan (Plan) summarises the Group’s approach to the implementation of its strategic objectives. The Plan has a of the market and engender confidence in our products and services. Annually, the CBA Board forms a view regarding the effectiveness rolling three year duration and reflects material risks arising from its implementation. of the Group’s risk culture in keeping risk-taking within appetite. Action plans are initiated and monitored to drive positive risk culture changes in areas of need. The Framework is underpinned by the following Risk Framework Enablers that allow the Group to effectively identify, record, manage and monitor risks: Responding to COVID-19 risks Risk governance and reporting At times, changes in the Bank’s external and internal operating environments may have an impact on the nature of one or more of our material risk types, including our strategic risks. An example is the COVID-19 pandemic, which rapidly introduced an array of new and The Group is committed to ensuring that its risk management practices reflect a high standard of governance. This enables elevated risks to the safety of our people, the resilience of the Group’s operations, the strength of our Balance Sheet and the financial HOW WE CREATE VALUE management to undertake, in an effective manner, prudent risk-taking activities. The Board operates as the highest level of the Group’s security of our customers and the community. A number of actions were taken to address these risks, such as: risk governance. The Board Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for the oversight and governance of risks impacting the Group. It oversees the design, implementation and operation of the Framework and helps formulate the Group’s risk appetite for • measures to support and protect our people; consideration by the Board. In particular it: • relief measures to support our customers; • monitors the Group’s risk profile (including identification of emerging risks); and • infrastructure changes to ensure stability of key services; • reviews regular reports from management on the measurement of risk and the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk • continued enhancement of the Bank’s cyber defences; management and internal control systems. • increased oversight of critical suppliers; At management level, risk governance is undertaken by a structured hierarchy of personal delegations and management committees • increased forward looking loan loss provisions; and and forums across the Group and within the Business Units (BUs) and Support Units (SUs). • ongoing monitoring of the Group’s lending portfolios. Regular management information is produced that allows financial and non-financial risk positions to be monitored against approved risk The Board and Management continue to actively monitor the situation and adapt the Group’s response as required. DIRECTORS’ REPORT appetite and policy limits. At Board level, the majority of risk reporting is provided to the Board Risk and Compliance Committee; although select matters are reported directly to the Board as required. Controls reporting is provided to the Board Audit Committee. The Group operates a Three Lines of Accountability model that places the accountability for risk ownership with the Line 1 BUs and Support Units (SUs), while focusing the mandate of Line 2 Risk teams on risk appetite and the Framework, assurance, approval or acceptance of risk decisions of Line 1 and advice. Line 3 Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board, regulators and other stakeholders on the effectiveness of risk management, internal controls and governance. Risk policies & procedures Risk policies and procedures provide guidance to the business on the management of each material risk. They support the framework by: • summarising the principles and practices to be used by the Group in identifying and assessing its material risks; and FINANCIAL REPORT • quantifying the operating tolerances for material risks. Risk management infrastructure The Framework is supported by key infrastructure systems and processes for the management of the Group’s material risks. The key risk management systems and processes in place include: • Risk processes to identify, assess, escalate, monitor and manage risks and issues; • Management information systems to measure and aggregate risks across the Group; • Risk models and tools; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • A Risk-Adjusted Performance Measurement (RAPM) process that is a means of assessing the performance of a business after adjustment for its capital consumption and is used as a basis for executive incentives; and • An Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) used alongside other risk techniques (including stress testing), to quantify the Group’s risks for use in risk decisions, capital plans and strategic decisions. Risk skills and capabilities In addition to having the necessary risk skills and capabilities for their roles, it is important for all Group employees to have an awareness of the Framework as it relates to their role, as well as the need to adopt the CBA risk behaviours to ensure a positive CBA risk culture. Risk skills and capabilities are developed through: • Communication of the Group RAS and the CBA RMA: Following approval by the Board, the updated RAS and RMA are communicated to all employees. Employees are also made aware of the Group and BU/SU RASs via the remuneration process (which highlights that individual employee performance will be assessed in light of their compliance); • Group Mandatory Learning modules; • The Operational Risk and Compliance Training program; • Induction and ongoing learning; and • Talent sourcing and acquisition. 202 203 204 205 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.1 Risk management framework (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 9.1 Risk management framework (continued) Material risk types Governing Policies and Governing Policies and Key Management Key Management Description Committees Key controls and risk mitigation strategies Description Committees Key controls and risk mitigation strategies Liquidity and funding risk Credit risk Liquidity risk is the combined risks of not Governing Policies: • Defined liquidity risk indicators in the Group RAS; OVERVIEW Credit risk is the potential for loss arising Governing Policies: • Defined credit risk indicators set in the Group RAS; being able to meet financial obligations as • Group Liquidity Policy • The Annual Funding Strategy (the Group’s wholesale from the failure of a counterparty to meet • Group Credit Risk • Transacting with counterparties that demonstrate the ability they fall due (funding liquidity risk), and funding strategy based on a three year funding plan); their contractual obligations to the Group. that liquidity in financial markets, such as Key Management Policies, Principles, and willingness to service their obligations through • Maintaining a diverse, yet stable, pool of potential funding the market for debt securities, may reduce Committee: The Group is primarily exposed to credit Framework and performance of due diligence and thorough credit quality sources across different currencies, geographies, entities Governance assessments; significantly (market liquidity risk). • ALCO risk through: and products; • Residential mortgage lending; • Group and BU Credit • Applications assessed by credit decisioning models, with The Group is exposed to liquidity risk • Maintaining sufficient liquidity buffers and short-term Risk Policies more complex or higher risk applications referred to credit primarily through: funding capacity to withstand periods of disruption in • Unsecured retail lending; Key Management authority holders; • The funding mismatch between the long-term wholesale funding markets and unanticipated HOW WE CREATE VALUE • Commercial lending; and Group’s loans, investments and sources Committee: • Taking collateral where appropriate; changes in the Balance Sheet funding gap; • Large corporate (institutional) lending of funding. • Financial Risk • Pricing appropriately for risk; • Limiting the portion of wholesale funding sourced from and markets exposures. Committee • Credit concentration frameworks that set exposure limits to offshore; • BU/SU Financial Risk counterparties, groups of related counterparties, industry • Conservatively managing the mismatch between asset and Committees. sectors and countries; liability maturities; • Regular monitoring of credit quality, concentrations, • Maintaining a conservative mix of readily saleable or repoarrears, policy exceptions and policy breaches; eligible liquid assets; • Working with impaired counterparties, or those in danger of • Daily monitoring of liquidity risk exposures, including becoming so, to help them rehabilitate their financial Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding positions; and Ratio (NSFR); DIRECTORS’ REPORT • Stress testing, either at a counterparty or portfolio level. • Market and idiosyncratic stress test scenarios; and • The Contingency Funding Plan provides strategies for Market risk (including equity risk) addressing liquidity shortfalls in a crisis situation. Market risk is the risk that market rates and Governing Policies: • Defined market indicators set in the Group RAS; prices will change and that this may have • The Group Market Risk • Minimal appetite for proprietary trading; Operational risk an adverse effect on the profitability and/or Policy Operational risk is the risk of loss arising Governing Policies: • Defined operational risk indicators in the Group RAS; • Conservative market risk limits with granular concentration net worth of the Group. from inadequate or failed internal • Operational Risk Key Management limits at a position level including currency/index, tenor and • Implementation of manual and automated controls to The Group is primarily exposed to market Committee: product type; processes, people and systems or from Management prevent, detect and mitigate the specific operational risks risk through: external events. Framework (ORMF) that the Group is exposed to; • Financial Risk • Pricing appropriately for risk; FINANCIAL REPORT • Traded Market Risk; Committee (Oversight The Group is exposed to operational risk • Group Outsourcing • Regular Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) to • Back-testing of Value at risk (VaR) models against of traded market risk) primarily through: Policy assess key risks and controls for each BU/SU; • Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book hypothetical profit and loss; (IRRBB); • Asset and Liability • Process execution errors; • Group Model Policy • Routine Controls Assurance Program tests to assess • Daily monitoring and attribution of traded market risk Committee (ALCO) exposures including risk sensitivities, VaR and stress • Cyber security losses; • Group Fraud whether controls are designed and operating effectively to • Structural Foreign Exchange Risk; (Oversight of IRRBB) maintain risk exposures within acceptable levels; testing; • Technology failures; Management Policy • Lease Residual Value Risk; and • Group Policy on • Incident management processes to identify, assess, • Weekly monitoring of VaR and stress test measures for • Data management issues; derivative valuation adjustments (XVAs); Business Continuity record, report and manage actual operational or • Non-Traded Equity Risk. • Model risks; Management compliance events that have occurred. This data is used to • Monthly monitoring of residual value risk exposures versus guide management to strengthen processes and controls; • Accounting, legal and taxation risks; limits; • Group Whistle-blower ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Third parties; Policy • Issue management processes to identify, assess, record, • Managing the Balance Sheet with a view to balancing Net report and manage weaknesses or gaps in controls; Interest Income profit volatility and market value; • People (employment practice and • Group Protective workplace safety); Security Policy • Risk in Change process to effectively understand and • Daily monitoring of IRRBB market risk exposures including manage the risks from changes to the business through risk sensitivities, credit spread risk, VaR and stress testing; • Fraud (external and internal); and • Group Data Quality projects or initiatives; • Monthly monitoring of Net Interest Earnings at Risk versus • Non-technology business disruption. Management Policy • Quantitative Risk Assessments are scenarios conducted to limits; and Key Management provide an understanding of potential unexpected losses; • Transfer pricing for risk. Committee: • Establishment of Key Risk Indicators to monitor • Non-Financial Risk movements in risk exposures over time; and Committee • Assurance undertaken by Line 2 Risk teams to assess that • BU/SU Non-Financial operational risks are appropriately identified and managed Risk Committees across the Group. • Model Risk Governance Committee 204 205 206 207 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.1 Risk management framework (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 9.1 Risk management framework (continued) Governing Policies and Governing Policies and Key Management Key Management Description Committees Key controls and risk mitigation strategies Description Committees Key controls and risk mitigation strategies Compliance risk Insurance risk Compliance risk is the risk of sanctions Governing Policies: • Compliance risk indicators included in the Group RAS; Insurance risk is the risk of loss due to the Governing Policies: • Defined insurance risk indicators set in the Group RAS; OVERVIEW and financial loss the Group may suffer as • Group Compliance • Mandatory online compliance training for all employees; potential for events the Group has insured • Product Management • Sound product design and pricing to ensure that customers a result of the Group’s failure to comply Management against occurring more frequently or with • Regulatory change management to establish compliant Policy understand the extent of their cover and that premiums are with laws, regulations, rules, statements of Framework (CMF) and greater severity than anticipated. The business practices; • Underwriting Policy sufficient to cover the risk involved; regulatory policy, and codes of conduct policies Group is primarily exposed to insurance applicable to its business activities. • Maintenance of obligation registers; • Claims Management • Limits, standards and underwriting authorities to ensure • Group and BU risk through home and motor events • Compliance risk profiling through the RCSA; Policy acceptance of appropriate risks; The Group is exposed to compliance risk Compliance policies through a wholly-owned subsidiary in primarily through: • Review of key compliance and conduct processes and Australia. • Reinsurance • Regular monitoring of loss ratios, aggregations and and standards controls through the regulatory assurance program and Management Policy concentrations; • Regulatory and licencing obligations, • AML/CTF Group compliance monitoring; • Catastrophe modelling and stress testing; HOW WE CREATE VALUE including privacy and conflicts of interest Program, Key Management obligations; • Group wide minimum standards in key compliance areas; Committee: • Actuarial review of claims provisions; • Anti-Bribery & • Financial crime (Anti Money Laundering Corruption Policy, • Co-operative and transparent relationships with regulators; • Executive Committees • Controls to ensure valid claims are paid without undue (AML), Counter Terrorism Financing • Group Economic Trade • Board and management governance and reporting; of insurance writing delay; and (CTF), Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and Sanctions Policy businesses • Reinsurance to manage the volatility of insurance risk and • Pre-employment due diligence on the Group’s employees Sanctions); and limit exposure to significant, individual or aggregate risks or • Code of Conduct and enhanced screening for high risk roles; • Poor conduct (product design and risk concentrations. • Training and awareness sessions to staff highlighting the distribution, market conduct and • Product Development and Distribution community impact of financial crime and the Group’s role Strategic risk employee misconduct). to detect, deter and disrupt money laundering, terrorist Key Management Strategic risk is the risk of material Governing Policies: Strategic risk: financing and other serious crime; Committee: stakeholder value destruction or less than • Group Strategic Risk DIRECTORS’ REPORT • Customer on-boarding processes to meet AML/CTF • Strategy development, approval and review; • Non-Financial Risk planned value creation. The Group is Management Policy identification and screening requirements; • Identifying and monitoring changes and potential changes Committee exposed to strategic risk primarily through: • Ongoing customer due diligence to ensure information the • Environmental & Social to the operating environment; and • BU/SU Non-Financial • Changes in the Group’s external and Policy Group maintains on customers is accurate; • Monitoring execution progress of strategies. Risk Committees internal operating environments • Risk assessments on customers, products and channels to (including macro-economic conditions, Key Management In developing the strategy, the following is considered: ensure the Group understands the money laundering and competitive forces, technology, Committee: • Impact of strategy on the Group’s risk profile and terrorist financing risks; regulatory, political and social trends, • Executive Leadership measures of risk appetite; • Enhanced customer due diligence on higher risk customer expectations and the Team • Recent execution progress; and segments; environment); and • Assumptions concerning the operating environment. • Monitoring customer payments, trade and all transactions • Risk associated with the process for FINANCIAL REPORT to manage the AML/CTF and sanctions risks identified; strategy development and monitoring of Climate risk represents a strategic risk due to the potential strategy implementation. material transition and physical climate related impacts to the • Undertake statutory reporting requirements including Group, if not managed effectively. The potential adverse International Funds Transfer Instructions, Threshold impacts of climate change manifest, and are therefore Transaction Reports and Suspicious Matter Reports; measured and managed, as an outcome of the other material • Controls to prevent corruption of public officials by risk types. In order to understand these potential impacts, and employees, representatives, suppliers or third party in support of our commitment to limiting the impacts of climate agents, including disclosure and approval of gifts and change the Group: entertainment, charitable donations and sponsorships; and • Develops scenario analyses to understand the impacts of • Conduct Risk strategy and Code of Conduct, supported by both transition and physical climate-related risks on the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION mandatory training for all staff. business and the implications for strategic and tactical portfolio decisions; and • Develops strong policy frameworks which consider Environmental, Social and Governance issues, including climate change impacts in assessing our relationships with customers and suppliers. Corporate Responsibility programs outline the objectives for safeguarding the environment, while supporting economic growth and development and provide guidelines in monitoring and reducing the Group’s own greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. 206 207 208 209 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Credit risk management principles and portfolio standards (i) Expected loss (continued) The Group has clearly defined credit policies for the approval and management of credit risk. Credit policies apply to all credit risks, with EAD is the estimate of the amount of a facility that will be outstanding under a facility in the event of default. Estimates are based on a specific portfolio standards applying to all major lending areas. These set the minimum requirements in assessing the integrity and downturn in economic conditions. The estimate is based on the actual amount outstanding, plus the undrawn amount multiplied by a ability of counterparties to meet their contracted financial obligations for repayment, acceptable forms of collateral and security and the credit conversion factor (CCF). The CCF represents the potential rate of conversion from undrawn 12 months prior to default to drawn at frequency of credit reviews. default. For most committed facilities, the Group applies a CCF of 100% to the undrawn amount. The Group’s credit policies and frameworks include concentration limits, which are designed to achieve portfolio outcomes that are For uncommitted facilities, the EAD will generally be the drawn balance only. For defaulted facilities, it is the actual amount outstanding OVERVIEW consistent with the Group’s risk appetite and risk/return expectations. at default. For retail exposures, a modelling approach can be used based on factors including limit usage, arrears and loan type to segment accounts into homogeneous pools to calculate EAD. The Credit Portfolio Assurance unit, part of Group Financial Risk, reviews credit portfolios and business unit compliance with credit policies, frameworks, application of credit risk ratings and other key practices on a regular basis. LGD expressed as a percentage, is the estimated proportion of a facility likely to be lost in the event of default. LGD is impacted by: • type and level of any collateral held; The credit risk portfolio has two major segments: • liquidity and volatility of collateral; (i) Retail managed segment • carrying costs (effectively the costs of providing a facility that is not generating an interest return); and This segment has sub-segments covering housing loans, credit cards, personal loans, and personal overdrafts. It also covers most non-retail lending where the aggregated credit exposure to a group of related obligors is less than $1 million. • realisation costs. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Auto-decisioning is used to approve credit applications for eligible counterparties in this segment. Auto-decisioning uses a scorecard Various factors are considered when calculating PD, EAD and LGD. Considerations include the potential for default by a borrower due approach based on a combination of factors, which may include the Group’s historical experience on similar applications, information to economic, management, industry, other risks, and the mitigating benefits of any collateral held as security. from a credit reference bureau, the Group’s existing knowledge of a counterparty’s behaviour and updated information provided by the (ii) Unexpected loss counterparty. In addition to EL, a more stressed loss amount is calculated. This Unexpected Loss estimate directly affects the calculation of regulatory Loan applications that do not meet scorecard auto-decisioning requirements may be referred to a Personal Credit Approval Authority and internal economic capital requirements. Refer to the Performance Overview section and Note 8.1 for information relating to (PCAA) for manual decisioning. regulatory capital. After loan origination, these portfolios are managed using behavioural scoring systems and a delinquency band approach, such as Climate related risk actions taken when loan payments are greater than 30 days past due differ from actions when payments are greater than 60 days past Climate risk is a risk for the Group. The impacts of climate change have the potential to affect our customers’ ability to service and repay due. Loans past due are reviewed by the relevant Arrears Management or Financial Assistance Team. their loans, and the value of collateral the Group holds to secure loans. These impacts include long-term changes in climatic conditions, (ii) Risk-rated segment extreme weather events, and the action taken by governments, regulators or society more generally to transition to a low carbon DIRECTORS’ REPORT This segment comprises non-retail exposures, including bank and sovereign exposures. Each exposure is assigned an internal Credit economy. Risk-Rating (CRR) based on Probability of Default (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD). The Group is a major provider of non-retail loans. A key step in credit risk due diligence for non-retail lending is the assessment of Either a PD Rating Tool or expert judgement is used to determine the PD for customers in this segment. Expert judgement is used potential transactions for environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks, including climate risk, through our ESG Risk Assessment where the complexity of the transaction and/or the counterparty is such that it is inappropriate to rely completely on a statistical model. Tool. All Institutional Bank loans, as well as large loans in other business units, are evaluated through the Group’s compulsory ESG risk External ratings may be used for benchmarking in the expert judgement assessment. assessment process. The risk of climate change is assessed at origination and during the annual review process for Institutional Bank loans. Exposures with medium or high risk profile are subject to additional due diligence and heightened consideration and assessment The CRR is designed to: in the credit process. During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group recognised provisions for impairment of $90 million reflecting the • aid in assessing changes to counterparty credit quality; impact of extreme weather events on the credit quality of the Group’s loan portfolio. • influence decisions on approval, management and pricing of individual credit facilities; and Credit risk mitigation, collateral and other credit enhancements FINANCIAL REPORT • provide the basis for reporting details of the Group's credit portfolio. The Group has policies and procedures in place setting out the circumstances where acceptable and appropriate collateral is to be Credit risk-rated exposures are generally reviewed on an individual basis, at least annually, and fall within the following categories: taken to mitigate credit risk. These include valuation parameters, review frequency and independence of valuation. • “Pass” – these credit facilities qualify for approval of new or increased exposure on normal commercial terms; and The general nature of collateral that may be taken, and the balances held, are summarised below by financial asset classes. • “Troublesome or Impaired Assets (TIAs)” – these credit facilities are not eligible for new or increased exposure, unless it facilitates Cash and liquid assets rehabilitation to “pass grade” or protects or improves the Group’s position by maximising recovery prospects. Where a counterparty is in default but no loss is expected based on an assessment of the security position and other factors, the facility may be classed as Collateral is not usually sought on the majority of Cash and liquid asset balances as these types of exposures are generally considered troublesome but not impaired. Where a loss is expected, a facility is classified as impaired. Restructured facilities, where the original low risk. However, securities purchased under agreement to resell are collateralised by highly liquid debt securities. The collateral contractual arrangements have been modified outside commercial terms to provide concessions for the customer’s financial related to agreements to resell has been legally transferred to the Group subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price. difficulties, are classified as impaired. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Group’s Cash and liquid asset balance included $25,562 million (2019: $14,527 million) deposited with Central Banks and is Default is to be recorded with one or more of the following: considered to carry less credit risk. • the customer is 90 days or more overdue on a scheduled credit repayment; or Receivables from other financial institutions • the customer is unlikely to repay their credit obligation to the Group in full without taking action, such as realising on available security. Collateral is usually not sought on these balances as exposures are generally considered to be of low risk. The exposures are mainly short-term, to investment grade banks and include collateral posted by the Group. Credit risk measurement The measurement of credit risk uses analytical tools to calculate both: (i) Expected, and (ii) Unexpected Loss probabilities for the credit Trading assets at fair value through Income Statement and investment securities at fair value through OCI portfolio. The use of analytical tools is governed by the Model Risk Governance Committee. These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. Investment securities at amortised cost are measured at (i) Expected loss amortised cost and presented net of provisions for impairment. Collateral is not generally sought from the issuer or counterparty but collateral may be implicit in the terms of the instrument (such as an asset-backed security). Expected loss (EL) is the product of: • PD; Insurance assets • Exposure at Default (EAD); and These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. Collateral is not generally sought or provided on these types of assets, other than a fixed charge over properties backing Australian mortgage investments. In most cases the credit risk of insurance • LGD. assets is borne by policyholders. However, on certain insurance contracts the Group retains exposure to credit risk. The PD, expressed as a percentage, is the estimate of the probability that a client will default within the next 12 months. 208 209 210 211 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Other assets at fair value through Income Statement Maximum exposure to credit risk by industry and asset class before collateral held or other credit enhancements These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. Group At 30 June 2020 Derivative assets The Group’s use of derivative contracts is outlined in Note 5.4. The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on derivative contracts. Bank and Other Agriculother Home ConOther Asset comm and The counterparty credit risk is affected by the nature of the trades, the counterparty, netting, and collateral arrangements. Credit risk ture financial loans struction personal financing indust. Sovereign Other Total from derivatives is mitigated where possible (typically for financial institutions counterparties, but less frequently for corporate or OVERVIEW $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M government counterparties) through netting agreements, whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset and cleared with Central Counterparties (CCPs). The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement Australia (or other derivative agreements) are used by the Group as an agreement for documenting Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives. Credit risk exposures relating The fair value of collateral held and the potential effect of offset obtained by applying master netting agreements are disclosed in Note 9.7. to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 8,611 – 14,113 – – – – – – 22,724 Due from controlled entities Receivables from financial institutions – – 2,127 – – – – – – 2,127 Collateral is not generally taken on these intergroup balances. Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Credit commitments and contingent liabilities HOW WE CREATE VALUE Trading 28,071 – 842 – – – – 5,759 – 34,672 The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off Balance Sheet risks as it does for its on Balance Sheet Other 77 105 1,188 – – – – 6,708 44 8,122 risks. Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction. Of the Group’s off Derivative assets 1,268 76 22,649 – 26 – – 4,801 – 28,820 Balance Sheet exposures, $103,325 million (2019: $99,936 million) are secured. Investment securities: At amortised cost 9 – 5,159 – – – – – – 5,168 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables At fair value through Other 47,601 – 12,366 – – – – 570 – 60,537 The principal collateral types for loans and receivable balances are: Comprehensive Income Loans, bills discounted and other • mortgages over residential and commercial real estate; and 23,521 9,680 13,136 485,795 3,600 17,695 10,434 109,184 – 673,045 receivables 1 • charges over business assets such as cash, shares, inventory, fixed assets and accounts receivables. Other assets 2 637 1 8,876 9 1 14 – 189 14,656 24,383 Collateral security is generally taken except for government, bank and corporate counterparties that are often externally risk-rated and Assets held for sale – – 772 – – – – 12 984 1,768 DIRECTORS’ REPORT of strong financial standing. Longer term consumer finance, such as housing loans, are generally secured against real estate, while Total on Balance Sheet Australia 109,795 9,862 81,228 485,804 3,627 17,709 10,434 127,223 15,684 861,366 short-term revolving consumer credit is generally not secured by formal collateral. Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: The collateral mitigating credit risk of the key lending portfolios is addressed in the table ‘Collateral held against Loans, Bills Discounted Guarantees 492 20 1,465 – 259 – – 3,067 – 5,303 and Other Receivables’ within this note. Loan commitments 636 1,969 6,479 71,313 2,355 21,346 – 38,594 – 142,692 Other commitments 66 9 1,162 – 1,521 – – 3,768 – 6,526 Total Australia 110,989 11,860 90,334 557,117 7,762 39,055 10,434 172,652 15,684 1,015,887 Overseas Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: FINANCIAL REPORT Cash and liquid assets 13,937 – 7,504 – – – – – – 21,441 Receivables from financial institutions 61 – 6,359 – – – – – – 6,420 Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 3,184 – 274 – – – – 293 – 3,751 Other – – – – – – – – – – Derivative assets 128 22 939 – – – – 376 – 1,465 Investment securities: At amortised cost 5 – – – – – – – – 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION At fair value through Other 17,068 – 1,944 – – – – – – 19,012 Comprehensive Income Loans, bills discounted and other 69 9,601 6,382 57,085 593 1,876 779 29,245 – 105,630 receivables 1 Other assets 2 24 – 19 4 1 5 4 347 1,692 2,096 Assets held for sale – – – – – – – – 2 2 Total on Balance Sheet overseas 34,476 9,623 23,421 57,089 594 1,881 783 30,261 1,694 159,822 Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees – 2 754 – 52 – – 337 – 1,145 Loan commitments 415 764 6,300 7,805 210 2,144 99 8,108 – 25,845 Other commitments 1 1 243 – 1 – – 586 – 832 Total overseas 34,892 10,390 30,718 64,894 857 4,025 882 39,292 1,694 187,644 Total gross credit risk 145,881 22,250 121,052 622,011 8,619 43,080 11,316 211,944 17,378 1,203,531 1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. 2 For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in associates and joint ventures, Intangible assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 210 211 212 213 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Large exposures 1 Group At 30 June 2019 Concentrations of exposure to any counterparty or counterparty group are controlled by a large credit exposure policy, which defines a Bank and Other graduated limit framework that restricts credit limits based on the internally assessed CRR, the type of client, and facility tenor. All Agriculother Home ConOther Asset comm and exposures outside the policy limits require approval by the Executive Credit Authority. Sovereign ture financial loans struction personal financing indust. Other Total The following table shows the number of the Group’s non-retail (excluding banks and sovereign) aggregated counterparty exposures (including $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M direct and contingent exposures), which individually were greater than 5% of the Group’s capital resources (Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital): OVERVIEW Australia Group Credit risk exposures relating 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 to on Balance Sheet assets: Number Number Cash and liquid assets 4,575 – 11,930 – – – – – – 16,505 Receivables from financial institutions – – 3,037 – – – – – – 3,037 5% to less than 10% of the Group's capital resources – – Assets at fair value through Income 10% to less than 15% of the Group's capital resources – – Statement: Trading 21,354 – 941 – – – – 2,454 – 24,749 The Group has a high quality, well diversified credit portfolio, with 62% of the gross loans and other receivables in domestic mortgage loans and a further 7% in overseas mortgage loans, primarily in New Zealand. Overseas loans account for 14% of loans and advances. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Other 81 – 434 – – – – 7,268 242 8,025 Derivative assets 1,414 64 18,550 – 4 – – 1,150 – 21,182 Investment securities: Distribution of financial assets by credit classification At amortised cost 9 – 7,341 – – – – – – 7,350 When doubt arises as to the collectability of a credit facility, the financial instrument is classified and reported as impaired. Provisions for At fair value through Other impairment are raised where there is objective evidence of impairment and for an amount adequate to cover assessed credit related 43,540 – 16,893 – – – – 67 – 60,500 Comprehensive Income losses. The Group regularly reviews its financial assets and monitors adherence to contractual terms. Credit risk-rated exposures are Loans, bills discounted and assessed, at least at each Balance Sheet date, to determine whether the financial asset is impaired. 22,404 9,140 11,952 467,361 3,194 21,508 10,471 106,991 – 653,021 other receivables 2 Other assets 3 488 3 5,496 – – 10 – 230 14,175 20,402 Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Assets held for sale 1,423 – 5,633 – – – – 3,943 4,211 15,210 The tables on pages 214 to 221 provide information about the gross carrying amount of the Group’s and the Bank’s loans, bills Total on Balance Sheet Australia 95,288 9,207 82,207 467,361 3,198 21,518 10,471 122,103 18,628 829,981 discounted and other receivables by credit rating grade and ECL stage. Credit risk exposures relating DIRECTORS’ REPORT This segmentation of loans in retail and risk-rated portfolios is based on the mapping of a counterparty’s internally assessed PD to S&P to off Balance Sheet assets: Global ratings, reflecting a counterparty’s ability to meet their credit obligations. In particular, retail PD pools have been aligned to the Guarantees 36 20 1,584 – 324 – – 3,195 – 5,159 Group’s PD grades which are consistent with rating agency views of credit quality segmentation. Loan commitments 605 1,975 7,675 67,874 2,331 21,207 – 34,156 – 135,823 Other commitments 58 11 1,362 – 1,390 214 12 2,963 – 6,010 Credit grade S&P rating equivalent Total Australia 95,987 11,213 92,828 535,235 7,243 42,939 10,483 162,417 18,628 976,973 Investment AAA to BBBOverseas Pass BB+ to BCredit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Weak CCC and below, in default Cash and liquid assets 9,952 – 2,930 – – – – – – 12,882 Receivables from financial institutions – – 5,056 – – – – – – 5,056 FINANCIAL REPORT Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 602 – 251 – – – – 50 – 903 Other – – – – – – – – – – Derivative assets 169 12 2,110 – – – – 1,742 – 4,033 Investment securities: At amortised cost 5 – – – – – – – – 5 At fair value through Other 16,092 – 2,320 – – – – – – 18,412 Comprehensive Income ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Loans, bills discounted and 82 10,612 5,774 55,581 573 1,924 722 32,724 – 107,992 other receivables 2 Other assets 3 30 – 338 – – 4 8 49 1,308 1,737 Assets held for sale 683 – 469 – – – – 23 166 1,341 Total on Balance Sheet overseas 27,615 10,624 19,248 55,581 573 1,928 730 34,588 1,474 152,361 Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees – 10 949 – 54 – – 334 – 1,347 Loan commitments 419 834 5,034 7,875 222 2,098 48 9,849 – 26,379 Other commitments – – 473 – 3 – – 612 – 1,088 Total overseas 28,034 11,468 25,704 63,456 852 4,026 778 45,383 1,474 181,175 Total gross credit risk 124,021 22,681 118,532 598,691 8,095 46,965 11,261 207,800 20,102 1,158,148 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. 3 For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in associates and joint ventures, Intangible assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 212 213 214 215 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Group 30 Jun 20 Group 1 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 30 Jun 20 1 collectively collectively collectively individually Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 assessed assessed assessed assessed Total collectively collectively collectively individually $M $M $M $M $M assessed assessed assessed assessed Total OVERVIEW Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M Retail secured Credit grade Credit grade Investment 387,863 39,677 – – 427,540 Investment 346,983 28,658 – – 375,641 Pass 219,819 110,821 – – 330,640 Pass 2 193,030 35,643 – – 228,673 Weak 2,569 10,384 4,490 2,168 19,611 Weak 2 1,626 4,589 3,197 815 10,227 Gross carrying amount 610,251 160,882 4,490 2,168 777,791 Total retail secured 541,639 68,890 3,197 815 614,541 Undrawn credit commitments Impairment provision 663 628 153 237 1,681 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Credit grade Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 0. 9 4. 8 29. 1 0. 3 Investment 78,651 16,443 – – 95,094 Retail unsecured Pass 32,916 14,293 – – 47,209 Credit grade Weak 255 497 81 86 919 Investment 13,395 2,564 – – 15,959 Total undrawn credit commitments 111,822 31,233 81 86 143,222 Pass 13,000 2,572 – – 15,572 Total credit exposures 722,073 192,115 4,571 2,254 921,013 Weak 898 1,165 270 10 2,343 Impairment provision 1,549 3,249 479 967 6,244 Total retail unsecured 27,293 6,301 270 10 33,874 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 10. 5 42. 9 0. 7 Impairment provision 592 937 216 3 1,748 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet Provisions to credit exposure, % 2. 2 14. 9 80. 0 30. 0 5. 2 DIRECTORS’ REPORT instruments Non-retail Credit grade Credit grade Investment 9,877 1,380 – – 11,257 Investment 116,013 26,278 – – 142,291 Pass 3,300 4,734 – – 8,034 Pass 50,005 91,633 – – 141,638 Weak 27 314 27 83 451 Weak 327 5,441 1,131 1,512 8,411 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Total non-retail 166,345 123,352 1,131 1,512 292,340 13,204 6,428 27 83 19,742 Sheet instruments Impairment provision 314 1,781 112 727 2,934 Impairment provision 20 97 2 – 119 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 4 9. 9 48. 1 1. 0 FINANCIAL REPORT Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 5 7. 4 – 0. 6 Total credit exposures Total credit exposures Credit grade Credit grade Investment 476,391 57,500 – – 533,891 Investment 476,391 57,500 – – 533,891 Pass 256,035 129,848 – – 385,883 Pass 256,035 129,848 – – 385,883 Weak 2,851 11,195 4,598 2,337 20,981 Weak 2,851 11,195 4,598 2,337 20,981 Total credit exposures 735,277 198,543 4,598 2,337 940,755 Total credit exposures 735,277 198,543 4,598 2,337 940,755 Impairment provision 1,569 3,346 481 967 6,363 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total impairment provision 1,569 3,346 481 967 6,363 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 10. 5 41. 4 0. 7 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 10. 5 41. 4 0. 7 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2020. particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2020. 2 During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group revised the Australian residential mortgage regulatory capital models which resulted in movements of credit exposures across PD bands. There was a reduction in weak grade and an increase in pass grade home loans exposures as a result of this change. 214 215 216 217 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group 1 Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 2 1 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 collectively collectively collectively individually collectively collectively collectively individually assessed assessed assessed assessed Total assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Credit grade Retail secured Investment 380,594 30,263 – – 410,857 Credit grade Pass 231,037 87,357 – – 318,394 Investment 329,299 27,685 – – 356,984 Weak 9,146 14,997 4,499 1,995 30,637 Pass 183,379 32,949 – – 216,328 Gross carrying amount 620,777 132,617 4,499 1,995 759,888 Weak 7,628 8,840 3,276 794 20,538 Undrawn credit commitments Total retail secured 520,306 69,474 3,276 794 593,850 Credit grade Impairment provision 265 393 132 271 1,061 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Investment 78,350 14,446 – – 92,796 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 0. 6 4. 0 34. 1 0. 2 Pass 35,634 11,332 – – 46,966 Retail unsecured Weak 742 422 86 79 1,329 Credit grade Total undrawn credit commitments 114,726 26,200 86 79 141,091 Investment 13,746 2,603 – – 16,349 Total credit exposures 735,503 158,817 4,585 2,074 900,979 Pass 13,426 2,353 – – 15,779 Impairment provision 897 2,444 479 895 4,715 Weak 1,858 2,057 292 6 4,213 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 5 10. 4 43. 2 0. 5 Total retail unsecured 29,030 7,013 292 6 36,341 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet Impairment provision 475 934 217 3 1,629 instruments Provisions to credit exposure, % 1. 6 13. 3 74. 3 50. 0 4. 5 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Credit grade Non–retail Investment 8,865 1,553 – – 10,418 Credit grade Pass 3,356 3,686 – – 7,042 Investment 124,764 15,974 – – 140,738 Weak 45 236 19 19 319 Pass 73,222 67,073 – – 140,295 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Weak 447 4,758 1,036 1,293 7,534 12,266 5,475 19 19 17,779 Sheet instruments Total non-retail 198,433 87,805 1,036 1,293 288,567 Impairment provision 8 75 1 – 84 Impairment provision 165 1,192 131 621 2,109 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 4 5. 3 – 0. 5 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 4 12. 6 48. 0 0. 7 FINANCIAL REPORT Total credit exposures Total credit exposures Credit grade Credit grade Investment 467,809 46,262 – – 514,071 Investment 467,809 46,262 – – 514,071 Pass 270,027 102,375 – – 372,402 Pass 270,027 102,375 – – 372,402 Weak 9,933 15,655 4,604 2,093 32,285 Weak 9,933 15,655 4,604 2,093 32,285 Total credit exposures 747,769 164,292 4,604 2,093 918,758 Total credit exposures 747,769 164,292 4,604 2,093 918,758 Total impairment provision 905 2,519 480 895 4,799 Impairment provision 905 2,519 480 895 4,799 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 5 10. 4 42. 8 0. 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 5 10. 4 42. 8 0. 5 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a 2 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2019. 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2019. 216 217 218 219 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank Bank 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 1 1 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 collectively collectively collectively individually collectively collectively collectively individually assessed assessed assessed assessed Total assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Credit grade Retail secured Investment 362,516 35,868 – – 398,384 Credit grade Pass 173,309 94,608 – – 267,917 Investment 323,862 26,888 – – 350,750 Weak 2,141 8,813 3,867 1,725 16,546 Pass 2 154,412 30,913 – – 185,325 Gross carrying amount 537,966 139,289 3,867 1,725 682,847 Weak 2 1,188 3,632 2,677 753 8,250 Undrawn credit commitments Total retail secured 479,462 61,433 2,677 753 544,325 Credit grade Impairment provision 616 475 203 225 1,519 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Investment 75,388 16,167 – – 91,555 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 0. 8 7. 6 29. 9 0. 3 Pass 26,045 12,993 – – 39,038 Retail unsecured Weak 234 433 59 59 785 Credit grade Total undrawn credit commitments 101,667 29,593 59 59 131,378 Investment 13,395 2,564 – – 15,959 Total credit exposures 639,633 168,882 3,926 1,784 814,225 Pass 10,270 2,335 – – 12,605 Impairment provision 1,400 2,876 490 813 5,579 Weak 887 1,130 228 9 2,254 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 12. 5 45. 6 0. 7 Total retail unsecured 24,552 6,029 228 9 30,818 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet Impairment provision 547 891 184 3 1,625 instruments Provisions to credit exposure, % 2. 2 14. 8 80. 7 33. 3 5. 3 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Credit grade Non–retail Investment 9,803 1,369 – – 11,172 Credit grade Pass 3,049 4,495 – – 7,544 Investment 110,450 23,952 – – 134,402 Weak 27 296 24 34 381 Pass 37,721 78,848 – – 116,569 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Weak 327 4,780 1,045 1,056 7,208 12,879 6,160 24 34 19,097 Sheet instruments Total non-retail 148,498 107,580 1,045 1,056 258,179 Impairment provision 18 93 2 – 113 Impairment provision 255 1,603 105 585 2,548 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 5 8. 3 – 0. 6 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 5 10. 0 55. 4 1. 0 FINANCIAL REPORT Total credit exposures Total credit exposures Credit grade Credit grade Investment 447,707 53,404 – – 501,111 Investment 447,707 53,404 – – 501,111 Pass 202,403 112,096 – – 314,499 Weak 2,402 9,542 3,950 1,818 17,712 Pass 202,403 112,096 – – 314,499 Total credit exposures 652,512 175,042 3,950 1,818 833,322 Weak 2,402 9,542 3,950 1,818 17,712 Total impairment provision 1,418 2,969 492 813 5,692 Total credit exposures 652,512 175,042 3,950 1,818 833,322 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 12. 5 44. 7 0. 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Impairment provision 1,418 2,969 492 813 5,692 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 2 1. 7 12. 5 44. 7 0. 7 particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 64% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2020. 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 64% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2020. 2 During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Bank revised the Australian residential mortgage regulatory capital models which resulted in movements of credit exposures across PD bands. There was a reduction in weak grade and an increase in pass grade home loans exposures as a result of this change. 218 219 220 221 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank 1 Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 2 1 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 collectively collectively collectively individually collectively collectively collectively individually assessed assessed assessed assessed Total assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M OVERVIEW Credit grade Retail secured Investment 354,071 28,159 – – 382,230 Credit grade Pass 182,520 72,182 – – 254,702 Investment 306,487 26,017 – – 332,504 Weak 8,669 13,502 4,080 1,580 27,831 Pass 145,240 28,253 – – 173,493 Gross carrying amount 545,260 113,843 4,080 1,580 664,763 Weak 7,143 7,889 2,957 760 18,749 Undrawn credit commitments Total retail secured 458,870 62,159 2,957 760 524,746 Credit grade Impairment provision 233 353 122 262 970 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Investment 75,004 14,371 – – 89,375 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 0. 6 4. 1 34. 5 0. 2 Pass 28,803 10,130 – – 38,933 Retail unsecured Weak 722 380 70 60 1,232 Credit grade Total undrawn credit commitments 104,529 24,881 70 60 129,540 Investment 13,746 2,603 – – 16,349 Total credit exposures 649,789 138,724 4,150 1,640 794,303 Pass 10,355 2,183 – – 12,538 Impairment provision 793 2,220 442 801 4,256 Weak 1,847 2,019 264 5 4,135 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 6 10. 7 48. 8 0. 5 Total retail unsecured 25,948 6,805 264 5 33,022 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet Impairment provision 434 906 200 3 1,543 instruments Provisions to credit exposure, % 1. 7 13. 3 75. 8 60. 0 4. 7 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Credit grade Non–retail Investment 8,761 1,553 – – 10,314 Credit grade Pass 3,061 3,508 – – 6,569 Investment 117,603 15,463 – – 133,066 Weak 45 230 18 19 312 Pass 58,789 55,384 – – 114,173 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Weak 446 4,204 947 894 6,491 11,867 5,291 18 19 17,195 Sheet instruments Total non-retail 176,838 75,051 947 894 253,730 Impairment provision 8 73 1 – 82 Impairment provision 134 1,034 121 536 1,825 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 4 5. 6 – 0. 5 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 4 12. 8 60. 0 0. 7 FINANCIAL REPORT Total credit exposures Total credit exposures Credit grade Credit grade Investment 437,836 44,083 – – 481,919 Investment 437,836 44,083 – – 481,919 Pass 214,384 85,820 – – 300,204 Pass 214,384 85,820 – – 300,204 Weak 9,436 14,112 4,168 1,659 29,375 Weak 9,436 14,112 4,168 1,659 29,375 Total credit exposures 661,656 144,015 4,168 1,659 811,498 Total credit exposures 661,656 144,015 4,168 1,659 811,498 Total impairment provision 801 2,293 443 801 4,338 Impairment provision 801 2,293 443 801 4,338 Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 6 10. 6 48. 3 0. 5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Provisions to credit exposure, % 0. 1 1. 6 10. 6 48. 3 0. 5 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 1 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a 2 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2019. 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2019. 220 221 222 223 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Impaired assets by classification Impaired assets by size Assets in credit risk rated portfolios and retail managed portfolios are assessed for objective evidence that the financial asset is impaired. Group Australia Overseas Total Australia Overseas Total Impaired assets are split into the following categories: 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 • non-performing facilities; Impaired assets by size $M $M $M $M $M $M • restructured facilities; and Less than $1 million 1,460 386 1,846 1,698 266 1,964 OVERVIEW • unsecured retail managed facilities 90 days or more past due. $1 million to $10 million 603 187 790 628 147 775 Non-performing facilities are facilities against which an individually assessed provision for impairment has been raised and facilities Greater than $10 million 353 559 912 564 319 883 where loss of principal or interest is anticipated. Interest income on these facilities is reserved and taken to the Income Statement only if paid in cash or if a recovery is made. Total 1, 2 2,416 1,132 3,548 2,890 732 3,622 Restructured facilities are facilities where the original contractual terms have been modified to non-commercial terms due to financial difficulties of the borrower. Interest on these facilities is taken to the Income Statement. Failure to comply fully with the modified terms Movement in impaired assets will result in immediate reclassification to non-performing. Group HOW WE CREATE VALUE Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due are credit cards, personal loans and other unsecured retail products which are 90 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 days or more past due. These loans are collectively provided for. Movement in gross impaired assets $M $M $M $M $M The Group does not manage credit risk based solely on arrears categorisation, but also uses credit risk rating principles as described Gross impaired assets – opening balance 3,622 3,179 3,187 3,116 2,855 earlier in this note. New and increased 2,631 2,289 2,136 2,164 2,370 Group Balances written off (1,054) (1,245) (1,196) (1,225) (1,328) 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 $M $M $M $M $M Returned to performing or repaid (2,221) (1,328) (1,666) (1,637) (1,460) Portfolio managed – new/increased/return to performing/repaid 570 727 718 769 679 Australia Gross impaired assets – closing balance 1, 2 3,548 3,622 3,179 3,187 3,116 Non–performing assets: 1 As at 30 June 2020, impaired assets include those assets in Stage 3 that are considered impaired, as well as $77 million of restructured assets in Stage 2 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Gross balances 1,845 2,217 1,711 1,962 2,002 (30 June 2019: $139 million). Stage 3 assets include impaired assets and those that are defaulted but not impaired as they are well secured. Less provisions for impairment (695) (826) (694) (817) (807) 2 Includes $3,382 million of loans and advances and $166 million of other financial assets (30 June 2019: $3,454 million of loans and advances and $168 million of Net non-performing assets 1,150 1,391 1,017 1,145 1,195 other financial assets). Restructured assets: Gross balances 363 428 264 174 221 Less provisions for impairment (4) (13) (4) – – Net restructured assets 359 415 260 174 221 Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Gross balances 208 245 254 251 252 FINANCIAL REPORT Less provisions for impairment (185) (199) (161) (157) (169) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due 23 46 93 94 83 Net Australia impaired assets 1,532 1,852 1,370 1,413 1,499 Overseas Non–performing assets: Gross balances 824 518 695 686 560 Less provisions for impairment (326) (126) (176) (163) (138) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Net non-performing assets 498 392 519 523 422 Restructured assets: Gross balances 278 196 242 101 67 Less provisions for impairment (15) (6) (20) – – Net restructured assets 263 190 222 101 67 Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Gross balances 30 18 13 13 14 Less provisions for impairment (30) (17) (13) (12) (13) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due – 1 – 1 1 Net overseas impaired assets 761 583 741 625 490 Total net impaired assets 2,293 2,435 2,111 2,038 1,989 222 223 224 225 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Impaired assets by industry and status Group 30 Jun 19 Group Total 30 Jun 20 Gross provision Net Total Total impaired for impaired impaired Net Gross provisions Net 1 2 3 3 3 balance assets assets assets Write-offs Recoveries Write-offs Total impaired for impaired impaired Net 1 2 Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Recoveries 2 2 OVERVIEW balance assets assets assets Write-offs Write-offs Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Loans – Australia Loans – Australia Sovereign 22,404 – – – – – – Sovereign 23,521 – – – – – – Agriculture 9,140 114 (52) 62 59 – 59 Agriculture 9,680 95 (54) 41 1 (4) (3) Bank and other financial 11,952 6 (15) (9) 1 – 1 Bank and other financial 13,136 6 (4) 2 1 – 1 Home loans 467,361 1,596 (272) 1,324 134 (4) 130 Home loans 485,795 1,362 (235) 1,127 117 (4) 113 Construction 3,194 82 (84) (2) 44 (1) 43 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Construction 3,600 52 (42) 10 35 (1) 34 Other personal 21,508 276 (202) 74 787 (169) 618 Other personal 17,695 249 (188) 62 655 (152) 503 Asset financing 10,471 78 (10) 68 17 (2) 15 Asset financing 10,434 106 (35) 71 19 (2) 17 Other commercial and industrial 106,991 626 (403) 223 126 (14) 112 Other commercial and industrial 109,184 518 (326) 192 221 (9) 212 Total loans – Australia 653,021 2,778 (1,038) 1,740 1,168 (190) 978 Total loans – Australia 673,045 2,388 (884) 1,505 1,049 (172) 877 Loans – Overseas Loans – Overseas Sovereign 82 – – – – – – Sovereign 69 – – – – – – Agriculture 10,612 298 (46) 252 2 – 2 Agriculture 9,601 152 (19) 133 36 – 36 Bank and other financial 5,774 10 – 10 5 – 5 Bank and other financial 6,382 – – – 4 – 4 Home loans 55,581 204 (10) 194 2 (1) 1 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Home loans 57,085 307 (32) 275 4 (1) 3 Construction 573 1 – 1 2 – 2 Construction 593 3 (1) 2 2 – 2 Other personal 1,924 16 (20) (4) 70 (11) 59 Other personal 1,876 28 (34) (7) 61 (12) 49 Asset financing 722 2 – 2 – – – Asset financing 779 15 (1) 14 – – – Other commercial and industrial 32,724 145 (73) 72 152 (4) 148 Other commercial and industrial 29,245 489 (284) 205 51 – 51 Total loans – Overseas 107,992 676 (149) 527 233 (16) 217 Total loans – Overseas 105,630 994 (371) 622 158 (13) 145 Total loans 761,013 3,454 (1,187) 2,267 1,401 (206) 1,195 Total loans 778,675 3,382 (1,255) 2,127 1,207 (185) 1,022 Other balances – Australia Other balances – Australia Credit commitments 146,992 111 – 111 – – – FINANCIAL REPORT Credit commitments 154,521 64 – 64 – – – Derivatives 21,182 1 – 1 – – – Derivatives 28,820 3 – 3 – – – Total other balances – Australia 168,174 112 – 112 – – – Total other balances – Australia 183,341 67 – 67 – – – Other balances – Overseas Other balances – Overseas Credit commitments 28,814 9 – 9 – – – Credit commitments 27,822 50 – 50 – – – Derivatives 4,033 47 – 47 – – – Derivatives 1,465 49 – 49 – – – Total other balances – Overseas 32,847 56 – 56 – – – Total other balances – Overseas 29,287 99 – 99 – – – Total other balances 201,021 168 – 168 – – – Total 962,034 3,622 (1,187) 2,435 1,401 (206) 1,195 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Total other balances 212,628 166 – 166 – – – Total 991,303 3,548 (1,255) 2,293 1,207 (185) 1,022 1 Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 Includes $895 million of individually assessed provisions and $292 million of collective provisions. Provisions for impaired assets include $9 million for restructured 1 Includes $967 million of individually assessed provisions and $288 million of collective provisions. assets in Stage 2. 2 Write-off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and 3 Write-off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. 224 225 226 227 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 9.2 Credit risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Collateral held against loans, bills discounted and other receivables Collateral held against loans, bills discounted and other receivables (continued) Group Home loans 30 Jun 20 Home loans are generally secured by fixed charges over borrowers’ residential properties. In limited circumstances, collateral in the Home Other Asset Commercial form of cash or commercial property may be provided in addition to residential properties. Further, with the exception of some relatively 1 loans personal financing and industrial Total small portfolios, for loans with a Loan to Valuation Ratio (LVR) of higher than 80% either a Low Deposit Premium or margin is levied, or Lenders Mortgage Insurance (LMI) is taken out to cover the difference between the principal plus interest owing and the net amount Maximum exposure ($M) 621,998 43,061 11,312 270,841 947,212 OVERVIEW received from selling the collateral post default. Collateral classification: Personal lending Secured (%) 99. 2 5. 3 95. 3 51. 8 81. 4 Personal lending (such as credit cards and personal loans) are predominantly unsecured, whilst margin lending is secured. Partially secured (%) 0. 8 – 4. 7 14. 7 4. 8 Unsecured (%) – 94. 7 – 33. 5 13. 8 Asset finance The Group leases assets to corporate and retail clients. When the title to the underlying assets is held by the Group as collateral, the 1 As at 30 June 2020, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $6,935 million. 57% of these exposures were secured, 27% partially secured and 16% unsecured. balance is deemed fully secured. In other instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral valued at less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. Group 1 HOW WE CREATE VALUE 30 Jun 19 Other commercial and industrial lending Home Other Asset Commercial The Group’s main collateral types for other commercial and industrial lending consists of secured rights over specified assets of the loans personal financing and industrial Total 2 borrower in the form of: commercial property; land rights; cash (usually in the form of a charge over a deposit); guarantees by company Directors; a charge over a company’s assets (including debtors, inventory and work in progress); or a charge over shares. In other Maximum exposure ($M) 598,691 46,737 11,241 266,546 923,215 instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral with value less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These Collateral classification: facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. Secured (%) 99. 2 5. 7 96. 2 49. 8 80. 2 Partially secured (%) 0. 8 – 3. 8 15. 5 5. 1 Unsecured (%) – 94. 3 – 34. 7 14. 7 DIRECTORS’ REPORT 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 As at 30 June 2019, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $6,697 million. 57% of these exposures were secured, 29% partially secured and 14% unsecured. Bank 30 Jun 20 Home Other Asset Commercial 1 loans personal financing and industrial Total Maximum exposure ($M) 549,145 37,844 10,387 239,023 836,399 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 2 5. 7 98. 6 52. 4 81. 7 FINANCIAL REPORT Partially secured (%) 0. 8 – 1. 4 12. 6 4. 1 Unsecured (%) – 94. 3 – 35. 0 14. 2 1 As at 30 June 2020, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $5,768 million. 64% of these exposures were secured, 20% partially secured and 16% unsecured. Bank 1 30 Jun 19 Home Other Asset Commercial 2 loans personal financing and industrial Total ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Maximum exposure ($M) 527,059 42,704 10,419 232,066 812,248 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 6. 0 98. 6 50. 6 80. 5 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 – 1. 4 13. 0 4. 3 Unsecured (%) – 94. 0 – 36. 4 15. 2 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 As at 30 June 2019, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $5,827 million. 63% of these exposures were secured, 23% partially secured and 14% unsecured. For the purposes of the collateral classification above, home loans are classified as secured unless they are defaulted in which case they are classified as partially secured. For other types of credit exposures, a facility is determined to be secured where its ratio of exposure to the estimated value of collateral (adjusted for lending margins) is less than or equal to 100%. A facility is deemed to be partly secured when this ratio exceeds 100% but not more than 250%, and unsecured when either no security is held (e.g. can include credit cards, personal loans, small business loans, and exposures to highly rated corporate entities), or where the secured loan to estimated value of collateral exceeds 250%. 226 227 228 229 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.3 Market risk 9.3 Market risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Market risk measurement Non-traded market risk The Group uses Value-at-Risk (VaR) as one of the measures of traded and non-traded market risk. VaR measures potential loss using Interest rate risk in the banking book historically observed market movements and correlation between different markets. Interest rate risk is the current and prospective impact to the Group’s financial condition due to adverse changes in interest rates to which VaR is modelled at a 99.0% confidence level. This means that there is a 99.0% probability that the loss will not exceed the VaR the Group’s Balance Sheet is exposed. The maturity transformation activities of the Group create mismatches in the repricing terms of asset estimate on any given day. and liability positions. These mismatches may have undesired earnings and value outcomes depending on the interest rate movements. The Group’s objective is to manage interest rate risk to achieve stable and sustainable net interest income in the long-term. The VaR measured for traded market risk uses two years of daily movement in market rates. The VaR measure for non-traded banking OVERVIEW book market risk uses six years of daily movement in market rates. The Group measures and manages the impact of interest rate risk in two ways: A 10-day holding period is used for trading book positions. A 20-day holding period is used for interest rate risk in the banking book. (a) Next 12 months’ earnings Interest rate risk from an earnings perspective is the impact based on changes to the Net interest income over the next 12 months. VaR is driven by historical observations and is not an estimate of the maximum loss that the Group could experience from an extreme market event. As a result of this limitation, management also uses stress testing to measure the potential for economic loss at The risk to Net interest income over the next 12 months from changes in interest rates is measured on a monthly basis. confidence levels significantly higher than 99.0%. Management then uses these results in decisions to manage the economic impact of Earnings risk is measured through sensitivity analysis, which applies an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel shock in interest rates market risk positions. across the yield curve. Average As at Average As at HOW WE CREATE VALUE The prospective change to the Net interest income is measured by using an Asset and Liability Management simulation model which June June June June 1 1, 2 2 incorporates both existing and anticipated new business in its assessment. The change in the Balance Sheet product mix, growth, 2020 2020 2019 2019 funding and pricing strategies is incorporated. Total market risk VaR (10-day 99.0% confidence) $M $M $M $M Assets and liabilities that reprice directly from observable market rates are measured based on the full extent of the rate shock that is Traded market risk 48. 9 39. 3 40. 3 39. 0 applied. Non-traded interest rate risk 3 258. 4 479. 7 137. 9 136. 4 Products that are priced based on Group administered or discretionary interest rates and that are impacted by customer behaviour are 1 Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. measured by taking into consideration the historic repricing strategy of the Group and repricing behaviours of customers. In addition to 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. This includes a change in the confidence interval in the VaR from 97.5% considering how the products have been repriced in the past the expected change in price based on both the current and anticipated to 99.0% and a change in the holding period from one day to ten days. competitive market forces are also considered in the sensitivity analysis. 3 The risk of these exposures has been represented in this table using a ten day holding period. In practice however, these ‘non-traded’ exposures are managed to a longer holding period. The figures in the following table represent the potential unfavourable change to the Group’s net interest earnings during the year based DIRECTORS’ REPORT on a 100 basis point parallel rate shock. As the official cash rate in both Australia and New Zealand was 0.25% as at 30 June 2020, a Traded market risk downward rate shock of 100 basis points implies a 0.75% negative interest rate. The analysis does not take into account management Traded market risk is generated through the Group’s participation in financial markets to service its customers. The Group trades and actions that may be taken to mitigate the unfavourable impact of falling interest rates. distributes interest rate, foreign exchange, debt, equity and commodity products, and provides treasury, capital markets and risk June June management services to its customers globally. 2020 2019 The Group maintains access to markets by quoting bid and offer prices with other market makers and carries an inventory of treasury, Net interest earnings at risk 1 $M $M capital market and risk management instruments, including a broad range of securities and derivatives. Average monthly exposure AUD 1,008. 7 421. 9 Average As at Average As at NZD 5. 5 8. 0 June June June June High monthly exposure AUD 1,682. 0 558. 0 2020 1 2020 2019 1, 2 2019 2 FINANCIAL REPORT Traded market risk VaR (10-day 99.0% confidence) $M $M $M $M NZD 19. 9 15. 5 Low monthly exposure AUD 506. 7 217. 8 Interest rate risk 23. 8 21. 1 27. 2 14. 5 NZD 0. 1 1. 1 Foreign exchange risk 21. 2 3. 0 5. 9 8. 7 As at balance date AUD 1,682. 0 450. 3 Equities risk 0. 3 – 0. 1 NZD 3. 5 8. 3 Commodities risk 8. 5 10. 1 9. 8 9. 6 Credit spread risk 19. 4 35. 5 6. 8 5. 4 1 Exposures over a 12 month period. NZD exposures are presented in NZD. 3 Other market risk 41. 0 18. 0 11. 4 40. 8 Net interest earnings at risk increased during the period due to decreases in the official cash rate, which resulted in additional deposit ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diversification benefit (73. 1) (53. 0) (30. 4) (48. 4) balances becoming subject to interest rate floors. Total general market risk 41. 1 34. 7 30. 7 30. 7 (b) Economic value Undiversified risk 7. 1 4. 0 8. 2 8. 0 Interest rate risk from the economic value perspective is based on a 20-day 99.0% VaR measure. ASB Bank 0. 7 0. 6 1. 4 0. 3 Measuring the change in the economic value of equity is an assessment of the long-term impact to the earnings potential of the Group Total 48. 9 39. 3 40. 3 39. 0 present valued to the current date. The Group assesses the potential change in its economic value of equity through the application of the VaR methodology. 1 Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. A 20-day 99.0% VaR measure is used to capture the net economic value impact over the long-term or total life of all Balance Sheet 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. This includes a change in the confidence interval in the VaR from 97.5% assets and liabilities to adverse changes in interest rates. to 99.0% and a change in the holding period from one day to ten days. 3 Includes volatility risk and basis risk. The impact of customer prepayments on the contractual cash flows for fixed rate products is included in the calculation. Cash flows for discretionary priced products are behaviourally adjusted and repriced at the resultant profile. The figures in the following table represent the net present value of the expected change in the Group’s future earnings in all future periods for the remaining term of all existing assets and liabilities. 228 229 230 231 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.3 Market risk (continued) 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk 2020 ANNUAL REPORT June June 2020 1 2019 1, 2 OVERVIEW Non-traded interest rate risk VaR (20-day 99.0% confidence) $M $M The Group’s liquidity and funding policies are designed to ensure it will meet its obligations as and when they fall due by ensuring it is Average daily exposure 365. 4 194. 8 able to issue debt on an unsecured or secured basis, has sufficient liquid assets to borrow against under repurchase agreements or sell High daily exposure 804. 2 214. 3 to raise immediate funds without adversely affecting the Group’s net asset value. Low daily exposure 224. 1 178. 6 The Group’s liquidity policies are designed to ensure it maintains sufficient cash balances and liquid asset holdings to meet its OVERVIEW obligations to customers, in both ordinary market conditions and during periods of extreme stress. These policies are intended to protect As at balance date 678. 4 193. 4 the value of the Group’s operations during periods of unfavourable market conditions. 1 Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. The Group’s funding policies are designed to achieve diversified sources of funding by product, term, maturity date, investor type, 2 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. This includes a change in the confidence interval in the VaR from 97.5% to 99.0%. investor location, currency and concentration, on a cost effective basis. This objective applies to the Group’s wholesale and retail funding activities. Non-traded equity risk Non-traded equity includes all equity instruments outside the trading portfolio with the exception of the Group’s structural and strategic holdings. Liquidity and funding risk management framework The CBA Board is ultimately responsible for the sound and prudent management of liquidity risk across the Group. The Group’s liquidity A 20-day, 97.5% confidence VaR is used to measure the economic impact of adverse changes in value. HOW WE CREATE VALUE and funding policies, structured under a formal Group Liquidity and Funding Risk Management Framework, are approved by the Board As at As at and agreed with APRA. The Group Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) charter includes reviewing the management of assets and June June 1 liabilities, reviewing liquidity and funding policies and strategies, as well as regularly monitoring compliance with those policies across 2020 2019 the Group. Group Treasury manages the Group’s liquidity and funding positions in accordance with the Group’s Liquidity Policy and Non-traded equity VaR (20-day 97.5% confidence) $M $M supporting standards, and has ultimate authority to execute liquidity and funding decisions should the Group Contingency Funding Plan VaR 13. 4 22. 4 be activated. Risk Management provides oversight of the Group’s liquidity and funding risks, compliance with Group policies and manages the Group’s relationship with prudential regulators. 1 Non-traded equity VaR as at 30 June 2019 includes holdings in CFSGAM. The Group completed the sale and deconsolidated CFSGAM on 2 August 2019. Excluding CFSGAM, non-traded equity VaR as at 30 June 2019 was $9.8 million. Subsidiaries within the Group apply their own liquidity and funding strategies to address their specific needs. The Group’s New Zealand banking subsidiary, ASB, manages its own domestic liquidity and funding needs in accordance with its own liquidity policy and the Market risk in insurance businesses policies of the Group. ASB’s liquidity policy is also overseen by the RBNZ. The Group deconsolidated and derecognised CommInsure Life (excluding BoCommLife) on 1 November 2019. The following is the Liquidity and funding policies and management DIRECTORS’ REPORT information about the Group’s exposure to market risk in insurance business as at 30 June 2019. The Group’s liquidity and funding policies provide that: The Group had two main sources of market risk in the life insurance businesses: (i) market risk arising from guarantees made to policyholders; and (ii) market risk arising from the investment of shareholders’ capital. • an excess of liquid assets over the minimum prescribed under APRA’s LCR requirement is maintained. Australian ADIs are required to meet a 100% LCR, calculated as the ratio of high quality liquid assets to 30 day net cash outflows projected under a prescribed Guarantees (to policyholders) stress scenario; All financial assets within the life Insurance Statutory Funds directly supported either the Group's life insurance or life investment • a surplus of stable funding from various sources, as measured by APRA’s Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), is maintained. The contracts. Market risk arose for the Group on contracts where the liabilities to policyholders were guaranteed by the Group. The Group NSFR is calculated by applying factors prescribed by APRA to assets and liabilities to determine a ratio of required stable funding to managed this risk by having an asset and liability management framework which included the use of hedging instruments. The Group available stable funding which must be greater than 100%; also monitored the risk on a monthly basis. • additional internal funding and liquidity metrics are calculated and stress tests additional to the LCR are run; Shareholders’ capital • short and long-term wholesale funding limits are established, monitored and reviewed regularly; FINANCIAL REPORT A portion of financial assets held within the insurance business, both within the statutory funds and in the shareholder funds of the life • the Group’s wholesale funding market capacity is regularly assessed and used as a factor in funding strategies; insurance company represented shareholder (Group) capital. Market risk also arose for the Group on the investment of this capital. • Balance Sheet assets that cannot be liquidated quickly are funded with stable deposits or term borrowings that meet minimum Shareholders’ funds in the Australian life insurance businesses were invested 99.0% in income assets (cash and fixed interest) and 1% maturity requirements with appropriate liquidity buffers; in growth assets as at 30 June 2019. • liquid assets are held in Australian dollar and foreign currency denominated securities in accordance with expected requirements; A 20-day 97.5% VaR measure is used to capture the non-traded market risk exposures. • the Group has three categories of liquid assets within its domestic liquid assets portfolio. The first includes cash, government and Australian semi-government securities. The second includes Negotiable Certificates of Deposit, bank term securities, supranational Average bonds, Australian Residential Mortgage Backed Securities (RMBS) and other securities that meet RBA criteria for purchases under June 2019 1 repurchase agreements. The final category is internal RMBS, being mortgages that have been securitised but retained by the Bank, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Non-traded VaR in Australian life insurance business (20-day 97.5% confidence) $M that are repo-eligible with the RBA using the Committed Liquidity Facility (CLF) and Term Funding Facility (TFF); and 2 • offshore branches and subsidiaries adhere to liquidity policies and hold appropriate foreign currency liquid assets to meet required Shareholder funds 1. 1 3 regulations. Guarantees (to policyholders) 22. 8 The Group’s key funding tools include: 1 Average VaR calculated for the 12 month period. 2 VaR in relation to the investment of shareholder funds. • consumer retail funding base, which includes a wide range of retail transaction accounts, savings accounts and term deposits for 3 VaR in relation to product portfolios where the Group has guaranteed liabilities to policyholders. individual consumers; • small business customer and institutional deposit base; Structural foreign exchange risk • wholesale domestic and international funding programmes, which include Australian dollar Negotiable Certificates of Deposit, US and Structural foreign exchange risk is the risk that movements in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the Group’s Australian Euro Commercial Paper programmes, Australian dollar Domestic Debt Programme, US Extendible Notes programmes, US Mediumdollar earnings and economic value when the Group’s foreign currency denominated earnings and capital are translated into Australian Term Note Programmes, Euro Medium-Term Note Programme, multi jurisdiction Covered Bond programme and Medallion dollars. The Group’s only material exposure to this risk arises from its New Zealand, Asian and US operations. securitisation programmes; and Lease residual value risk • access to the RBA Term Funding Facility (TFF). The Group takes lease residual value risk on assets such as industrial, mining, rail, aircraft, marine, technology, healthcare and other equipment. A lease residual value guarantee exposes the Group to a potential fall in prices of these assets below the guarantee level at lease expiry. Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund The Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund (the Fund) has a defined benefit portion that creates market risk for the Group. Risk management and Human Resources provide oversight of the market risks of the Fund held and managed on behalf of the employees receiving defined benefit pension funds on behalf of the Group (refer to Note 10.2). 230 231 232 233 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk (continued) 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Group’s key liquidity tools include: Maturity analysis of monetary liabilities • a regulatory liquidity management reporting system delivering granular customer and product type information to inform business Amounts shown in the tables below are based on contractual undiscounted cash flows for the remaining contractual maturities. decision making, product development and resulting in a greater awareness of the liquidity risk-adjusted value of banking products; Group • a liquidity management model that allows forecasting of liquidity needs on a daily basis; Maturity period as at 30 June 2020 • an additional liquidity management model that implements the established prudential liquidity requirements. This model is calibrated 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not with a series of ‘stress’ liquidity crisis scenarios, incorporating both systemic and idiosyncratic crisis assumptions, such that the Group months months years years specified Total OVERVIEW will have sufficient liquid assets available to ensure it meets all of its obligations as and when they fall due; $M $M $M $M $M $M • Central Bank repurchase agreement facilities including the RBA’s CLF that provide the Group with the ability to borrow funds on a Monetary liabilities secured basis, even when normal funding markets are unavailable; and Deposits and other public borrowings 1 605,174 91,162 5,944 1,057 – 703,337 • a robust Contingency Funding Plan that is regularly tested so that it can be quickly activated when required. Payables to financial institutions 11,820 3,105 1,548 – – 16,473 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 769 178 746 2,906 – 4,599 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 25,280 – – – – 25,280 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 115 244 718 91 – 1,168 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 6,535 9,380 44,008 24,410 – 84,333 Inflows (3,521) (8,816) (41,966) (23,036) – (77,339) Debt issues and loan capital 13,255 25,978 83,871 60,408 – 183,512 Lease liabilities 132 411 1,807 1,155 – 3,505 Other monetary liabilities 6,580 370 80 59 – 7,089 Liabilities held for sale 414 – – – – 414 Total monetary liabilities 666,553 122,012 96,756 67,050 – 952,371 Guarantees 2 6,448 – – – – 6,448 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Loan commitments 2 168,624 – – – – 168,624 Other commitments 2 7,358 – – – – 7,358 Total off Balance Sheet items 182,430 – – – – 182,430 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 848,983 122,012 96,756 67,050 – 1,134,801 Group 3 Maturity period as at 30 June 2019 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not months months years years specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M FINANCIAL REPORT Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings 1 525,933 106,037 7,065 91 – 639,126 Payables to financial institutions 19,511 3,919 42 – – 23,472 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4,612 2,334 736 1,244 – 8,926 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 17,925 – – – – 17,925 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 120 385 1,025 163 – 1,693 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Outflows 3,548 16,619 40,211 29,726 – 90,104 Inflows (2,990) (15,418) (37,846) (27,686) – (83,940) Debt issues and loan capital 18,592 37,817 94,619 53,488 – 204,516 Other monetary liabilities 5,657 374 495 58 – 6,584 Liabilities held for sale 561 169 956 491 13,052 15,229 Total monetary liabilities 593,469 152,236 107,303 57,575 13,052 923,635 Guarantees 2 6,506 – – – – 6,506 Loan commitments 2 162,202 – – – – 162,202 Other commitments 2 7,098 – – – – 7,098 Total off Balance Sheet items 175,806 – – – – 175,806 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 769,275 152,236 107,303 57,575 13,052 1,099,441 1 Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. These accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding. 2 All off Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity. 3 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 232 233 234 235 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk (continued) 9.5 Disclosures about fair values 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank Fair value hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Maturity period as at 30 June 2020 The classification in the fair value hierarchy of the Group’s and the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value is 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not presented in the tables below. An explanation of how fair values are calculated and the levels in the fair value hierarchy, is included in months months years years specified Total the accounting policy within this note. $M $M $M $M $M $M Group Monetary liabilities Fair value as at 30 June 2020 Fair value as at 30 June 2019 1 OVERVIEW Deposits and other public borrowings 1 552,273 75,120 3,917 991 – 632,301 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Payables to financial institutions 10,741 3,105 1,548 – – 15,394 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 260 178 746 2,906 – 4,090 Financial assets measured at fair Derivative financial instruments: value on a recurring basis Held for trading 28,381 – – – – 28,381 Assets at fair value through Income Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 114 267 767 95 – 1,243 Statement: Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Trading 33,001 5,422 – 38,423 24,599 1,053 – 25,652 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Outflows 6,584 10,689 47,648 29,394 – 94,315 Other 77 7,992 53 8,122 319 7,706 – 8,025 Inflows (3,716) (10,404) (46,124) (28,410) – (88,654) Derivative assets 192 29,966 127 30,285 59 25,072 84 25,215 Debt issues and loan capital 11,978 21,493 65,223 53,865 – 152,559 Investment securities at fair value 60,336 18,648 565 79,549 77,193 1,666 53 78,912 Due to controlled entities 6,687 6,400 26,315 13,670 – 53,072 through Other Comprehensive Income 2 Lease liabilities 121 381 1,680 1,051 – 3,233 Assets held for sale – 260 – 260 934 7,631 2,339 10,904 Other monetary liabilities 6,496 238 106 32 – 6,872 Total financial assets measured at 93,606 62,288 745 156,639 103,104 43,128 2,476 148,708 fair value Total monetary liabilities 619,919 107,467 101,826 73,594 – 902,806 Financial liabilities measured at fair Guarantees 2 5,974 – – – – 5,974 2 value on a recurring basis DIRECTORS’ REPORT Loan commitments 152,812 – – – – 152,812 Liabilities at fair value through Income Other commitments 2 7,225 – – – – 7,225 3,615 782 – 4,397 1,583 6,937 – 8,520 Statement Total off Balance Sheet items 166,011 – – – – 166,011 Derivative liabilities 69 31,248 30 31,347 132 22,579 66 22,777 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 785,930 107,467 101,826 73,594 – 1,068,817 Liabilities held for sale 2 – – – – 3 6,325 496 6,824 3 Bank Total financial liabilities measured Maturity period as at 30 June 2019 3,684 32,030 30 35,744 1,718 35,841 562 38,121 at fair value 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not months months years years specified Total 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect changes in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. $M $M $M $M $M $M 2 For details of the Group’s assets and liabilities held for sale refer to Note 11.3. FINANCIAL REPORT Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings 1 484,499 86,805 4,833 9 – 576,146 Payables to financial institutions 18,758 3,919 42 – – 22,719 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4,608 1,768 736 1,244 – 8,356 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 20,732 – – – – 20,732 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 117 401 1,071 168 – 1,757 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 2,724 15,013 44,943 34,320 – 97,000 Inflows (2,293) (14,275) (43,176) (33,234) – (92,978) Debt issues and loan capital 17,187 31,450 74,832 45,362 – 168,831 Due to controlled entities 5,195 6,311 24,499 13,605 – 49,610 Other monetary liabilities 5,404 335 458 55 – 6,252 Total monetary liabilities 556,931 131,727 108,238 61,529 – 858,425 Guarantees 2 6,026 – – – – 6,026 2 Loan commitments 146,483 – – – – 146,483 Other commitments 2 6,944 – – – – 6,944 Total off Balance Sheet items 159,453 – – – – 159,453 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 716,384 131,727 108,238 61,529 – 1,017,878 1 Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. These accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding. 2 All off Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity. 3 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 234 235 236 237 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.5 Disclosures about fair values (continued) 9.5 Disclosures about fair values (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank Analysis of movements between fair value hierarchy levels 1 Fair value as at 30 June 2020 Fair value as at 30 June 2019 During the year ended 30 June 2020, $16,777 million of Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income and Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $4,979 million of trading securities were reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 due to changes in the observability of inputs. The tables $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M below summarise movements in Level 3 balance during the year. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the end of Financial assets measured at fair the reporting periods. Transfers in and out of Level 3 were due to changes in the observability of inputs. value on a recurring basis Level 3 movement analysis for the year ended 30 June 2020 OVERVIEW Assets at fair value through Income Group Statement: Financial Assets Financial Liabilities Investment Assets at fair Trading 32,991 5,422 – 38,413 24,569 1,053 – 25,622 securities at Available value through Assets Liabilities Other – 7,818 53 7,871 – 7,506 – 7,506 Derivative fair value for sale Income held for Derivative held for 1 1 Derivative assets 192 29,003 127 29,322 56 24,171 84 24,311 assets through OCI investments Statement sale liabilities sale $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Investment securities at fair value 54,472 17,298 565 72,335 72,479 680 53 73,212 through Other Comprehensive Income As at 1 July 2018 93 – 65 – 1,818 (340) (353) HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total financial assets measured at Change on adoption of AASB 9 – 65 (65) – – – – 87,655 59,541 745 147,941 97,104 33,410 137 130,651 fair value Purchases 15 – – – 499 – – Financial liabilities measured at fair Sales/settlements – (8) – – – – – value on a recurring basis Gains/(losses) in the year: – Liabilities at fair value through 3,485 403 – 3,888 1,583 6,378 – 7,961 Recognised in the Income Income Statement (5) – – – 22 198 – Statement Derivative liabilities 68 36,150 30 36,248 132 26,456 66 26,654 Recognised in the Statement of Total financial liabilities measured – (4) – – – – – 3,553 36,553 30 40,136 1,715 32,834 66 34,615 Comprehensive Income at fair value Transfers in – – – – – – (143) DIRECTORS’ REPORT 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and to reflect changes in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. Transfers out (19) – – – – 76 – As at 30 June 2019 84 53 – – 2,339 (66) (496) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for financial 22 – – – 22 175 – instruments held as at 30 June 2019 As at 1 July 2019 84 53 – – 2,339 (66) (496) Purchases – 453 – 54 15 – – Sales/settlements (23) (4) – – – – – FINANCIAL REPORT Gains/(losses) in the year: Recognised in the Income 51 – – (1) (4) 1 – Statement Recognised in the Statement of – 60 – – – (24) – Comprehensive Income Transfers in 34 3 – – – – (21) Transfers out (19) – – – – 59 – ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Derecognised on deconsolidation of – – – – (2,350) – 517 controlled entities As at 30 June 2020 127 565 – 53 – (30) – Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for financial 48 – – (1) – 1 – instruments held as at 30 June 2020 1 For details of the Group’s assets and liabilities held for sale refer to Note 11.3. 236 237 238 239 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.5 Disclosures about fair values (continued) 9.5 Disclosures about fair values (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Bank Fair value information for financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial Financial assets The estimated fair values and fair value hierarchy of the Group’s and the Bank’s financial instruments not measured at fair value are liabilities Investment Assets at fair presented below: securities at value through Available 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 1 Derivative fair value Income for sale Derivative Carrying Carrying assets through OCI Statement investments liabilities Fair value Fair value value value OVERVIEW $M $M $M $M $M Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 1 July 2018 93 – – 65 (340) Group $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Change on adoption of AASB 9 – 65 – (65) – Financial assets Purchases 15 – – – – Investment securities at amortised cost 5,173 – 5,145 15 5,160 7,355 – 7,330 15 7,345 Sales/settlements – (8) – – – Gains/(losses) in the period: – Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 771,547 – – 771,763 771,763 755,173 – – 755,547 755,547 Recognised in the Income Statement (5) – – – 198 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Financial liabilities Recognised in the Statement of – (4) – – – Deposits and other public Comprehensive Income borrowings 701,999 – 702,438 – 702,438 636,040 – 636,465 18 636,483 Transfers in – – – – – Debt issues 142,503 – 142,466 – 142,466 164,022 – 164,327 – 164,327 Transfers out (19) – – – 76 Loan capital 27,357 10,811 15,900 – 26,711 22,966 9,477 13,641 – 23,118 As at 30 June 2019 84 53 – – (66) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Bank Statement for financial instruments held as at 22 – – – 175 30 June 2019 Financial assets As at 1 July 2019 84 53 – – (66) Investment securities at DIRECTORS’ REPORT amortised cost 5,167 – 5,145 9 5,154 7,349 – 7,340 9 7,349 Purchases – 453 54 – – Sales/settlements (23) (4) – – – Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 677,268 – – 677,012 677,012 660,508 – – 660,692 660,692 Gains/(losses) in the period: Shares in and loans to Recognised in the Income Statement 51 – (1) – 1 66,792 – – 65,259 65,259 63,943 – – 56,779 56,779 controlled entities Recognised in the Statement of – 60 – (24) Financial liabilities Comprehensive Income Deposits and other public Transfers in 34 3 – – – 631,301 – 631,551 – 631,551 573,851 – 574,164 18 574,182 borrowings Transfers out (19) – – – 59 Debt issues 113,323 – 114,081 – 114,081 131,094 – 132,103 – 132,103 FINANCIAL REPORT As at 30 June 2020 127 565 53 – (30) Loan capital 26,964 10,820 15,512 – 26,332 22,569 9,483 13,237 – 22,720 Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for financial instruments held as at 48 – (1) – 1 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 30 June 2020 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 238 239 240 241 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.5 Disclosures about fair values (continued) 9.6 Collateral arrangements 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Collateral accepted as security for assets ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group takes collateral where it is considered necessary to support both on and off Balance Sheet financial instruments. The Group Valuation evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral taken, if deemed necessary, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the counterparty. The Group has the right to sell, re-pledge, or otherwise use some of the collateral Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market received. At Balance Sheet date the carrying value of cash accepted as collateral (and recognised on the Group’s and the Bank’s participants at the measurement date. On initial recognition, the transaction price generally represents the fair value of the financial Balance Sheets) and the fair value of securities accepted as collateral (but not recognised on the Group’s or the Bank’s instrument, unless there is observable information from an active market that provides a more appropriate fair value. Balance Sheets) were as follows: OVERVIEW The fair value for financial instruments traded in active markets at the reporting date is based on their quoted market price or dealer Group 1 Bank 1 price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs. Assets and long positions are measured at a quoted bid price; liabilities 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 and short positions are measured at a quoted asking price. Where the Group has positions with offsetting market risks, mid-market $M $M $M $M prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a quoted bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate. Cash 5,419 6,147 4,274 5,568 Non-market quoted financial instruments are mostly valued using valuation techniques based on observable inputs except where Securities 16,858 12,732 16,290 11,379 observable market data is unavailable. Where market data is unavailable the financial instrument is initially recognised at the transaction Collateral held 22,277 18,879 20,564 16,947 price, which is generally the best indicator of fair value. This may differ from the value obtained from the valuation model. The timing of HOW WE CREATE VALUE the recognition in the Income Statement of this initial difference in fair value depends on the individual facts and circumstances of each Collateral held which is re-pledged or sold 4,390 2,513 4,390 2,520 transaction, but is never later than when the market data becomes observable. The difference may be either amortised over the life of 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. the transaction, recognised when the inputs become observable or on derecognition of the instrument, as appropriate. The fair value of Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives includes credit valuation adjustments (CVA) for derivative assets to reflect the Assets pledged credit worthiness of the counterparty. Fair value of uncollateralised derivative assets and uncollateralised derivative liabilities incorporate As part of standard terms of transactions with other banks, the Group has provided collateral to secure liabilities. At Balance Sheet date, funding valuation adjustments (FVA) to reflect funding costs and benefits to the Group. These adjustments are applied after considering the carrying value of assets pledged as collateral to secure liabilities were as follows: any relevant collateral or master netting arrangements. Group 1 Bank Fair value hierarchy 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M $M $M The Group utilises various valuation techniques and applies a hierarchy for valuation inputs that maximise the use of observable market data, if available. Cash 8,581 6,819 7,363 5,781 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Under AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement all financial and non-financial assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value are Securities 2 19,138 21,022 19,345 21,138 categorised into one of the following three fair value hierarchy levels: Assets pledged 27,719 27,841 26,708 26,919 Quoted prices in active markets – Level 1 Asset pledged which can be re-pledged or re-sold by counterparty 19,138 21,022 19,345 21,138 This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation is determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring 2 These balances include assets sold under repurchase agreements. The liabilities related to these repurchase agreements are disclosed in Note 4.1. market transactions on an arm’s length basis. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Bank have pledged collateral as part of entering into repurchase and derivative agreements. These transactions are governed by standard industry agreements. Financial instruments included in this category are liquid government bonds, financial institution and corporate bonds, certificates of FINANCIAL REPORT deposit, bank bills, listed equities and exchange traded derivatives. Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2 This category includes assets and liabilities that have been valued using inputs other than quoted prices as described for Level 1, but which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. The valuation techniques include the use of discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other market accepted valuation models. Financial instruments included in this category are commercial papers, mortgage-backed securities and OTC derivatives including interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and FX options. Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION This category includes assets and liabilities where the valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Unobservable inputs are those not readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product. These inputs are generally derived and extrapolated from observable inputs to match the risk profile of the financial instrument, and are calibrated against current market assumptions, historic transactions and economic models, where available. These inputs may include the timing and amount of future cash flows, rates of estimated credit losses, discount rates and volatility. Financial instruments included in this category for the Group and Bank are certain exotic OTC derivatives and unlisted equity instruments. As at 30 June 2020, Level 3 Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income include unlisted equity instruments of $506 million. The valuation of this investment is based on a methodology that leverages significant unobservable inputs including revenue multiples of market listed comparable entities. The range of revenue multiples applied by the Group as at 30 June 2020 was 9x-10x. The effect of adjusting these inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives would be to increase the fair value by up to $75 million or to decrease the fair value by up to $75 million with all of the potential effect impacting Investment securities revaluation reserve. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Valuation techniques are used to estimate the fair value of securities. When using valuation techniques the Group makes maximum use of market inputs and relies as little as possible on entity specific inputs. It incorporates all factors that the Group believes market participants would consider in setting a price and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments. Data inputs that the Group relies upon when valuing financial instruments relate to counterparty credit risk, volatility, correlation and extrapolation. Periodically, the Group calibrates its valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from any observable current market transaction in the same instruments (i.e. without modification or repackaging) and any other available observable market data. 240 241 242 243 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.7 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 9.7 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The table below identifies amounts that have been offset on the Balance Sheet and amounts covered by enforceable netting Group arrangements or similar agreements that do not qualify for set off. Cash settled derivatives that trade on an exchange are deemed to be 30 Jun 19 economically settled and therefore outside the scope of these disclosures. Subject to enforceable master netting or similar agreements Group Amounts offset on the Amounts not offset on the 30 Jun 20 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Subject to enforceable master netting or similar agreements Gross Financial Total Balance Reported on collateral Not subject Balance OVERVIEW Amounts offset on the Amounts not offset on the Sheet Amount the Balance Financial (received)/ to netting Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet 1 amount offset Sheet instruments 2 pledged 2 Net amount agreements amount Gross Financial Total Balance Reported on collateral Not subject Balance Financial instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Sheet Amount the Balance Financial (received)/ to netting Sheet Derivative assets 40,913 (17,801) 23,112 (14,318) (5,095) 3,699 2,103 25,215 amount offset 1 Sheet instruments 2 pledged 2 Net amount agreements amount Securities purchased under Financial instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 12,732 – 12,732 (565) (12,146) 21 – 12,732 agreements to resell Derivative assets 55,684 (27,646) 28,038 (18,618) (4,900) 4,520 2,247 30,285 Equity securities sold not HOW WE CREATE VALUE 661 (313) 348 – – 348 – 348 Securities purchased under delivered 16,858 – 16,858 (1,313) (15,539) 6 – 16,858 agreements to resell Total financial assets 54,306 (18,114) 36,192 (14,883) (17,241) 4,068 2,103 38,295 Equity securities sold not Derivative liabilities (42,756) 20,727 (22,029) 14,318 4,086 (3,625) (748) (22,777) 1,031 (536) 495 – – 495 – 495 delivered 3 Securities sold under Total financial assets 73,573 (28,182) 45,391 (19,931) (20,439) 5,021 2,247 47,638 (19,099) – (19,099) 565 18,534 – – (19,099) agreements to repurchase Derivative liabilities (57,184) 26,718 (30,466) 18,618 6,269 (5,579) (883) (31,349) Equity securities purchased (821) 313 (508) – – (508) – (508) Securities sold under not delivered (16,877) – (16,877) 1,313 15,564 – – (16,877) agreements to repurchase Total financial liabilities (62,676) 21,040 (41,636) 14,883 22,620 (4,133) (748) (42,384) Equity securities purchased (1,245) 536 (709) – – (709) – (709) DIRECTORS’ REPORT 1 The net offset balance of $2,926 million relates to variation margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. not delivered 3 2 For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by Total financial liabilities (75,306) 27,254 (48,052) 19,931 21,833 (6,288) (883) (48,935) relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. 1 The net offset balance of $928 million relates to variation margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. Bank 2 For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it 30 Jun 19 exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result, the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Subject to enforceable master netting or similar agreements 3 Includes $105 million of receivables and $172 million of payables of AUSIEX presented within assets and liabilities held for sale as at 30 June 2020. Amounts offset on the Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Bank 30 Jun 20 Gross Financial Total Subject to enforceable master netting or similar agreements Balance Reported on collateral Not subject Balance FINANCIAL REPORT Sheet Amount the Balance Financial (received)/ to netting Sheet Amounts offset on the Amounts not offset on the 1 2 2 amount offset Sheet instruments pledged Net amount agreements amount Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Financial instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Gross Financial Total Balance Reported on collateral Not subject Balance Derivative assets 39,487 (17,273) 22,214 (14,065) (4,697) 3,452 2,097 24,311 Sheet Amount the Balance Financial (received)/ to netting Sheet Securities purchased under amount offset 1 Sheet instruments 2 pledged 2 Net amount agreements amount 11,378 – 11,378 (573) (10,784) 21 – 11,378 agreements to resell Financial instruments $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Total financial assets 50,865 (17,273) 33,592 (14,638) (15,481) 3,473 2,097 35,689 Derivative assets 54,732 (27,647) 27,085 (18,588) (3,792) 4,705 2,238 29,323 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Derivative liabilities (45,839) 19,944 (25,895) 14,065 4,039 (7,791) (759) (26,654) Securities purchased under 16,290 – 16,290 (1,313) (14,971) 6 – 16,290 Securities sold under agreements to resell (19,215) – (19,215) 573 18,642 – – (19,215) agreements to repurchase Total financial assets 71,022 (27,647) 43,375 (19,901) (18,763) 4,711 2,238 45,613 Total financial liabilities (65,054) 19,944 (45,110) 14,638 22,681 (7,791) (759) (45,869) Derivative liabilities (62,127) 26,718 (35,409) 18,588 6,627 (10,194) (840) (36,249) 1 The net offset balance of $2,671 million relates to variation margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. Securities sold under (17,084) – (17,084) 1,313 15,771 – – (17,084) 2 For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by agreements to repurchase relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it Total financial liabilities (79,211) 26,718 (52,493) 19,901 22,398 (10,194) (840) (53,333) exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. 1 The net offset balance of $929 million relates to variation margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. 2 For the purpose of this disclosure, the related amounts of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial assets/(liabilities) reported on the Balance Sheet, i.e. over collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. 242 243 244 245 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 9.7 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 10. Employee benefits Related amounts not set off on the Balance Sheet Derivative assets and liabilities The “Financial Instruments” column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as OVERVIEW the ISDA Master Agreement. All outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied if an The Group employs over 48,000 people across multiple jurisdictions and remunerates its employees through both fixed and variable event of default or other predetermined events occur. Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained to cover the arrangements. This section outlines details of the share-based payment and superannuation components of employee remuneration net exposure between counterparties by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events and provides an overview of key management personnel arrangements. OVERVIEW occur. Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and security lending agreements 10.1 Share-based payments The “Financial Instruments” column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as global master repurchase agreements and global master securities lending agreements. Under these netting agreements, all The Group operates a number of cash and equity settled share plans as detailed below. outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied if an event of default or other Long Term Variable Remuneration (LTVR) predetermined events occur. Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default. From the 2019 financial year, the Group’s LTVR award to the CEO, Group Executives and the CEO of ASB (from the 2020 financial year) is made under the Employee Equity Plan (EEP). LTVR awards up to and including the 2018 financial year were made under the Group’s Leadership Reward Plan (GLRP). LTVR focuses efforts on achieving superior performance for key stakeholders – being HOW WE CREATE VALUE ACCOUNTING POLICIES customers, community, employees and shareholders – in order to create sustainable long-term shareholder value and drive positive Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the Balance Sheet if, and only if, there is a currently culture and behaviours in the Group. enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and Participants are awarded a maximum number of rights, which may convert into CBA shares on a one-for-one basis. The Board has settle the liability simultaneously. discretion to apply a cash equivalent. The Rights may vest at the end of a performance period of four years subject to the satisfaction of performance measures as follows: For the 2017 financial year award made to the CEO and Group Executives: • 25% of the award is assessed against Customer Satisfaction compared to ANZ, NAB, Westpac and other key competitors for our wealth management business by reference to independent external surveys; and • 75% of the award is assessed against Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by DIRECTORS’ REPORT market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA. For awards made from the 2018 financial year to the CEO and Group Executives: • 75% of the award is assessed against TSR compared to the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA. • 12.5% of the award is assessed against a Relative Trust and Reputation measure; and • 12.5% of the award is assessed against an Absolute Employee Engagement measure. For the 2020 financial year award made to the CEO of ASB: • 50% of the award is assessed against TSR compared to the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA. FINANCIAL REPORT • 25% of the award is assessed against an ASB Relative Trust and Reputation measure; and • 25% of the award is assessed against an ASB Absolute Employee Engagement measure. A positive TSR gateway applies to the Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement measures. Refer to the Remuneration Report for further details on LTVR. The following table provides details of outstanding awards of Rights granted under LTVR awards. Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 30 Jun 20 808,519 322,283 (33,009) (146,380) 951,413 7,566 30 Jun 19 678,801 294,619 (34,099) (130,802) 808,519 7,186 The weighted average fair value at the grant date for TSR was $34.07 and $57.86 for both Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement Rights issued during the year (2019: $33.57 for TSR and $49.87 for both Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement). The fair value of the Rights granted during the period has been independently calculated at grant date using a Monte Carlo pricing model based on market information and excluding the impact of non-market performance conditions. The assumptions included in the valuation of the 2020 financial year award include a share price of $80.34 and $90.26, a risk-free interest rate of 0.85% and 0.76%, a 5.23% and 4.66% dividend yield on the Bank’s ordinary shares and a volatility in the Bank share price of 15% and 25%. 244 245 246 247 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 10.1 Share-based payments (continued) 10.1 Share-based payments (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Group Rights Plan (GRP) and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) Salary sacrifice arrangements The GRP and EEP facilitate mandatory short-term variable remuneration deferral, sign-on and retention awards. Participants are The Group facilitates the purchase of CBA shares via salary sacrifice as follows: awarded rights or restricted shares that vest provided the participant remains in employment of the Group until vesting and subject to risk and malus review. The following table provides details of outstanding awards of rights and restricted shares granted under the GRP Type Arrangements and EEP. Salary sacrifice • Australian based employees and Non-Executive Directors can elect to sacrifice between $2,000 and Outstanding Outstanding Expense $5,000 p.a. of their fixed remuneration and/or annual STVR or fees (in the case of Non-Executive Directors). OVERVIEW Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) • Restricted from sale for a minimum of two years and a maximum of seven years or earlier, if the employee ceases employment with the Group (or retires from the Group in the case of Non-Executive Directors). 30 Jun 20 2,152,467 819,276 (1,031,588) (104,535) 1,835,620 61,332 Non-Executive • Non-Executive Directors can elect to apply a percentage of after-tax fees towards the acquisition of CBA shares. 30 Jun 19 2,246,204 1,086,280 (993,435) (186,582) 2,152,467 77,136 Directors From 1 July 2019, Non-Executive Directors are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 100% of their Board member base fees, or Board Chairman fees (as applicable). This shareholding is to be accumulated over five The weighted average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $79.62 (2019: $71.08). years commencing on the later of 1 July 2019 or their respective date of appointment, valued with reference to the Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP) prevailing CBA share price at the date of appointment. Under the ESAP, eligible employees have the opportunity to receive up to $1,000 worth of shares each year if the Group meets the HOW WE CREATE VALUE required performance hurdle. Shares are purchased on market at the prevailing market price at that time and receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights. The following table provides details of shares granted under the ESSSP and NEDSP (voluntary fee sacrifice). The number of shares a participant receives is calculated by dividing the award amount by the average price paid for CBA shares Average purchase Total purchase purchased during the purchase period preceding the grant date. Shares granted are restricted from sale until the earlier of three years or until such time as the participant ceases employment with the Group. Participants receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights Number of price consideration attached to those shares. Period Participants shares purchased $ ($'000) While the Group did not achieve the ESAP performance hurdle for the 2019 financial year, the Board exercised its discretion and 30 Jun 20 1,043 44,586 81.05 3,614 approved an award of $1,000 during the financial year ended 30 June 2020 to each eligible employee to recognise their contribution 30 Jun 19 952 47,205 71.57 3,378 throughout the year. The following table provides details of shares granted under the ESAP: During the year four (2019: four) Non-Executive Directors applied $123,766.70 in fees (2019: $103,151.14) to purchase 1,633 shares (2019: 1,424 shares). DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total Number of shares Total number of Issue price fair value 10.2 Retirement benefit obligations Period Allocation date Participants allocated per participant shares allocated $ ($'000) 30 Jun 20 4 Nov 19 30,653 12 367,836 80.29 29,534 Date of Last Actuarial 30 Jun 19 16 Nov 18 30,960 7 216,720 70.86 15,357 Name of Plan Type Form of Benefit Assessment of the Fund It is estimated that approximately $34 million of CBA shares will be awarded under the 2020 grant. Commonwealth Bank Group Super Defined benefits and Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2018 Other employee awards accumulation1 A number of other plans are operated by the Group, including: Commonwealth Bank of Australia (UK) Staff Defined benefits and Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2019 FINANCIAL REPORT • The Employee Share (Performance Unit) Plan and EEP Cash Settled Rights are cash-based equity awards; Benefits Scheme (CBA (UK) SBS) accumulation1 • EEP rights for certain employees based overseas; and 1 The defined benefit formulae are generally comprised of final salary, or final average salary, and service. • The International Employee Share Acquisition Plan, which is the cash-based version of the ESAP. Regulatory framework The following table provides a summary of the movement in awards during the year: Both plans operate under trust law with the assets of the plans held separately in trust. The trustee of Commonwealth Bank Group Outstanding Outstanding Expense Super is Commonwealth Bank Officers Superannuation Corporation Pty Limited. The trustee of CBA (UK) SBS is Commonwealth Bank Period 1 July Granted Vested/exercised Forfeited 30 June ($'000) of Australia (UK) Staff Benefits Scheme Trustee Company Limited. Both trustees are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group. The trustees do not conduct any business other than trusteeship of the plans. The plans are managed and administered on behalf of the 30 Jun 20 381,424 192,643 (203,833) (27,930) 342,304 9,449 members in accordance with the terms of each trust deed and relevant legislation. The funding of the plans complies with regulations in ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 30 Jun 19 509,927 162,180 (242,026) (48,657) 381,424 15,805 Australia and the UK respectively. The weighted average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $79.62 (2019: $71.35). Funding and contributions An actuarial assessment as at 30 June 2018 showed Commonwealth Bank Group Super remained in funding surplus. The Bank agreed to continue contributions of $20 million per month to the plan. In the second half of the year ended 30 June 2020, the Bank made an additional lump sum contribution of $60 million to ensure the Fund remained in funding surplus amid financial market volatility caused by COVID-19. Employer contributions paid to the plan are subject to tax at the rate of 15% in the plan. The Bank made a lump sum payment of GBP24 million ($43 million) in August 2019 to cover the potential future funding deficit in CBA (UK) SBS. An actuarial assessment of CBA (UK) SBS as at 30 June 2019 was completed in July 2020. It confirmed a funding deficit (before the lump sum payment in August 2019) of GBP21.2 million ($38.0 million). The Group’s expected contributions to Commonwealth Bank Group Super and CBA (UK) SBS for the year ended 30 June 2021 are $240 million and GBP12 million ($21.5 million) respectively. 246 247 248 249 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 10.2 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 10.2 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Defined benefit superannuation plan Economic assumptions Commonwealth Bank Commonwealth Bank CBA (UK) Group Super CBA (UK) SBS Total Group Super SBS 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Economic assumptions % % % % Present value of funded obligations (2,870) (3,004) (677) (711) (3,547) (3,715) The above calculations were based on the following assumptions: OVERVIEW Fair value of plan assets 3,344 3,438 884 739 4,228 4,177 Discount rate 3. 20 3. 20 1. 60 2. 30 Net pension assets/(liabilities) as at 30 June 474 434 207 28 681 462 Inflation rate 1. 30 1. 60 3. 10 3. 50 Amounts in the Balance Sheet: Rate of increases in salary 2. 10 2. 40 4. 10 4. 50 Assets 6.3 474 434 207 28 681 462 In addition to financial assumptions, the mortality assumptions for pensioners can materially impact the defined benefit obligations. Net assets/(liabilities) 474 434 207 28 681 462 These assumptions are age related and allowances are made for future improvement in mortality. The expected life expectancies The amounts recognised in the Income (longevity) for pensioners are set out below: Statement are as follows: HOW WE CREATE VALUE Commonwealth Bank CBA (UK) Current service cost (41) (36) (3) (6) (44) (42) Group Super SBS Net interest income/(expense) 10 16 2 2 12 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Expected life expectancies for pensioners Years Years Years Years Gain on curtailment – – 7 – 7 – Employer financed benefits within Male pensioners currently aged 60 28. 9 28. 8 28. 3 28. 0 (278) (279) – – (278) (279) accumulation division 1 Male pensioners currently aged 65 23. 9 23. 9 23. 5 23. 2 Total included in superannuation plan Female pensioners currently aged 60 31. 2 31. 2 30. 1 29. 9 (309) (299) 6 (4) (303) (303) expense Female pensioners currently aged 65 26. 2 26. 1 25. 2 25. 1 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Sensitivity to changes in assumptions DIRECTORS’ REPORT Opening defined benefit obligation (3,004) (2,826) (711) (645) (3,715) (3,471) The table below sets out the sensitivities of the present value of defined benefit obligations at 30 June to a change in the principal Current service cost (41) (36) (3) (6) (44) (42) actuarial assumptions: Interest cost (96) (119) (16) (17) (112) (136) Commonwealth Bank CBA (UK) Member contributions (6) (6) – – (6) (6) Group Super SBS Actuarial (losses) from changes in 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 – (18) (2) – (2) (18) demographic assumptions Impact of change in assumptions on liabilities % % Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in 112 (228) (47) (69) 65 (297) 0.25% decrease in discount rate 3. 59 4. 70 financial assumptions Actuarial gains/(losses) due to experience (31) 45 48 – 17 45 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2. 89 4. 40 Payments from the plan 196 184 40 39 236 223 0.25% increase to the rate of increases in salary 0. 45 0. 10 FINANCIAL REPORT Gain on curtailment – – 7 – 7 – Longevity increase of 1 year 4. 95 4. 20 Exchange differences on foreign plans – – 5 (13) 5 (13) Average duration Closing defined benefit obligation (2,870) (3,004) (679) (711) (3,549) (3,715) The average duration of defined benefit obligation at 30 June is as follows: Changes in the fair value of plan assets are Commonwealth Bank CBA (UK) as follows: Group Super SBS Opening fair value of plan assets 3,438 3,355 739 697 4,177 4,052 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 20 Interest income 106 135 18 19 124 154 Years Years ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Return on plan assets (32) 165 112 34 80 199 Average duration at balance date 12.3 19.0 (excluding interest income) Member contributions 6 6 – – 6 6 Employer contributions 300 240 70 15 370 255 Employer financed benefits within (278) (279) – – (278) (279) accumulation division Payments from the plan (196) (184) (40) (39) (236) (223) Exchange differences on foreign plans – – (15) 13 (15) 13 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,344 3,438 884 739 4,228 4,177 1 Represents superannuation contributions required by the Bank to meet its obligations to members of the defined contribution division of Commonwealth Bank Group Super. 248 249 250 251 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 10.2 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 10.3 Key management personnel (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Risk management Security holdings The pension plans expose the Group to longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and market risk. The trustees Details of the aggregate security holdings of KMP are set out below. perform Asset-Liability Matching (ALM) exercises to ensure the plan assets are well matched to the nature and maturities of the defined Previous benefit obligations. Acquired/ years Net The Commonwealth Bank Group Super’s investment strategy comprises 35% growth and 65% defensive assets. Inflation and interest Balance Granted as awards change Balance rate risks are partly mitigated by investing in long dated fixed interest securities which better match the average duration of liabilities and Class 1 1 July 19 2 remuneration vested 3 other 4 30 June 20 5 OVERVIEW entering into inflation and interest rate swaps. Non-Executive Directors Ordinary 6 50,361 5,471 – (10,878) 44,954 The allocation of assets backing the defined benefit portion of the Commonwealth Bank Group Super is as follows: PERLS 2,770 – – (150) 2,620 Commonwealth Bank Group Super Executives Ordinary 174,003 – 62,595 (39,440) 197,158 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Fair value % of plan Fair value % of plan LTVR rights 527,133 265,917 (18,749) (128,041) 646,260 Asset allocations $M asset $M asset Deferred shares 20,435 49,247 (7,938) (4,084) 57,660 Deferred rights 19,930 – (11,071) – 8,859 Cash 197 5. 9 83 2. 4 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Sign-on equity 92,355 21,262 (27,417) – 86,200 Equities – Australian 1 222 6. 7 193 5. 6 Equities – Overseas 1 458 13. 7 591 17. 2 1 LTVR rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred shares represent the deferred STVR awarded in the 2020 financial year. Deferred rights represent the deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements received as rights in prior years, as well as the CEO ASB’s 2018 financial year STVR Bonds – Commonwealth Government 1 1,167 34. 9 967 28. 1 award. Sign-on equity includes sign-on awards received as deferred shares. PERLS include cumulative holdings of all PERLS securities issued by the Group. Bonds – Semi-Government 1 803 24. 0 956 27. 8 2 Due to the changes in KMP during the 2020 financial year, aggregate security holdings balance at 1 July 2019 does not align to the balance disclosed for 30 June 2019. 3 LTVR rights, deferred shares and deferred rights become ordinary shares or are cash settled upon vesting. 1 Bonds – Corporate and other 58 1. 7 71 2. 1 4 Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures and appointment or departure of KMP during the year. 5 30 June 2020 balances represent aggregate shareholdings of all KMP at balance date. Real Estate and Infrastructure 2 310 9. 3 346 10. 1 6 From 1 July 2019, Non-Executive Directors are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 100% of Board Chairman fees for the Chairman and 100% of Board Derivatives (43) (1. 3) (33) (1. 0) member fees for Non-Executive Directors. 3 Other 172 5. 1 264 7. 7 Loans to KMP Total fair value of plan assets 3,344 100. 0 3,438 100. 0 DIRECTORS’ REPORT All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any 1 Values based on prices or yields quoted in an active market. entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in the ordinary course of 2 This includes listed and unlisted property and infrastructure investments. business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers, including 3 These are alternative investments which are not included in the traditional asset classes of equities, fixed interest securities, real estate and cash. They include the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). There has been no write down of loans multi-asset investments, liquid alternative investments and hedge funds. during the period. The Australian equities fair value includes $10.3 million of Commonwealth Bank shares. The real estate fair value includes $1.2 million Details of aggregate loans to KMP are set out below: of property assets leased to the Bank. The bonds – corporate and other fair value includes $14.4 million of Commonwealth Bank debt 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 securities. $'000 $'000 Loans 7,942 12,337 10.3 Key management personnel FINANCIAL REPORT Interest charged 308 480 Detailed remuneration disclosures by Key Management Personnel (KMP) are provided in the Remuneration Report of the Directors’ Report on pages 78 to 102. Other transactions of KMP Group Bank Financial instrument transactions 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP occur in the ordinary course of Key management personnel compensation $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. Short-term benefits 1 22,612 23,326 21,249 21,413 Disclosure of financial instrument transactions regularly made as part of normal banking operations is limited to disclosure of such transactions with KMP and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them. Post-employment benefits 417 457 370 400 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Long-term benefits 506 864 476 836 All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and their KMP have been trivial or domestic in nature and were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Share-based payments 13,340 14,715 12,949 14,405 Transactions other than financial instrument transactions of banks Total 36,875 39,362 35,044 37,054 All other transactions with KMP and their related entities and other related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis in the normal 1 Short-term benefits includes termination benefits of $767,733 (2019: $1,294,969). course of business and on commercial terms and conditions. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. Services agreements The maximum contingent liability for termination benefits in respect of service agreements with the Chief Executive Officer and other Group KMP at 30 June 2020 was $1,756,739 (2019: $2,254,283). 250 251 252 253 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 11. Group Structure Critical accounting judgements and estimates Control and voting rights OVERVIEW Determining whether the Group has control is generally straightforward based on ownership of the majority of the voting rights. Holding The Group structure includes the Bank legal entity and its interests in operating and special purpose subsidiaries, joint ventures and more than 50% of an entity’s voting rights typically indicates that the Group has control over the entity. Significant judgement is involved associates. These entities were either acquired or established and their classification is driven by the Bank’s level of control or influence. where either the Group is deemed to control an entity despite holding less than 50% of the voting rights, or where the Group does not control an entity despite holding more than 50% of the voting rights. On 1 November 2019, the Group announced the implementation of The operating activities of these entities include banking, advice, funds management, specialised customer financing and asset backed OVERVIEW a joint cooperation agreement (JCA) which resulted in the full economic interests associated with CommInsure Life being transferred to financing across multiple jurisdictions. AIA and AIA obtaining direct management and control of the business (excluding in relation to the Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife). As a result, CommInsure Life (excluding BoCommLife) was deconsolidated and derecognised on 1 November 2019, 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities even though the Group remains the sole shareholder. Agent or principal Subsidiaries The Group is deemed to have power over an investment fund when it holds either the responsible entity (RE) and/or the manager The key subsidiaries of the Bank are: function of that fund. Whether that power translates to control depends on whether the Group is deemed to act as an agent or a Entity name Entity name principal of that fund. Management have determined that the Group acts as a principal and controls a fund when it cannot be easily HOW WE CREATE VALUE removed as a manager or RE by investors and when its economic interest in that fund is substantial compared to the economic interest Australia of other investors. In all other cases the Group acts as agent and does not control the fund. (a) Banking Significant restrictions CBA Covered Bond Trust Medallion Trust Series 2015-2 On 2 April 2020, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand announced a freeze on the distribution of dividends by banks in New Zealand due to Commonwealth Securities Limited Medallion Trust Series 2016-1 COVID-19. As a result there is currently a restriction on payment of dividends by ASB Bank Limited, the Group’s New Zealand Medallion Trust Series 2008-1R Medallion Trust Series 2016-2 subsidiary. There were no other significant restrictions on the ability to transfer cash or other assets, pay dividends or other capital distributions, provide or repay loans and advances between the entities within the Group. There were also no significant restrictions on Medallion Trust Series 2011-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1 the Group's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the Group resulting from protective rights of non-controlling Medallion Trust Series 2012-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1P interests. Medallion Trust Series 2013-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-2 Associates and joint ventures DIRECTORS’ REPORT Medallion Trust Series 2013-2 Medallion Trust Series 2018-1 There were no individually significant investments in associates or joint ventures held by the Group as at 30 June 2020 and Medallion Trust Series 2014-1 Medallion Trust Series 2018-1P 30 June 2019. In addition, there were no significant restrictions on the ability of associates or joint ventures to transfer funds to the Bank Medallion Trust Series 2014-1P Medallion Trust Series 2019-1 or its subsidiaries in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances made. Medallion Trust Series 2014-2 Residential Mortgage Group Pty Ltd The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are shown in the table below. Medallion Trust Series 2015-1 Group 1 (b) Insurance and funds management 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Capital 121 Pty Limited 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Ownership Ownership Principal Country of Balance $M $M interest % interest % activities incorporation date Colonial Holding Company Limited Commonwealth Insurance Holdings Limited Bank of Hangzhou Co., Ltd 1,812 1,816 16 18 Commercial China 31-Dec FINANCIAL REPORT banking Commonwealth Insurance Limited Qilu Bank Co., Ltd 760 771 18 18 Commercial China 31-Dec All the above subsidiaries are 100% owned and incorporated in Australia. banking Extent of beneficial Vietnam International Commercial 294 242 20 20 Commercial Vietnam 31-Dec Entity name interest if not 100% Incorporated in Joint Stock Bank banking New Zealand and other overseas Other 168 172 Various Various Various Various Various Banking ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASB Bank Limited New Zealand Carrying amount of investments 3,034 3,001 ASB Covered Bond Trust New Zealand in associates and joint ventures ASB Finance Limited New Zealand Group ASB Holdings Limited New Zealand 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 ASB Term Fund New Zealand Share of associates' and joint ventures profits 1 $M $M Medallion NZ Series Trust 2009-1R New Zealand Operating profits before income tax 437 315 PT Bank Commonwealth 99% Indonesia Income tax expense (55) (27) 2 Operating profits after income tax 382 288 1 Excludes information concerning associates and joint ventures classified as held for sale. 2 This amount is recognised net of impairment in the share of profits of associates and joint ventures within Other banking income. 252 253 254 255 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities (continued) 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Structured entities 30 Jun 20 Other Investment A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are RMBS ABS financing funds Total generally created to achieve a narrow and well defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. Depending on the Group’s power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the entity. In Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M other cases it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it. Investment securities 5,752 287 – – 6,039 Consolidated structured entities Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 5,346 1,494 4,857 6,082 17,779 OVERVIEW The Group has the following contractual arrangements which require it to provide financial support to its structured entities. Assets held for sale – – – 354 354 Securitisation structured entities Total on Balance Sheet exposures 11,098 1,781 4,857 6,436 24,172 The Group provides liquidity facilities to Medallion, Medallion NZ and Swan structured entities. The liquidity facilities can only be drawn Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures 1 1,721 1,331 490 6,191 9,733 to cover cash flow shortages relating to mismatches in timing of cash inflows due from securitised asset pools and cash outflows due to Total maximum exposure to loss 12,819 3,112 5,347 12,627 33,905 note holders. These ‘timing mismatch’ facilities rank pari passu with other senior secured creditors. The facilities limit is $1,647 million (2019: $877 million). This includes $1,350 million (30 June 2019: $570 million) in relation to the structured entity where the Bank holds Total assets of the entities 2 56,406 8,585 15,660 161,658 242,309 all of the issued instruments. 1 Relates to undrawn facilities. 2 Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of HOW WE CREATE VALUE The Group has no contractual obligations to purchase assets from its securitisation structured entities. $10,414 million. Covered bonds trust 30 Jun 19 The Group provides funding and support facilities to CBA Covered Bond Trust and ASB Covered Bond Trust (the ‘Trusts’). The Trusts Other Investment are bankruptcy remote SPVs that guarantee any debt obligations owing under the US$30 billion CBA Covered Bond Programme and RMBS ABS financing funds Total the EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Programme, respectively. The funding facilities allow the Trusts to hold sufficient residential Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M mortgage loans to support the guarantees provided to the Covered Bonds. The Group also provides various swaps to the Trusts to hedge any interest rate and currency mismatches. The Group, either directly or via its wholly owned subsidiaries, Securitisation Assets at fair value through Income Statement – trading – – – 242 242 Advisory Services Pty Limited and Securitisation Management Services Limited, provides various services to the Trusts including Available-for-sale investments 7,619 476 – – 8,095 servicing and monitoring of the residential mortgages. Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 1,977 1,602 5,454 7,367 16,400 Structured asset finance structured entities Assets held for sale – – – 1,108 1,108 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Group has no contractual obligation to provide financial support to any of its structured asset finance structured entities. Total on Balance Sheet exposures 9,596 2,078 5,454 8,717 25,845 During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Bank entered into a debt forgiveness arrangement with two wholly owned structured entities Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures 1 2,761 729 539 4,302 8,331 for a total of $4 million (2019: $7 million). The financial impact of the debt forgiveness was fully eliminated on consolidation. Total maximum exposure to loss 12,357 2,807 5,993 13,019 34,176 Unconsolidated structured entities Total assets of the entities 2 55,508 9,523 17,542 329,237 411,810 The Group has exposure to various securitisation vehicles via Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) and Asset-backed 1 Relates to undrawn facilities. Securities (ABS). The Group may also provide derivatives and other commitments to these vehicles. The Group also has exposure to 2 Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of investment funds and other financing vehicles. $9,073 million. Securitisations The Group’s exposure to loss depends on the level of subordination of the interest, which indicates the extent to which other parties are Securitisations involve transferring assets into an entity that sells beneficial interests to investors through the issue of debt and equity obliged to absorb credit losses before the Group. An overview of the Group’s interests, relative ranking and external credit rating, for FINANCIAL REPORT notes with varying levels of subordination. The notes are collateralised by the assets transferred to these vehicles and pay a return vehicles that have credit subordination in place, is summarised in the table below, and include securitisation vehicles and other based on the returns of those assets, with residual returns paid to the most subordinated investor. financing. The Group may trade or invest in RMBS and ABS, which are backed by Commercial Properties, Consumer Receivables, Equipment 30 Jun 20 and Auto Finance. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these securitisation entities. Other Ranking and credit rating of exposures to RMBS ABS financing Total Other financing unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M Asset-backed entities are used to provide tailored lending for the purchase or lease of assets transferred by the Group or its clients. The 1 assets are normally pledged as collateral to the lenders. The Group engages in raising finance for assets such as aircraft, trains, Senior 12,720 3,112 5,347 21,179 vessels and other infrastructure. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these entities. Mezzanine 2 99 – – 99 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Investment funds Total maximum exposure to loss 12,819 3,112 5,347 21,278 The Group conducts investment management and other fiduciary activities as responsible entity, trustee, custodian, advisor or manager 1 All ABS and RMBS exposures and $2,911 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade. $2,436 million of other financing exposures are subfor investment funds and trusts, including superannuation and approved deposit funds, wholesale and retail trusts. The Group’s investment grade. exposure to investment funds includes holding units in the investment funds and trusts, providing lending facilities, derivatives and 2 All RMBS exposures are rated investment grade. receiving fees for services. The nature and extent of the Group’s interests in these entities are summarised below. Interests do not include derivatives and other positions where the Group creates rather than absorbs variability of the structured entity, for example deposits. These have been excluded from the tables on pages 255-256. 254 255 256 257 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities (continued) 11.2 Related party disclosures 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 30 Jun 19 Banking transactions are entered into with related parties in the normal course of business on an arm’s length basis. These include Other loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions, upon which some fees and commissions may be earned. Details of amounts paid or Ranking and credit rating of exposures RMBS ABS financing Total received from related parties, in the form of interest or dividends, are set out in Notes 2.1 and 2.3. to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M The Bank’s aggregate investments in, and loans to controlled entities are disclosed in the table below. Amounts due to controlled Senior 1 12,269 2,807 5,993 21,069 entities are disclosed in the Balance Sheet of the Bank. Mezzanine 2 88 – – 88 1 Bank OVERVIEW Total maximum exposure to loss 12,357 2,807 5,993 21,157 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 $M $M 1 All ABS and RMBS exposures and $3,901 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade. $2,092 million of other financing exposures are subinvestment grade. Shares in controlled entities 9,212 10,728 2 All RMBS exposures are rated investment grade. Loans to controlled entities at amortised cost 56,485 52,385 Sponsored unconsolidated structured entities Loans to controlled entities at fair value through Income Statement 1,095 830 For the purposes of this disclosure, the Group sponsors an entity when it manages or advises the entity’s program, places securities Total shares in and loans to controlled entities 66,792 63,943 into the market on behalf of the entity, provides liquidity and/or credit enhancements to the entity, or the Group’s name appears in the HOW WE CREATE VALUE Structured Entity. 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. As at 30 June 2020, the Group has not sponsored any unconsolidated structured entities. As at 30 June 2020, loans to controlled entities in the table above are presented net of $1 million provisions for impairment (30 June 2019: $21 million). ACCOUNTING POLICIES During the year ended 30 June 2020, the Group received fees on an arm’s length basis of $5 million from funds that were included in Assets held for sale (30 June 2019: $61 million). Subsidiaries The consolidated financial report comprises the financial report of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities (including The Bank provides letters of comfort to other entities within the Group on standard terms. Guarantees include a $175 million structured entities) over which the Bank has control. The Bank controls an entity when it has: (30 June 2019: $175 million) guarantee to AFS license holders in respect of excess compensation claims. • power over the relevant activities of the entity, for example through voting or other rights; As at 30 June 2020, the Bank entered into reimbursement arrangements, presently totalling $488 million (30 June 2019: $252 million), • exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from the Bank’s involvement with the entity; and with its subsidiaries, Avanteos Investments Limited, Financial Wisdom Limited and Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited (for the DIRECTORS’ REPORT Pathways business (CFP-Pathways)), to cover potential remediation of ongoing service failures to customers, deceased estates, and • the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the Bank’s returns from the entity. inappropriate advice and other matters. This amount includes $464 million for Aligned Advice remediation and $24 million for other Consolidation of structured entities wealth remediation programs (30 June 2019: $234 million for Aligned Advice remediation and $18 million for other wealth remediation programs). The Group and the Bank have provided for these costs. As at 30 June 2019, the Bank also had a reimbursement The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether that structured entity should be consolidated arrangement with Count Financial, totalling $144 million, to cover potential remediation of ongoing service failures to customers, based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the deceased estates, and inappropriate advice and other matters. The sale of Count completed on 1 October 2019, and therefore the structured entity. Such assessments are predominately required for the Group’s securitisation program, structured transactions and reimbursement arrangement ceased at that time, and was replaced with an Indemnity Deed between the Bank, Count Financial and involvement with investment funds. CountPlus with a $200 million limit effective from the time of the sale. This limit was increased to $300 million on 29 July 2020. Transactions between subsidiaries in the Group are eliminated. Non-controlling interests and the related share of profits in subsidiaries The Bank is the head entity of the tax consolidated group and has entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements with its eligible are shown separately in the consolidated Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Cash Flows, and Australian resident subsidiaries. The details of these agreements are set out in Note 2.5. The amount receivable by the Bank under the Balance Sheet. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and de-consolidated when tax funding agreement with the tax consolidated entities is $209 million as at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $320 million receivable). This FINANCIAL REPORT control ceases. Subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments at the Bank level. balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. Business combinations All transactions between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. At the acquisition date, the cost of the business is the fair value of the purchase consideration, measured as the aggregate of the fair values of assets transferred, equity instruments issued, or ACCOUNTING POLICIES liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at fair value on the Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other acquisition date. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the Group’s share party in making financial or operational decisions, or a separate party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, of assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. If there is a deficit instead, this discount on joint ventures, pension plans as well as other persons. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION acquisition is recognised directly in the consolidated Income Statement, but only after a reassessment of the identification and measurement of the net assets acquired. Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures are entities over which the Group has significant influence or joint control, but not control. In the consolidated financial report, they are equity accounted. They are initially recorded at cost and adjusted for the Group’s share of the associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses and Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), less any dividends received. At the Bank level, they are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments. The Group assesses, at each Balance Sheet date, whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If there is an indication that an investment may be impaired, then the entire carrying amount of the investment in associate or joint venture is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less disposal costs) with the carrying amount. Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement are subsequently reversed through the Income Statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. 256 257 258 259 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 11.3 Discontinued operations 11.3 Discontinued operations (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Completed transactions Ongoing transactions Life insurance business in New Zealand Australian Investment Exchange On 21 September 2017, the Group announced the sale of 100% of its New Zealand life insurance business (Sovereign) to AIA Group On 28 April 2020, the Group announced the sale of its subsidiary, Australian Investment Exchange Limited (AUSIEX), to Nomura Limited (AIA) for $1.3 billion. The sale agreement includes a long-term partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to Research Institute (NRI). AUSIEX trades under the brand name CommSec Advisor Services. On completion, the Group is expected to customers in New Zealand. The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018, resulting in a total post-tax gain of $117 million (net of receive proceeds of approximately $85 million, subject to completion adjustments. The sale is subject to Australian regulatory approvals transaction and separation costs). This includes $135 million post-tax gain net of transaction and separation costs recognised during the and other conditions, and is expected to complete in the first half of calendar year 2021. As AUSIEX did not constitute a major line of the OVERVIEW year ended 30 June 2019, and $18 million post-tax transaction and separation costs recognised during the year ended 30 June 2018. Group’s business, it was not classified as a discontinued operation. TymeDigital SA Colonial First State On 1 November 2018, the Group completed the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (TymeDigital On 13 May 2020, the Group entered into an agreement to sell a 55% interest in Colonial First State (CFS) to KKR. On completion, the SA) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital, resulting in a total post-tax loss of $113 million. Group is expected to receive proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion, subject to completion adjustments. The sale is subject to Australian regulatory approvals, and is expected to complete in the first half of calendar year 2021. Colonial First State Global Asset Management On 31 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) to Mitsubishi UFJ Life insurance business in Australia and BoCommLife Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). The sale of CFSGAM completed on 2 August 2019, resulting in a total post-tax gain of $1,617 On 21 September 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to sell 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (CommInsure million (net of transaction and separation costs). This includes a $1,688 million post-tax gain net of transaction and separation costs Life) and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). On 23 May 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 37.5% equity HOW WE CREATE VALUE recognised during the half year ended 31 December 2019, and $71 million post-tax transaction and separation costs recognised during interest in BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited (BoCommLife) to MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (MS&AD) 1, which is subject the year ended 30 June 2019. to Chinese regulatory approvals. The sale is expected to be completed in the second half of calendar year 2020. Count Financial On 1 November 2019, the Group announced the implementation of a joint cooperation agreement (JCA) which resulted in the full On 13 June 2019, the Group announced the sale of its 100% interest in Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) to CountPlus Limited economic interests associated with CommInsure Life being transferred to AIA and AIA obtaining direct management and control of the (CountPlus) for $2.5 million. The sale completed on 1 October 2019, resulting in a post-tax gain of $19 million (net of transaction and business (excluding the Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife). As a result, CommInsure Life (excluding BoCommLife) was separation costs). This includes a post-tax gain of $52 million (net of transaction and separation costs) recognised during the half year deconsolidated and derecognised on 1 November 2019. ended 31 December 2019, and post-tax impairment losses of $26 million and post-tax transaction and separation costs of $7 million The Group and AIA remain fully committed to completing the divestment of CommInsure Life through either a share sale or a statutory recognised during the half year ended 30 June 2019. Upon completion, the Group provided an indemnity to CountPlus capped at $200 asset transfer. In the event of a share sale, the divestment is expected to complete shortly following the completion of the sale of the million, which was increased to $300m on 29 July 2020. Refer to Note 7.1 for further information. As Count Financial did not constitute a Group’s 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife. In the event of a statutory asset transfer, the divestment is expected to complete in the major line of the Group’s business, it was not classified as a discontinued operation. first half of calendar year 2021. DIRECTORS’ REPORT PT Commonwealth Life The aggregate proceeds, which will be received in instalments under the JCA, are $2,375 million, before completion account On 23 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 80% interest in its Indonesian life insurance business, PT Commonwealth Life adjustments, and includes four partnership milestone payments of $50 million each. The Group recognised a total post-tax loss of $316 (PTCL), to FWD Group (FWD). The sale of PTCL completed on 4 June 2020, resulting in a total post-tax gain of $109 million (net of million on the deconsolidation and planned divestment of CommInsure Life. This includes a $116 million post-tax loss on transaction costs). As part of the sale, CBA’s Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT Bank Commonwealth (PTBC), has entered into a 15 deconsolidation, net of transaction and separation costs recognised during the half year ended 31 December 2019. Post-tax transaction year life insurance distribution partnership with FWD. and separation costs of $82 million and $118 million were recognised during the years ended 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018, respectively. As at 30 June 2020, the Group has received total proceeds of $1,608 million, including partnership milestone payments of Aligned Advice $100 million. On 7 August 2019, CBA confirmed it would commence the assisted closure of Financial Wisdom Limited (Financial Wisdom) and allow Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited-Pathways (CFP-Pathways) advisers to transition to a self-licensing arrangement or move to another licensee. The Group ceased providing licensee services through CFP-Pathways in March 2020 and through Financial Wisdom in June 2020. As Financial Wisdom and CFP-Pathways did not constitute a major line of the Group’s business, they were not classified FINANCIAL REPORT as discontinued operations. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 258 1 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings is the ultimate parent company of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd. 259 260 261 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 11.3 Discontinued operations (continued) 11.3 Discontinued operations (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Financial impact of discontinued operations on the Group Earnings per share for profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent: The performance and net cash flows of the Group’s interests in CFS, CommInsure Life, BoCommLife, PTCL and CFSGAM are set out Full year ended 1 in the tables below. Comparative periods also include the performance and net cash flows of Sovereign and TymeDigital SA. 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Cents per Share Full year ended 1 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Earnings per share from discontinued operations: $M $M $M Basic 123. 0 27. 3 34. 3 OVERVIEW Net interest income 6 6 – Diluted 114. 7 25. 4 32. 2 Other banking income 41 20 21 1 Comparative information has been restated to reflect the reclassification of CFS as a discontinued operation. Net banking operating income 47 26 21 Cash flow statement Funds management income 999 2,056 2,124 1, 2 Full year ended Investment revenue 141 391 503 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense (265) (670) (723) $M $M $M HOW WE CREATE VALUE Net funds management operating income 875 1,777 1,904 Net cash used in operating activities (553) (224) (181) Premiums from insurance contracts 459 1,256 2,066 Net cash from investing activities 942 841 1,019 Investment revenue 81 539 367 Net cash used in financing activities (236) (519) (924) Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense from insurance contracts (451) (1,503) (1,702) Net cash inflows/(outflows) from discontinued operations 153 98 (86) Net insurance operating income 89 292 731 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Total net operating income before operating expenses 1,011 2,095 2,656 2 Represents cash flows from the underlying businesses classified as discontinued operations and excludes proceeds from disposals. Operating expenses (774) (1,383) (1,452) Balance Sheet Net profit before income tax 237 712 1,204 The Balance Sheet of the Group’s interest in CFS, BoCommLife and Ausiex are set out in the table below. Comparative period includes Income tax expense (67) (164) (313) assets and liabilities of CFSGAM, CommInsure Life, PTCL, Count Financial and the Group’s interest in BoCommLife. Count Financial DIRECTORS’ REPORT Policyholder tax (14) (50) (58) met the held for sale criteria as at 30 June 2019 but has not been reclassified as a discontinued operation. Net profit after income tax and before transaction and separation costs 156 498 833 As at 2 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Gains/(losses) on disposals of businesses net of transaction and separation costs 2,022 (9) (227) Non-controlling interests (3) (7) (6) Assets held for sale $M $M Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders Cash and liquid assets 44 354 2,175 482 600 of the Bank Assets at fair value through Income Statement 260 10,417 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income – 260 2 This includes post-completion and tax adjustments, interest earned on transaction proceeds, and additional transaction and separation costs. Intangible assets 705 2,049 FINANCIAL REPORT Property, plant and equipment 1 1,510 Investment in associates and joint ventures 403 607 Deferred tax assets 41 145 Other assets 313 1,207 Total assets 1,767 16,549 Liabilities held for sale Insurance policy liabilities – 10,854 Deferred tax liabilities – 404 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Deposits and other public borrowings – 1,268 Managed funds units on issue 11 2,197 Other liabilities 583 1,073 Total liabilities 594 15,796 As at 30 June 2020, the Foreign currency translation reserve relating to discontinued operations was a $2 million gain (30 June 2019: $50 million gain); the Investment securities revaluation reserve relating to discontinued operations was a $35 million loss (30 June 2019: $27 million loss). 260 261 262 263 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 12.2 Notes for the Statements of Cash Flows 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 12. Other (a) Reconciliation of net profit after income tax to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities Group Bank OVERVIEW 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 This section includes other information about the Group’s operations that is disclosed to provide a more complete view of our business. It $M $M $M $M $M includes customer related commitments and contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business through certain lending Net profit after income tax 1 9,637 8,590 9,348 10,168 7,783 arrangements. In addition, it covers the impact of adopting new accounting standards, notes to the Statement of Cash Flows and remuneration Decrease/(increase) in interest receivable 523 (36) (62) 548 537 OVERVIEW of auditors. Finally, details of events that have taken place subsequent to the Balance Sheet date are provided. (Decrease)/increase in interest payable (984) (69) 112 (872) (104) 12.1 Contingent liabilities, contingent assets and commitments arising from the banking business Net (increase)/decrease in assets at fair value through Income Statement (13,687) (4,935) 1,536 (13,551) (3,089) (excluding life insurance) Details of contingent liabilities and off Balance Sheet instruments are presented below and in Note 7.1, in relation to litigation, investigations and reviews. The face (contract) value, as disclosed below, represents the maximum amount that could be lost if the Net (gain)/loss on sale of controlled entities and associates (2,092) 61 184 (24) 236 counterparty fails to meet its financial obligations. The credit equivalent amounts are a measure of potential loss to the Group in the Net movement in derivative assets/liabilities 6,672 6,606 3,381 8,453 8,873 event of non-performance by the counterparty. The credit commitments shown in the table below also constitute contingent assets. Net (gain)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (32) 9 17 (11) 11 These commitments would be classified as loans and other assets in the Balance Sheet should they be drawn upon by the customer. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Equity accounting (profit)/loss (142) (231) (287) (49) 63 Group Loan impairment expense 2,518 1,201 1,079 2,155 1,058 Face value Credit equivalent 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Depreciation and amortisation (including asset write downs) 1,861 1,011 968 1,748 912 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M (Decrease)/increase in liabilities at fair value through Income Statement (4,123) (603) (258) (4,072) (1,013) (excluding life insurance) Guarantees 6,448 6,506 5,034 5,387 Increase in other provisions 522 783 156 359 722 Documentary letters of credit 272 326 210 322 Increase/(decrease) in income taxes payable 679 (1,082) (461) 202 (1,573) Performance related contingents 5,071 4,722 2,535 2,362 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities 374 (457) 400 30 (27) Commitments to provide credit 168,537 162,202 159,761 154,408 (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax assets (280) 67 (538) (398) (140) Other commitments 2,015 2,050 2,005 2,040 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Decrease/(Increase) in accrued fees/reimbursements receivable 276 (111) 20 42 (53) Total credit risk related instruments 182,343 175,806 169,545 164,519 (Decrease)/increase in accrued fees and other items payable (711) (340) 631 (254) (775) Bank Decrease in life insurance contract policy liabilities (905) (787) (836) – – Face value Credit equivalent Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness 9 (4) (4) 11 (6) 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M Loss/(gain) on changes in fair value of hedged items 14 558 (765) 82 (624) Dividend received – controlled entities and associates – – – (4,809) (1,473) Guarantees 5,974 6,026 4,560 4,907 Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from cash flow Documentary letters of credit 214 249 154 248 36,630 6,577 (15,461) 31,179 7,157 movements Performance related contingents 5,071 4,722 2,535 2,362 Other 2,101 1,278 1,949 2,143 635 FINANCIAL REPORT Commitments to provide credit 152,725 146,483 145,247 140,035 Net cash provided by operating activities 38,860 18,086 1,109 33,080 19,110 Other commitments 1,940 1,973 1,929 1,963 1 Includes non-controlling interest. Total credit risk related instruments 165,924 159,453 154,425 149,515 (b) Reconciliation of cash ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, cash includes cash and money at short call. Credit default financial guarantees are unconditional undertakings given to support the obligations of a customer to third parties. Other Group Bank forms of financial guarantees include documentary letters of credit which are undertakings by the Group to pay or accept drafts drawn 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 by a supplier of goods against presentation of documents in the event of payment default by a customer. Financial guarantees are ADDITIONAL INFORMATION $M $M $M $M $M recognised within other liabilities and are initially measured at their fair value, equal to the premium received. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised less cumulative Notes, coins and cash at banks 27,350 16,930 17,110 24,195 15,633 amortisation recognised in the Income Statement, and the expected credit loss recognised under AASB 9. Any increase in the liability Other short-term liquid assets 1 80 5,895 (185) (99) relating to financial guarantees is recorded in the Income Statement. The premium received is recognised in the Income Statement in Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 27,351 17,010 23,005 24,010 15,534 other operating income on a straight-line basis over the life of the guarantee. Performance related contingencies are undertakings that oblige the Group to pay third parties should a customer fail to fulfil a (c) Non-cash financing and investing activities contractual non-monetary obligation. Performance related contingencies are performance guarantees and do not meet the definition of a Group financial guarantee, because they do not transfer credit risk. Performance guarantees are recognised when it is probable that an 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 obligation has arisen. The amount of any provision is the best estimate of the amount required to fulfil the obligation. $M $M $M Commitments to provide credit include all obligations on the part of the Group to provide credit facilities (unutilised credit lines or Shares issued under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan – 748 2,105 undrawn portions of credit lines) against which clients can borrow money under defined terms and conditions. Such loan commitments are made either for a fixed period, or are cancellable by the Group subject to notice conditions. As facilities may expire without being (d) Disposal of controlled entities drawn upon, the notional amounts do not necessarily reflect future cash requirements. Under AASB 9 loan commitments must be Group measured with reference to the quantum of expected credit losses required to be recognised. In the case of undrawn loan commitments, 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 the inherent credit risk is managed and monitored by the Group together with the drawn component as a single credit exposure. The exposure at default on the entire facility is therefore used to calculate the cumulative expected credit losses. Upon a loan drawdown by $M $M $M the counterparty, the amount of the loan is accounted for in accordance with accounting policies for loans and receivables. Net assets 3,686 1,128 – Other commitments to provide credit include commitments with certain drawdowns, standby letters of credit and bill endorsements. The Cash consideration received 5,946 1,304 – details of the Group’s accounting policies and critical judgements and estimates involved in calculating the AASB 9 impairment Cash and cash equivalents held in disposed entities 935 45 – provisions for the year ended 30 June 2020 are provided in Note 3.2. 262 263 264 265 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 12.4 Future accounting developments 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 12.3 Remuneration of auditors Adoption of new accounting standards and future accounting developments During the financial year, the following fees were paid or payable for services provided by the auditor of the Group and the Bank, and its Interest rate benchmark reform network firms: Background 1 1 Group Bank Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs), such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), play a critical role in global financial markets, 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 serving as reference rates for derivatives, loans and securities, and as parameters in the valuation of financial instruments. The $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Official Sector Steering Group (OSSG) coordinates international efforts on benchmark reform and the OVERVIEW transition from LIBOR, whose future cannot be guaranteed past 1 January 2022. Market-led working groups in respective jurisdictions Audit and review services have recommended alternative risk-free reference rates (RFRs), which are gradually being adopted. Audit and review of financial statements – Group 20,499 17,089 20,454 12,294 Existing LIBOR-linked contracts for derivatives, loans, investment and trading securities, debt issues and deposits and other public Audit and review of financial statements – controlled entities 4,182 6,782 2,029 1,768 borrowings that mature beyond the end of 2021 are generally expected to transition to RFRs. Industry working groups are currently Total remuneration for audit and review services 24,681 23,871 22,483 14,062 working with authorities and consulting with market participants to develop market practices that can be used to transition contracts. However, there are fundamental differences between LIBORs and RFRs. RFRs are overnight rates, while LIBORs are available in Other statutory assurance services 3,323 2,771 3,138 2,252 multiple tenors. Additionally, LIBORs incorporate a bank credit risk premium while RFRs do not. As a result of these differences, both Other assurance services 6,530 8,056 4,924 4,330 term and spread adjustments to the applicable fall-back RFRs are required to ensure that contracts referencing LIBOR will continue to HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total remuneration for assurance services 9,853 10,827 8,062 6,582 function as closely as possible to the original agreement, once the reference rate is changed. Total remuneration for audit, review and assurance services 34,534 34,698 30,545 20,644 Accounting amendments and the impact on financial reporting Other non-audit services In response to the uncertainty about the long-term viability of these benchmark rates, and LIBOR in particular, the IASB announced in Taxation advice and tax compliance services 424 1,395 167 494 2018 that it would establish a project to consider the financial reporting implications of the reform. The transition from LIBOR is expected to have an impact on various elements of financial instrument accounting, including hedge accounting, loan modifications, as well as fair Other services 5,351 7,915 5,103 7,318 value methodologies and disclosures. Total remuneration for other non-audit services 5,775 9,310 5,270 7,812 In October 2019, the AASB issued AASB 2019–3 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform, Total remuneration for audit, review, assurance and other services 2 40,309 44,008 35,815 28,456 which amends some specific hedge accounting requirements to provide relief from potential effects of the uncertainty caused by the interest rate benchmark reform. These amendments address the accounting effects of uncertainty in the period leading up to the reform 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 2 An additional amount of $8,132,121 (2019: $10,497,464) was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers by way of fees for entities not consolidated into the financial and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. The Group elected to early adopt the amendments, which did DIRECTORS’ REPORT statements. Of this amount, $7,067,650 (2019: $7,521,734) relates to audit, review and assurance services. not have a significant impact on the Group. The Audit Committee has considered the non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers and is satisfied that the services and In April 2020, the IASB published an exposure draft on proposed amendments to various accounting standards, including IFRS 9 the level of fees are compatible with maintaining auditors’ independence. All such services were approved by the Audit Committee in Financial Instruments, to address the accounting issues that will arise once the existing rate is replaced with alternative RFRs. The accordance with pre-approved policies and procedures. proposed amendments contain guidance on a number of matters including: • the accounting for the modification of financial assets and financial liabilities required for transition; Other statutory assurance services relate to engagements required under prudential standards and other legislative or regulatory requirements. Other assurance services principally include assurance and attestation relating to sustainability reporting and comfort • hedge accounting post-transition; letters over financing programmes as well as reviews of internal control systems. • additional quantitative and qualitative disclosure requirements. Taxation services include assistance with tax software configuration as well as advice regarding tax returns and submissions, and The final amendments are expected to be published during the second half of calendar year 2020. The Group is monitoring these Australia/foreign tax legislation. developments and continues to assess the expected impact. FINANCIAL REPORT Other services include benchmarking and process reviews on the Bank’s enterprise-wide risk assessment process and response to Note 5.4 provides further information about hedging relationships which are impacted by IBOR reform. findings from the Royal Commission, and IT security assessments. IBOR reform program In October 2018, the Group formed the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Program (the Program). The Program includes a formal governance structure to ensure clear accountability for all decisions, and incorporates the requisite risk, treasury, finance, legal, business, and support functions. The Program will ensure that customer outcomes are appropriate and will seek to minimise any disruption to business, and mitigate operational and conduct risks. The Group expects that transition will require the implementation of changes to systems, processes, and valuation models, as well as the management of tax and accounting outcomes. The Group will continue to monitor the impact on its capital position but expects the impact to be limited. Future accounting developments ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AASB 17 Insurance Contracts, amends the accounting for insurance contracts and will replace AASB 4 Insurance Contracts, AASB 1023 General Insurance Contracts and AASB 1038 Life Insurance Contracts. AASB 17 will apply to the Group from 1 July 2023. The impact of AASB 17 is dependent on the Group’s composition at the time of adoption. The Group is still assessing the impact of AASB 17. AASB 3 Business Combinations has been amended to assist entities in determining whether a transaction in which activities and assets are acquired should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition. The amendments will be applicable to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 July 2020. AASB 101 Presentation of financial statements has been amended to clarify that a liability is classified as non-current if an entity has the right at the end of the reporting period to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period, and such right has substance. The amendments also clarify that settlement of a liability refers to a transfer to the counterparty that results in the extinguishment of the liability. The amendments are effective for the Group from 1 July 2022. Other amendments that are not yet effective are not expected to result in significant changes to the Group’s accounting policies. 264 265 266 267 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements COMMONWEALTH BANK For the year ended 30 June 2020 For the year ended 30 June 2020 12.5 Accounting policies applicable for comparative periods 12.6 Subsequent events 2020 ANNUAL REPORT The Group adopted AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019, replacing AASB 117 Leases. The Group’s current accounting policies for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) recognition and measurement of lessee accounting are detailed in Notes 2.1, 2.4, 6.1, 7.1 and 7.2. Lessor accounting remains largely The Bank expects the DRP for the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2020 will be satisfied by the issuance of shares of unchanged from the previous standard. A summary of accounting policies that applied to lessee accounting under AASB 117 Leases for approximately $260 million. the comparative periods is provided below. Operating leases Operating leases are those where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the lease asset remain with the lessor. Operating lease OVERVIEW rental is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term within Operating expenses in the Income Statement. Finance leases Finance leases are those where substantially all of the risks and rewards of the lease asset have been transferred to the lessee. A lease asset and a finance lease liability is recognised on the Balance Sheet, representing the minimum lease payments discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease. Finance lease expense reflects a constant periodic return and is recognised within Interest expense in the Income Statement. The Group does not enter into material finance lease transactions as a lessee. HOW WE CREATE VALUE The following lease commitments information was included in the Financial Report for the year ended 30 June 2019 and does not reflect the adoption of AASB 16 Leases on 1 July 2019. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 $M $M Lease commitments – property, plant and equipment Due within one year 673 626 Due after one year but not later than five years 1,805 1,668 Due after five years 1,600 1,466 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Total lease commitments – property, plant and equipment 4,078 3,760 Lease arrangements Operating leases are entered into to meet the business needs of entities in the Group. Leases are primarily over commercial and retail premises and plant and equipment. Lease rentals are determined in accordance with market conditions when leases are entered into or on rental review dates. The total expected future sublease payments to be received are $77 million as at 30 June 2019. FINANCIAL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 266 267 268 269 Directors’ declaration Independent auditor’s report To the members of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia COMMONWEALTH BANK COMMONWEALTH BANK The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia declare that in their opinion: 2020 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT a) the consolidated financial statements and notes for the year ended 30 June 2020, as set out on pages 106 to 267, are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), including: (i) complying with the Australian Accounting Standards and any further requirements in the Corporations Regulations 2001; and (ii) giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2020 and its performance for the year ended 30 June 2020; Report on the audit of the financial report OVERVIEW b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Commonwealth Bank of Australia will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. Our opinion Note 1.1 of the consolidated financial statements includes a statement of compliance with the International Financial Reporting In our opinion: Standards. The accompanying financial report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Bank) and its controlled entities (together The Directors have been given the declarations required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) for the year ended the Group) is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: 30 June 2020. (a) giving a true and fair view of the Bank’s and Group’s financial positions as at 30 June 2020 and of their financial performance for the year then ended; and HOW HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The Bank and Group financial report comprises: • the Bank and the Group balance sheets as at 30 June 2020; • the Bank and the Group income statements for the year then ended; Catherine Livingstone AO Matt Comyn • the Bank and the Group statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended; Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer • the Bank and the Group statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; 12 August 2020 12 August 2020 • the Bank and the Group statements of cash flows for the year then ended; DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT • the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies; and • the Directors’ declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of this report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence FINANCIAL REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT We are independent of the Bank and the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Independence Standards) (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. Our audit approach Bank and Group audit scope ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Bank and the Group, their accounting processes and controls and the industries in which they operate. We also ensured that the audit team had the appropriate skills and competencies needed for the audit of a complex financial services group. This included industry expertise in retail, business and institutional banking, and insurance and wealth management financial services, as well as specialists and experts in IT, actuarial, tax, treasury and valuation. The Group is structured into 5 business segments being Retail Banking Services (RBS), Business and Private Banking (B&PB), Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M), New Zealand (NZ), and International Financial Services and Corporate Centre (IFS and Corporate Centre). Our audit focused on where the Group made subjective judgements; for example, significant accounting estimates involving assumptions and inherently uncertain future events. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY, NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 268 270 271 Independent auditor’s report Independent auditor’s report COMMONWEALTH BANK COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT In designing the scope of our audit, we considered the structure of the Bank and the Group and further identified those Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall OVERVIEW entities or business activities within each business segment for which the Bank and the Group prepares financial information Bank and Group materiality for the financial report, which we have set out in the table below: for inclusion in the financial report (referred to as components). The nature, timing and extent of audit work performed for each component was determined by the components’ risk Overall Bank and Group $490 million (2019: $510 million) characteristics and financial significance to the Bank and the Group and consideration of whether sufficient evidence had materiality been obtained for our opinion on the financial report as a whole. This involved either: • an audit of the complete financial information of a component (full scope); How we determined it Approximately 5% of 2020 financial year profit before tax (PBT) for the Group (2019: • an audit of one or more of the component’s account balances, classes of transactions or disclosures (specified scope); approximately 5% of 2019 financial year PBT for the Bank). As the Group has a lower PBT in the year ended 30 June 2020, we calculated materiality based on the Group PBT and applied this • analytical procedures performed at the Group level and/or audit procedures at a Group level, including over the HOW HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE during the audit of both the Bank and the Group. consolidation of the Group’s components and the preparation of the financial report (other procedures). Rationale for the We chose net profit before income tax because, in our view, it is the metric against which materiality benchmark the performance of the Bank and the Group is most commonly measured and is a generally Number of Components by Scope applied accepted benchmark in the financial services industry. We performed our audit over both the Bank and the Group financial information concurrently. We apply the lower of materiality calculated based on the Bank or the Group PBT in order to 3 avoid duplication of work.  Full Scope 4 We utilised a 5% threshold based on our professional judgement, noting that it is within the  Specified Scope range of commonly acceptable thresholds. DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT  Other Procedures 1 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current year. We describe each key audit matter and include a summary of the principal audit procedures we performed to address those matters in the table below. Set out in the following diagram is a high-level overview of how our audit scope aligns to the identified components and our The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion audit report. thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters and any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Audit and Risk Committee. The Scoping and Performance of Procedures Reporting key audit matters identified below relate to both the Bank and the Group audit. FINANCIAL REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT Component Audit Scope Key Audit Matters Audit opinion Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter RBS Full scope Loan impairment provisions (Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, NZ – ASB) B&PB Full scope Insofar as it applies to loan impairment provisions, AASB 9 We developed an understanding of the controls relevant to IB&M Full scope requires an expected credit loss (ECL) impairment model our audit over the following areas and assessed whether they which takes into account forward-looking information were appropriately designed and were operating effectively NZ – ASB 1 Full scope Areas in our reflecting potential future economic events. The Bank and throughout the year on a sample basis: ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION professional INFORMATION WM – Colonial First State Specified scope Opinion on the the Group utilise models which are reliant on internal and judgement which • Review and approval of forward-looking information used in financial report external data as well as a number of estimates including were of most ECL models; WM – Global Asset as a whole the impact of multiple economic scenarios and other Other procedures significance in • Reliability and accuracy of critical data elements used in ECL Management 2 assumptions such as defining a significant increase in our audit models; and credit risk. WM – Colonial Mutual • Review and approval of ECL model adjustments and the ECL Other procedures We considered this a key audit matter due to the inherent Life Assurance 2 loan impairment provisions by the Bank’s and the Group’s estimation uncertainty in this area, namely due to the Loan Loss Provisioning Committee (LLPC). IFS – Continuing subjectivity in judgements made by the Bank and the Other procedures Group in determining when to recognise impairment In addition to controls testing, we along with PwC credit operations provisions including: modelling experts and PwC economics experts, performed the following audit procedures, amongst others, on a sample 1 Full scope audit was also performed for the purposes of standalone legal entity statutory financial report for this entity. • Models used to calculate ECL (ECL models) are inherently basis: 2 These entities were disposed of during the year ended 30 June 2020. complex and judgement is applied in determining the • Assessed the ECL model methodology applied against appropriate construct of each model; and accepted theory and the results of model monitoring Bank and Group materiality • A number of assumptions are made by the Bank and performed, including back-testing of actual losses against The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance Group concerning the values of inputs to the ECL models predicted losses. This included inspection of key model about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. and how inputs correlate with one another. components and reperformance of certain tests within the Misstatements are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the Bank’s and the Group’s model monitoring; economic decisions of users of the financial report in which those misstatements occur. 272 273 Independent auditor’s report Independent auditor’s report COMMONWEALTH BANK COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT OVERVIEW Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, NZ – ASB) Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Relevant components: RBS, IB&M, NZ – ASB) Further, the rapidly developing COVID-19 pandemic has • Considered the Bank’s and the Group’s key judgements We considered Level 2 financial instruments to be a key Together with PwC valuation experts, we compared the meant assumptions regarding economic outlook and the including the reasonableness of forward-looking information audit matter due to their financial significance to the Bank Bank’s and the Group’s calculations of fair value to our own consequent impact on the Bank and Group’s customers is incorporated into the ECL models by assessing the forecasts, and the Group. In addition, Level 2 financial instruments calculations across a sample of financial instruments. This uncertain, increasing the degree of judgement required to assumptions and probability weightings with a particular require judgement in relation to the application of involved sourcing inputs from market data providers or external sources and using our own valuation models. We considered HOW HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE be exercised in calculating ECL. focus on the impact of COVID-19; appropriate models, assumptions and inputs including fair value adjustments. the results to assess whether there was evidence of systemic Specifically, this includes judgements regarding the impact • Agreed a sample of data used as inputs to the ECL models to bias or error in the Bank’s and the Group’s calculations of fair of COVID-19 on forward looking information, including relevant source documentation; The Bank and the Group also hold $565m of assets value by investigating the root cause for material variances. variables used in macroeconomic scenarios and their • Compared the modelled outputs to our own calculated classified as ‘Level 3’ which includes a material asset in an investment security measured at fair value through other In relation to the judgemental valuation of the Level 3 financial associated weightings. expectations as determined by applying the model asset, with the assistance of PwC valuation experts, we methodology to the underlying data; comprehensive income. Level 3 is where key inputs to the Provisions for impairment of loans that exceed specific performed the following audit procedures, amongst others: • Assessed the appropriateness of model adjustments valuation require additional judgement as observable inputs monetary thresholds are individually assessed by the Bank • Assessed the reasonableness of the methodology and key identified by the Bank and the Group against internal and are not available in the market due to market illiquidity or and the Group. These provisions are established based inputs in the Bank’s and the Group’s estimates used to external supporting information; and the complexity of the product. We considered this to be on the expected future cash repayments and estimated calculate the fair value against market practices; a key audit matter because of the additional judgement proceeds from the value of the collateral held by the Bank • Considered the impacts of events occurring subsequent to (discussed above) involved in determining its value. • Further compared the key inputs to external information and the Group in respect of those loans under multiple DIRECTORS’ REPORT balance date on the ECL. DIRECTORS’ REPORT where available; and weighted scenario outcomes. During the financial year Relevant references in the financial report ended 30 June 2020, the majority of the Bank’s and For a selection of individually assessed provisions for specific • Recalculated the fair value to assess the accuracy of the lending assets, we performed the following audit procedures, Refer notes 1.1, 4.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and 9.5 for further information. model output. the Group’s individually assessed provisions for specific lending assets related primarily to business and corporate amongst others: loans. • Evaluated cashflow forecasts supporting the ECL provision by assessing key judgements (in particular the amount and timing Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Relevant references in the financial report of recoveries and the probability of different scenarios) made Refer note 1.1 and 3.2 for further information. by the Bank and the Group in the context of the borrowers’ Provisions for customer remediation and project and other costs associated with regulatory compliance circumstances based on the detailed loan and counterparty matters and ongoing legal proceedings (Relevant components: All) information known by the Bank and the Group; and FINANCIAL REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT • Compared critical inputs in the Bank’s and the Group’s The Bank and the Group have assessed the need to We developed an understanding of the Bank’s and the Group’s estimates (such as valuation of collateral held) to external raise provisions in relation to customer remediation processes for identifying and assessing the impact of the information where available. payments and associated project costs, project costs Bank’s and the Group’s regulatory and customer-related We also assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s related to ongoing legal proceedings, and project costs remediation obligations. disclosures against the requirements of Australian associated with compliance matters and investigations and We read the minutes of the Bank’s main governance Accounting Standards. reviews from its regulators including APRA’s Enforceable meetings (i.e. Audit Committee, Risk Committee and Board Undertaking, amongst others. of Directors meetings), attended the Bank’s Audit Committee We considered this a key audit matter due to the and Risk Committee meetings; attended some of the underlying remediation committee meetings; and considered subjective judgements made by the Bank and the Group in ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION correspondence with relevant regulatory bodies. INFORMATION Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter determining: We discussed ongoing legal matters with the directors and • The probability of future uncertain outcomes based on management. We obtained written representations from the Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Relevant components: RBS, IB&M, NZ – ASB) available information; Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Group • The estimate of customer remediation payment amounts General Counsel and obtained access to relevant documents in At 30 June 2020, the value of Level 2 financial instruments In relation to the judgemental valuation of financial resulting from remediation programs whereby the Bank order to develop our understanding of the matters. (i.e. where key inputs to the valuation are based on instruments, we developed an understanding of the controls and the Group extrapolate the results of their sample For those matters which resulted in a material provision at year observable prices in the market) held by the Group at fair relevant to our audit over the following areas and assessed testing; and end, we developed an understanding of and evaluated the value is $62,288m assets and $32,030m liabilities. The whether they were appropriately designed and were operating • The project costs associated with the remediation reasonableness of the key assumptions used to estimate those value of Level 2 fair value financial instruments held by the effectively throughout the year on a sample basis: activities, and regulatory proceedings, investigations and provisions. This included consideration of comparable remediation Bank is $59,541m assets and $36,553m liabilities. reviews. programs; results from sample testing performed up until the date • Assessment of valuation model at inception and periodically; of signing the audit report; the subsequent adjustments made The Level 2 financial instruments held at fair value include: • Reliability and accuracy of key market data used in the Bank’s Relevant references in the financial report to the output of the sample test results; and the status of each • Derivative assets and liabilities; and the Group’s valuation model; Refer note 7.1 for further information. remediation program and costs incurred to date. • Investment securities at fair value though other • Review and approval of significant assumptions by the Bank’s Where the Bank and the Group determined that they were unable comprehensive income; and the Group’s Valuation Committee; and to reliably estimate the possible financial impact of a remediation • Evaluation of key position and settlement reconciliations. activity or investigation, we considered relevant information • Trading assets and liabilities at fair value through the available in relation to the activities and investigations to assess Income Statement; and the appropriateness of this conclusion. We also assessed the • Other assets at fair value through the Income Statement. adequacy and appropriateness of related disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. 274 275 Independent auditor’s report Independent auditor’s report COMMONWEALTH BANK COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT OVERVIEW Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Business disposals (Relevant components: WM – Global Asset Management, WM – Colonial Mutual Life Operation of financial reporting Information Technology (IT) systems and controls (Relevant components: All) Assurance, WM – Colonial First State) We considered this a key audit matter because the Bank’s For material financial statement balances we developed an During the year, the Bank and Group announced We performed the following audit procedures, amongst and the Group’s operations and financial reporting understanding of the business processes, key IT systems used completion of its divestments in the Colonial First State others, in relation to the disposal of CFSGAM and CMLA: processes are heavily dependent on IT systems for the to generate and support those balances and associated IT Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) business, and the processing and recording of a significant volume of application controls and IT dependencies in manual controls. • Inspected the underlying sale agreements, including the HOW HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society (CMLA) business. transactions. Our procedures included evaluating and testing the design and JCA with AIA to develop an understanding of the terms and The divestment in CMLA occurred through the Bank and operating effectiveness of certain controls over the continued conditions related to the divestments; In particular, in common with all banks, access rights to Group entering into a Joint Cooperation Agreement (JCA) integrity of the IT systems that are relevant to financial • Assessed the appropriateness of the derecognition and technology are important because they are intended with AIA Group Limited (AIA). Both businesses were part reporting. This involved assessing: deconsolidation of each divested business on the financial to ensure that changes to applications and data are of the Wealth Management operating segment. The assets report to determine whether they were performed in appropriately authorised. Ensuring staff have appropriate • The technology control environment: the governance and liabilities associated with these businesses have been accordance with Australian Accounting Standards; access to IT systems, and that access is monitored, are key processes and controls used to monitor and enforce control derecognised as at the financial report date. controls in mitigating the potential for fraud or error as a consciousness throughout the Group’s technology teams; • Reperformed the Bank’s and the Group’s calculation of the The accounting for these disposals is considered to be a result of a change to an application or underlying data. • Change management: the processes and controls used to gain or loss on the sale of each divestment; key audit matter due to: develop, test and authorise changes to the functionality and • Together with PwC tax experts, we evaluated the tax The Bank’s and the Group’s controls over IT systems • CFSGAM: the financial significance of the gain on include: configurations within systems; calculations related to the gain or loss tax from the disposal (including tax) of the business to the Bank and • System development: the project disciplines which ensure DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT divestments against the requirements of the relevant tax • The framework of governance over IT systems; Group; and legislation; and that new systems are developed to meet a defined business • Program development and changes; need, are appropriately tested before implementation • CMLA: the judgement required in determining whether • Assessed the disclosure in the financial report relating to the JCA meets the criteria to deconsolidate and • Access to process, data and IT operations; and and that data is converted and transferred completely and the divestments against the requirements of Australian derecognise the Bank’s and the Group’s interest in CMLA • Governance over generic and privileged user accounts. accurately; Accounting Standards. in the absence of regulatory approval for the sale of • Security: the access controls designed to enforce segregation the investment in BoCommLife in line with Australian In relation to the sale of CFS, we performed the following audit of duties, govern the use of generic and privileged accounts Accounting Standards. procedures, amongst others: or ensure that data is only changed through authorised The Bank and the Group also announced during the year an • Assessed whether the requirements of Australian Accounting means; and agreement to sell a 55% equity stake in Colonial First State Standards were met regarding classification and presentation • IT operations: the controls over key operations are used to (CFS) to KKR. CFS has been classified as held for sale and a of the sale as held for sale and discontinued operations; ensure that any issues that arise are managed appropriately. FINANCIAL REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT discontinued operation as at the financial report date. • Compared the key inputs used to estimate the transaction For IT operations within the scope of our audit where We considered this to be a key audit matter due to the and separation costs to complete the divestment from the technology services are provided by a third party, we judgements made by the Bank and the Group in: Bank and the Group to similar transactions undertaken by considered: the Bank and the Group; • estimating the transaction and separation costs to • Assurance reports from the third party’s auditor on the • Assessed, on a sample basis, whether the carrying values complete the divestment; and design and operating effectiveness of controls; and of disposal groups (including goodwill), were equal to their • allocating goodwill to disposal groups in accordance with estimated fair value less cost to sell; and • Managements monitoring control over the third party. the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. • Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of related We also carried out tests, on a sample basis, of associated IT Relevant references in the financial report disclosures against the requirements of Australian application controls and IT dependencies in manual controls ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INFORMATION Accounting Standards. that were key to our audit testing in order to assess the Refer notes 1.1, 2.6, 2.7 and 11.3 for further information. accuracy of certain system calculations, the generation of certain reports and the operation of certain system enforced access controls. Where we noted design or operating effectiveness matters relating to IT systems and applications controls relevant to our audit, we performed alternative or additional audit procedures. 276 277 Independent auditor’s report COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Additional information contents Additional information Other information Security holder information 278 OVERVIEW The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Five-year financial summary 285 annual report for the year ended 30 June 2020 but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Profit reconciliation 288 Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of Glossary of terms 290 assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of our limited assurance report over the Non-Financial Performance Metrics Contact information 301 as detailed in pages 47 to 52 of the annual report. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. HOW WE CREATE VALUE If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors of the Bank are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal controls as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Bank and the Group to DIRECTORS’ REPORT continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Bank or the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. FINANCIAL REPORT A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: https://www.auasb.gov.au/admin/file/content102/c3/ar1_2020.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Report on the Remuneration Report Our opinion on the Remuneration Report We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 78 to 102 of the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 June 2020. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 2020 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Responsibilities The directors of the Bank are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers Matthew Lunn Partner Sydney 12 August 2020 278 279 Additional information Additional information (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Security holder information Security holder information (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT If a person at a general meeting represents personally or by proxy, attorney or official representative more than one shareholder, on a Top 20 holders of fully paid ordinary shares as at 20 July 2020 show of hands the person is entitled to one vote only even though he or she represents more than one shareholder. Rank Name of holder Number of shares % Where a shareholder appoints two proxies or attorneys to vote at the same general meeting: 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 398,411,636 22.51% • If the appointment does not specify the proportion or number of the shareholder’s votes each proxy or attorney may exercise, each 2 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 242,160,962 13.68% proxy or attorney may exercise half the shareholder’s votes; 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 99,817,390 5.64% • On a show of hands, neither proxy or attorney may vote if more than one proxy or attorney attends; and OVERVIEW 4 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 50,441,624 2.85% • On a poll, each proxy or attorney may only exercise votes in respect of those shares or voting rights the proxy or attorney represents. 5 National Nominees Limited 48,817,928 2.76% 6 Australian Foundation Investment 7,900,000 0.45% Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS VII Capital Notes (“PERLS VII”) as at 20 July 2020 7 Bond Street Custodians Limited 7,640,244 0.43% Number of 8 Netwealth Investments Limited 4,672,163 0.26% Rank Name of holder securities % 9 Milton Corporation Limited 3,140,470 0.18% 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 3,010,104 10.03% 10 Argo Investments Limited 3,103,731 0.18% 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 1,195,841 3.99% 11 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 3,040,780 0.17% 3 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 844,602 2.82% HOW WE CREATE VALUE 12 Navigator Australia 2,881,118 0.16% 4 Netwealth Investments Limited 841,942 2.81% 13 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 1,872,713 0.11% 5 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 382,295 1.27% 14 Mr Barry Martin Lambert 1,643,613 0.09% 6 National Nominees Limited 277,276 0.92% 15 McCusker Holdings Pty Ltd 1,370,000 0.08% 7 Bond Street Custodians Limited 262,224 0.87% 16 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 1,275,216 0.07% 8 Navigator Australia 234,077 0.78% 17 Joy Wilma Lambert 1,068,250 0.06% 9 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 204,881 0.68% 18 BNP Paribas Noms (NZ) Ltd <DRP> 1,067,687 0.06% 10 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 198,651 0.66% 19 CS Third Nominees Pty Limited 1,050,513 0.06% 11 Berne No 132 Nominees Pty Ltd 167,386 0.56% 20 BKI Investment Company Limited 1,030,023 0.06% 12 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 164,988 0.55% 13 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 92,249 0.31% DIRECTORS’ REPORT The top 20 shareholders hold 882,406,061 shares which is equal to 49.85% of the total shares on issue. 14 Marrosan Investments Pty Ltd 84,286 0.28% Substantial shareholding 15 Tsco Pty Ltd 80,000 0.27% The following organisations have disclosed a substantial shareholding notice to ASX. As at 20 July 2020, the Bank has received no 16 Alwood Pty Ltd 79,730 0.27% further update in relation to these substantial shareholdings. 17 Seymour Group Pty Ltd 73,700 0.25% Number of Percentage of 18 Willimbury Pty Ltd 70,673 0.24% Name shares voting power 19 Limeburner Investments Pty Ltd 67,245 0.22% BlackRock Group 1 106,300,321 6 20 Eastcote Pty Limited 59,300 0.20% The Vanguard Group, Inc. 2 88,022,378 5 The top 20 PERLS VII security holders hold 8,391,450 securities which is equal to 27.97% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing FINANCIAL REPORT 1 Substantial shareholding as at 6 March 2020, as per notice lodged on 10 March 2020. 2 Substantial shareholding as at 20 July 2018, as per notice lodged on 25 July 2018. PERLS VII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPD. Stock exchange listing Range of securities (PERLS VII) as at 20 July 2020 The shares of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (Bank) are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) under the trade symbol of CBA. The Bank is not currently in the market conducting an on market buy-back of its shares. Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital Range of shares (fully paid ordinary shares and employee shares) as at 20 July 2020 1 – 1,000 26,888 86.63 9,191,476 30.64 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of rights 1,001 – 5,000 3,687 11.88 7,395,606 24.65 Range shareholders shareholders shares issued capital holders 1 5,001 – 10,000 258 0.83 1,813,407 6.04 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 – 1,000 669,797 75.74 187,489,360 10.59 148 10,001 – 100,000 190 0.61 4,363,585 14.55 1,001 – 5,000 186,155 21.05 388,582,359 21.95 68 100,001 and over 15 0.05 7,235,926 24.12 5,001 – 10,000 19,881 2.25 135,125,306 7.63 9 Total 31,038 100. 00 30,000,000 100. 00 10,001 – 100,000 8,352 0.94 156,741,683 8.86 37 Less than marketable parcel of $500 19 0. 06 52 0. 00 100,001 and over 161 0.02 902,300,799 50.97 0 Total 884,346 100.00 1,770,239,507 100. 00 262 Voting rights Less than marketable parcel of $500 14,728 1. 67 43,557 0. 00 – PERLS VII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 1 The total number of rights on issue is 965,095 rights which carry no entitlement to vote. Voting rights Under the Bank’s Constitution, shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting may vote in person, directly or by proxy, attorney or representative, depending on whether the shareholder is an individual or a company. Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to shares, each ordinary shareholder present at a general meeting has: • On a show of hands one vote; and • On a poll one vote for each fully paid share held. If shares are not fully paid, on a poll the number of votes attaching to the shares is pro-rated accordingly. 278 279 280 281 Additional information (continued) Additional information (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Security holder information (continued) Security holder information (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes (“PERLS VIII”) as at 20 July 2020 Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (“PERLS IX”) as at 20 July 2020 Number of Number of Rank Name of holder securities % Rank Name of holder securities % 1 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 3,150,171 21.73% 1 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 2,343,186 14.29% 2 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,334,386 9.20% 2 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,553,860 9.47% 3 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 238,862 1.65% 3 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 643,242 3.92% OVERVIEW 4 Netwealth Investments Limited 120,358 0.83% 4 Navigator Australia 207,840 1.27% 5 Piek Holdings Pty Ltd 93,000 0.64% 5 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 189,662 1.16% 6 Snowside Pty Ltd 83,983 0.58% 6 Bond Street Custodians Limited 164,623 1.00% 7 Navigator Australia 83,134 0.57% 7 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 147,700 0.90% 8 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 73,636 0.51% 8 National Nominees Limited 138,700 0.85% 9 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 70,073 0.48% 9 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 129,315 0.79% 10 Bond Street Custodians Limited 63,740 0.44% 10 Netwealth Investments Limited 117,924 0.72% 11 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 50,000 0.34% 11 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 98,273 0.60% HOW WE CREATE VALUE 12 Marrosan Investments Pty Ltd 50,000 0.34% 12 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 72,577 0.44% 13 Mifare Pty Ltd 50,000 0.34% 13 Fibora Pty Ltd 64,740 0.39% 14 V S Access Pty Ltd 48,084 0.33% 14 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 57,623 0.35% 15 Adirel Holdings Pty Ltd 47,000 0.32% 15 Ernron Pty Ltd 34,530 0.21% 16 Resthaven Incorporated 45,500 0.31% 16 Sir Moses Montefiore Jewish Home 30,660 0.19% 17 Federation University Australia 45,000 0.31% 17 Pendant Realty Pty Ltd 30,000 0.18% 18 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 44,049 0.30% 18 Port Stephens Veterans and Aged Care Ltd 30,000 0.18% 19 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 39,263 0.27% 19 J C Family Investments Pty Limited 27,218 0.17% 20 Mr Vincent David Smart + Mrs Susan May Smart 36,160 0.25% 20 888 Corporation Pty Ltd 25,000 0.15% DIRECTORS’ REPORT The top 20 PERLS VIII security holders hold 5,766,399 securities which is equal to 39.77% of the total securities on issue. The top 20 PERLS IX security holders hold 6,106,673 securities which is equal to 37.24% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing Stock exchange listing PERLS VIII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPE. PERLS IX are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPF. Range of securities (PERLS VIII) as at 20 July 2020 Range of securities (PERLS IX) as at 20 July 2020 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 13,314 89.40 4,168,836 28.75 1 – 1,000 17,473 90.23 5,562,105 33.92 1,001 – 5,000 1,383 9.29 2,865,944 19.76 1,001 – 5,000 1,706 8.81 3,428,049 20.90 FINANCIAL REPORT 5,001 – 10,000 119 0.80 878,443 6.06 5,001 – 10,000 110 0.57 815,120 4.97 10,001 – 100,000 72 0.48 2,014,856 13.90 10,001 – 100,000 64 0.33 1,428,025 8.71 100,001 and over 4 0.03 4,571,921 31.53 100,001 and over 11 0.06 5,166,701 31.50 Total 14,892 100. 00 14,500,000 100.00 Total 19,364 100.00 16,400,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 4 0. 03 10 0.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 3 0.02 5 0.00 Voting rights Voting rights PERLS VIII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with PERLS IX do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 280 281 282 283 Additional information (continued) Additional information (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK Security holder information (continued) Security holder information (continued) 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS X Capital Notes (“PERLS X”) as at 20 July 2020 Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS XI Capital Notes (“PERLS XI”) as at 20 July 2020 Number of Number of Rank Name of holder securities % Rank Name of holder securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,480,864 10.85% 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,734,713 10.91% 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 1,224,850 8.97% 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 374,960 2.36% 3 Netwealth Investments Limited 167,057 1.22% 3 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 309,073 1.94% OVERVIEW 4 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 157,675 1.16% 4 Netwealth Investments Limited 253,550 1.59% 5 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 129,916 0.95% 5 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 230,913 1.45% 6 Navigator Australia 122,714 0.90% 6 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 150,000 0.94% 7 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 100,000 0.73% 7 Bond Street Custodians Limited 136,794 0.86% 8 Bond Street Custodians Limited 85,667 0.63% 8 National Nominees Limited 128,835 0.81% 9 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 84,385 0.62% 9 Navigator Australia 111,802 0.70% 10 Marrosan Investments Pty Ltd 80,000 0.59% 10 Eastcote Pty Limited 100,000 0.63% 11 Rakio Pty Ltd 77,000 0.56% HOW WE CREATE VALUE 11 G Harvey Investments Pty Ltd 100,000 0.63% 12 Eastcote Pty Ltd 50,000 0.37% 12 Pamdale Investments Pty Ltd 89,578 0.56% 13 Federation University Australia 50,000 0.37% 13 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 87,192 0.55% 14 Harriette & Co Pty Ltd 50,000 0.37% 14 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 84,104 0.53% 15 National Nominees Limited 41,468 0.30% 15 V S Access Pty Ltd 80,000 0.50% 16 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 40,786 0.30% 16 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 62,562 0.39% 17 Mr Roni G Sikh 40,492 0.30% 17 Edgelake Proprietary Limited 49,267 0.31% 18 Mr Wei Cai 38,960 0.29% 18 J Santini Development Pty Ltd 46,000 0.29% 19 Taverners No 11 Pty Ltd 38,710 0.28% 19 Margen Biggs Pty Limited 36,000 0.23% 20 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 38,481 0.28% 20 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 34,275 0.22% DIRECTORS’ REPORT The top 20 PERLS X security holders hold 4,099,025 securities which is equal to 30.03% of the total securities on issue. The top 20 PERLS XI security holders hold 4,199,618 securities which is equal to 26.41% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing Stock exchange listing PERLS X are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPG. PERLS XI are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPH. Range of securities (PERLS X) as at 20 July 2020 Range of securities (PERLS XI) as at 20 July 2020 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 12,924 88.09 4,524,257 33.14 1 – 1,000 16,689 88.49 5,782,006 36.36 1,001 – 5,000 1,555 10.60 3,360,115 24.62 1,001 – 5,000 1,933 10.25 4,002,455 25.17 FINANCIAL REPORT 5,001 – 10,000 110 0.75 833,523 6.11 5,001 – 10,000 154 0.82 1,130,004 7.12 10,001 – 100,000 77 0.52 2,059,174 15.08 10,001 – 100,000 74 0.39 1,884,752 11.85 100,001 and over 6 0.04 2,872,931 21.05 100,001 and over 10 0.05 3,100,783 19.50 Total 14,672 100.00 13,650,000 100.00 Total 18,860 100.00 15,900,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 8 0.05 20 0.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 9 0.05 13 0.00 Voting rights Voting rights PERLS X do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. PERLS XI do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their ADDITIONAL INFORMATION terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 282 283 284 285 Additional information (continued) Five-year financial summary COMMONWEALTH BANK Security holder information (continued) 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 1 30 Jun 18 1 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 2020 ANNUAL REPORT $M $M $M $M $M Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS XII Capital Notes (“PERLS XII”) as at 20 July 2020 Net interest income 18,610 18,224 18,465 17,546 16,858 Number of Other operating income 2 5,151 5,355 5,646 6,831 7,043 Rank Name of holder securities % Total operating income 23,761 23,579 24,111 24,377 23,901 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,912,212 11.59% Operating expenses (10,895) (10,824) (10,653) (10,129) (9,957) 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 305,822 1.85% Loan impairment expense (2,518) (1,201) (1,079) (1,095) (1,256) 3 Netwealth Investments Limited 228,852 1.39% OVERVIEW 4 Royal Freemasons Benevolent Institution 202,500 1.23% Net profit before tax 10,348 11,554 12,379 13,153 12,688 5 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 200,114 1.21% Income tax expense (3,052) (3,321) (3,779) (3,752) (3,497) 6 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 200,000 1.21% Non-controlling interests – (12) (13) (13) (20) 7 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 124,540 0.75% Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash basis ) 7,296 8,221 8,587 9,388 9,171 8 Australian Executor Trustees Limited 121,927 0.74% Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 153 485 825 493 274 9 Tandom Pty Ltd 120,000 0.73% Net profit after tax ( cash basis ) 7,449 8,706 9,412 9,881 9,445 10 Diocese Development Fund Catholic Diocese of Paramatta 101,472 0.61% Treasury shares valuation adjustment – 6 2 (23) 4 HOW WE CREATE VALUE 11 Bond Street Custodians Limited 98,417 0.60% 12 National Nominees Limited 89,427 0.54% Hedging and IFRS volatility 93 (79) 101 73 (199) 13 Navigator Australia 74,161 0.45% (Loss)/gain on disposal of controlled entities/investments 2,092 (61) (183) – – 14 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 55,799 0.34% Bankwest non-cash items – (1) (3) (3) (27) 15 Tsco Pty Ltd 48,650 0.29% Net profit after income tax attributable to equity holders of the Bank 16 9,634 8,571 9,329 9,928 9,223 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 46,360 0.28% statutory basis 17 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 46,117 0.28% Contributions to profit (after tax) 18 Mr Bruce Hampel 45,000 0.27% Retail Banking Services 3,997 3,907 4,465 4,423 4,540 19 Lightningedge Pty Ltd 40,000 0.24% Business and Private Banking 2,654 2,931 3,134 2,736 1,522 20 Taverners No 11 Pty Ltd 39,264 0.24% Institutional Banking and Markets 655 1,117 1,226 1,360 1,190 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The top 20 PERLS XII security holders hold 4,100,634 securities which is equal to 24.85% of the total securities on issue. Wealth Management – – – 201 400 Stock exchange listing New Zealand 811 1,059 975 871 785 PERLS XII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the ASX under the trade symbol CBAPI. Bankwest – – – – 778 IFS & other (821) (793) (1,213) (203) (44) Range of securities (PERLS XII) as at 20 July 2020 Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash basis ) 7,296 8,221 8,587 9,388 9,171 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital Investment experience after tax (4) (3) (2) (7) (24) 1 – 1,000 Net profit after tax underlying basis 7,292 8,218 8,585 9,381 9,147 16,112 87.63 5,836,220 35.37 1,001 – 5,000 2,018 10.97 4,213,197 25.54 Balance Sheet FINANCIAL REPORT 5,001 – 10,000 166 0.90 1,241,074 7.52 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 771,547 755,173 743,744 731,762 695,398 10,001 – 100,000 82 0.45 2,191,113 13.28 Total assets 1,014,060 976,502 975,165 976,318 932,945 100,001 and over 9 0.05 3,018,396 18.29 Deposits and other public borrowings 701,999 636,040 622,234 626,655 588,045 Total 18,387 100.00 16,500,000 100.00 Total liabilities 942,047 906,853 907,305 912,658 872,437 Less than marketable parcel of $500 4 0.02 15 0.00 Shareholders' Equity 72,013 69,649 67,860 63,660 60,508 Voting rights Net tangible assets (including discontinued operations) 64,359 59,580 56,844 53,090 49,630 PERLS XII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their Risk weighted assets – Basel III (APRA) 454,948 452,762 458,612 437,063 394,667 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 278 and 279 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. Average interest earning assets 897,409 871,418 861,884 834,741 790,596 Average interest bearing liabilities 771,982 761,115 759,583 755,612 733,754 Relevant exchanges Assets (on Balance Sheet) – Australia 855,219 824,651 811,491 817,519 783,114 In addition to the ASX, the Bank has securities quoted on the London Stock Exchange (LSE), Swiss Exchange (SIX) and the New Assets (on Balance Sheet) – New Zealand 103,531 99,661 94,622 89,997 83,832 Zealand Exchange (NZX). Assets (on Balance Sheet) – Other 55,310 52,190 69,052 68,802 65,999 1 Comparative information for 2019 and 2018 has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis, and to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1 as well as refinements to the allocation of customer balances. 2 Includes investment experience. 284 285 286 287 Five-year financial summary (continued) Five-year financial summary (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 1 Shareholder summary from continuing operations Performance ratios from continuing operations Earnings per share (cents) Return on average Shareholders' Equity Basic Statutory (%) 10. 5 11. 9 13. 4 15. 4 15. 8 Statutory (cents) 421. 8 458. 3 500. 0 549. 9 525. 6 Cash basis (%) 10. 3 12. 1 13. 1 15. 3 16. 1 Cash basis (cents) 412. 5 465. 5 491. 5 545. 4 538. 3 Return on average total assets Fully diluted Statutory (%) 0. 7 0. 8 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 OVERVIEW Statutory (cents) 408. 5 443. 2 485. 5 532. 9 513. 3 Cash basis (%) 0. 7 0. 8 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 Cash basis (cents) 399. 9 449. 9 477. 5 528. 7 525. 4 Net interest margin (%) 2. 07 2. 09 2.14 2. 10 2. 13 Shareholder summary including discontinued operations Performance ratios including discontinued operations Earnings per share Return on average Shareholders' Equity Basic Statutory (%) 13. 6 12. 6 14. 3 16. 2 16. 3 Statutory (cents) 544. 8 485. 6 534. 3 577. 3 542. 0 Cash basis (%) 10. 5 12. 8 14. 4 16. 0 16. 6 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Cash basis (cents) 421. 1 493. 0 538. 8 574. 1 554. 5 Return on average total assets Fully diluted Statutory (%) 1. 0 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 Statutory (cents) 523. 2 468. 6 517. 7 558. 8 529. 0 Cash basis (%) 0. 7 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 Cash basis (cents) 407. 9 475. 4 522. 0 555. 8 540. 9 Capital adequacy – Common Equity Tier 1 – Basel III (APRA) (%) 11. 6 10. 7 10. 1 10. 1 10. 6 Dividends per share – fully franked (cents) 298 431 431 429 420 Capital adequacy – Tier 1 – Basel III (APRA) (%) 13. 9 12. 7 12. 3 12. 1 12. 3 Dividend cover – statutory (times) 1. 8 1. 1 1. 2 1. 3 1. 3 Capital adequacy – Tier 2 – Basel III (APRA) (%) 3. 6 2. 8 2. 7 2. 1 2. 0 Dividend cover – cash (times) 1. 4 1. 1 1. 2 1. 3 1. 3 Capital adequacy – Total – Basel III (APRA) (%) 17. 5 15. 5 15. 0 14. 2 14. 3 Dividend payout ratio Leverage Ratio Basel III (APRA) (%) 5. 9 5. 6 5. 5 5. 1 5. 0 Statutory (%) 54. 76 89. 02 81. 15 74. 62 78. 37 Liquidity Coverage Ratio – Spot Basis (%) 145 129 131 129 120 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Cash basis (%) 70. 82 87. 64 80. 44 74. 97 76. 51 Net interest margin (%) 2. 08 2. 10 2. 15 2. 11 2. 14 Net tangible assets per share including discontinued operations ($) 36. 4 33. 7 32. 3 30. 7 28. 9 Other information Weighted average number of shares (statutory basis) (M) 1,768 1,765 1,746 1,720 1,692 Full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations 1 41,778 41,458 41,024 42,359 43,178 Weighted average number of shares (statutory fully diluted) (M) 1,895 1,897 1,852 1,816 1,771 Full-time equivalent employees including discontinued operations 43,585 45,165 45,753 45,614 45,129 Weighted average number of shares (cash basis) (M) 1,769 1,766 1,747 1,721 1,694 Branches/services centres (Australia) 967 1,014 1,082 1,121 1,131 Weighted average number of shares (cash fully diluted) (M) 1,896 1,898 1,853 1,817 1,773 Agencies (Australia) 3,547 3,560 3,589 3,664 3,654 Number of shareholders 1, 2 888,214 831,655 851,539 844,527 857,052 ATMs 3,542 3,963 4,253 4,398 4,381 Share prices for the year EFTPOS terminals (active) 190,118 217,608 219,245 217,098 217,981 Productivity from continuing operations 1, 2 FINANCIAL REPORT Trading high ($) 91. 05 83. 99 85. 12 87. 74 88. 88 Trading low ($) 53. 44 65. 23 67. 22 69. 22 69. 79 Total operating income per full-time equivalent employee ($) 568,744 568,744 587,729 579,023 552,805 End (closing price) ($) 69. 42 82. 78 72. 87 82. 81 74. 37 Employee expense/total operating income (%) 24. 3 24. 2 21. 8 22. 4 24. 1 Total operating expenses/total operating income (%) 45. 9 45. 9 44. 2 41. 6 41. 7 1 Comparative information for 2019 and 2018 has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis, and to reflect the change in accounting policy 1, 2 detailed in Note 1.1. Productivity including discontinued operations 2 This includes employees. Total operating income per full-time equivalent employee ($) 568,361 568,449 585,033 568,685 545,237 Employee expense/total operating income (%) 24. 6 25. 3 23. 0 24. 0 24. 4 Total operating expenses/total operating income (%) 47. 1 47. 5 45. 2 41. 7 42. 4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 Comparative information for 2019 and 2018 has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis, and to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. 2 The productivity metrics have been calculated on a cash basis. 286 287 288 289 Profit reconciliation Profit reconciliation (continued) COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 1 Full year ended 30 June 2020 Full year ended 30 June 2019 (Loss)/gain on (Loss)/gain on disposal and Treasury Net profit disposal and Treasury Net profit Net profit acquisition of Hedging Bankwest shares after tax Net profit acquisition of Hedging Bankwest shares after tax after tax controlled and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory after tax controlled and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory 1 2 3 cash basis entities volatility items adjustment experience basis cash basis entities volatility items adjustment experience basis Profit reconciliation $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Profit reconciliation $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Group Group OVERVIEW Interest income 2 30,162 – – – – – 30,162 Interest income 4 34,709 – – – – – 34,709 Interest expense (11,552) – – – – – (11,552) Interest expense (16,485) – – – – – (16,485) Net interest income 18,610 – – – – – 18,610 Net interest income 18,224 – – – – – 18,224 Other banking income 4,837 29 136 – – – 5,002 Other banking income 4,951 42 (116) – – – 4,877 Total banking income 23,447 29 136 – – – 23,612 Total banking income 23,175 42 (116) – – – 23,101 Funds management income 172 – – – – 1 173 Funds management income 255 – – – – (1) 254 Insurance income 139 – – – – 2 141 Insurance income 147 – – – – 3 150 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Total operating income 23,758 29 136 – – 3 23,926 Total operating income 23,577 42 (116) – – 2 23,505 Investment experience 3 – – – – (3) – Investment experience 2 – – – – (2) – Total income 23,761 29 136 – – – 23,926 Total income 23,579 42 (116) – – – 23,505 Operating expenses (10,895) (34) – – – – (10,929) Operating expenses (10,824) (102) – (2) – – (10,928) Loan impairment expense (2,518) – – – – – (2,518) Loan impairment expense (1,201) – – – – – (1,201) Net profit before tax 10,348 (5) 136 – – – 10,479 Net profit before tax 11,554 (60) (116) (2) – – 11,376 Income tax (expense)/benefit (3,052) 75 (43) – – – (3,020) Income tax (expense)/benefit (3,321) 8 37 1 – – (3,275) Non-controlling interests – – – – – – – Non-controlling interests (12) – – – – – (12) DIRECTORS’ REPORT Net profit after income tax from Net profit after income tax from 7,296 70 93 – – – 7,459 8,221 (52) (79) (1) – – 8,089 continuing operations continuing operations Net profit after income tax from Net profit after income tax from 153 2,022 – – – – 2,175 485 (9) – – 6 – 482 discontinued operations 3 discontinued operations 5 Net profit after income tax 7,449 2,092 93 – – – 9,634 Net profit after income tax 8,706 (61) (79) (1) 6 – 8,571 1 Continuing operations net profit after tax includes gains and losses net of transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of Aegis, AUSIEX, 1 Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Count Financial and other businesses, and the dilution of the Group’s interest in Bank of Hangzhou. Discontinued operations net profit after tax includes gains and 2 Continuing operations net profit after tax includes demerger costs for NewCo and impairment loss and transaction costs associated with the disposal of Count losses net of transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CFS, CFSGAM, PT Commonwealth Life, and other businesses, and the Financial, partly offset by a net gain on acquisition and disposals of other businesses. Discontinued operations net profit after tax includes gains and losses net of deconsolidation and divestment of CommInsure Life. transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life, CFSGAM, Sovereign, TymeDigital SA and a net gain on acquisition and disposal 2 Interest income includes total Effective interest income and Other interest income. of other businesses. FINANCIAL REPORT 3 Statutory Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations is presented net of non-controlling interests. 3 Includes merger related amortisation. 4 Interest income includes total Effective interest income and Other interest income. 5 Statutory net profit after income tax from discontinued operations is presented net of non-controlling interests. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 288 289 290 291 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms COMMONWEALTH BANK Financial and remuneration related definitions 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Term Description Term Description Funds Under Administration Funds Under Administration (FUA) represents the market value of funds administered by the Group and excludes AUM. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Assets Under Management Assets Under Management (AUM) represents the market value of assets for which the Group acts as Management business and New Zealand businesses. an appointed manager. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Management and New Zealand businesses. Group Commonwealth Bank of Australia and its subsidiaries. Board The Board of Directors of the Group. OVERVIEW Group Executive (GE) Members of the Executive Leadership Team (excludes the CEO and the CEO ASB). Common Equity Tier 1 The highest quality of capital available to the Group reflecting the permanent and unrestricted Capital (CET1) commitment of funds that are freely available to absorb losses. It comprises Ordinary share capital, Interest Rate Risk in the Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book is the risk that the Bank’s profit derived from Net Interest Retained earnings and Reserves less prescribed deductions. Banking Book (IRRBB) Income (interest earned less interest paid), in current and future periods, is adversely impacted by changes in interest rates. This is measured from two perspectives: quantifying the change in the net present value of the Balance Sheet’s future earnings potential, and the anticipated change to the Net Corporations Act Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) Interest Income earned over 12 months. This calculation is driven by APRA regulations with further detail outlined in the Group’s Basel III Pillar 3 report. Customer satisfaction – Roy This represents satisfaction with Main Financial Institution (MFI) based on the relationship with the HOW WE CREATE VALUE Morgan financial institution as measured by Roy Morgan Research. The figures are six months rolling Key Management Personnel Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an averages and are based on respondents aged 14+. The measure is the percentage of customers who (KMP) entity, directly or indirectly, including any Director (whether Executive or otherwise) of that entity. answered as being either “very satisfied” or “fairly satisfied” with their MFI. Net Promoter Score (NPS) is now the primary metric by which we assess customer satisfaction. Advocacy is measured on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being “Very Unlikely” and 10 being “Very likely” to recommend. (Measuring our Long-Term Variable A variable remuneration arrangement that grants instruments to participating Executives that may vest customers’ satisfaction is important as satisfied customers usually return, they tell other people about Remuneration (LTVR) over a period of four years if performance hurdles are met. their experiences, and they may well pay a premium for the privilege of doing business with an institution they trust.) Our aim is to retain our customers by providing quality service to them. Net profit after tax Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests before non-cash items including hedging and (“cash basis”) IFRS volatility, Bankwest non-cash items, treasury shares valuation adjustment, and losses or gains on Deferred rights Deferred rights to ordinary shares in CBA are used for deferred STVR awarded under Executive acquisitions, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses. This is Management’s preferred measure of General Manager arrangements. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases the Group’s financial performance. DIRECTORS’ REPORT to be employed by the Group prior to the vesting date as a result of resignation or serious misconduct, Board risk and reputation review and malus provisions. Net profit after tax Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests, calculated in accordance with Australian (“statutory basis”) Accounting Standards. This is equivalent to the statutory item “Net profit attributable to Equity holders of the Deferred shares Awarded from the 2018 financial year, deferred shares are ordinary shares in CBA, which are Bank”. restricted until vesting and used for deferred STVR arrangements and sign-on awards. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases to be employed by the Group prior to the Net Promoter Score Refer to pages 297 298. vesting date as a result of resignation or serious misconduct, Board risk and reputation review and Consumer malus provisions. Net Promoter Score Business Refer to pages 297 298. Dividend payout ratio Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“cash basis”). (“cash basis”) Net Promoter Score Mobile Refer to pages 297 298. FINANCIAL REPORT App Dividend payout ratio Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“statutory basis”). (“statutory basis”) Net Promoter Score Internet Refer to pages 297 298. Banking DPS Dividends per share. Net Stable Funding Ratio The NSFR more closely aligns the behaviour terms of assets and liabilities. It is the ratio of the amount of DRP Dividend reinvestment plan. (NSFR) available stable funding (ASF) to the amount of required stable funding (RSF). ASF is the portion of an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution’s (ADI) capital and liabilities expected to be a reliable source of funds DRP participation The percentage of total issued capital participating in the dividend reinvestment plan. over a one year time horizon. RSF is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of an ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ADI’s assets and off Balance Sheet activities. Earnings per share (EPS) Basic earnings per share is the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank, divided by (basic) the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue during the year per the requirements of Net tangible assets per share Net assets excluding intangible assets, non-controlling interests and other equity instruments divided by relevant accounting standards. ordinary shares on issue at the end of the period (excluding Treasury Shares deduction). Earnings per share (EPS) Diluted earnings per share adjusts the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank and Non-Executive Director Key Management Personnel who are not Executives. (diluted) the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue used in the calculation of basic earnings per share, for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares per the requirements of relevant accounting Other overseas Represents amounts booked in branches and controlled entities outside Australia and New Zealand. standards. Profit after capital charge The Group uses PACC, a risk-adjusted measure, as a key measure of financial performance. It takes into Expense to income ratio Represents operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income. The ratio is a key efficiency (PACC) account the profit achieved, the risk to capital that was taken to achieve it, and other adjustments. measure. Return on equity – cash basis Based on cash net profit after tax (“cash basis”) and non-controlling interests less other equity instruments’ Executives Collective term referring to the individuals in the following Executive groups: CEO, Group Executives distributions applied to average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests, other equity and CEO ASB. instruments and the treasury shares deduction relating to life insurance statutory funds. Full-time equivalent staff Includes all permanent full-time staff, part-time staff equivalents and external contractors employed Return on equity – statutory Based on net profit after tax (“statutory basis”) less other equity instruments’ distributions applied to through third-party agencies. basis average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments. 290 291 292 293 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms COMMONWEALTH BANK Our business definitions 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Term Description Rights Rights to ordinary shares in CBA granted under LTVR award and subject to performance hurdles. Statement Source #1 banking app in Australia The Forrester Digital Experience ReviewTM: Australian Mobile Banking Apps, Q3 2020. Short-Term Variable Variable remuneration paid subject to the achievement of predetermined performance hurdles over Commonwealth Bank of Australia was named the Overall Digital Experience LeaderTM among mobile Remuneration (STVR) one financial year. apps in Australia in Forrester's proprietary Digital Experience ReviewTM. Forrester Research does not endorse any company included in any Digital Experience ReviewTM report and does not advise any Total Committed Exposure Total Committed Exposure is defined as the balance outstanding and undrawn components of person or organization to select the products or services of any particular company based on the OVERVIEW (TCE) committed facility limits. It is calculated before collateralisation and excludes settlement exposures on ratings included in such reports. derivatives. #1 in home lending, Home lending: RBA Lending and Credit Aggregates. Household deposits and credit cards: APRA Weighted average number of The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and household deposits and Monthly Authorised Deposit-taking Institution Statistics (MADIS). shares (“cash basis”) excludes “Treasury Shares” related to investment in the Bank’s shares held by the employee share credit cards scheme trust. #1 mobile app and internet Refer to pages 297-298. banking Net Promoter Score Weighted average number of The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and shares (“statutory basis”) excludes “Treasury Shares” related to investments in the Bank’s shares held by both the life insurance HOW WE CREATE VALUE #1 mobile banking Commonwealth Bank won Canstar’s Bank of the Year Mobile Banking award for 2020 (for the 5th statutory funds and by the employee share scheme trust. year in a row). Awarded June 2020. #1 online banking Commonwealth Bank won Canstar's Bank of the Year Online Banking award for 2020 (for the 11th year in a row). Awarded June 2020. #1 payments provider with Total volume of transactions processed in Australia for credit and debit cards based on RBA and largest merchant base quarterly Mastercard reported data. RBA: Credit and Charge Cards – Original Series – Personal and Commercial Cards. RBA: Debit Cards – Original Series. 6.1 million active customers The total number of customers that have logged into the CommBank mobile app at least once in the month of June 2020. Includes Face ID logons. DIRECTORS’ REPORT CommBank transactions The total value ($) of transfers and BPAY payments made in digital (NetBank, the CommBank mobile made digitally (by value) app, CommBank tablet app and old mobile app) as a proportion of the total value ($) of transfers in over-the-counter, ATM, EFTPOS and digital transactions over the period of July 2019 – June 2020. Main Financial Institution MFI Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI Customers that nominated each (MFI) for more than 1 in 3 bank as their Main Financial Institution. MFI definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI Australians is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers include ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2020), excludes unable to identify MFI. FINANCIAL REPORT New business lending for Includes Commercial Lending, Asset Finance and Institutional Lending (excluding other interest Australian businesses earning lending assets, primarily Cash Management Pooling Facilities, Leasing, Trade Finance, and Debt Markets). New home lending for Includes RBS internal refinancing, excludes Viridian Line of Credit (VLOC) and excludes Bankwest Australian home buyers internal refinancing. People and delivery partners Number of people (both CBA staff and partners, e.g. IT vendors) provided with the infrastructure enabled to work remotely needed to work remotely (e.g. Office 365, Virtual Desktop). ADDITIONAL INFORMATION during COVID-19 RepTrak score The RepTrak Company (formerly Reputation Institute), June 2020. Reputation score amongst top 16 ASX customer-facing companies. The largest share of new Main Financial Institution (MFI) Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI migrant segments Customers who were not born in Australia and have been in Australia for less than 6 years that nominated each bank as their Main Financial Institution. MFI definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers includes ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2020). The largest share of youth Main Financial Institution (MFI) Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI segments Customers aged 14-24 that nominated each bank as their Main Financial Institution. MFI definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers includes ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2020). 292 293 294 295 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms COMMONWEALTH BANK Sustainability performance metrics definitions 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Metric Description Metric Description Employees who identify as The proportion of employees that have selected one or more of the disability conditions (including, but having a disability not limited to, physical or intellectual conditions, vision impairment, etc.) in the Group’s biannual Absenteeism Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days (and carer’s leave days for CommSec people and culture survey. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest, ASB businesses in New employees) per Australia-based full-time equivalent employees. Bankwest is included from FY19. Zealand, and businesses in Indonesia. Age diversity Percentage of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave), casuals, Employees who identify as The proportion of employees that identify as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex (LGBTI) employees on international assignment and those contractors paid directly by the Group, by age OVERVIEW LGBTI or other, by nominating one or more of the LGBTI options in the Group’s biannual people and culture group as at 30 June (excluding ASB businesses in New Zealand). survey. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest, ASB businesses in New Zealand and businesses in Indonesia, China, Vietnam and Singapore. Australian Indigenous Refers to direct (first tier) supplier spend with Indigenous businesses in Australia. It includes any supplier spend payments (including grant payments) made to an Indigenous business registered or certified by Employees with caring The proportion of employees that have selected any of the caring responsibility options (including, but Supply Nation. responsibilities not limited to, caring for elderly, children, people with chronic conditions, etc.) in the Group’s biannual people and culture survey. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses in New Cash contributions Total donations contributed by the Group (excluding Aussie Home Loans) through charitable gifts, Zealand. community partnerships and matched giving. Matched giving excludes staff contributions. HOW WE CREATE VALUE Employees working flexibly The proportion of employees that indicated they have used any of the flexible work options in the Community investment as a Total community investment as a percentage of the Group’s cash net profit from continuing operations Group’s biannual people and culture survey. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest, and ASB percentage of pre-tax profit before tax as at 30 June. businesses in New Zealand, and businesses in Indonesia, China and Vietnam. Cultural diversity index (CDI) The concentration mix of all cultures of the Group’s employees resulting in an index between 0 and 1, Employees who have Number of employees eligible for parental leave benefit who had started primary or secondary carer where the higher the score, the more diverse the population. CDI is calculated using demographic accessed parental leave parental leave during the reporting period, as recorded in the Group’s human resources system. It information disclosed in the Group’s biannual people and culture survey and benchmarked against the excludes Aussie Home Loans, and ASB businesses in New Zealand and employees of discontinued ancestry question in the 2016 Australian Census. The CDI excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest, operations. and ASB businesses in New Zealand, businesses in Indonesia, China and Vietnam. Customer Advocate: Employees who have Number of employees who returned from a period of primary or secondary carer parental leave in the returned from parental leave prior year and were still employed after 12 months within the reporting period, as recorded in the DIRECTORS’ REPORT Average business days Average number of business days taken to review a complaint, from the date it was received by the and are still employed after Group’s human resources system. Excludes parental leave recorded prior to the introduction of a new to review complaint Office of the Customer Advocate until the review was finalised and an outcome is provided to the 12 months HR System (2 March 2018) and employees that returned to a major business or subsidiary that is now customer. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, ASB businesses in New Zealand and other overseas a discontinued operation (refer to Note 11.3 on page 258 in the Financial Report for details on operations. discontinued operations). Also excludes Aussie Home Loans and ASB businesses in New Zealand. Complaints reviewed by Number of customer complaints reviewed by the OCA and recorded in the feedback management Employees working part-time The proportion of employees as at 30 June who are employed on a part-time or job share basis, as a the Office of the system (Firstpoint). It excludes Aussie Home Loans, ASB businesses in New Zealand and other or job sharing percentage of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave). Customer Advocate overseas operations. (OCA) Employment type The number of Australian employees as at 30 June who are permanent employees working in full-time, part-time or casual positions, including job share or on extended leave. It excludes ASB FINANCIAL REPORT Outcomes from review Portion of complaints reviewed by the Office of the Customer Advocate where the internal dispute businesses in New Zealand, fixed contractors and contingent workers. process resolution (IDR) decision was; confirmed (no further action taken), enhanced (agreed with IDR decision but provided alternative financial/non-financial outcome) or substituted (IDR decision was Environmental, Social and Number of employees who have completed ESG learning modules, as recorded in CBA’s learning incorrect). It excludes Aussie Home Loans, and ASB businesses in New Zealand and overseas Governance (ESG) training management system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June, measured by headcount. This metric excludes operations. Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses in New Zealand. Customer complaints – The number of complaints resolved for the Group during the reporting period as defined by the Escalated complaints to an Number of complaints escalated to an EDR scheme for the Group, excluding Bankwest and ASB resolved Australian Securities and Investments Commission Regulatory Guide 165, and recorded in the external dispute resolution businesses in New Zealand. This includes complaints that have been through the Bank’s internal feedback management system (Firstpoint). In FY20 the methodology has been revised to consider (EDR) scheme dispute resolution process and have been escalated to an EDR scheme. FY19 has been restated ADDITIONAL INFORMATION only those complaints resolved after five business days. FY19 and FY18 figures have been restated based on an estimate modelled on the percentage of these complaints in FY20, and to exclude using this revised methodology. It excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and overseas operations. Bankwest. These complaints are recorded in the Group’s feedback management system (Firstpoint) and are managed by Group Customer Relations. EDR schemes include, but are not limited to, the Electricity generated from Electricity generated during the reporting period from photovoltaic solar panels installed on Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA) and the Office of the Australian Information on-site solar panels approximately 80 bank branches. Electricity may be used on site or returned to the grid. Commissioner (OAIC). Employee engagement index The index shows the proportion of employees replying with a score of 4 or 5 to four engagement Female Directors on Board The number of female Directors as a percentage of the number of Directors on the Board as at – CBA questions in the Group’s biannual people and culture survey. The questions relate to satisfaction, 30 June. retention, advocacy and pride on a scale of 1-5 (where 1 is ‘Strongly Disagree’ and 5 is ‘Strongly Agree’). The index excludes Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses in New Zealand. Forgone revenue Forgone revenue consists of the aggregate value of fee-free or discounted CBA products and services during the reporting period for customers who have been assessed as low income earners, Employee turnover – Refers to all involuntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average permanent in vulnerable circumstances or not-for-profit organisations. It relates to monthly account and involuntary headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave), excluding transaction fees only and does not include discounts on interest rates. ASB businesses in New Zealand. Involuntary exits include redundancies and terminations for disciplinary reasons. Fuels – natural gas, diesel Energy from the use of natural gas and diesel in retail and commercial operations, and transport fuels, and transport under CBA's operational control during the reporting period. Employee turnover – Refers to all voluntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average permanent voluntary headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave), excluding Full-time equivalent Total FTE of the Group (excluding CBA employees based in New Zealand) by geographical work ASB businesses in New Zealand. Voluntary exits are determined to be resignations and retirements. employees (FTE) locations as at 30 June. FTE includes full-time, part-time, job share employees, employees on extended leave and contractors. One full-time role is equal to 38 working hours per week. 294 295 296 297 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms COMMONWEALTH BANK 2020 ANNUAL REPORT Metric Description Metric Description Gender pay equity – female Gender pay equity is defined as the ratio of weighted average base salary of males and females for Scope 3 – Purchased Indirect emissions from the electricity and diesel consumption in the Group’s Australian data centres to male base salary Australia-based employees of the Group, as at 31 March. The data reflects roles in similar functions, electricity – data centre not under the Group’s operational control as defined under the National Greenhouse and Energy comparison role scope and responsibilities. The data refers to permanent full-time and part-time employees. It (Australia operations) Reporting Act. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2019). excludes the CEO, Board members, contractors, casual employees, seconded employees and employees who have not responded with a defined gender. Methodology changed in FY20, to Scope 3 – Transport Indirect emissions from rental car and taxi use, business use of private vehicles, dedicated bus improve representation of management levels. (Australia operations) service, business flights, and indirect emissions from business use of our tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. OVERVIEW Source of emissions factors: NGA (2019) and DEFRA (2019) for flights. Graduates The number of graduates who accepted and commenced in a graduate position with CBA or Bankwest under the Talent Acquisition program. Graduate positions commence in February each Scope 3 – Hotel Indirect emissions from hotel accommodation used by employees and calculated based on the value year. accommodation of the spend on accommodation. Source of emissions factors: Energetics (2020). (Australia operations) Greenhouse gas emissions: Scope 3 – Transmission Indirect emissions associated with the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial and residential Scope 1 emissions Relates to the consumption of natural gas and stationary fuel used in retail, commercial and data and distribution losses properties under the Group’s operational control in Australia. Source of emissions factors: NGA centre properties under the Group’s operational control, and business use of Tool of Trade vehicles. (Australia operations) (2019). HOW WE CREATE VALUE Emissions are calculated using the relevant emissions factors noted in the regional definitions below. Scope 3 – Office paper Indirect emissions generated from the Group’s use of office paper in the Group’s commercial Scope 2 emissions Emissions from the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial, residential and data centre properties (Australia operations) operations and retail branches under the Group’s operational control in Australia. Source of emissions under the Group’s operational control. Emissions are calculated using the relevant emission factors factors: DEFRA (2019). noted in the regional definitions below. Scope 3 – Base building Indirect emissions generated from CBA's proportion (by net lettable area) of base building electricity Scope 3 emissions Indirect greenhouse gas emissions as a result of sources outside the Group’s operational control, but (Australia operations) and natural gas usage for the Group’s Australian Commercial offices. Source of emissions factors: support the Group’s business activities. It includes rental car and taxi use, business use of private NGA (2019). vehicles, dedicated bus services, business flights, hotel accommodation, emissions associated with electricity and diesel consumption at data centres not under CBA’s operational control, and base building emissions. Emissions are calculated using the relevant emission factors noted in the regional Headcount Total number of employees, including permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on DIRECTORS’ REPORT definitions below. extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group as at 30 June. Scope 1 and 2 emissions Greenhouse gas emissions intensity based on total Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the Group or by Health, safety and wellbeing Number of employees who completed health, safety and wellbeing training, as recorded in the per FTE geographical locations, and divided by the relevant FTE number. Calculations for FY20 exclude the training Group’s learning management system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June, measured by headcount. Excludes reclassified Scope 2 emissions from the two data centres now under operational control. Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses in New Zealand. Scope 1, 2 and 3 New Zealand emissions are based on emission factors sourced from Measuring Emissions: A Guide Indigenous Customer Number of calls received via the dedicated Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) during the emissions – New for Organisations (2020). In FY20, ASB businesses in New Zealand have reclassified a portion of their Assistance Line (calls 12 months to 30 June. It excludes calls that were abandoned by customers. Zealand leased fleet fuel usage from Scope 3 emissions to Scope 1 emissions. received) Scope 1, 2 and 3 Other overseas emissions are estimated by multiplying the Australian emissions per FTE as at Indigenous workforce Represents the proportion of employees that have indicated they most strongly identify with Australian FINANCIAL REPORT emissions – Other 30 June by the number of FTEs of all the Group’s other overseas offices. Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander ancestry in the Group’s biannual people and culture survey. It overseas excludes businesses in Indonesia. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander representation in Australia is based on the 2016 Australian Census. Scope 1 – Natural gas Emissions from the consumption of diesel and natural gas in retail, commercial and data centre and stationary properties in Australia under the Group’s operational control as defined under the National Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have emissions (Australia Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act. Source of emissions factors: National Greenhouse Accounts Rate (LTIFR) resulted in an accepted workers compensation claim, for each million hours worked by Australia and operations) Factors (NGA) (2019). New Zealand employees. The metric captures claims relating to permanent, casual and contractors paid directly by the Group. It is reported using the information available as at 30 June. FY19 has been Scope 1 – Transport Emissions from the consumption of diesel, ethanol E10 and petrol from our business use of our Tool restated due to claims received after year-end reporting date. New Zealand employees included from ADDITIONAL INFORMATION emissions (Australia of Trade vehicle fleet in Australia. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2019). FY18. operations) Low carbon funding Financing provided to low carbon assets is based on total committed exposure (TCE) or total drawn Scope 2 – Purchased Emissions from the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial and residential properties under the lending facility (TDLF) as at 30 June. The Group’s low carbon funding target is $15bn by 2025. Asset electricity – property Group’s operational control in Australia as defined under the National Greenhouse and Energy categories include large-scale renewable energy projects (based on TCE), low carbon commercial portfolio emissions Reporting Act. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2019). buildings (based on TCE and 6 star NABERS rating criteria), low carbon transport (based on TDLF) (Australia operations) and energy efficient assets (includes small-scale renewable energy assets, based on TDLF). For the full definition, including definitions of each asset category, refer to the Non-financial performance Scope 2 – Purchased Emissions from the electricity used by data centres under the Group’s operational control in Australia metrics excel spreadsheet at www.commbank.com.au/CRreporting electricity – data centre as defined under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act. Source of emissions factors: emissions (Australia NGA (2019). Misconduct breaches Represents closed substantiated misconduct cases which resulted in termination and were managed operations) resulting in termination in Australia by the Workplace Relations and Group Investigations teams. Various policies within the Group govern staff conduct obligations, including the ‘Code of Conduct’ which is the guiding Scope 3 – Natural gas Indirect emissions associated with the use of diesel and natural gas in retail, commercial and data framework for the Group. It excludes incidents reported by local associates and joint ventures. and diesel stationary centre properties in Australia under the Group’s operational control as defined under the National (Australia operations) Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2019). Net Promoter Score (NPS) Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld. See more on page 298. 296 297 298 299 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms COMMONWEALTH BANK Metric Description Metric Description 2020 ANNUAL REPORT NPS – ASB – Business and Business Finance Monitor Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to Purchased electricity Purchased electricity used in Australian retail and commercial properties under operational control, rural banking others of the business or rural customer’s Main Financial Institution. Using a scale of 1 to 10 (1 means two data centres under operational control and two data centres outside operational control. ‘extremely unlikely’ and 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 1-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). Four quarter rolling average data is used. The ranking refers to ASB’s Renewable energy via power Energy value of purchased electricity that has been sourced through power purchase agreements or position relative to the other main three New Zealand banks. purchase agreements or renewable electricity retail contracts. retail contracts NPS – ASB – Retail banking Retail Market Monitor Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to others OVERVIEW of the customer’s Main Financial Institution. Using a scale of 1 to 10 (1 means ‘extremely unlikely’ and School banking students The number of active students who participated in the Commonwealth Bank’s School Banking 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 1-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). (active) program during the 12 months to 30 June. Active students are those who banked at least once during 11 month rolling average data has been used pending the build-up of a continuous 12 month sample. the 12 month period through the School Banking Portal under the School Banking program. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other main four New Zealand banks. SpeakUP Program cases Number of SpeakUP cases recorded in the Group's SpeakUP Program during the 12 months to 30 NPS – Bankwest – Business DBM Business Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to others of the June. The reports include both whistleblower and non-whistleblower disclosures. customer’s Main Financial Institution. Using a scale of 0 to 10 (0 means ‘extremely unlikely’ and 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 0-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). 6 Start Smart students Number of students booked to attend the Commonwealth Bank’s Start Smart financial education HOW WE CREATE VALUE month rolling average data is used. Businesses with lending under $500,000 nationally or lending (booked) programs during the 12 months to 30 June. Start Smart sessions cover a range of topics and the over $500,000 in West Australia are included in the metric. same student may be booked to attend a number of sessions. NPS – Bankwest – Retail DBM Consumer Main Financial Institution (MFI) Net Promoter Score. Australian Population 14+ (from Substantiated misconduct Represents closed substantiated misconduct cases managed in Australia by the Workplace Relations Aug 16; 18+ for data prior). Refers to customers’ likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from cases and Group Investigations teams. Various policies within the Group govern staff conduct obligations, 0-10 (where 0 being ‘Not at all likely’ and 10 being ‘Extremely likely’) and is calculated by subtracting including the ‘Code of Conduct’ which is the Group’s guiding framework. It excludes incidents reported the percentage of Total Detractors (0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (9-10). Note that by local associates and joint ventures. percentage signs are not used to report NPS 6 month rolling average. The metric is based on two of Bankwest's priority segments Home Owner and Property Investors (HOPI) and those intending to Time volunteering Total estimated cost of pro bono and volunteering hours contributed by Australia-based CBA purchase property within the next 12 months (Pre-HOPI). employees through volunteering activities as captured in the Group’s volunteering database. Average hourly rates are calculated using Australia-based permanent employees' salaries as at 30 June, DIRECTORS’ REPORT NPS – CBA – Business DBM Business Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to others of the excluding the salary of the executive leadership and management teams. customer’s Main Financial Institution. Using a scale of 0 to 10 (0 means ‘extremely unlikely’ and 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 0-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). A Total community investment Total voluntary investment contributed to communities in the form of cash contributions, time 6-month rolling average data is used. volunteering, forgone revenue and program implementation costs. NPS – CBA – Consumer DBM Consumer Main Financial Institution (MFI) Net Promoter Score. Australian Population 14+ (from Training completion rates – Percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the ‘Code of Conduct’ learning Aug 16; 18+ for data prior). Refers to customers’ likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from Code of Conduct module recorded in the Group’s learning management system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June. This metric 0-10 (where 0 being ‘Not at all likely’ and 10 being ‘Extremely likely’) and is calculated by subtracting excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB the percentage of Total Detractors (0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (9-10). Note that businesses in New Zealand. Numbers prior to FY19 are for completion of ‘Our Commitments’ training. percentage signs are not used to report NPS. 6 month rolling average. CBA excludes Bankwest and Westpac excludes St George. Training completion rates – Percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the Group’s mandatory learning FINANCIAL REPORT mandatory learning modules recorded in the Group’s learning management system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June. This NPS – CBA – Internet Internet banking (via the website or mobile app on a mobile phone or tablet): Roy Morgan Research. metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and banking Australian population 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) Main ASB. The Group’s mandatory learning modules are Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Financial Institution in the last 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores as at June Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing, Code of Conduct, Conflicts of Interest, Fraud, Security 2020. Rank based on comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac (at brand level). and Privacy, Resolving Customer Complaints, Workplace Conduct and Health and Safety. NPS – CBA – Mobile app Mobile app (via mobile app on a mobile phone or tablet): Roy Morgan Research. Australian population Training hours This represents the total completed training hours recorded in the Group’s learning management 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) Main Financial Institution in the system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June. Training hours are allocated to each training item such as face-tolast 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores, as at June 2020. Rank based on face or online training. Executive Managers, General Managers, Executive General Managers and the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac (at brand level). Chief Executive Officer are included in 'Executive Managers and above' and 'Others' includes team managers and team members. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Office paper A3 and A4 office paper used in retail and commercial operations under the Group’s operational Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses in New Zealand. control. Invoiced reams of paper used to estimate usage as a weight. Excludes operations outside Australia. Training hours per employee This metric represents the average completed training hours per employee that is recorded in CBA’s learning management system (PeopleLink) as at 30 June, measured by headcount. This metric Privacy complaints Number of privacy related complaints escalated to the Office of the Australian Information excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB Commissioner (OAIC) for the Group, excluding Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and ASB businesses businesses in New Zealand. in New Zealand. This includes complaints that have been through the Bank’s internal dispute resolution process and have escalated to the OAIC, or have been raised directly with the OAIC. Water Water consumption includes tenanted usage from CBA and Aussie Home Loans commercial buildings These complaints are recorded in the Group’s feedback management system (Firstpoint) and are in Australia. As at 30 June 2020, 51% of water usage is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is managed by Group Customer Relations. estimated based on an average usage per m2 of net lettable area. From FY18, water related metrics are reported on all commercial buildings. FY17 and FY16 were reported for nine commercial Program implementation Total costs incurred by the Group to implement community investment programs and manage the buildings. It includes invoiced water use for the two data centres that are under the Group’s costs Indigenous Customer Assistance Line call centre, the Corporate Affairs team, Women in Focus, operational control. school programs as well as other not-for-profit activities. These costs include salary and wages, occupancy, IT and other administration costs. It excludes Aussie Home Loans. Whistleblower cases Number of whistleblower cases on-boarded into the Group's SpeakUP Program during the 12 months to 30 June. 298 299 300 Glossary of terms Contact us Metric Description Registered office Ground Floor, Tower 1 Women in Executive Manager The percentage of roles at the level of Executive Manager and above filled by women, in relation to and above roles the total headcount at these levels as at 30 June. Excludes ASB businesses in New Zealand. 201 Sussex Street Sydney NSW 2000 Women in Manager and The percentage of roles at the level of Manager and above (including Branch Managers) filled by Telephone: +61 2 9378 2000 above roles women, in relation to the total headcount at this level as at 30 June. Excludes ASB businesses in New Facsimile: +61 2 9118 7192 Zealand. commbank.com.au Women in Senior Leadership The percentage of executive roles that are currently filled by women as at 30 June. These roles are (Group Executives) direct reports of the Chief Executive Officer with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and International locations controlling the Group’s activities. Excludes ASB businesses in New Zealand. For the list of current commbank.com.au/internationallocations executives, please refer to the 2020 Annual Report pages 70-71. Women in workforce The percentage of roles filled by women, in relation to the total headcount as at 30 June. Excludes Share Registrar ASB businesses in New Zealand. Link Market Services Limited Level 12, 680 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Mail: Link Market Services Limited Locked Bag A14 Sydney South NSW 1235 Telephone: +61 1800 022 440 Email: cba@linkmarketservices.com.au linkmarketservices.com.au CBA Investor Relations Telephone: +61 2 9118 7113 Email: cbainvestorrelations@cba.com.au commbank.com.au/investors All other enquiries commbank.com.au/contactus Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ CBA 1421 280820 300
