2019 BC HOSPITALITY GROUP RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT This report covers the 2019 activities relating to Responsible Hospitality in all business units of BCHG Holding A/S group (BC Hospitality Group). The report follows the financial year, 1 January 2019 31 December 2019. The report is prepared in accordance with sections §99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. It complies with ISO 14001 and DS 49001, as Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is certified by these standards. The content of this report is based on relevant matters regarding the activities of BC Hospitality Group and its main stakeholders. Material content is based on the company’s strategic objectives, consultations with stakeholders and material issues at industry and local political levels. Furthermore, its reporting is also aligned with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016: Core option, the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. The report presents data and figures for the three hotels forming part of BC Hospitality Group: Copenhagen Marriott, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers and AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen. It also covers the Group’s congress venue, Bella Center Copenhagen, which includes Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen, CIFF/CIFF Showrooms and International House. Previous Responsible Hospitality reports are available at www.bchospitalitygroup.dk For further information regarding this report, please contact Ms. Mireille Jakobsen, Group Responsible Hospitality Manager (mij@bchg.dk). 3 CONTENTS STATEMENT FROM THE CHEIF HOSPITALITY OFFICER 7 ABOUT BC HOSPITALITY GROUP 8 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY 13 Sustainable development goals 15 PARTNERSHIPS THAT MATTER 16 Skill development & job opportunities 19 Youth project 20 Responsible Hospitality Day 20 Book Forum 23 International tourism partnership 24 Other partnerships 26 CAREERS THAT MATTER 28 Governance 29 Inclusion, diversity & equality 32 Learning and development 36 MAKE PRODUCTS MATTER 41 Build a better food experience 42 CONSERVING RESORUCES THAT MATTER 48 Reduse food waste 50 Shift towards circularity 52 Energy and carbon 52 Water 54 HEALTHY LIVING MATTERS 57 Employee Health 58 Occupational health and safety 60 Data privacy 62 Safety and Security 62 Food safety 62 APPENDIX 64 4 STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF HOSPITALIT Y OFFICER 2019 was in large parts defined by our necessary The most urgent challenges facing our globefforts to sharpen and improve the Group’s opal community can only be achieved through erational and financial performance. It was also a partnerships and collaborations. This is why we year with several success stories that give reason have chosen to join the International Tourism to a promising outlook for our organization. Partnership (ITP), a global platform for leading hotel companies sharing a common commitThe hotel market in the Capital region continues ment to sustainability and social responsibility. to grow increasingly competitive, and we must Alongside our internal goals we now also adhere continuously adapt and change accordingly and to the four ITP goals on human rights, carbon such external factors coupled with disappointing emissions, water usage and youth employment. performance rates within some of our own key business areas, led to the difficult, but necesOur climate ambitions remain on track. In just sary decision, to release several highly valued three years, we have successfully reduced our colleagues. energy consumption by 30% and CO2 emissions by more than 37% since 2016. Among our successes, we are pleased to report a very high satisfaction rate among the one As a testament to the positive results we have million guests we hosted during 2019. Another achieved so far, I am very proud to have been positive development was the commencement invited to join the Danish government’s Cliof the new Congress Hall at Bella Center Copenmate-partnership as a Chairman partnerships hagen. Set to be the largest of its kind in Northtourism engagement. This coalition of appointern Europe and enabling us with new opportued business leaders will help identify key initinities to attract business, the hall is effectively atives that will help the Danish government to a cornerstone of our future and Capital Region achieve its 70% CO2 reduction target by 2030. as an attractive and competitive destination for International Congresses and Events. This is an As we move forward, our commitment to the UN ideal time for laying the foundation for considGlobal Compact and the Sustainable Developerable growth while maintaining our core values ment Goals remains intact. I invite you to read and commitments to quality and Responsible all about our most recent efforts and activities Hospitality. in this report. We have a strong belief that every event, service or action leave lasting imprints with the millions of people we engage with. This year, we were Sincerely, particularly proud to witness the growth of our staff. We are very pleased to report a doubling in the number of participants engaging in our Learning & Development platform, BC Academy. A platform that provides them with valuable career development and personal growth Allan L. Agerholm, opportunities. Chief Hospitality Officer / CEO Allan L. Agerholm 7 ABOUT BC HOSPITALIT Y GROUP BC Hospitality Group is one of Denmark’s leadIn 2020, CIFF is set to launch C+ in partnership ing hospitality companies. We provide an exwith Copenhagen Fashion Summit, the world’s tensive range of services within the hotel, conmost influential platform for sustainability in ference, exhibition and catering industries to fashion. C+ will be a unique business space for clients from all over the world. Our client base sustainable innovation within the fashion sector. covers the public and private sectors as well as It will also have the effect of turning CIFF into a businesses and leisure guests. The owner of BC full-service provider. Hospitality Group and Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers (which operates under two different At C+, companies will gain access to innovative CVR numbers) is Solstra Capital Partners, a prisolution providers that can help start or boost vate equity investment firm. their sustainability journey while also growing their business. A matchmaking tool facilitates We offer a total of 1,584 hotel rooms, 162 meetscheduled meetings with 100 solution providing and conference rooms, and approximately ers. This is coupled with an inspirational stage 200,000 m2 of event space with the capacity to program with relevant panel discussions on host up to 30,000 people. BC Hospitality Group sustainable business in fashion. In sum, C+ is a and all of its business units are located in Cohands-on, plug-n-play tool for companies to dispenhagen where we employ some 2,000 team cover and implementable solutions to accelerate members. This year we’ve had approximately the industry’s sustainability practices. 940,000 guests at our hotels and venues. In 2019, we discontinued our collaboration with ATP Real Estate on the construction of Hilton Bella Center Copenhagen Copenhagen City in central Copenhagen. While Scandinavia’s largest exhibition and congress this co-operation came to a very disappointing center discontinuation, we remain confident that the near future holds more opportunities to follow Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen our key strategy: running exceptional hotels of Denmark’s largest conference center high international standards under international hotel brands. AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen The largest design hotel in the Nordic region We have also begun construction on our new congress hall in Bella Center Copenhagen, markCrowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers ing the biggest strategic development of the Denmark’s leading hotel within sustainability venue in three decades. This 14,000 m2 addition will consist of a large congress hall seating 7,000 Copenhagen Marriott persons in addition to a flexible area of 7,000 m2. Copenhagen’s premiere five-star hotel The inauguration is set for April 2021 and will significantly expand the congress capacity of BC CIFF Hospitality Group and the city of Copenhagen, Northern Europe’s leading fashion fair further strengthening the city’s capabilities to attract international events and congresses. CIFF Showrooms 16,611 m2 of permanent leasehold tenancies In September 2019, Niam, a Swedish private property owner, acquired Copenhagen Towers International House from Solstra Capital Partners. The handover of Bella Center Copenhagen’s serviced offices the property has had no direct effect on daily operations, as BC Hospitality Group continues to be the main operator. 8 HOSTING MOMENTS OUR PURPOSE THAT MATTER We strive to be the leading hospitality company in Denmark by hosting moments that matter. This is our purpose and it encompasses our approach to everyWe are hosts and stewards of hospitality. For the guests that we serve as well as the people thing that we do. we work with. This is a privilege with great responsibilities, and we strive to turn each interaction into a special moment. Hospitality is the business of ‘live’ as nothing can be undone. Moments are temporary but memories will live forever. We do our best to create positive impacts – for us, for our guests and our society. OUR MISSION I AM THERE FOR YOU We are stewards of hospitality. For the guests we serve and the people we work with. We know that nothing can be undone, that moments are temporary but with the potential to live forever. We genuinely do our best to seize these moments and create a positive impact. OUR VALUES Mutual Respect Winning Spirit Service Heroes “At BC Hospitality Group we place Responsible Hospitality at the heart of everything we do, operating a profitable business while practicing, inspiring and advocating for sustainable change. We do this at every level, from self-initiated efforts in finding innovative new solutions, to supporting significant collaborative initiatives to help build a better future for all.” – Allan Agerholm, Chief Hospitality Officer 10 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALIT Y As Denmark’s leading hospitality company, we are in the business of enhancing human connections that create a positive ripple effect through communities all over the world. And we host moments that matter by living out Responsible Hospitality. Our strategic approach to Responsible Hospitality is built on a ‘do-no-harm’ concept, meaning we always adhere to laws, regulations and our certifications. Secondly, we develop our business by identifying opportunities that allow us to use sustainability as a driver in our commercial and operational activities. Thirdly, we actively advocate for positive change in our community. We do this to inspire change and to learn from others. Our strategy is divided into five focus areas: Careers that Matter, Partnerships that Matter, Make Products Matter, Conserving Resources that Matter and Healthy Living Matters. 13 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise the central element of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 17 SDGs provide targets and guidelines to effectively end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure peace and prosperity for all. BC Hospitality Group has identified four material goals most relevant to our organization. Our greatest positive impact can be made regarding SDG 8 and 17 that relate to ‘Diversity and equal opportunity’, ‘Job creation’ and ‘Partnerships’. Our biggest negative impact relates to SDG 12 and 13, concerning issues such as Waste, Sustainable sourcing and Energy & Carbon. While all the goals are interlinked, we believe that we need to prioritize in order to maximize our overall contribution. SDG: 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. SDG: 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. SDG: 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. SDG: 8 Promote sustained inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. 15 CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT We help integrate unemployed and marginalized persons into the job-market. PARTNERSHIPS ENCOUR AGE THE PROFESSIONAL THAT MAT TER DEVELOPMENT OF YOUTHS We wish to promote and encourage education about our industry through corporation with schools and institutes of higher learning. We perceive all stakeholders as potential partners with whom to forge and maintain active dialogues. This allows us to identify challenges as well as opportunities that are relevant to our business. We adapt our engagements to the issues and stakeCOLL ABOR ATE ON AND PROMOTE holders at hand. This strategy is essential to running a successful company like ours. SUSTAINABLE TOURISM AND EVENTS Our partnerships take many forms and are developed across sectors and industries. We wish to foster a more responsible sector through constructive dialogue and Our hotels and venues stimulate the economy of Copenhagen and its surrounding collaborations on an industry and political level. communities by attracting and accommodating business and leisure travelers. Through our venues and exhibitions, we host and create events that also enrich our community culturally. We provide hundreds of jobs and work with local organizations, municipalities and educational institutions to make a positive difference. LEAD BY EX AMPLE We actively pursue partnerships anywhere we see an opportunity to collaborate on sustainable change. We advocate for sustainable business practices and conditions, and seek insights for self-improvement. We want to build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain while taking responsibility for the impact our business has on society, the environment and our surroundings. 16 17 SKILL DEVELOPMENT & JOB OPPORTUNITIES As a major hospitality company, we employ a diverse workforce in terms of educational backgrounds. One of the biggest risks facing our organization and our industry as a whole is a shortage of qualified work candidates. Unfortunately, the Danish labor market only predicts this risk to increase in the years to come. BC Hospitality Group has always been proactive in creating jobs and skill-developing opportunities for those on the margins of the Danish labor market. These efforts only grow more vital in light of the exponential growth our industry is facing. As a result, we have intensified this strategy in 2019 as it not only cultivates new talents for our organization but also helps disadvantaged individuals become part of our industry. Close partnerships with local municipalities and Job Centers is key for this to succeed. JOB SCHOOL During the summer of 2019, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen faced a significant challenge. Insourcing the housekeeping department in a hotel with 811 rooms meant we needed to attract approximately 150 qualified colleagues. We decided to use this opportunity to help people in difficult situations to enter the labor market through the provision of training courses and up-skilling programs. We joined the partnership Sammen Om Virksomhedsrettet Integration together with the NGO, Forening Nydansker (Association New Danes), and LO Hovedstanden, as well as regional Job centers. Our target group was citizens with non-Western backgrounds dependent on welfare benefits. Many of the participants had never held permanent employment, were refugees or had extraordinary difficulties entering the Danish labor market. The training course consisted of a combination of practical, classroom and language training. All participants received special mentors, dedicated to supporting them on their journey towards a permanent position. In June we were extremely pleased to welcome 14 of the original 21 participants as new permanent colleagues in our Housekeeping department. YOUTH PROJECT In Denmark, we struggle with encouraging young people to choose a vocational education focused on gastronomy and service. As a response, we partnered with the local school, Højdevangens Skole, on giving young students the possibility to learn more about hospitality careers in a very hands-on manner. This was the second year we did this. We are taking a series of steps to ensure the long-term sustainability of our organization by making local youths more aware of the diverse and exiting career opportunities that await within hospitality. By including them in our daily business operations, the students get to break down stereotypes, meet role models and discover how their future careers might unfold, if they decide to pursue this field of interest. By spending one day a week over a period of four moths at one of our hotels or other venues each student gains hands-on experience with both gastronomy, hospitality and sustainability. The program concluded with a ‘Master Chef’ competition, a joint event with our supplier Unilever, who helped with providing products and guidance for the students. Groups were instructed to cook a sustainable two-course vegetarian meal for six prominent judges who also evaluated on table settings. RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALIT Y DAY As one of Denmark’s leading hospitality companies, hosting nearly one million guests annually, we want to inspire and advocate for sustainable change in our industry. In the month of September, we hosted our 3rd annual Responsible Hospitality Day at Hotel Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. This year’s theme was “The Sustainable Guest Experience”. Responsible Hospitality Day is a non-profit conference for the hospitality industry and other stakeholders, developed and hosted by BC Hospitality Group. The conference consists of talks, debates, case studies and sustainable networking sparking constructive discussions on the role of sustainability in creating positive guest experiences. The conference ended by a presentation from the managing director of International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Madhu Rajesh about the importance of entering partnerships in creating a viable impact in the industry. This year, we nearly tripled the number of participants from 90 to 240. We are extremely proud of the traction this event has gained and hold great hopes for the collective difference we can make in our industry as a result. BOOK FORUM At our annual book fair, Bogforum, we want to open the world of literature to people of all ages. We create a vibrant and personal meeting between the readers, authors, publishers, politicians, newspapers. With nearly 40,000 visitors in 2019, the fair is more popular and relevant than ever before. We noted a growing demand for family tickets. Likely a result of our increased focus on presenting children’s literature in new and exciting ways. Studies show that the reading skills of children and young adults in Denmark have never been poorer. At Bogforum, we aim to making reading fun and exciting to young readers through different initiatives. It is our sincere hope these activities will have some effect in improving these unfortunate statistics. We also partner with surrounding schools to engage local students with difficult socio-economic backgrounds to discover the joys and benefits of reading. Lastly, we teamed up with several charities during Bogforum. These include ‘Read for Life’ in which publishers can donate surplus children’s books to vulnerable families as Christmas presents. We also partnered with Save the Children who received the proceeds from the sale of earmarked products. 22 23 INTERNATIONAL TOURISM PARTNERSHIP In 2019 we entered into a partnership with the International Tourism Partnership (ITP). ITP is a global sector-led organization, bringing together the world’s most powerful hotel companies in an alliance focused on a single ambition: to lead the industry through example with clear and quantifiable commitments to improved sustainability. ITP provides members with a non-competitive platform for leaders to share ideas, build relationships and work together on making the industry more responsible. Its members believe that the hotel industry can and should be a force for good and make positive contributions to the United Nations’ Sustainable Goals and to the COP21 climate agreement. ITP works on the thematic areas in which the sector can achieve the highest impact: youth and employment, water usage, human rights, carbon footprint and labor standards. 24 CHILDREN’S COOKING SCHOOL This year we once again hosted 2 children’s cooking schools – one during spring and one in the fall. 16 children aged 8-12 were activated at each session and together with our professional chefs they were introduced to food handling and preparation, sustainability and food waste. The children are in the kitchen for 3 hours where they are tasked to create a menu made by our chefs. The meal is then enjoyed by the children and their parents and the chefs. OTHER PARTNERSHIPS ENGAGING OUR LOCAL COMMUNIT Y In 2019 we once again opened our doors to our neighbors during the annual cultural CHARIT Y FOOD RUN festival Ørestad Kulturdag. Activities included guided tours of AC Hotel Bella Sky (STOP SPILD LOK ALT) Copenhagen and Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. Our chefs provided tasters while sharing insights into our work with sustainability, food waste and exciting new BC Hospitality Group supports the local charitable gastro concepts. Visitors were invited to enjoy the breathtaking views of their local organization Stop Spild Lokalt with their handout neighborhoods from the 20th and 23rd floors. of surplus food from supermarkets to those in need. Both during Easter and Christmas we put We also invited neighbors to the free event, The taste of Crowne Plaza, during the our facilities and resources at Bella Center month of November. Here, our partners and suppliers shared some of the great Copenhagen at their disposal to facilitate this food and beverage products we serve our guests every day. remarkable event. Stop Spild Lokalt is Denmark’s largest initiative organizing food distribution on 23 In 2019, we have worked with different charities contributing either donations or and 24 December, collecting more than 200 tons facilitating accommodation for smaller charity events. One of these activities was of food nationwide. Approximately 30 tons of this a children’s Christmas event for the Ronald McDonald House where we decorated food was distributed at Bella Center Copenhagen. Christmas cookies, made Christmas decorations and brought gifts donated by LEGO. Many of our team members also donated Christmas gifts to children in need through the Salvation Army. LIT TLEBIGHELP At the LittleBigHelp charity gala that took place at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers in November, its organization raised a record sum of DKK 2.4M. LittleBigHelp is an NGO working with vulnerable children and families in West Bengal, India. 22 projects directly support over 1,100 vulnerable children and adults each day, indirectly affecting more than 1,300 families. BC Hospitality Group was once again the main sponsor donating facilities, the evening’s menu, staff as well as event production. 26 27 GOVERNANCE CAREERS HUMAN RIGHTS In the past year, BC Hospitality Group has reaffirmed its commitment to human THAT MAT TER rights by initiating the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This included conducting an impact assessment in 48 key areas where human rights are at a potential risk. The impact analysis highlighted that our main risk areas relate to healthy and safe working conditions as well as the right to not be discriminated or harassed. We will of course conPeople are at the heart of our business and our continued success strongly depends tinue to implement preventive and mitigating initiatives, for example by creaton our ability to attract and retain the right people. We need to offer meaningful ing a greater awareness among employees about their own and others’ rights. work as well as a motivating environment that allows for everyone to grow and develop their profession through stimulating assignments. We are committed A new Human Rights Policy has also been prepared and approved, obligating us to good corporate governance. This means that we operate in accordance with to respect the human rights of our workforce. Ongoing steps relate to improving applicable laws and regulations, and that we adhere to all appropriate ethical those areas where further actions are needed including engaging with our key business standards. stakeholders on those issues. In 2020, we plan to conduct a similar analysis in the areas of anti-corruption and the environment and updating our policies in those areas. CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS NEW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE We want to operate with integrity and with the highest standards in oversight, ethics and compliance. In 2019, our Chief Hospitality Officer introduced a new governance structure for BC Hospitality Group. The aim is to increase strategic focus, ensure optimal execution, strengthen communication and knowledge sharing, foster collaboration across ATTR ACT THE BEST TALENT departments and units, as well as ensuring more effective meetings. We want to recruit the most qualified and suitable professionals to foster an attractive brand image. INVEST IN LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Group Vision OPPORTUNITIES BCHG EXECUTIVE COMMIT TEE & Strategy We want to encourage leaders and employees to pursue professional growth Group Operation and support them in developing or learning new skills. BCHG DIREC TORS COMMIT TEE & Execution Crowne Plaza AC Bella Sky Marriott Bella Center FOSTER A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE Management Management Management Management Unit Operation & Execution Team Team Team Team We want to create an environment of trust, built on mutual respect and collaboration. 28 29 GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN OUR BC HOSPITALITY GROUP EMPLOYEE DEMOGR APHIC BOARD OF DIRECTORS: BOARDS & COMMITEES BC Hospitality Group strives to achieve equal gender representation within our boards, departments, committees and manageMEN 33% PERMANENT ON CALL 67% WOMEN ment teams. While we still haven’t reached our own ambition yet, things are indeed moving in the right direction. With this positive trend in mind, we currently do not find it necessary to 800 BC Hospitality Group 1095 initiate additional policies or specific initiatives on the matter. 264 Bella Center Copenhagen 699 236 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 62 ANTI-CORRUPTION 166 Copenhagen Marriott 70 BC HOSPITALITY GROUP Our organization does not tolerate corruption in any form and this EXECUTIVE COMMITEE: 134 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 264 is embedded in our Business Integrity Policy, as well as several other specific policies for our staff in this area. Our Supplier Code of Conduct also requires our suppliers to actively work against corruption. This year we have continued to work actively with our MEN 40% WOMEN 60% whistleblowing scheme called ‘What’s on your mind’, where employees can report any issues anonymously to the management. There have not been reported any serious incidents related to COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS anti-corruption. In the year to come we plan to review our current policies relating to anti-corruption to determine if any changes are deemed necessary. The figure below shows the share of employees covered by or members of collective agreements as well as the share of salaried employees in each of our business units, covered by The Employers’ and Salaried Employees Act (Funktionærloven). BC HOSPITALITY DIRECTORS COMMITEE: We seek to create the best possible working conditions for our employees, actively trying to steer clear of disputes and maintaining a peaceful corporation within the workplace. We also encourage our employees to elect trade union representatives. 44% Currently, there are three representatives at BC hospitality Group representing three different trade unions. MEN WOMEN 56% COLLEC TIVE AGREEMENTS SAL ARIED EMPLOYEES CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 639 BC Hospitality Group 161 159 Bella Center Copenhagen 105 MEN 33% 214 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 22 67% WOMEN 153 Copenhagen Marriott 13 113 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 21 30 31 INCLUSION, BC HOSPITALITY GROUP DIVERSIT Y & 50% EQUALIT Y MEN WOMEN 50% We are proud to employ and serve people with truly diverse backNO. OF NATIONALITIES grounds and find it imperative to foster and facilitate inclusive environments. We consider our diversity a strength that sparks AC HOTEL BELLA SKY innovation and a dynamic work environment. In our recruitment COPENHAGEN BC Hospitality Group 74 and team creations, we use personality tests to ensure that colleagues complement each other, and that we create diverse and 46% Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 33 inclusive teams. This is the core of our ‘One Team’ strategy. We recruit and promote individuals solely based on their suitability for MEN WOMEN 54% Copenhagen Marriott 41 the job and encourage applications from individuals regardless of race, color, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 54 age, religion, marital status or disability unrelated to the role. Bella Center Copenhagen 26 BELLA CENTER COPENHAGEN MEN 49% WOMEN AGE DISTRIBUTION Over 50 years 30-50 years Under 30 years 51% BC Hospitality Group 12% 62% 26% Bella Center Copenhagen 19% 64% 17% CROWNE PLAZA AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 3% 55% 42% COPENHAGEN TOWERS Copenhagen Marriott 7% 72% 21% MEN 50% WOMEN Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 22% 54% 24% 50% COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT MEN 55% WOMEN 45% 32 33 COPENHAGEN PRIDE With diversity a part of our DNA, BC Hospitality Group was once again a proud sponsor of Copenhagen Pride 2019. Our contribution included hotel accommodation to festival organizers coming from out of town. We also took active part in the parade spending a day welcoming and paying tribute to diversity. Such activities are part of efforts to create a work environment in which each individual feel included and valued regardless of sexual orientation, religion, gender or cultural background. As one of Denmark’s largest hospitality companies, we carefully consider the ways our business affects society. And we want to lead by example, both locally and globally, in proving that an inclusive work environment is of benefit to any organization. 34 35 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT BC ACADEMY For the 4th year running, BCHG Academy is offering and administering in-house as well as external training and development activities for all permanent employees. Training covers the entire employee lifecycle and works from an inside-out perspective. We believe that culture is the ultimate competitive advantage and that it is DEVELOPMENT FROM 2018-2019 Training Hours Participants shaped by leaders and employees at every level of the organization. For this reason, our training programs seek to encourage employees to bring both great character and competence to their work and leadership style. 2018 8.669 1.432 We develop our employees and leaders at three levels: Leading Myself, Leading 2019 13.039 2.909 Others, and Leading Leaders. Our aim is to give everyone the adequate tools to transform themselves, their teams, and their organizations by modeling the highest levels of personal and interpersonal effectiveness. TR AINING OVERVIEW 2019 GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN TRAINING ACTIVITIES Women Men The establishment of an internal Learning & Development team has almost doubled training activities across all units: BC Hospitality Group 52% 48% Our employees have received a total of 13,039 training hours during 2019 compared to 8,667 hours in 2018 with an average number of 4 training hours per FTE. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 49% 51% A total of 2,909 employees have participated in training activities in 2019 compared to 1,432 in 2018. This increase is largely due to the launch of BCHG Sales Academy Copenhagen Marriott 57% 43% as well as increased participation in our Change, Leadership and Teamwork (PI) programs. AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 49% 51% Like previous years, the gender balance with regards to training activities is very Bella Center Copenhagen 56% 44% equal for BC Hospitality Group as a whole, with slight variations across units. It is a general aim to increase flexibility within our training methodology to better suit both current and coming generations. In 2019, we introduced gamification as a means to increase awareness and understanding of effective change processes. We will also continue to increase on-demand training offerings in order to enable our employees to engage in learning when and where it suits them. The internal trainings had an NPS score of 84.97% in 2019, which is well above our goal of 50%. The NPS score is a strong validator of the quality and relevance of our training offerings. 36 37 TALENT OPTIMIZATION In 2018, we introduced the “Careers That Matter” workshop to strengthen awareness among our employees about the opportunity to create their own Personal Development plan. Today, almost 200 employees have participated in a “Careers That Matter” session, and currently more than 10% is actively working on their personal development plan. A pilot of our 9-box talent review tool for key succession planning was conducted at Copenhagen Marriott in Q1 of 2019 and is now ready to launch in all units in 2020. We have used behavioral assessments from Predictive Index for recruitment purposes for several years. In the past year we expanded the usage of his tool to also include job profiling as well as personal, leadership and team development. In 2018, we discontinued the traditional annual performance reviews in favor of our new WinWin-agreements and continuous conversations tools, both of which have been integrated into our new People Platform. These tools will also be integrated into MS Teams, making the dialogue about our goals, objectives and key results a natural part of our daily work. APPRENTICESHIPS At BC Hospitality Group we provide apprenticeships and work experience opportunities for students in collaboration with various educational institutions. In 2019, we also launched our Apprenticeship academy, which consists of 8 modules to complete. The purpose of the Apprenticeship Academy is (1) to foster a stronger relationship between student apprentices, (2) increase awareness of career opportunities across all units, (3) strengthen students’ personal development and efficiency, (4) increase retention once their apprenticeships are completed. During the past year, we had the pleasure of 38 apprentices and 13 student internships across our units. 38 39 MAKE PRODUCTS MAT TER We strive to build a supply chain that is as transparent as possible. Meaning, we want to know how the products we buy are grown, made and sourced. All in efforts to maximize and improve our positive impacts – and eradicate any negative activities. Our mission is to source sustainable, high-quality products that add value to our guests and customers. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING PR ACTICES & PRODUCTS We want to support the development of a strong local supply chain to help reduce the effects of climate change and strengthen socio-economic development. We are a large player with a multitude of international stakeholders and global responsibilities. However, we care for our local environment and acknowledge our own immediate impact, which is why a large share of of our food products come from local growers. BUILD A BETTER FOOD EXPERIENCE We want to offer an assortment of food and beverages that support a healthy lifestyle and stem from sustainable sources. Through our sourcing practices we also seek to foster the advancement of biodiversity, animal welfare, sustainable fishing practices and reducing animal proteins with a high carbon footprint. 41 BUILD A SUSTAINABLE PROTEINS At BC Hospitality Group we want to reduce BET TER FOOD our use of animal proteins by 30% by 2021. In 2019, we managed a reduction of 14% across ANIMAL PROTEIN REDUCTION EXPERIENCE GOAL: 30% REDUCTION 2019 the group. The reasoning behind this move is twofold: We want to more towards more plantbased menus; and we want to reduce the use of beef in our menus due to its considerable BC Hospitality Group 14% SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT impact on CO2 emissions. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 11% In addition to delivering high quality products, One of the steps we took to meet this goal was Copenhagen Marriott 5% we expect our suppliers to actively work towards to exclude beef from the canteen at Bella Center continued sustainable development. As a miniCopenhagen as well as at Comwell Conference AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 16% mum, we expect suppliers to adhere to laws and Center Copenhagen. To ensure a smooth and Bella Center Copenhagen 23% regulations, as well as other minimum requireeffortless transition, towards more plant-based ment regarding human rights and labor rights, gastronomy, our skilled chefs have been on reenvironmental practices and anti-corruption. As search and inspirational tours. They also attend we are in the process of updating our company regular knowledge sharing events with peers policies in these areas, we expect to revise our and experts in the industry. In the year to come supplier terms in the year to come. we will place more focus on re-thinking our food concepts and investigating the market for new products and suppliers. ORGANIC FOOD SHARE (KG) 2018 2019 BC Hospitality Group 33% 34% Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 35% 32% Copenhagen Marriott 28% 28% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 33% 40% Bella Center Copenhagen 35% 33% 42 43 LOCAL SIMPLY TASTES BETTER In BC Hospitality Group we serve just under 2 Instead of slaughtering their dairy cows once million meals annually and know that we have a they stop producing milk, they are instead treated profound responsibility to support sustainable as beef cattle until they reach optimal maturity. food production. Local and seasonal produce The result is a high-quality meat and animal welis grown in optimum conditions and freshly defare of the highest standards, with a much lower livered to us soon after harvest. This supports our commitment of providing high quality and CO2 impact compared to traditional beef cattle. BCHG Chocolate Foodprint 2019 sustainable food experience to our guests. MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCTS PORK Øllingegaard Mejeri is a dairy farm situated in Through the purchase of 1098 kg Original Beans chocolate Northern Zealand producing over 60 different Animal welfare is of the outmost importance to organic dairy products. The raw milk comes BCHG supported... us, which is why we support local farmers and from 7 different nearby farms ensuring very BCHG Chocolate Foodprint 2019 buy meat from healthier and happier animals. short transportation times. All of their suppliOur pork comes from the small farm, Henriksers plant herbs in the fields providing a greater fäldts Gård situated in Glemmingebro, Sweden, biodiversity. In addition, these herbs provide a Through the purchase of 1098 kg Original Beans chocolate very close to our hotels. We buy the whole anibetter tasting forage for the cows, which also BCHG supported... mal and use everything – nose to tail. bring better flavor to the milk. 1.84 x 41 BREAD VEGETABLES FoodPeople is located just 5 kilometers from BC Our vegetable supplier, Søris is a value-based Hospitality Group’s headquarters. Sustainability farm producing organic vegetables in the North1.84 x 41 and local responsibility are fundamental to their ern part of Zealand. The company offers a broad business and were the first to convert entirely selection of organic vegetables from their own to organic production. Similar to BC Hospitality produce and from a handful of other organic 3 74 15800 5 Group the company has a diverse business with vegetables farmers. They only produce high many nationalities anzzd a close cooperation quality seasonal vegetables, which is due to with the local community regarding inclusion the minerals in the ground and our seasons and efforts for unemployed, challenged young peoweather, the most traditional Danish vegetables. 3 74 15800 5 ple as well as refugees. HONEY GLOBAL NECESSITIES 1 3426 Bybi (City Bee) is a local socio-economic compaAs a food provider in Scandinavia, it’s challengny that focus on including refugees and different ing to provide a varied food assortment solely 1 3426 marginalized people in the honey production. with local produce. The only current solution The beehives are actually located on our roofis partnering with global suppliers to ensure a tops at Bella Center Copenhagen, and in 2019 variety of fresh and healthy products. When we the 400,000 bees produced some 331 kilos of select our global suppliers, we actively work on honey. The honey is free from pesticides and ensuring traceability, transparency and trust. pollution from the air, and we put it to good use in our confectionary. CHOCOL ATE BEEF Our chocolate supplier, Original Beans, sources sustainable and delicate chocolate that supDespite our reduction of beef menu offerings, ports many different sustainability projects we still serve beef for our guests. To remain as worldwide. Its supply chain is climate-positive sustainable as possible, we source excellent through a regenerative business model and the meat from dairy cows through an innovative colcompany’s One Bar:One Tree project. For each laboration with the welfare-producer, Rævhede. chocolate bar eaten, somewhere on the planet a new tree is planted. Th reforestation project protects endangered wildlife in collaboration with local conservation programs and farmers. 44 45 COFFEE Coffee is a central product in our business. We use Orang Utan Coffee, an organic and sustainable high-quality coffee that’s grown in a protected natural resort in Sumatra, Indonesia. The project supports the local sustainable growers to cultivate organic coffee and the protection of wildlife and their precious natural habitats. SEAFOOD At BC Hospitality Group we steer clear of purchasing seafood from the WWF red list. We source our salmon from Hidden Fjord in the Faroe Islands. The company produces some of the safest fish products in the world. The salmon is raised in the wild without the use of antibiotics or hormones. Each growth phase is natural, and each step of the process has been customized to provide the most ideal, stressfree environment resulting in first-class quality. TEA Our supplier Tea2You is a British importer of organic and Fairtrade-certified highland tea from the best tea estates in Darjeeling, Assam and Nepal. Here, they work closely with the locals co-developing their unique blends and flavors. The tea is packed in single bags saving 50% on paper use and without the use of a metal clip. 47 CONSERVING RESOURCES THAT MAT TER Every year, we host hundreds of thousands of guests at our venues and hotels. Due to our size, we have the power to integrate sustainable solutions that make a real difference. We work hard to improve our efficiency within energy, water usage and our procurement practices. The reduction, elimination or circulation of waste products is also crucial. We have to ensure our business practices and buildings are not only fit for the future, but that they also support healthy and productive environments for our guests and employees. Our efforts are documented in our DS 49001, ISO 14001 and Green Key certifications. MANAGE RESOURCE USAGE AND COSTS Implement tracking and monitoring on resource use to improve operational efficiency. Manage and reduce carbon emissions WORK TOWARDS ELIMINATING, REDUCING OR CIRCUL ATING WASTE We focus on reducing food waste and other waste such as plastics. 48 REDUCE FOOD WASTE WASTE CONSUMPTION Landfill Recycled Waste to biogas Reducing food waste is an integral part of responsible hospitality. As one of the largest hospitality operators in Denmark we serve approximately 2 million BC Hospitality Group 2% 16% 82% meals each year. While it is not always possible to measure the specific amount of food that is served and wasted, it is uncontested that too much food goes Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 1% 9% 89% to waste on a global basis. Internally, we take a proactive approach to reducing food waste. Not only to secure food resources but also to reduce our climate Copenhagen Marriott 1% 19% 81% footprint as food waste is a source of unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions. AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 1% 16% 83% In 2019, we introduced additional initiatives to reduce food waste within BC Hospitality Group. New waste measurement system: Innovative technology from Winnow Bella Center Copenhagen 4% 19% 77% to increase data accuracy and further reducing our waste production. This new system allows us to measure all foods, which decreases the risk of overproduction. TOO GOOD TO GO We also collaborate with Too Good To Go, an organization fighting food waste with an app that connects hungry users to outlets with unsold, surplus food. During 2019, we have expanded our collaboration to include all hotels in BC Hospitality Group. In 2020, we hope to save 2,500 meals via the app. FOOD DONATIONS We continued our work with several different organizations, including Det Runde Bord, to ensure that the food we might have left from large events can be given to the homeless or others in need in our local community. TAKE HOME BOXES Employees at Bella Center Center Copenhagen are encouraged to take home leftover lunch from the canteen, free of charge. NEW BUFFET PLATE SIZES To reduce the risk of food waste, we switched dinner plates for smaller lunch plates in the canteen. The change also helped kitchen staff in optimizing their food production. FOOD WASTE TO BIOGAS Leftovers from plates are sorted, grinded, collected and converted into biogas. The gas is used for electricity and heating in local homes and powering local busses in Copenhagen. While this solution doesn’t reduce the amount of food waste being generate, it does ensure that any waste is put to good use. 50 51 SHIFT TOWARDS CIRCUL ARIT Y REDUCING SINGLE-USE PL ASTIC Single use plastics hurt the environment, and it’s an issue of great concern which we share with many of our guest. In 2019, we executed a complete assessment of our internal use of single use plastics. The insights from this assessment will help us taking the steps to reduce our usage in a manner that is feasible and responsible. One obvious step was to eliminate the use of disposable plastic straws in 2019. Normally, our guests use approximately 100,000 straws per year. Upon request we instead offer eco-friendly alternatives. ENERGY INTENSITY ACROSS HOTELS kWh (ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER GUEST NIGHT) 45 In the coming year, we will be addressing another major sustainability issue, as we phase out single-use amenity bottles and replacing them with large bulk size 40 dispensers. We expect to eliminate the use of nearly 1 million small plastic bottles annually, reducing our plastic waste generation in this area by 85%. This will amount 35 to saving approx. 14 tons of single-use plastics every year. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 30 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 25 UPCYCLING Marriot Copenhagen 20 Upcycling as a way of creating new usages for items otherwise considered waste, 2016 2017 2018 2019 is an integral part of our practices BC Hospitality Group. One major example is the very construction of Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. Here, wood waste from window frames, old doors, floors and scaffolding was used to create modern wall panels, while the floor was made from upcycled concrete. Lobby furniture was also made from upcycled materials. We are constantly working on innovative ways to integrate big and small upcycling solutions in our operations. Currently, we are working on new ways to reuse our TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION Total Energy Consumption linen, in a collaboration with our linen-service provider, De Forenede DampvaskerBY BUSINESS UNIT (MWh) 45000 ier. Whether it’s used tablecloths, towels, sheets or pillowcases; we believe these materials still have value. Tablecloths are sewn into chefs’ jackets while plastic items can perhaps be replaced with textile alternatives. These small steps, coupled 35000 (31240) with recycling and reducing our waste from the start, will help address the global pollution crisis and curb waste in landfills. BC Hospitality Group 25000 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 15000 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen (13424) ENERGY AND CARBON Marriot Copenhagen 5000 (8851) (5757) (3208) The landmark Paris Agreement and the United Nations Sustainable Development Bella Center Copenhagen 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goals provide both a framework and an urgent call to action against building-related emissions. The hotel industry accounts for around 1% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. There is a need for our industry to set science-based carbon reduction targets to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions per room (across all hotel operations) by 66% by 2030 (compared to 2010 levels), and by 90% by 2050 to align with the Paris Agreement. We take this call to action seriously and it is our intention to set science-based targets for our units in the course of the year to come. We will continue our efforts to reduce our climate impact in all operations. And we will do so through energy efficiency, reducing our carbon footprint and sharing best practices with our industry peers. 52 53 WATER A large amount of our water consumption comes from laundry and housekeeping. We work actively with our suppliers to identify sustainable solutions that will reduce our consumption and also favor those laundry and linen suppliers who are serious about reducing their environmental footprint. In 2019, we have spared nearly 209M liters of ground water from contamination by pesticides and fertilizers by purchasing organic food. TOTAL WATER USAGE Total Water Usage per guest night BY BUSINESS UNIT (m3) (m3) 2018 2019 2018 2019 BC Hospitality Group 24548 23623 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 28988 29302 0.22 0.22 Marriot Copenhagen 39464 37392 0.22 0.21 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 57427 59119 0.24 0.20 Bella Center Copenhagen 24548 23623 TON C02 2016 Scope 1 & 2 8000 7000 6000 5000 BC Hospitality Group 4000 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 3000 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 2000 1000 Marriot Copenhagen 0 Bella Center Copenhagen 2017 2018 2019 54 55 HEALTHY LIVING MAT TERS Health, safety and security are integral parts of the services provided by BC Hospitality Group. We aim to operate on the highest health and safety standards. The security and safety of our customers, guests and employees are top priorities and handled accordingly. IMPROVE HEALTH AND WELLBEING We help employees live healthier lives through education and support, and we are pleased to offer healthy lifestyle options for our guests. ENSURE THE SAFET Y AND SECURIT Y OF OUR GUESTS AND EMPLOYEES We set and maintain very high standards for food safety and quality. We strive to maintain a safe workplace with zero accidents and injuries and ensure a safe experience for our guests and employees at all of our venues. We protect privacy and confidentiality and comply with all relevant laws and regulations. 57 EMPLOYEE HEALTH We believe that good health contributes to a good life – work life included. And that a good work life contributes to a better overall productivity in the workplace. This is why we also promote healthy lifestyles to our employees. We wish to promote physical and mental wellbeing with initiatives that reduce and alleviate sickness. Our health strategy is ambitious and aimed at healthy employees and those unfortunate to be facing an illness. Some of our tools include workplace evaluations in addition to personal and professional development schemes. We offer health insurance, check-ups for senior colleagues and employees working nights. We also offer company sports associations and events, discount on gym memberships, yoga classes and massage therapy – just to name a few. We want to create an environment that supports a healthy lifestyle and healthy habits. In 2019, our running club was present at three different races: DHL, Royal Run and Ørestadsløbet. NO-SMOKING POLICY In January 2020 we are introducing a new non-smoking policy, which is fully in-line with our dedication to be an attractive workplace with a dedicated focus on health and general well-being. All employees are offered free smoking cessation courses during working hours. We also offer nicotine patches for a period of two months after a smoking cessation course. HEALTH INSUR ANCE All salaried employees with more than 6 months of company-seniority and an 8+ hour workweek are covered by the company’s private health insurance agreement with Pension Danmark or Dansk Sundhedssikring. Salaried employees are covered by The Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act. This contains provisions regarding notice periods, severance pay, unauthorized dismissals, expulsion, Illness, competition clauses, bonus, maternity, paternity and pregnancy leave, among others. SICK LEAVE Illness hurts on a personal level as well as our organization, so the well-being of everyone is a shared concern. We have committed ourselves to actively reducing staff sick leave and to provide even better opportunities for employees to stay healthy. ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS % 2018 2019 BC Hospitality Group 3,9% 3,8% Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 3,8% 4,6% Marriot Copenhagen 4,5% 4,8% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 4,6% 4,1% Bella Center Copenhagen 2,7% 2,8% 58 59 OCCUPATIONAL THE PORTAL INCLUDES, AMONG OTHER THINGS: HEALTH AND SAFET Y • Workplace evaluations (APV), results and plans of action • Important information about the use of chemical products • P olicies regarding work environment, smoking, pregnancy, sexual harassment, HEALTH & SAFET Y COMMIT TEE harassment, and others. The Health & Safety Committee believes that a well-functioning working environ• Sick leave statistics ment comes from mutual dialogue and cooperation between management and employee. An important step to strengthen its important purpose was the merger • Contact details of the Health & Safety committee of the Works Committee with the Health and Safety Committee. We strive to foster a healthy work environment, and long and healthy work through ANTI-HAR ASSMENT CAMPAIGN active involvement and using the knowledge we have for doing good. In our 2019 Human Rights impact analysis, one of the potential risks was the risk of workplace harassment. Therefore, we initiated an awareness campaign on harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. NEW ONLINE WORK ENVIRONMENT PL ATFORM 2019 has also seen the launch of our new online work environment portal. This platform strives to provide a clear overview of the policies of our working environment at BC Hospitality Group and the initiatives put forward in order to ensure a healthy work environment. For that purpose, we use this online portal, which is updated continuously and can be accessed through our employee app. OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES No. of accidents registered 2018 2019 BC Hospitality Group 33 39 Bella Center Copenhagen & 20 19 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 8 17 Marriot Copenhagen 5 3 60 61 DATA PRIVACY Everyone has their right to have their personal data protected. We actively adhere to data privacy laws and constantly review our procedures in order to align them with requirements set out by the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). During 2019, we have invested many resources in updating policies, procedures, providing training sessions, running awareness campaigns and internal audits in improving our data privacy to an even higher standard. SAFET Y AND SECURIT Y Through our inhouse Safety and Security Academy, we train our employees to live out our Safe Space Program, which is built around the statement ‘See something? Do something!’. Based on the employee’s position, their training covers important issues such as Fire Safety, First Aid and Security Attendant Training. Our BC Academy also covers human trafficking, conflict understanding and management, handling of confrontations etc. During 2019, we launched a new campaigned focused on fire and evacuation, where we amongst other things created a series of short films to support staff training. We review our procedures as often as possible and have an extensive risk assessment tool in place. With thorough risk assessment, we customize the most optimal security solutions for each individual event. In addition, we have a close collaboration with authorities and government officials to ensure the highest level of security for our guests who come with many different needs and requirements. FOOD SAFET Y Our chefs and Food and Beverage managers constantly reinforce the principles of food safety – a top priority within our organization. All business units in BC Hospitality Group have only received elite smileys and exceptional reports from the Danish Ministry of Environment and Food. All of our units comply with food and safety rules and regulations. We encourage our guests to ask about allergenic ingredients pertinent to them. We also label and pack our food and beverage with full description of ingredients. 62 63 APPENDIX NON-DISCRIMINATION & HAR ASSMENT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY BC Hospitality Group embraces diversity in all aspects of our business. We commit to providing a workplace free of harassment with equal opportunities and treatment, and not to discriminate against employees or potential employees in our hiring and employment practice, on the basis of race, color, gender, religion, INTRODUCTION age, social and civil status, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation or any other protection established by applicable law or regulation. BC Hospitality Group is one of Denmark’s leading businesses in the hotel, conference, exhibition and hospitality industry. In addition to delivering the best In addition, our operations affect other aspects of human rights, including but not possible service to our guests and customers, we are dedicated to contributing limited to the right to privacy, just and favorable working conditions and forced to sustainable, social, environmental and economic development. We call this labor. Responsible Hospitality. Fundamental to our Responsible Hospitality approach is respecting Human Rights. We will support our employees in understanding human rights and how we may adversely impact human rights. SCOPE Human rights are the basic rights and freedoms that all people are entitled to. At GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS BC Hospitality Group, we recognize and acknowledge that we have the responsibility to respect Human Rights across all our operations. Our commitment to BC Hospitality Group values and respects honest and open communication. respecting Human Rights applies to all BC Hospitality Group employees. All stakeholders hold the rights to raise questions or concerns through direct enquiries such as email, phone or social media channels. We expect our business partners, such as suppliers and other parties directly linked to our operations, to adhere to this overarching commitment and to adopt similar Employees may ask questions or raise concerns regarding human rights impacts policies within their own businesses. These supplier expectations are outlined in to their immediate manager or People & Culture representative. We also provide our Supplier Code of Conduct. anonymous channels to report unethical behavior such as our ‘What’s on your mind’ mailbox. Our commitment is based on internationally recognized Human Rights Principles as described by the International Bill of Human Rights as well as The International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. On the basis of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) of the United Nations Human Rights Council, we commit to our human rights responsibilities and due diligence in our operations. OUR COMMITMENT We have identified specific actions necessary to fulfill our commitment by assessing the actual and potential impact of our business activities. Based on this assessment we have particular focus on the following impacts: HE ALTH & SAFE T Y At BC Hospitality Group, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy environment. This means ensuring that only the highest standards of health and safety are maintained for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Our employees and business partners are responsible for understanding and complying with all applicable safety and health laws and guidelines. In addition, every person has a clear duty to identify and respond to health and safety risks and security concerns and take every reasonable precaution to avoid the possibility of injuring himself or putting other persons at risk. 64 65 GOVERNANCE BUSINESS INTEGRIT Y Our commitment to respecting Human Rights is integrated in our organization through our company values and our Group Policies. We understand that the rePOLICY spect of Human Rights is a dynamic process, which means that we will continuously seek to review and improve our commitment in accordance to the expectations • W  e conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition of our stakeholders. and will abide by applicable laws and regulations. In our annual Responsible Hospitality Report, we communicate our progress in • W  e will in all dealings with business partners, seek to preserve the highest stanimplementing the UN Guiding Principles and we report on how we address severe dards of integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism human rights impacts that we may cause, contribute or be directly linked to. and will look to them to set similar standards. The policy is approved by members of the Executive Committee and must be • W  e will apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion reviewed regularly in order to ensure its continued adequacy and relevance in and bribery. accordance to the UN Guiding Principles. • W  e will not accept any personal gifts, gratuities, premiums or other incentives when choosing suppliers. We prefer incentives expressed in acceptable business terms, e.g. quality, service and price. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY • W  e will only purchase goods and services, which support the business purposes • W e will continue to improve our environmental performance and we will imof BC Hospitality Group. plement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economic and environmental sense without compromising the experience of quality and • W  e will aim to ensure that the best value for money is being obtained and that comfort at our hotels and venues. its resources are being used to the greatest benefit. • W e will make the most efficient use of resources (energy, water and other • W  e will work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business natural resources) and promote conservation and savings wherever possible partners are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in any violations of and practical. human rights or labor rights and do not participate in or permit corruption in any of its forms. • W e will incorporate environmental considerations, including animal welfare into our actions and procurement decisions. • W e will raise awareness of environmental matters among our employees and stakeholders. • W e will optimize our waste reduction through reusing materials where possible, recycling and limiting our use of hazardous materials where economical and suitable alternatives are available. • W e will monitor, record and benchmark our environmental performance on a regular basis. 66 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX: INDICATOR DISCLOSURE LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE ADDITIONAL REFERENCE 102-1 Name of the organization About this report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and About BC Hospitality Group services 102-3 Location of headquarters About BC Hospitality Group 102-4 Location of operations About BC Hospitality Group 102-5 Ownership and legal form About BC Hospitality Group 102-6 Markets served About BC Hospitality Group 102-7 Scale of the organization About BC Hospitality Group Annual Financial Reports for Careers That Matter Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-8 Information on employees and Careers That Matter UNGC Principle 6 other workers Partnerships That Matter SDG 8 102-10 Significant changes to the org. and About BC Hospitality Group its supply chain Make Products Matter 102-11 Precautionary principle or Make Products Matter approach Conserving Resources that Matter 102-12 External Initiatives About this report Responsible Hospitality 102-13 Membership of associations Responsible Hospitality 102-14 Statement from senior Statement from the CEO decision-maker 102-16 Values principles, standards, Responsible Hospitality UNGC Principle 10 / SDG 16 norms of behaviour 102-18 Governance structure Careers that matter Annual Financial Reports for Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-40 List of stakeholder group Responsible Hospitality 102-41 Collective bargaining Careers that matter UNGC Principle 3 / SDG 8 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Responsible Hospitality stakeholders 102-43 The organization’s approach Responsible Hospitality to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns Responsible Hospitality raised through stakeholder Careers that matter engagement Partnerships That Matter 102-45 Entities included in the conAnnual Financial Reports for solidated financial statements Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-46 Defining report content and topic Responsible Hospitality boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Responsible hospitality 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Reporting cycle About this report 102-52 Date of the most recent report About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions About this report regarding the report 68 69 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About this report 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8 with the GRI Standards method Matter SDG 3, 12, 15 102-55 GRI Content index GRI Content index 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Make Products Matter 102-56 External Assurance No external assurance using environmental criteria 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Careers that matter 402-1 Minimum notice periods Collective agreements with: 3F, and its Boundary Partnerships that matter regarding operational changes HK, DI Faglærte Overenskomst. Conserving Resources That The Employers’ and Salaried Matter Employees’ Act. Making Products matter UNGC Principle 3 / SDG 8 Healthy Living Matters 403-1 Occupational health and safety Healthy Living Matters Appendix management system 103-2 The management approach Careers that matter SDG 1, 5, 8 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Healthy Living Matters SDG 3 and its components Partnerships that matter UNGC Principle 1 occupational diseases, lost days, Conserving Resources That absenteeism, and number of Matter work-related fatalities. Making Products matter Healthy Living Matters 403-4 Health and safety topics covered Covered by collective agreeAppendix in formal agreement with trade ments with 3F, HK, DI Faglærte unions Overenskomst. SDG 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management Careers that matter approach Partnerships that matter 404-1 Average hours of training per year Careers that matter UNGC Principle 6 Conserving Resources That per employee SDG 4, 5, 8 Matter 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee Careers that matter SDG 4, 8 Making Products matter skills and transition assistance Healthy Living Matters programs Appendix 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Careers that matter UNGC Principle 6 201-1 Direct economic value Annual Financial Reports for and employees SDG 5, 8 generated and distributed Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Tow406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents. UNGC Principle 6 ers & BC Hospitality Group corrective actions taken SDG 5, 8, 16 SDG 8, 9 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Annual Financial Reports for 410-1 Security personnel training in huHealthy Living Matters UNGC Principle 1 and other retirement plans Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towman rights policies or procedures ers & BC Hospitality Group 412-2 Employee training on human Careers that matter UNGC Principle 1 201-4 Financial assistance received from Annual Financial Reports for rights policies or procedures Healthy Living Matters government Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Tow413-1 Operations with local community Partnerships that matter UNGC Principle 1,6 ers & BC Hospitality Group engagement, impact assessSDG 4, 8, 10, 17 202-1 Entry Level Wage There is no legally stipulated ments, and development minimum wage in Denmark. programs. Wage rates are specified in 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Make Products Matter UNGC Principle 2 accordance with collective using social criteria SDG 5, 8 agreements. UNGC Principle 6 / SDG 1, 5 416-1 Assessment of the health and Healthy Living Matters safety impacts of product and 302-1 Energy consumption within the Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 service categories organization Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance No incidents 302-3 Energy intensity Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 concerning the health and safety Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 impacts of products and services 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8, 9 417-1 Requirements for product and Healthy Living Matters SDG 2, 12 Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 service information and labelling 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Non incidents Matter SDG 6 concerning product and service SDG 2 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8 information and labelling managed in, or adjacent to, Matter SDG 6, 14, 15 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance No incidents protected areas and areas of concerning marketing communihigh biodiversity value outside cations protected areas. 418-1 Substantiated complaints conNo incidents 305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Conserving Resources That GC Principle 7, 8 cerning breaches of customer priSDG 16 Matter SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 vacy and losses of customer data 305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 419-1 Non-compliance with laws & reguNo incidents emissions Matter SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 lations in social & economic area SDG 16 70 71
