SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 2019 COMPANY SOCIAL PRODUCTS ENVIRONMENT Corporate Responsibility for Responsibility for Our commitment to management our employees our products environment and climate protection Contents Contents 02 Coverstory 03 Foreword: Eric Lachambre, CEO 04 Company profile 04 About us 05 What we do 05 History 06 Brands 08 Strategy 09 Our contribution to sustainable development 10 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group 12 Value chain business model 16 Highlighted projects 18 SLV Lighting Group sustainability overview 21 Our Goals in line with UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 22 Our journey towards sustainability 22 New sustainability strategy 24 Stakeholders and analysis 28 Corporate management 30 Group management 30 Corporate values 32 Measures to combat corruption and anticompetitive behavior 33 Membership in external initiatives Coverstory 34 36 Responsibility for our employees Staff retention 38 Diversity is our strength 44 Competence development and PEOPLE – our future further training 48 Freedom of association and In our view, motivated, well-trained employees are the collective agreements cornerstone of our success. We therefore see it as our 49 Safety at work responsibility to create working conditions that enable our 52 Social commitment staff to perform their duties in the best possible way. We want to live up to this responsibility by providing fair remu54 Responsibility for our products neration, safety at work, a wide range of career opportunities, 56 Ecological and economic advantages and numerous further training alternatives. We thus ensure 57 Customer health and product safety that a sufficient number of qualified people become aware 58 Strengthening cooperation – of us as an employer and that our employees are able to supplier management in detail work with motivation in a widely varied number of tasks in the long term. 60 Our commitment to environment and climate 62 Waste management and recycling 63 Materials and resources used 63 Water management 64 Energy consumption and management 66 Emissions 67 GRI Content Index 75 Legal notice 02 Foreword “ WE AIM TO ACHIEVE SUSTAINABLE RESULTS THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN – INSTEAD OF FOCUSING SOLELY ON PROFIT AT THE EXPENSE OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS. Foreword ” Is sustainability a challenge? For all portfolio companies covered by Ardian’s engagement program, the Sustainability team assesses performance on That depends on how you look at it. In fact, I see sustainability four main key priorities for Ardian: as a challenge in a positive sense when seen as a business concept and a competitive advantage. Climate change: physical and transition risks, carbon footprint assessment if measured by the company, Few other sectors are developing as dynamically as the environmental strategy. lighting industry. Innovative technologies are constantly being introduced, driven by globalization, connectivity, Diversity & equal opportunity: gender diversity in governing digitalization, and energy efficiency discussions. At the bodies and staff. same time, consumers are increasingly calling for eco-friendly, resource-efficient products. Sustainability is Profit sharing: employee shareholding plan and profit becoming a key business advantage in our highly competisharing scheme put in place during ownership. tive industry. These developments work in favor of the SLV Lighting Group, since we have been active in the field of Governance & ethics: implantation of the CSR policy, sustainability for many years and are now in a strong position independent members of board of directors, decent to take on the opportunities of the future. employment. At Group level, we are building our business model within the framework of a circular economy and aim to achieve As an Ardian portfolio company, we are strongly supported sustainable results throughout the entire value chain – in our efforts to make sustainability a key element of our daily instead of focusing solely on profit at the expense of social business with the aim of achieving sustainable growth in and environmental concerns. terms of both revenue and profit. An annual sustainability analysis conducted on behalf of Ardian enables us to better With the global reach of our value chain, we can also use our understand our fields of action and develop measures for influence as a multiplier and are working to integrate further optimizing our sustainability approach. We see Ardian’s sustainability in the commercial activities of our global partcommitment to the “Initiative Climat International” as an ners. With this strategy, we can also assume our responsibility impulse for measuring, monitoring, and reducing greenas a business partner and further extend the reach of our house gas emissions throughout our value chain. We recognize sustainability initiatives. In recent years, we have gradually that climate change will have material impacts on ecosysintegrated sustainable values in our everyday work and tems, human societies, and the global economy, resulting in included them as an essential aspect of our business model both risks and opportunities for the Group. Therefore, in line going forward. Furthermore, we regularly measure and with our shareholder’s vision of sustainability, we aim to monitor our progress in terms of ESG (Environmental, Social, create sustainable value for all our stakeholders. and Governance) activities in order to identify additional potential for improvement and share good practices with With our 2020 Group Sustainability Strategy, we continually our stakeholders along the entire value chain. strive to improve the long-term sustainability performance of the SLV Lighting Group and its subsidiaries. By empowering our people (management, employees, and partners) to Ardian – a strong partner for become drivers of sustainability, we will be able to strengthen achieving sustainability our global sustainability profile in line with UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals as we continue to With assets of $96 billion under management or advised, our grow our business. We are convinced that integrating shareholder Ardian is one of the world’s largest private sustainability in everything we do will not only have a investment companies. At the same time, Ardian is also a positive impact on society and the environment, but also pioneer of responsible investment, signatory of UN PRI result in greater economic value for our Group. since 2009, with a clear vision of empowering individuals to collectively create sustainable value for all stakeholders. With these points in mind, we hope you enjoy reading our Since 2009, 126 companies were supported with an individ2020 Group Sustainability Report. ualized Sustainability roadmap, and 229 of Ardian General Partners (GPs) were monitored since 2011. Düsseldorf, June 2020. Eric Lachambre, CEO 03 Company profile Be part of a bright journey About us The SLV Lighting Group is a market leader in the lighting industry, employing 680 people in 13 countries with a turnover above 200 mio € in 2019. We are dedicated to creating sustainable lighting solutions in line with the latest trends in the industry. Our products provide the perfect ambience for each setting by delivering exceptional lighting quality. Our innovative solutions are used in both residential and commercial applications, in indoor and outdoor settings. Our five main brands – SLV, Knightsbridge, Novalux, Unex LED and Nordtronic – each bring something unique and complementary to the SLV Lighting Group, varying from easy-to-install fixtures to high-quality, customized solutions. The SLV Lighting Group provides an integrated platform that enables synergies across Group companies, including our state-of-the-art laboratories, local knowledge, market access, and logistics. 04 Company profile What we do Bright Quality lighting Partners growing purpose for people stronger together The SLV Lighting Group is a market SLV Lighting Group invest continuously Together with its partners, the SLV leader in the lighting industry, bringing in designing and developing the latest Lighting Group shares an entreprehigh-quality light to people around the innovations. Our improvement and neurial spirit, working together with world. We mingle within the digitalized optimization processes enable our forward-thinking people to develop environment to keep track of trends, customers to enjoy future-proof lighting unique solutions, create synergies, enabling us and our brands to deliver solutions that create the right ambiand expand within the ever-changing the excellent service that has made us ence and experience. This is only lighting market. We bring together our a thriving enterprise. We are passionpossible thanks to the dedication and local knowledge and expertise, comate about what we do, and this outinspiration of our people, who we mitted people, extensive networks, standing dedication lives in the minds empower to fulfill their enduring and the dedication to develop quality of our employees, our partners, our passion for light. lighting solutions. investors, and our subsidiaries. History From SLV to the SLV Lighting Group, from selling lights to creating innovative lighting solutions, the company brightens up the lives of people right across Europe and in many other parts of the world as well. Founded in 1979 and based in Übach-Palenberg, Germany, SLV is one of the fastest-growing and most successful providers of lighting products in Europe. It has consistently outperformed the market in recent years and increased its market share, both in Germany and internationally. SLV operates subsidiaries and associated companies in Germany, 2016 SLV acquires Nordtronic, 2019 SLV Lighting Group France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, the recognized expert for acquires Novalux, an Italian brand Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, downlights in the Nordics, and known for its architectural lighting Norway, Portugal, Denmark, China, the UK, introduces its innovative solutions solutions and sleek designs. and Russia. to new markets worldwide. 2014 SLV acquires Unex LED, a specialist in LED profiles, including 2017 SLV acquires ML Accessories (UK). Its customized designs for Knightsbridge brand opens the door to the UK commercial applications. and Irish markets for the SLV Lighting Group. 05 Company profile Brands Inspired and developed by German engineering, SLV quickly grew from its roots in Übach-Palenberg, Germany, to open 11 foreign subsidiaries and start shipping professionally designed luminaires to over 100 countries around the world. Today, SLV is a global leader in providing future-proof lighting solutions for indoor and outdoor. The B2B brand focuses on balancing innovative technology, up-to-date design, and customer-friendly prices, while offering first-class service and high quality to its customers. Focused on the British and Irish markets, with its Knightsbridge brand ML Accessories has evolved to become a major provider of over 3,000 quality products, including wiring accessory solutions and state-of-the-art lighting technologies. The people at Knightsbridge are passionate about developing innovative, smart, stylish solutions that enhance the ambience and functionality of any residential or commercial space. 06 Company profile Since its foundation in 2006, Nordtronic has forged a reputation in the Nordics for its high-quality, future-proofed downlights and Nordicoriented portfolio. Its product range is constantly evolving, based on customer feedback, to ensure innovative solutions that are sustainable, energy-efficient, and extremely easy to install. Novalux has been pushing the boundaries of innovation and delivering high-quality and individualized lighting ever since it was established in Italy in 1948. By focusing on developing groundbreaking, customizable, cutting-edge solutions for commercial applications, Novalux finds unique ways of using lighting to create the best ambience and experience for its customers. Now managed by the founders’ grandson, the brand is proud to continue this mission as part of the SLV Lighting Group. Established in 1972, the Swiss brand Unex LED offers a range of high-quality LED strip, profile, and commercial lighting solutions. From its headquarters in Zurich, Unex LED manufactures its own product range, develops tailor-made solutions and acts as a lighting consultant for projects across Switzerland. 07 Company profile Strategy Looking to the future of our company The future is going to be exciting – full of new technologies, new ambitions, and new opportunities. Lighting is the core of our business and we plan to continue offering a wide range of relevant, quality solutions using a multi-brand, multichannel approach. We believe that our vision, mission, and values empower us as we work towards a bright, successful tomorrow. Vision Our vision for the future is clear: We are a global leader in providing future-proof lighting solutions. We intend to strenghten this position by tracking global trends and innovations, by creating the ideal lighting ambiance, and by working with the right partners that add value to our purpose. We are fully committed to our sustainable supply chain and quality management systems. Mission Everything we do supports our mission of developing quality lighting and providing first-class service to our customers. We are at the forefront of global trends, creating innovative designs that implement the latest technologies to brighten our customers’ lives for a better world. Values We achieve our vision and our mission by actively practicing our core values: passion, responsibility, respect, and reliability. Passion Responsibility Respect Reliability We are passionate about We are accountable for our We appreciate the people Trust and reliability form a bringing high-quality actions and their around us, respecting their solid foundation that enables lighting to people around the consequences, a fact rights and embracing and our other core values to grow. world with our best-in-class reflected in our enduring nurturing cultural diversity We monitor quality closely products, solutions, and commitment to Corporate in all the markets in which throughout the entire value customer service. Social Responsibility. we operate. chain and consistently deliver products of outstanding quality that our customers can completely rely on. 08 Company profile Our contribution to sustainable development Turnover Development Responsible corporate governance, which ensures the Turnover SLV Lighting Group economic stability of the Group, takes into account the interests of all major stakeholders and provides M (EUR) transparency. 207 199 We give our employees the opportunity to continually 200 develop their skills and perform demanding tasks in a safe working environment. 150 Our product portfolio highlights energy efficiency, both 100 ecologically and economically, thus saving our customers’ resources and cutting their costs. 50 We protect the environment by continuously optimizing 2018 2019 our core business and minimizing the negative impacts of our commercial activities. This report has been prepared for the first time at Group A systematic indicator management system for reporting is level with the aim of consolidating our efforts and profesvery important and has pointed out potential for improvesionalizing sustainability management throughout our ment in this area. Our new Sustainability Strategy shows entire value chain. It is based on the latest version of the that some sustainable measures are already in place, but it internationally recognized framework of the Global Reporting also indicates where we need to make improvements going Initiative, the GRI Standards. The aim of this report is to forward. With this insight, we are on track for further present the sustainability activities of the SLV Lighting expanding our sustainability activities and consolidating Group and illustrate the impact of our business activities on them in the bi-annual reporting cycle. society, the environment, and the job market. Our stakeholders should thus get a clear picture of the measures we Focusing on our impacts throughout the value chain as a take to make our products and processes more sustainable. whole, this report covers three (3) main topics at Group level, This first Group Sustainability Report is based on a systematic i.e., PEOPLE, CLIMATE CHANGE, and SUPPLY CHAIN, and approach with a Sustainability Strategy and the relevant will then be gradually extended in subsequent reports, due KPIs. It represents an exceptional challenge in this respect, to the relevance of the indicator topics. as it lays the foundation for the management of all further related processes. 09 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Our understanding of sustainability at SLV is a balanced interaction of business, social, and environmental aspects. Only by taking all these facets into account across all our core business processes can we ensure sustainable, long-term success as a company without providing our products and services at the expense of society or the environment. Furthermore, our international business activities present us with the challenge of attaining these values across a wide variety of stakeholder groups, not only in Germany, but all around the world. Through responsible corporate governance, continuously improving our energy-efficient product portfolios, and ensuring the occupational health and safety of our employees and business partners, we contribute to reducing the negative impacts of our activities and strengthening the positive ones. Sustainability at SLV is a balanced interaction of business, social, and environmental aspects. We want to differentiate ourselves by seeing the bigger picture and focusing on PEOPLE in the broader sense. We aim to achieve this goal by providing more material information, improving product labeling, ecodesigning our products and packaging, reducing hidden waste and emissions, optimizing logistics processes, and communicating best sustainability practices throughout the value chain. 11 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Value chain business model m a x i Input recources Value chain Core Outsourced Market Research/ Design/ Purchasing Manufacturing Benchmark R&D m i n i 12 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group z i n g + mi Output value Photo by Jonas Weckschmied on Unsplash Outsourced Core Sales & Logistics Warehousing Marketing m i z i n g Remark: The colored boxes refer to the Sustainable Development Goals of UN (See Page 21). 13 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Our sustainable business model Our understanding of sustainability at SLV is a balanced interaction of business, social, and environmental aspects. Only by taking all these facets into account across all our core business processes can we ensure our sustainable, long-term success as a company. Holistic value creation As a product developer and supplier, the SLV Lighting Group positive impact along the entire value chain. Our ultimate is involved in business processes worldwide that generate sustainability target is to maintain a sustainable value chain emissions and waste and in some cases consume limited that provides us with a competitive advantage. The value natural resources as well as water. We are aware of the chain concept covers a broader scope of commercial activity impact of our business activities on the environment, than the supply chain, but upholds the supply chain as an actively accept our responsibility for environmental and cliaspect of vital importance towards promoting a successful mate protection, and work to mitigate them to the greatest value chain. possible extent. With this strategy we aim to increase our Value chain Core Outsourced Market Research/ Design/ Purchasing Manufacturing Benchmark R&D paper and also intend to reduce the overall volume of our packHighlighted projects aging. This strategy will also help reduce the indirect impacts caused by shipment in order to minimize our carbon footprint. throughout our value chain Recycled plastics as Sustainable packaging secondary raw materials Avoid, reduce, reuse, and recycle are our fundamental In the context of life cycle thinking, as we look at our product sustainability principles for packaging at SLV. We are conlife cycles we regard raw material sourcing as a highly stantly in search of potential to optimize our use of resources significant aspect towards minimizing resource depletion. In in an environmentally friendly way. We want to manage our order to conserve scarce resources and mitigate the envimaterial consumption, energy consumption, and CO2 emisronmental impact caused by their production, we pursue sions as well as meet product-specific safety requirements high environmental and social standards for the extraction with our packaging. We are working specifically towards and processing of our raw materials. We see the substitution establishing a circular economy by using recycled materials, of virgin raw materials with secondary raw materials as an adapting sustainability-driven design, and promoting the alternative approach, which has a dual effect. Firstly, we use of better recyclable packaging to minimize waste. In this recycle waste and residual materials to minimize the volcontext, we have begun replacing styrofoam with recycled umes accumulating in the environment (such as plastics in 14 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Life cycle thinking Input resources The key mindset of the SLV Lighting Group is one of life With respect to resource conservation, as a conscious cycle thinking. Besides producing energy-efficient lighting producer we endeavor to avoid the use of primary raw mateand contributing to sustainable living in the broader sense, rials to the degree that quality criteria allow. We design our we are aware of our impact, which encompasses the products to enable the easy integration of recycled plastics extraction of the raw materials used in our products, their as secondary raw materials to the greatest possible extent. manufacturing, and their effective recycling when they become waste. Output value We work on designing our products to be both reparable and recyclable. Furthermore, in order to conserve resources on the output side, we endeavor to replace the plastics used in Photo by Jonas Weckschmied on Unsplash Outsourced Core our packaging with paper as far as possible. We also aim to reduce the emissions generated through shipment by optimizing our logistics activities and minimizing packaging volumes. Sales & Logistics Warehousing Marketing the oceans, so-called ocean plastic), and secondly we utilize fewer virgin raw material resources and replace them with secondary raw materials that can deliver the same quality without any negative effects on our products. With this incentive, we have Smart ordering in customer services developed our SPIKE, RUBA, and SIMA products using recycled plastics instead of virgin raw materials. The secondary raw material content is therefore around 20-30 % of recycled plastic, to the extent that quality and durability criteria allow us to do so. Safe driving training for sales teams Digitalization Co-generation and alternative energy In 2019, SLV relaunched its websites and web shops based on “microservices” technology that offers maximum flexibility and enables SLV to offer “best-in-class” Eco-friendly commuting services online. The new SLV shop was awarded best shop in the category B2B (Shop Usability Award). With Business Connect, SLV offers digital services to support and accelerate the cooperation with business customers, to avoid mistakes in communiResponsible supply chain management cation and order processing and to ensure that SLV products are positioned accordingly in our customers’ product range. SLV also cooperates with the European online marketplaces to ensure that the modern SLV products are adequately presented there and have a corresponding relevance to the end customer. 15 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Highlighted projects Our sustainability target is to maintain a sustainable value chain through the balanced interaction of business, social, and environmental aspects across all our core business processes. SLV UK & Knightsbridge E Sustainable packaging F I LICHITING O ER BICIHT EN V A L EN HO REC ELS INK ,W REN NTO L ING EN , KA ON IN W om lv.c w.s ww SLV Ne derla nd 19 by ht 20 pyrig © Co SLV Netherlands • Brochure: “Biofilie” • Green Building SLV France SLV Vert SLV Italy & Novalux Solar energy 16 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group SLV Germany • B2B Shop Usability Award 2019 • Digitalization: • Product data & document data transfer • Catalogues • Sustainable packaging • Lighting technology training courses • Co-generation • Recycled material products SLV Asia CSR Supplier Audit SLV Switzerland & Unex LED PET-Recycling Schweiz Environment Certificate 17 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group SLV Lighting Group – sustainability overview Sustainability at Group level At Group level we have developed our first sustainability We do not tolerate child labor or any lack of compliance with strategy and establish a structured method of collecting anti-corruption measures. As a result, we uphold the UN data and monitoring it in order to achieve our targets. Our Global Compact 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), main focus is positive and negative impacts, which will help which focus on human rights, labor, the environment, and us contribute to mitigate the depletion of resources and anti-corruption and see our commitment to these goals as a combat climate change in a more efficient way. genuine competitive advantage. As a manufacturer of energy-consuming products that do not require a great deal of water to make them, we consider energy consumption as our most important indicator. However, we still regard the critical water protection areas as a SUSTAINABILITY relevant factor. In order to effectively mitigate our impact on SLV Lighting Group HQ climate change, we first looked at our consumption of electricity and natural gas, then at other energy consumption, such as our company cars and distribution networks, as 2019 2018 direct ways of reducing our GHG emissions. As our competitive advantage is our value chain, we place great emphasis GHG EMISSIONS (tons of CO2 eq.) on our global business and its impacts. Our outsourced proShort distance flights 1 1.733,50 60.596,70 duction facilities are located all around the world. We therefore consider the shipment of our products and their environLong distance flights 2 70.775,63 34.973,55 mental impact in our efforts to become carbon-neutral. Total tons CO2 eq./year 72.509,13 95.570,25 At Group level we are in the process of preparing a benchmark basis for specific energy consumption and will continue 1short distance corresponds to <500 km working to develop further measurements for all locations 2long distance corresponds to >500 km throughout the upcoming reporting period. Besides monitoring and optimizing consumption, we want to encourage the tendency towards alternatives such as renewable energy sources based on the options available at each location. SPECIFIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh/m²) As a kick-off for the basis of monitoring energy consumption, 21,14 we first looked at electricity consumption at each location and measured trends over the last two years. There are only 2018: 28,38 two peaks (SLV France and SLV Belgium) slightly out of the range in comparison to others, which was due to the utilization of electricity for heating purposes. The specific electricity consumption lies between 21–28 kWh/m². Our facilities mainly consist of an office and a warehouse with an additional assembly line at some locations. Diversity is the inclusion of things, people, and places that are different. In this context, having people of different racTo initially monitor our carbon footprint, we started with the es, genders, ages, and ethnicities in one place shows a business flights taken by our headquarters staff in order to great deal of diversity. No one thing or person is the same as estimate how large our carbon footprint might be or, in other another and our Group is made up of a variety of cultures words, to which degree our business travel is impacting and backgrounds. Diversity can also mean the different GHG emissions and therefore climate change. We measured opinions of individuals. the variation between business class and economy class flights, multiplied by the distance effect, to end with a t CO2 For real equality to happen, a shift in organizational culture eq. figure. We managed to reduce our carbon footprint by is needed, which typically starts at the top of the company 24% from 2018 to 2019 by minimizing the number of flights chain of command. The SLV management team emphasizes needed for short-distance travel. Since that time we have the promotion of female equality and its positive effects on chosen online meetings and different ways of traveling corporate culture, staff retention, and bottom line. As a instead, which made us realize that we can really make result, at Group level we notice an increase in the number of a difference. female employees overall in comparison to the decreasing total number of employees and the proportion of women in As we greatly value our people, we respect and encourage the workforce has remained above 16%. However, the gender equality at every professional level, including the decrease in the percentage of women in management principles of equal pay and a positive work-life balance. positions is recognizable and needs to be improved over 18 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group the next few years. The Group also intends to focus on employing a greater percentage of disabled people in the foreseeable future. SUSTAINABILITY In order to significantly promote diversity, gender equality, SLV Lighting Group and employ more people with disabilities, SLV has included equal pay for equal work, ﬂexible working hours, and pays great attention to including people with physical or mental 2019 2018 disabilities on equal terms in its work processes. In 2019, we NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES employed seven people with severe disabilities and a disabled person’s pass, which corresponds to 2% of the Total 622,00 648,00 total workforce. GENDER EQUALITY (Quote in %) Female Employees 38,60 37,65 FLUCTATION RATE (%) Employees in Management Positions 2,25 2,31 The average staff ﬂuctuation rate across the Group stood at Female Employees in 7.21% in 2018 and 10.46% in 2019. In 2019 we saw a 3.7% Management Positions 16,07 18,51 increase due to two peaks in Denmark and Portugal which had high impact on the overall outcome, as their total number of employees were relatively low. In 2018, again a similar peak DISABLED EQUALITY (Quote in %) was recorded for the Czech Republic and Denmark with the Employees with same reasons raising the average. disabilities 1,93 2,31 In order to reduce the staff ﬂuctuation rate, we intend to take specific measures in each country and at each location. 2019 Czech Republic Portugal France Switzerland Guangzhou-China 14,30 20,00 53,30 11,80 10,00 18,80 8,30 25,00 11,50 17,40 Italy Shanghai-China Belgium Germany Denmark Czech Republic 2018 France Italy 13,30 50,00 28,60 5,30 9,70 2,30 10,60 Germany Switzerland Belgium Denmark Locations with zero fluctations are not represented in the figure. Locations with higher fluctuations have less employees but effect the proportion highly. 19 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group ABSENCE RATE (%) Absenteeism has improved over all despite some variations across the Group. We will analyze the causes of these variations and take measures to the relevant extent. 2019 Czech Republic Germany Portugal 11,80 8,70 2,20 5,70 3,60 0,10 0,50 Switzerland France Italy Belgium 2018 Czech Republic Germany Portugal 13,40 8,80 3,40 6,00 3,80 0,20 4,40 Belgium France Italy Switzerland Locations with zero absence are not represented in the figure. Locations with higher absence rates have less employees but effect the proportion highly. SUPPLIERS WITH SLV Lighting Group goals CSR ASSESSMENT up to 2022 and 2030 As a first step forward towards CSR-integrated supply chain The SLV Lighting Group has some quantitative goals (targets) management, we run CSR basic audits at all our Asian suppliit aims to reach by 2022 and 2030 respectively that are dividers. These are mainly conducted by the SLV Germany and ed up within the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), SLV China teams. Supplier coverage is being increased each as can be seen in the next illustration. We want to increase year with the ultimate aim of achieving 100% in 2020. Please our positive impacts and reduce our negative impacts see the detailed distribution of audited suppliers over across our entire value chain at Group level, at every subsidiary, years 2017, 2018 and 2019 in relevant Chapter on Supplier and for each brand. Management on Page 59. To supplement our quantitative targets, we have also set ourselves some qualitative goals focusing on our scope 3 GHG emissions, good practice sharing, climate-related risks, and an integrated diversity policy that will also deliver us some qualitative and quantitative results as a consequence. 20 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group SLV Lighting Group goals up to 2022 and 2030 in line with UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 50 % increase in proportion of apprentices and their further employment at SLV Group 5-10 % increase in ratio of women in management 100 % conversion of all our products to energy eﬃcient LED products 95% of our “LED” Products will be reparable by educated experts 30 % decreasing Absenteeism 50% reduction of plastic packaging 21 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Our journey towards sustainability The trigger for focusing on sustainability was the EcoVadis assessment of SLV GmbH in 2017, which was conducted to see where we stand and how we regard the topics covered in the area of sustainability. The initial task has been carried out by our Quality Department. However, due to the versatility and complexity of this topic, the need for an independent, interdisciplinary approach became very obvious and it is now represented by a separate unit responsible at Group level that reports directly to the CEO. The first assessment has shown us the potential for improvement and the relevant focuses that need to be considered. The main aspects of sustainability have already been taken into account at SLV in terms of our self-perception and our comprehensive requirement for quality and care, but have not been stated under the sustainability framework. After revising the sustainability aspects in the EcoVadis structure and monitoring the development of key performance indicators (KPIs) for sustainability within the last two years, SLV has decided to aim for a new goal, i.e., a systematic and conceptual sustainability approach at Group level. The new sustainability strategy was launched in 2019 and included specific goals and projects at Group level. The Group Sustainability Strategy considers the global risks and challenges that we are facing. Trends show us that economic models as well as environmental and social welfare needs are pushing us towards a circular economy and life cycle thinking. Therefore, our aspiration and our focus are now emphasized as a “sustainable value chain” that leads to a competitive advantage for the Group as a whole. New sustainability strategy The ultimate aim of our sustainability strategy is to maintain Supply chain covers all shipments, transportation, travel, the sustainable value chain that provides us with a competitive material specifications and their related declarations, and edge. The value chain covers a broader scope of operational labeling with the aim of increasing transparency regarding activity than the supply chain. However, the supply chain is our products, their manufacturing, and labor standards. of key importance to achieving a successful value chain. The main emphasis of our strategy is on people, the supply Communication interlinks all these aspects and the comchain, innovation, communication, and information security. mitment of our stakeholders, making both our aspiration and our targets more integrated and meaningful. People and the added value within are of high importance to SLV. The new strategy will be implemented through core activities and programs aimed at achieving sustainability. Here we Innovation at SLV encompasses an extensive range of benefit from our collaboration with INDEFI Advisory Services product improvements in terms of resource efficiency, energy on the regular sustainability assessments run for analyzing efficiency, repairability, recyclability, and ecodesign that lead the improvement potentials. to a circular economy. 22 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Communication IN VA L U E C H A PEOPLE Innovation Supply Chain Information Security 23 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Stakeholders The SLV Lighting Group sees contact to internal and external relevant stakeholder groups, a team of experts at interest groups as an essential way of further developing its SLV GmbH identified those stakeholders who have the sustainability activities. A dialogue based on partnership greatest influence on the business operations of the enables us to understand the expectations of our stakecompany as part of a reflected process. The following holders, include them in our corporate strategy, and inform groups were selected: them about its implementation. In order to determine the CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS WORK COUNCIL INVESTOR EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT CSR PROFESSIONALS 24 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Customers Understanding and fulfilling the needs of our customers is essential for our corporate success. We meet their requirements by providing a wide range of information, training, and a fair price-performance ratio. The continuously high level of customer satisfaction is confirmation for us that we are interpreting our customers’ concerns correctly and offering them the right solutions. Suppliers At SLV we consider reliable and regular basic conditions as vital for maintaining stable relationships with our suppliers. We attach particular importance to the criteria of quality, reliability, price, and compliance with our specifications for cooperative behavior and sustainability. We cultivate the direct exchange of information on-site by conducting supplier audits and leveraging our internationally positioned teams. Investor Our investor is not only a key partner in strategic issues and corporate financing, but also an important advisor on issues relating to economic sustainability and risk provisioning. Close coordination and transparency regarding our respective goals and needs are of great importance for long-term successful cooperation. Management Any sustainability management, however committed, is ineffective if it does not receive the necessary support at management level. By defining corporate strategy, the management team sets the course for a systematic approach to responsible sustainability management and lays the foundation for its success by making resources available. Employees Our employees ensure our ability to continue providing professional services and offering high-quality products. We strive to provide them with optimal working conditions so that they are positively motivated to carry out their work. For internal dialogue, we make use of proven forms of communication such as employee magazines and personnel information events. Works Council The Works Council regularly informs the workforce about the latest developments regarding topics such as working hours, fair pay, and safety at work. A number of viable works agreements have already been reached through constructive dialogue between the Works Council and the management team. CSR professionals The voices of professionals in specific fields of expertise are always important for us in order to keep in touch with global trends. 25 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Stakeholder analysis These focuses are determined on the basis of previous The main contents of the report have been determined assessments and the reported results of SLV GmbH and gradually until the topics were narrowed down to the level of enriched with global priorities at Group level. A stakeholder handling. A survey has been conducted among relevant analysis has been conducted and a materiality matrix used stakeholders in order to identify the key topics. In parallel, for as a strategic instrument to prioritize between relevant topics. internal consultation purposes, sustainability leadership talks have been held to gain insights at all management levThe breakdown of the stakeholder analysis results has els regarding their priorities, their individual views, and to helped us prioritize relevant topics and again reinforced the encourage their colleagues to aim for sustainability. Topic value we give to our people and products. Our awareness prioritization is based on impacts, risks, and stakeholder of global environmental challenges such as energy, interests. All the relevant topics have been consolidated for emissions, and waste has been once more confirmed. incorporation in the Group’s new sustainability strategy. Economic stability and compliance have also been raised as relevant topics. Materiality matrix Very Important 6 7 8 3 Very Important 4 13 14 12 1 Stakeholder Important Important 9 11 2 Less Important 10 5 Less Important Important Very Important SLV Corporate management Responsibility for our products 1 Compliance & Business Conduct 6 Sustainable Products 2 Economic Stability 7 Product Safety 8 Product Quality Responsibility for our employees 9 Customer Health 3 Occupational Safety and Employee Health 10 Supplier Management 4 Working Conditions 5 Social Engagement Our commitment to environment and climate 11 Energy 12 Emissions 13 Water 14 Waste 26 Sustainability at the SLV Lighting Group Delimiting essential fields of action ESSENTIAL FIELDS IMPACTS CONCERNED STAKEHOLDERS CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Compliance & Business Conduct intern/extern Employees, Investors, Management Board, Customers, Suppliers, CSR Professionals Economic Stability intern/extern Employees, Investors, Management Board, Customers, Suppliers RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Occupational Safety and Employee Health intern/extern Employees, Work council intern Employees, Suppliers, Work council, Working Conditions CSR Professionals Social Engagement intern/extern Employees, Customers RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR PRODUCTS Sustainable Products intern/extern Customers, Associations, Investors, Management Board Product Safety intern/extern Customers, Suppliers Investors, Management Board Product Quality intern/extern Customers, Suppliers, Investors, Management Board Customer Health extern Customers, Investors, Management Board Supplier Management intern/extern Suppliers, Customers, CSR Professionals, Investors, Management Board OUR COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Energy intern/extern Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Investors, Management Emissions intern/extern Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Investors, Management Water intern/extern Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Investors, Management Waste intern/extern Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Investors, Management 27 Eric Lachambre, CEO Sven Schirmer, CFO Jens Aertgeerts, CSO Corporate management Corporate management In order to integrate sustainability gradually as a company and represent sustainability culture to the outside world in a professional, transparent manner, a responsible management approach to corporate culture is needed that provides the necessary base and structure to do so. Starting with strict compliance with legal requirements, sustainable management must ensure that appropriate values are formulated and anchored within each Group company, that corruption and anticompetitive behavior are avoided, and that the company is prepared to handle potential risks. Only the full support of management for such activities can ensure that sustainability is really lived throughout the Group. We are committed to compliance with ethical and moral principles and place particular emphasis on values such as integrity, tolerance, discretion, respect, trust, and reliability as the cornerstones of long-term cooperation and business relations. Respect for personal and human rights and the rejection of child and forced labor ensure that these values are also upheld by our business partners. 29 Corporate management Compliance with national and Group management international laws Setup and structure Compliance with all national and international laws and regulations is a top priority at SLV Lighting Group. At the The SLV Lighting Group is managed by the Group Executive beginning of 2018, a Compliance Management System Board, which currently consists of three members. Since (CMS) was introduced in order to monitor the large and 2018, Eric Lachambre has headed up the Executive Board increasing number of regulations. Nonetheless, responsibility as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and is responsible for the for legal compliance in day-to-day business is and remains overall strategy and development of the Group. As Group organizationally with the respective specialist department. Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Sven Schirmer is responsible The CMS is merely intended to support compliance with both for all financial matters relating to the Group and its subsidlegal and self-imposed regulations and act as an umbrella. iaries. Jens Aertgeerts, the Group’s Chief Sales Officer (CSO), who has been with SLV for more than ten years, is in charge It is intended to adequately ensure that risks involving of managing sales activities within the SLV Lighting Group. significant breaches of regulations are identified in good All technical and product-related topics are reporting to the time and that any such breaches are prevented. However, Group’s Chief Operating Officer (COO). since even a suitable CMS will never be able to completely prevent violations, it also needs to detect any violations that The Group Advisory Board, which consists of two members do occur in a timely manner and communicate them internally so from our shareholder Ardian and one external expert, supports that an appropriate response to the violation can be undertaken. the strategic development of the SLV Lighting Group. The Advisory Board advises the Executive Board on fundamental The basic elements of an effective and efficient CMS are decisions and supervises its activities. The Advisory Board defined in ISO 19600, which was published in 2014. Since meets with the Executive Board on a regular basis for this then, it has been adopted as the German DIN standard, as purpose. well as in the similarly structured IDW PS 980 standard developed by the “Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer in Deutschland e.V.” (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). This includes: Corporate values Support and commitment by management (compliance culture) the organization’s Ethical and moral guidelines Comprehensive collection of information about the The management team strives to align the business activities organization, including a compliance risk assessment of the SLV Lighting Group with common values that all (compliance risks) employees are required to adhere to. In this respect, SLV is strongly committed to compliance with ethical and moral principles and particularly emphasizes values such as integCreation of a compliance policy, including a definition of rity, tolerance, discretion, respect, trust, and reliability as the the scope of application (compliance goals) cornerstones of long-term cooperation and business relationships. Furthermore, we respect personal and human rights, reject child and forced labor, and make decisions Assignment of roles and responsibilities regarding based solely on objective and plausible considerations. To compliance (compliance organization) ensure that these values are also respected by our business partners, we encourage them to comply with supporting and ensuring the fundamental requirements of occupationOperational planning and determination of concrete al health and safety, labor law, environmental protection, measures (compliance program) social standards, compliance, and governance within the framework of the SLV Business Agreement and our Supplier Quality Guidelines. Implementation of supporting measures, including communication, training, and/or the establishment of a Just as with our business relationships, we also uphold our code of conduct (compliance communication) company principles such as occupational safety and environmental protection through the conscious use of resources and the continuous improvement of product efficiency. Monitoring and evaluation, including the establishment of whistleblower systems (compliance monitoring) In order to define the ethical and legal framework for our employees, we prepared a Code of Conduct in 2018, which summarizes the principles of conduct and practice with Continuous improvement, including crisis management respect to SLV values in a binding manner for all employees. (compliance improvement) 30 Corporate management The orientation on ISO 19600 is an advantage, since it Once the comprehensive risk analysis has been carried out follows the same structure for all management systems and with the collaboration of the specialist departments, the therefore synergy effects can be used. However, CMS CMS is to be integrated in the concrete corporate structure certification is currently only possible in accordance with and underpinned with measures and processes for prevenIDW PS 980. tion, identification of compliance violations, and reaction to misconduct. This includes further training and education In order to keep the option of a certification open, SLV GmbH measures, the creation of uniform guidelines and codes of has therefore decided to combine these two standards conduct throughout the Group, the introduction of a whiswhen implementing its CMS. tleblower system and an auditing body, the adoption of uniform sanction measures, detailed documentation, and the The core task of every CMS is to create and maintain a establishment of fixed reporting channels for continuous sustainable corporate culture that is based on compliance reporting. The CMS is scheduled to be fully implemented in and integrity. A culture that prioritizes the achievement of the course of 2020. economic or other goals over the maintenance and observance of compliance principles carries a high risk of Afterwards, probably at the end of 2020, the CMS with its compliance violations. content and responsibilities must be communicated within SLV GmbH. Moreover, the employees have to be committed Therefore, the first step in establishing compliance management to the defined behavior patterns with the involvement of the structures is to change the corporate culture. In this conWorks Council. The measures and processes of the CMS text, compliance is a management task. Executives must must be regularly monitored in order to assess the adequacy always remember that they have an essential role model and effectiveness of the CMS itself. function. The essential management tasks in relation to compliance include in particular the establishment and maintenance of the basic values of the organization. Corresponding commitments of the management team to comRisk management pliance within SLV GmbH have already been made with the decision to introduce a CMS. In organizational terms, the Monitoring and assessment topic was assigned to the Legal department. In an effective CMS, not only the compliance risks need to Our internal legal adviser worked with a small team to raise be identified and either avoided or minimized, but also awareness of this task among the management team. They economic threats, dangers, and risks need to be addressed. presented the importance of compliance and identified risk areas. At the end of 2018, a decision was therefore made not only to introduce a compliance management system, but also a Workshops were held with all departments of SLV GmbH, in risk management system under the supervision of the Legal which an initial inventory of all possible risks within each and Controlling departments. A risk assessment was then specialist department was made in the form of a braincarried out for the first time in 2019, the results of which were storming session. In 2018 and 2019, initial training courses summarized in a risk assessment report at the end of 2019. were held in areas with a particularly high risk and media impact. For example, from May 2018 onwards, due to the current General Data Protection Regulation, the focus was placed on data protection training, which is refreshed every year, including 2019, and planned for 2020. In addition, antitrust violations are a frequent and far-reaching source of risk, particularly in sales, so that regular training sessions were held in this area as well. However, the basis for behavior in compliance with the law and regulations is above all knowledge of the obligations that apply to an organization. A legal registry provides an overview and a listing of legal and regulatory obligations. In 2018, intensive work was therefore carried out on the creation and finalization of such a legal register, so that it only needs to be updated every year. In 2019, a concrete compliance concept was then developed to implement the CMS. Here, a concrete risk analysis based on best-known criteria was set as a core task for upcoming years In order to support the compliance concept in its implementation and the associated upcoming tasks, the internal legal advisor was trained as a “compliance officer” at TÜV Rheinland. 31 Corporate management Measures to combat corruption and anticompetitive behavior Measures to combat Measures to combat corruption anticompetitive behavior SLV Lighting Group is fully convinced that responsible, longA similar risk potential also exists in all projects and business term business can only be achieved through fair business processes concerning antitrust and competition law. In the practices. Short-term profit-seeking or personal enrichment course of SLV’s growth, antitrust and competition law by means of corrupt practices are expressly not tolerated by aspects have become increasingly important in strategic the company. and sales decisions such as company acquisitions or agreements with customers, suppliers, and service providers. Within SLV GmbH, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is responsible for combating and preventing corruption with Being aware of these risks and threats, we always critically content and operational support from the internal legal examine such particular situations and consult our external adviser and the personnel management team. These are attorneys in special cases with relevance to antitrust and also the contact points for any violations and suspicions competition law in order to obtain legal certainty. Forturegarding corruption. nately, our cautious and forward-looking approach has so far saved us from any antitrust proceedings due to violaNeither in 2018 nor in 2019 were there any corresponding tions of antitrust law. We rather support free competition reports of internal suspicions of corruption at SLV GmbH. and categorically exclude participation in anticompetitive Nevertheless, the potential risk of being subject to corrupt agreements on prices, conditions, market sharing, or tenpractices is particularly high in some business areas, such ders. SLV emphasizes the great importance of competition as sales and purchasing (e.g., excessive discounts, by fair means to protect both consumers and competitors. increased delivery quantities or product prices to conceal In order to present this attitude to the outside world, we illegal payments, estimation of a purchase price that is not have been a member of the non-profit association “Lauterer in line with the market or excessive remuneration, improper Wettbewerb e.V.” (an association dedicated to ensuring fair linking of procurement transactions with donations and competition) since the beginning of 2018. sponsoring, gifts, and invitations). In 2019, we initiated legal proceedings for design and In 2019, however, there was a suspected case of corruption competition violations. In this case, a large part of the SLV at one of our customers about which we were questioned. portfolio had been systematically copied in order to create a At SLV we take any such suspicions very seriously and, with risk of confusion among customers and thus benefit from the support of our external lawyers, we made every effort to the good reputation and successful concept of SLV GmbH. clarify the facts of the case. We came to the gratifying conclusion that SLV was not at fault and has always granted the In the case of such infringements, we have a zero tolerance customer concerned conditions in line with market norms. policy and are always grateful for information from customers and consumers. Knowing about the existing potential dangers, we see the utmost transparency and clarification as important remeThe planned CMS should help to create structures for dies. In particular, at the end of 2018 we trained the sales dealing with matters relevant to antitrust and competition department in this regard and are planning a corresponding law and integrate them in the company. When setting up refresher course as well as an initial training in the area of the CMS, we will give the highest priority to such matters to purchasing for 2020. ensure that they are regularly taken into account in all projects and business processes in line with the risk. There are already internal guidelines in place for handling gifts, particularly for Christmas. These are to be expanded, The CMS is also to include a whistleblowing system for codified, and made binding for all employees in 2020 and gathering anonymous information, which for organizational will be communicated via the intranet. In this way, we want reasons has unfortunately not yet been successfully impleto further raise awareness about the topic of corruption and mented. A mailbox system is currently being set up in order to appeal to the vigilance of our employees. guarantee anonymity for corresponding information on conduct that is questionable under antitrust or competition law. 32 Corporate management Membership in external initiatives UN Global Compact ZVEI SLV Lighting Group has been a member of the United In September 2019, the SLV Lighting Group became a member Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since June 2017. The UN of the industrial association ZVEI (German Electrical and Global Compact was founded in 2000 by the then UN SecElectronic Manufacturers’ Association), whose support is retary General Kofi Annan and, with almost 9,700 participatthe exchange of experience and views between its meming companies in 161 countries, is now the largest and most bers regarding current technical, economic, legal, and important initiative for responsible corporate governance. socio-political topics within the electrical industry. From this The basic idea of the agreement is to use the creative forces exchange, common positions are drawn up. With proposals of entrepreneurialism to meet the needs of the disadvanon research, technology, environmental protection, educataged and those of future generations in order to realize the tion, and science policy, the ZVEI is a pacemaker of technovision of a sustainable and inclusive world economy. logical progress. It supports market-related international standardization work. The ZVEI is committed to the common interests of the electrical industry in Germany and at international level and represents the interests of a high-tech sector with a very wide and extremely dynamic product portfolio. Over 1,600 companies have opted for membership of the ZVEI that include global players, medium-sized, and family-owned companies. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES MEASURES TAKEN AND RELEVANT SUBTOPICS HUMAN RIGHTS • Ensure workers are provided with safe, suitable, and sanitary Businesses should support and respect the protecwork facilities tion of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual, or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Businesses should make sure that they are not • Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects, complicit in human rights abuses. or side effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during the manufacturing, usage, or disposal of products LABOR Businesses should uphold the freedom of associ• Ensure that the company does not participate in any form ation and the effective recognition of the right to of forced or bonded labor collective bargaining. • Comply with minimum wage standards Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. • Zero tolerance policy on child labor and anticompetitive behavior Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary ap• Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance proach to environmental challenges. of production processes and environmental protection systems (air pollution control, waste, water treatment Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote systems, etc.) greater environmental responsibility. • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health Businesses should encourage the development and • Minimize the use of and ensure the safe handling and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. storage of chemical and other dangerous substances ANTI-CORRUPTION • Assess the risk of corruption when doing business •M  ention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in Businesses should work against corruption in all its contracts with business partners forms, including extortion and bribery. •E  nsure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment 33 Responsibility for our employees Responsibility for our employees As an employer of more than 300 people in Germany, SLV Lighting Group (SLV GmbH and SLV Group Holding GmbH are collectively referred to below as “SLV”) is aware of their social responsibility and strive to offer their employees an attractive working environment. In our view, motivated, well-trained employees are the cornerstones of our success. We therefore see it as our responsibility to create working conditions that enable our staff to perform their duties in the best possible way. We want to live up to this responsibility by providing fair remuneration, safety at work, a wide range of career opportunities, and numerous further training alternatives. We thus ensure that a sufficient number of qualified people become aware of us as an employer and that our employees are able to work with motivation in a widely varied number of tasks in the long term. Moreover, by joining the UN Global Compact and acknowledging its ten principles, we are also committed to upholding fundamental human rights in our international business activities. To provide our employees with ideal working conditions, we have introduced a number of measures that have a positive impact on the atmosphere, team cohesion, and physical well-being. This way we want to offer all our employees long-term prospects and a friendly working environment in which everyone can develop their potential and grow. Respect people – good work-life balance – Love 2 Work 35 Responsibility for our employees Staff retention Love 2 Work @ SLV To provide our employees with ideal working conditions, we have introduced a number of measures that have a positive impact on the atmosphere, team cohesion, and physical well-being. This way, we want to offer all our employees long-term prospects and a friendly working environment in which everyone can develop their potential and grow. We attach particular importance to the physical integrity of all our employees. To ensure this, we have equipped our offices with ergonomic workstations. These include electronically height-adjustable desks, high tables for employees with back problems, and individually adjustable office chairs. In 2017, the office lighting was renewed throughout the building to create a warm and productive working atmosphere. The underfloor heating in the logistics center and air conditioning in most of the offices also make for a pleasant temperature. Separate seating groups have been integrated in the lounge and the previously modernized offices, which can be used for short breaks or as meeting corners. Last year we introduced optional work clothing and ESD safety clothing for our logistics employees. The logistics center also has changing rooms, lockers, and showers for refreshment after physically strenuous work or for employees who come to work by bicycle. To ensure that work breaks really do provide the desired relaxation, a large kitchen has been installed in the lounge area at the company headquarters in Übach-Palenberg, where employees can prepare their meals freshly. Modern kitchen equipment is also available for the employees in the logistics center to prepare their meals. Since 2019, we have also been offering a subsidized lunch service at both locations. Our employees can choose from a wide range of previously prepared, deep-frozen portioned meals from the company apetito. External service personnel prepare the selected meals daily by heating them up in specially provided ovens. Additional small departmental kitchens also enable staff to make coffee “ and tea free of charge. Fresh, organically grown fruit delivered twice a week provides a vitamin boost in between meals. LOVE 2 WORK: MOTIVATED, In 2017, as part of our cooperation with the company B-A-D WELL-TRAINED EMPLOYEES ARE Gesundheitsvorsorge und Sicherheitstechnik GmbH, we THE CORNERSTONES OF conducted a risk assessment on the subject of “mental stress.” After evaluating the questionnaires, in 2018 we OUR SUCCESS. ” prepared and held workshops to develop a raft of measures and goals for improvement in each of the various departments. Furthermore, in the area of occupational health and safety, we regularly offer workplace-related preventive medical check-ups (G25 – occupational health examinations for driving, control, and monitoring activities) and examinations of computer workstations (G37 – occupational health examinations for computer workstations). If the results show that workplace glasses are required, SLV covers a part of the cost. Our medical officer is on site at regular intervals. 36 Responsibility for our employees Since collegial cohesion across the various departments In 2019, we started the “Mitarbeiter werben Mitarbeiter” contributes significantly to employee motivation, we regularly (employees recruit employees) initiative. We offer our organize a wide variety of events and functions. Our annual employees the opportunity to recommend relatives or summer and Christmas parties are always very popular. In friends from their private sphere as potential employees for 2018, we had a large barbeque with the public screening of currently advertised vacancies. If a candidate is hired, the a soccer game during the European Championship as our employee who made the recommendation receives a bonus summer party. In 2019, we celebrated our 40th anniversary at the end of the candidate’s probationary period. with a big summer party to which we also invited our subsidiaries. We also invite long-serving employees celebrating The efficacy of our staff retention concept is particularly evident their anniversaries to the Roncalli Apollo Varieté in Düsseldorf from the fact that 111 of our employees have been with SLV as a token of our gratitude for their loyalty to the company. for more than ten years and 32 of them for over 20 years. The average length of employment is currently nine years. Moreover, we have implemented the option of working from home. A corresponding collective agreement named “Home Office” was concluded and became valid in 2019. This offer has been very well received by staff and is widely used. Digitalization is also playing an increasingly important role at SLV. In recent years, we not only established a separate department for the digital sector, the HR department is also involved in the digitalization process. One major step was the introduction of an e-recruitment tool in 2019. It is a webbased, barrier-free software for finding and assessing the best candidates to fill our vacancies and manage the whole recruitment process. 37 Responsibility for our employees Diversity is our strength Employee structure The SLV Lighting Group is constantly expanding, either by heads of departments. In 2019, the management level of founding new subsidiaries or by acquiring companies to SLV GmbH and SLV Group Holding GmbH consisted of 15 broaden its portfolio. Including all subsidiaries, we are repreemployees, three of whom were women. The total number sented on two continents and regularly faced with the of employees also includes 12 trainees, i.e., nine office challenge of incorporating new companies into the Group in management assistants and three IT specialists. In 2018 compliance with the legal stipulations of the various counand 2019, four trainees successfully completed their tries. We regard it as particularly important to adhere to apprenticeships, some of them even managed to reduce ethical and moral principles as well as our values of integrity, their apprenticeship periods. We offered jobs to all former tolerance, discretion, respect, trust, and reliability in our trainees who wished to continue their careers at SLV. In corporate structure and reporting processes. Overall, 16 addition, we greatly emphasize the importance of including subsidiaries (11 SLV-brand subsidiaries and 5 non-SLV people with physical or mental disabilities on equal terms in brands with their own product portfolios) in 13 countries our work processes. In 2019, we employed seven people employing a total of 377 people (362.16 FTE as at December with severe disabilities and a disabled person’s pass. 31, 2019) stand for internationality and diversity within the SLV Lighting Group. EMPLOYEES HEADCOUNT SLV (i.e., SLV GmbH and SLV Group Holding GmbH combined) employed a total of 303 (263.85 FTE) people as at December 31, 2019, comprising 191 men (63.04%) and 112 women (36.94%). The Human Resources department is responsible for recruitment and staff topics. It works in close 291 2018: 299 coordination with the Executive Board and determines personnel requirements in direct consultation with the various 38 Responsibility for our employees EMPLOYEES total EMPLOYEES total SLV GmbH SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 2019 2018 Male (Headcount) 185,00 196,00 Male (Headcount) 6,00 4,00 Female (Headcount) 106,00 103,00 Female (Headcount) 6,00 5,00 Total (Headcount) 291,00 299,00 Total (Headcount) 12,00 9,00 Male (FTE) 174,75 183,60 Male (FTE) 6,00 4,00 Female (FTE) 77,60 77,66 Female (FTE) 5,50 4,50 Total (FTE) 252,35 261,26 Total (FTE) 11,50 8,50 AGE STRUCTURE AGE STRUCTURE < 30 17,18% 18,39% < 30 16,67% 22,22% 30–50 58,08% 59,87% 30–50 75,00% 66,67% > 50 24,74% 21,74% > 50 8,33% 11,11% EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITY EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITY Male 4,00 6,00 Male 0,00 0,00 Female 3,00 2,00 Female 0,00 0,00 Total 7,00 8,00 Total 0,00 0,00 In % 2,41% 2,68% In % 0,00% 0,00% EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS Male 8,00 9,00 Male 4,00 2,00 Female 2,00 1,00 Female 1,00 1,00 Total 10,00 10,00 Total 5,00 3,00 In % 3,34% 3,34% In % 41,67% 33,33% 39 Responsibility for our employees Working time models and fluctuation In the 2019 reporting year, the ratio of part-time employees In 2019, we hired 22 employees at SLV GmbH and SLV Group was 14.52%. Of these, the proportion of women with 39 Holding GmbH. 29 employees ended their employment with part-time positions was higher than that of men with five SLV GmbH during the same period. One employee changed part-time positions. In principle, the Human Resources from SLV GmbH to SLV Group Holding GmbH and one employee department always advertises vacancies on a full-time retired. Nobody left SLV Group Holding GmbH in 2019. basis, but can also respond flexibly to individual requests for part-time working hours. New employment relationships used to be mainly concluded as fixed-term contracts, but LIMITED CONTRACTS RATE since 2019, all new contracts have been offered on a permanent basis. The overall share of fixed-term employment relationships has therefore decreased since then and now stands at 4.62%. 4,81% 2018: 7,02% EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Working time models Working time models SLV GmbH SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 2019 2018 EMPLOYEES WITH UNLIMITED CONTRACTS EMPLOYEES WITH UNLIMITED CONTRACTS Male (Headcount) 180,00 185,00 Male (Headcount) 6,00 4,00 Female (Headcount) 97,00 93,00 Female (Headcount) 6,00 5,00 Total (Headcount) 277,00 278,00 Total (Headcount) 12,00 9,00 In % 95,19% 92,98% In % 100,00% 100,00% EMPLOYEES WITH LIMITED CONTRACTS EMPLOYEES WITH LIMITED CONTRACTS Male (Headcount) 5,00 11,00 Male (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Female (Headcount) 9,00 10,00 Female (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Total (Headcount) 14,00 21,00 Total (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 In % 4,81% 7,02% In % 0,00% 0,00% FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES Male (Headcount) 179,00 192,00 Male (Headcount) 6,00 4,00 Female (Headcount) 69,00 76,00 Female (Headcount) 5,00 4,00 Total (Headcount) 248,00 268,00 Total (Headcount) 11,00 8,00 In % 85,22% 89,63% In % 91,67% 88,89% PART-TIME EMPLOYEES PART-TIME EMPLOYEES Male (Headcount) 5,00 4,00 Male (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Female (Headcount) 38,00 27,00 Female (Headcount) 1,00 1,00 Total (Headcount) 43,00 31,00 Total (Headcount) 1,00 1,00 In % 14,78% 10,37% In % 8,33% 11,11% 40 Responsibility for our employees NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 6,53% 2018: 7,69% 9,97% 2018: 9,7% EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Newly hired and turnover Newly hired and turnover SLV GmbH SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 2019 2018 NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES Male (Headcount) 7,00 16,00 Male (Headcount) 2,00 2,00 Female (Headcount) 12,00 7,00 Female (Headcount) 1,00 2,00 Total (Headcount) 19,00 23,00 Total (Headcount) 3,00 4,00 In % 6,53% 7,69% In % 25,00% 44,44% < 30 10,00 12,00 < 30 0,00 1,00 30–50 6,00 7,00 30–50 3,00 2,00 > 50 3,00 4,00 > 50 0,00 1,00 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Male (Headcount) 19,00 21,00 Male (Headcount) 0,00 3,00 Female (Headcount) 10,00 8,00 Female (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Total (Headcount) 29,00 29,00 Total (Headcount) 0,00 3,00 In % 9,97% 9,70% In % 0,00% 33,33% < 30 8,00 12,00 < 30 0,00 1,00 30–50 16,00 14,00 30–50 0,00 2,00 > 50 6,00 3,00 > 50 0,00 0,00 41 Responsibility for our employees Parental leave In line with legal stipulations, every employee is entitled to the available period. So far, all employees have returned parental leave after becoming a parent. In 2019, 16 employees from their parental leave and were still employed at SLV 12 (four men and twelve women) took parental leave. Nine months later. In addition, all employees have the right to employees returned to the company at the end of their return to their former or a comparable workplace under the parental leave. These included the four men with shorter same conditions (such as weekly working hours). Someparental leave of one to three months and five women who times they wish to reduce their working hours – which in had already been on parental leave since the previous year. most cases can be arranged. Any wage and salary increases For the remaining women, parental leave will continue at in the meantime naturally also apply to those returning. least until 2020. We greatly welcome the fact that an increasing number of men are making use of their right to parental leave, even though they did not yet make full use of EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Parental leave Parental leave SLV GmbH SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 2019 2018 EMPLOYEES ON PARENTAL LEAVE EMPLOYEES ON PARENTAL LEAVE Male (Headcount) 4,00 5,00 Male (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Female (Headcount) 12,00 10,00 Female (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Total (Headcount) 16,00 15,00 Total (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 RETURN RATE RETURN RATE Male (Headcount) 4,00 5,00 Male (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Female (Headcount) 5,00 2,00 Female (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 Total (Headcount) 9,00 7,00 Total (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 “ GOOD WORK-LIFE BALANCE: FAMILY, MOTIVATION, SUCCESS ” 42 Responsibility for our employees Measures to combat discrimination, bullying, and bossing We respect and uphold human rights at all our locations as a Mostly, however, these situations were clarified through matter of course. We respect different cultures and religions discussions between the people concerned or by involving and protect our employees from discrimination. In the event their supervisors. At the request of the persons concerned, of incidents showing that employees do not respect these the Human Resources department can also be called in to values, we take decisive action with appropriate conseassist and was able to provide support in these discussions. quences. Fortunately, no incidents of discrimination were In more difficult cases, the harassment officer generally reported to Human Resources in 2019, so no specific remedial provides additional suggestions for external (psychological) action was required. In order to address potential cases of counseling. All employees were required to take part in an bullying in general, the Works Council appointed a harassment online training course on the AGG (General Act on Equal officer to whom employees can address their concerns. Not Treatment) in 2019. only did the staff welcome this measure, they also sought the assistance of the harassment officer in some cases. 43 Responsibility for our employees Competence development and further training Regular assessment of employees At SLV, constructive feedback regarding performance is an manager also “leadership and management competence” essential part of the Group’s open communication culture. for assessing employees as well as the categories “leaderFor this reason, we conduct regular appraisal interviews in ship behavior,” “employee development,” and “personal order to facilitate communication between employees and behavior” for assessing supervisors. We also added a supervisors. These interviews take place at the end of each column to define and agree on potential training needs. employee’s probationary period and at the end of every Employees can apply for these training courses in the fixed-term contract. Furthermore, every employee, whether following year. white or blue collar, is entitled to an annual feedback interview, in which not only employees receive feedback from their supervisors, but also have the opportunity to assess their supervisors. During the interview, the employee fills in VOCATIONAL TRAINING a form with assessment criteria that also serves as an interview guide. In 2019, the Human Resources department revised the form for appraisal interviews and adapted it to suit a variety of positions. The form contains various elements from the areas of different competences (profes100% successfully completed sional, methodical, social, self-competence), work results, professional skills, personal behavior, and for positions as line Assessment of employees SLV GmbH 2019 2018 REGULAR ASSESSMENT OF EMPLOYEES Regular assessment of employees 219,00 = 75,26%* 243,00 = 81,71% Male (%) 78,92% of all men 84,18% of all men Female (%) 66,97% of all women 75,73% of all women *The decrease in 2019 is due to new version of appraisal interview form. Assessment of employees SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 REGULAR ASSESSMENT OF EMPLOYEES Regular assessment of employees 7,00 = 58,34% 3,00 = 33,34% Male (%) 66,66% of all men 25,00% of all men Female (%) 50,00% of all women 40,00% of all women 44 Responsibility for our employees SLV TRAINING CENTER All those involved view the practice of regular feedback Going forward, we aim to additionally emphasize the impormeetings extremely positively, as it promotes an exchange tance of appraisal interviews with management and team of views between employees and supervisors and increases leaders and increase the total number of interviews conducted. the feeling of appreciation and recognition by supervisors. The strategy helps improve people’s sense of well-being at Every year, the management team, individual team leaders, work, which leads to positive employee development and and selected employees (e.g., sales representatives) agree greater retention. In 2019, a total of 226 appraisal interviews on concrete goals for the respective calendar year with their were held at SLV GmbH and SLV Group Holding GmbH comsupervisor and/or the Executive Board. These employees bined, giving 74.59% of employees an assessment of their are entitled to a bonus remuneration, which is paid out in the work and the opportunity to give feedback themselves. The following year. The amount is based on a percentage, accordnumber of interviews at the end of probationary periods and ing to the degree to which they have achieved their targets. fixed-term contracts is not included in this figure, as we use different forms for this purpose, which are not used for regular assessments. 45 Responsibility for our employees Education and training A systematic approach to recruiting new employees as well as to the further training of our skilled people is an integral part of the corporate success of SLV, which is why we have EMPLOYEES implemented various measures to enable us to maintain this standard. For example, employees are given further Further Training training opportunities according to their respective areas of SLV GmbH deployment, which are determined by the results of feedback interviews and with the help of an internal qualification 2019 2018 matrix. Key parameters for determining training needs are personal skills, the development of individual strengths, and Total training hours 5.294,00 2.654,00 the adaptation of the general conditions to legal changes. Due to the fast pace of developments in the LED sector, it is Average training hours essential for us to keep our employees up to date with the 21,52 5,30 by employee latest knowledge. In-house training, workshops, and specialized seminars conducted by external providers supply the necessary qualifications. In October 2015 we optimally improved educational opportunities by completing the SLV Training Center. Here we have the opportunity to train employees, customers, and business partners internally on areas relevant to them, such as product innovations, current EMPLOYEES developments in the smart home sector, or LED technologies in general. We also offer cross-departmental training Further Training opportunities, such as first aid and fire protection assistant SLV Group Holding GmbH courses, which improve occupational safety and are, of course, refreshed at regular intervals. 2019 2018 In 2019, we required an above-average number of training Total training hours 24,00 56,00 hours because we trained two employees as warehouse logistics specialists; (1,280 hours) and our Works Council Average training hours underwent intensive further training (approx. 1,670 hours). 2,00 6,22 by employee The hours required for internal training sessions, such as product training and lighting technology fundamentals are not included. We offered these training sessions to all employees who were interested and they were well attended (approx. 1,400 hours). We also covered the cost of a distance study course for one of our employees to become a marketing consultant. SLV TRAINING CENTER SLV VISITOR CENTER Technical training room 46 Responsibility for our employees In the past few years we have conducted various online training courses that cover topics such as data protection, IT security, and the AGG . These courses are mandatory for all EMPLOYEES employees. Newly recruited employees are required to complete them within their first week of employment. Trainees SLV GmbH In order to ensure suitably qualified personnel in the future, SLV places great emphasis on promoting young talents. For 2019 2018 many years now, we have been successfully training our young people in order to ensure a future not only for our NUMBER OF TRAINEES junior staff, but also for us as a Group. We are aware of our Male (Headcount) 5,00 3,00 responsibility at cross-company level and therefore cooperate with the Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK) in Female (Headcount) 7,00 5,00 Aachen. Our trainer currently even represents us on the Total (Headcount) 12,00 8,00 examination board. At present, SLV GmbH offers three types of apprenticeship, namely “Management Assistant for Office Management,” “IT Specialist for System Integration,” and “IT Specialist for Application Development.” In 2020, the company intends to expand its range of apprenticeships and is looking for young EMPLOYEES trainees as “Management Assistants for E-commerce.” Thus we strive to ensure that the next generation of employees Trainees to enter these fields comes from our own ranks. Once trainSLV Group Holding GmbH ing at SLV has begun, we want to ensure that the best possible conditions are also available for our young talents. 2019 2018 When preparing for their final examinations, all trainees have the opportunity to repeat learning units in small groups NUMBER OF TRAINEES in-house and attend an external examination preparation Male (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 course to revise the learning material. The final oral exams take place at our premises in close Female (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 cooperation with the IHK Aachen. The success rate of our Total (Headcount) 0,00 0,00 trainees for the final exams has been 100% so far. By 2019, a total of 38 people had been successfully trained, and 30 of the former trainees were taken on permanently. Some of our former trainees now hold management positions within SLV GmbH. Of the 12 trainees currently employed, three will complete their training in June 2020. SLV TRAINING CENTER Training room 47 Responsibility for our employees Work agreements Freedom of association and collective agreements To acknowledge the importance of the right to freedom of association and collective agreements at SLV GmbH and to take these points into account, we founded a Works Council in October 2015. It consists of a total of nine members (four women and five men) and usually meets once a week. This regularity ensures that the most urgent issues are discussed in a prompt manner, that incoming motions from the management team are processed in due time, and that there is a continuous exchange of information between the individual members. Various committees within the Works Council compile and prepare topics relevant to Working hours and Overtime the council members, such as the Works Committee, the Personnel flextime Committee, or the Economic Committee. Meetings between the Works Council and management take place once a month. At these meetings, information is exchanged, current topics discussed, and negotiations held. In emergencies, the meetings are held outside the scheduled dates in order to deal with urgent matters as quickly as possible. The Works Council and the management team have come to collective agreements on the following topics. We do not have a trade union bargaining agreement, but internal wage and salary groups are in place. In 2019, salaries were increased by 2.0%. In addition, the entire workforce receives holiday and Christmas bonuses Breaks Trust-based in accordance with company agreements. working hours Due to international supplier relationships, SLV also operates in countries where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is generally considered to be at risk. We try to counteract this risk at various levels. Firstly, through the SLV Business Agreement, in which our suppliers, in addition to other fundamental rights and standards, assure us of compliance with the right to freedom of association and collective agreements and secondly through regular on-site monitoring in the form of audits. Framework for Home Office “ vacation planning WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE IMPORTANCE OF THE RIGHT OF INDIVIDUALS TO ASSOCIATE AND COLLECTIVELY EXCHANGE INFORMATION. ” Voxtron Contact Center SharePoint 48 Responsibility for our employees Safety at work In the field of occupational health and safety, we prioritize our activities in two respects: On the one hand, we need to identify potential hazards in good time and assess them adequately, and on the other hand, healthcare needs to be guaranteed in line with requirements to ensure the personal well-being and professional performance of our employees. Thanks to dedicated employees who have been trained to intervene as first aiders and fire protection assistants when necessary and a clearly defined external company policy, we are well prepared to handle emergencies. Moreover, specially established committees and working groups on the subject of occupational safety help us to initiate and provide technical support for measures aimed at permanent improvements. Continuous improvement of occupational safety We see the improvement of occupational safety within the company as a comprehensive task. This applies to facilities, equipment, modern devices, ergonomically designed workplaces, and good working conditions as well as to health management services such as general health checks or target group-specific measures (e.g., conflict management training for supervisors or “healthy lifting and carrying” for logistics employees). The primary goal is to prevent accidents, minimize hazards, and improve employee health protection. For this reason, all workplaces in the company are set up in accordance with generally accepted occupational health and safety rules, so that our staff can perform their work without accidents and with a minimum of stress. At the same time, every employee is responsible for and required to be familiar with all relevant safety regulations and to apply them consistently and with all due care in his or her own area of work, primarily in his or her own interest, but also in the interest of the company. In order to support this Occupational medical care process in the best possible way and to promote health, performance, and job satisfaction, the company offers Occupational medical care is an individual occupational ergonomic aids, protective equipment, and a wide range of health and safety measure that supplements technical and preventive programs (measurement of indoor air, skin organizational measures without replacing them. At SLV protection plan, personal protective equipment, etc.). there are regular workplace-related preventive medical check-ups, examinations of computer workstations, and In addition, we provide instruction on safety measures with advice for employees with reduced performance. Such the aim of raising employees’ awareness of the use of safety assessments are followed by consultation sessions when equipment each year, thus making it a matter of course. All necessary. The aim is to introduce measures that serve the employees at the Übach-Palenberg site receive initial early detection and prevention of work-related illnesses. In instructions on their first day of work. Further safety training addition, we hold consultations on the use of suitable chairs sessions usually take place during their first working week. and standing aids in the office and production areas. We The content of the instructions can differ, depending on would also like to mention the risk assessment of psychotheir position in the company, which means that training logical stress, which also belongs to the field of occupational courses in the field of logistics, for example, are different to medical care. An external health management consultant those for people working in administration. The respective from the company B-A-D Gesundheitsvorsorge und Sicherteam leaders are responsible for carrying out the annual iniheitstechnik GmbH conducted, monitored, and evaluated tial and safety instructions. The coordinator for occupational the assessment in 2017. Follow-up processes and detailed health and safety is responsible for documenting these analyses were implemented in cooperation with employees training sessions. of SLV GmbH in the form of focus groups. 49 Responsibility for our employees Number of safety officers: Facts and figures on occupational safety at SLV Safety officers (SiBe) are internal specialists who support managers, the occupational safety specialist, or the company physician in preventing accidents, work-related illnesses, Number of first aiders: and work-related health hazards as well as promoting the implementation of safety measures. The training of all first aiders was completed in autumn 2017 and there are regular follow-up training sessions SECURITY OFFICERS Three defibrillators are available (one each at the administration, the logistics department, and the training center) 4 2018: 4 There is also a first-aid room centrally located in the logistics center ASA (Occupational Safety Committee) FIRST AIDERS The Occupational Safety Committee has the task of giving advice on questions and concerns relating to occupational 36 safety and accident prevention. It meets at least once every three months to discuss health and safety issues, advise on 2018: 36 measures, and prepare decisions. Each year, the Occupational Safety Committee carries out a separate inspection on the subject of work and health protection throughout all areas of SLV, together with members of the employer’s liability insurance association (BG). Number of fire protection assistants: Over the past years, the Occupational Safety Committee The external fire protection officer is responsible for training has implemented some company-wide measures, including the fire protection assistants, checking fire protection the topic of skin protection at all sites in Übach-Palenberg. equipment and facilities, conducting evacuation drills, and A skin protection and disinfection plan adapted by the documenting the entire process. Training courses on the folcompany was drawn up for this purpose. Furthermore, on lowing topics were held at the Werkstraße and Daimlerstraße the advice of the committee, markings and signs were introlocations in 2017: duced on the walkways in the warehouse of the logistics center to guide groups of visitors even more safely through Preventive fire protection by conducting checks when the warehouse. Escape plans were also renewed and working with fire or heat displayed at several places. Health Working Group Firefighting in the event of incipient fires The Health Working Group consists of a member of the management team, the coordinator for occupational safety, Operation of fire protection equipment (wall hydrants, a secretary, and two members of the Works Council. smoke and heat exhaust systems) Meetings take place whenever required and are reported to the Occupational Safety Committee. The Health Working Group was founded in 2017 with the aim of enabling the Briefing of the arriving fire brigade planning and implementation of a short questionnaire for work analysis in a timely manner and to initiate further steps in view of its results (e.g., conducting workshops). Safety expert FIRE PROTECTION ASSISTANTS There is a support contract in place for occupational medicine and safety technology support within the company, 21 2018: 23 which has been concluded with the company B-A-D Gesundheitsvorsorge und Sicherheitstechnik GmbH. The safety specialist provided by the company carried out risk assessments in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act as well as on psychological stress. 50 Responsibility for our employees Guidelines for external companies Injuries and diseases The guidelines for external companies were revised in In 2018, we lost more workdays due to injuries that had to November 2017 and designed to ensure the safety of all be reported to the Employer’s Liability Insurance Associavisitors who are not employed by SLV. The guidelines must tion than in 2019. Most of these injuries happened on the be observed during the visitors’ entire stay on the company way to or from work and SLV was therefore unable to implepremises and include the following rules of conduct: ment any measures to prevent such injuries. Through the company integration management system, SLV enables Behavior when working at heights employees who have been ill for an extended period of time to return to their workplace step by step. In an initial interview, we first determine whether the illness is related to their Behavior on traffic routes work at SLV and how we can help the employee to reintegrate. Measures are then coordinated in further discussions. Currently we are not aware of any occupational diseases. Industrial safety measures Fire protection DAYS OF ABSENCE First aid 57 2018: 184 Environmental measures The guidelines are handed out to each external company before entering the SLV premises. A member of the external ACCIDENTS ST WORK company is required to document their receipt and acknowledgement with a signature. 8 2018: 10 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES Accidents at work Accidents at work SLV GmbH SLV Group Holding GmbH 2019 2018 2019 2018 REPORTED ACCIDENTS REPORTED ACCIDENTS Total 8,00 10,00 Total 0,00 0,00 NUMBER OF REPORTED ACCIDENTS BY GENDER NUMBER OF REPORTED ACCIDENTS BY GENDER Male 7,00 10,00 Male 0,00 0,00 Female 1,00 0,00 Female 0,00 0,00 Total 8,00 10,00 Total 0,00 0,00 ACCIDENT RELATED ABSENCES ACCIDENT RELATED ABSENCES Work days 57,00 184,00 Work days 0,00 0,00 Hours 410,00 1.442,00 Hours 0,00 0,00 51 Responsibility for our employees Social commitment As a medium-sized enterprise, SLV sees social commitment outside of the company as a key factor for strengthening regional structures and contributing to our environment at a local level. We regularly donate educational material on addiction assistance to the local comprehensive school as well as magazines on education and prevention for parents, teachers, and students. Christmas presents which our employees receive from customers and suppliers are collected at the HR department and handed over completely to the Übach-Palenberger Tafel e.V., a charitable institution. Furthermore, instead of giving presents at Christmas time, SLV regularly donates the amount of €5,000 to the German Cancer Aid Foundation and the Children’s Cancer Aid. In the winter of 2018/2019, we donated our remaining stock of SLV jackets and sweaters to a local youth soccer team. In 2018, we again called for people to register with the DKMS (German Bone Marrow Donor Registry) and organized a corresponding event at our premises. 37 employees registered and were newly typed as stem cell donors. The associated costs were fully covered by SLV. To date, SLV has contributed to more than 130 new registrations by its employees or former employees. It is gratifying that one of our employees has already been considered a suitable donor and has donated his stem cells for a suitable recipient. We also offered this opportunity to our neighboring companies and therefore gained 20 more registrations. We are very pleased that our employees are also committed to social causes and have initiated various projects at SLV, which we are, of course, happy to support: Bottle cap collection campaign One of our employees has set up collection boxes for bottle caps. Once sufficient amounts have been collected, we send large cardboard boxes filled with the bottle caps to the Förderkreis Bonn. SLV bears the delivery costs. The proceeds from this collection go to the Förderkreis für krebskranke Kinder und Jugendlichen (Support Association for Children and Young People with Cancer), which invests the money in various projects and the care of the families affected. 52 Responsibility for our employees Pencil collection Another employee has set up boxes to collect all kinds of used pencils, markers, highlighters, whiteouts, etc. The material is subsequently recycled and remade into other products instead of being thrown away. That is our way of supporting the organization “dolphin aid e.V.” that enables disabled children and adults to make significant progress in their development by participating in intensive therapy with dolphins. As a pleasant side effect, this project also helps SLV to protect the environment at the same time. Stamp donations Another employee takes care that we collect stamps from our incoming mail in order to donate them to the Steyler Missionare (Society of the Divine Word). They sort and process the stamps and receive money for this work, which they invest in social projects in Africa (e.g., building kindergartens). The strength and compassion of our employees can also be seen in the example of a colleague who had to go through a very difficult time due to a stroke of fate. Through generous donations of time (flextime hours, holidays) by the staff, 755 hours were accumulated, which were credited to the colleague, thus giving him the opportunity to settle private matters. SLV donated a further 100 hours. We are very proud of our employees! 53 Responsibility for our products Responsibility for our products Our new strategy 2023 places the focus strongly on PEOPLE. When it comes to lighting, we rigorously address human needs and concerns. Therefore, with regard to the healthy design of premises and spaces going forward, SLV has recognized the relevance of “Human-centric lighting (HCL)” and already developed the first products capable of generating light in various colors that change in the course of the day, which can have a positive impact on human well-being in general. Further developments with a focus on PEOPLE are set to follow. Like no other technical innovation, LED technology has undergone rapid development in recent years and revolutionized the world of artificial lighting. SLV recognized its disruptive potential to change the entire industry from the very beginning and consistently integrated this promising lighting technology in its own product range. Currently, the entire SLV product portfolio is built around LED solutions, either in the form of luminaires with fixed light sources or as luminaires that can be retrofitted with LED light sources. SLV strives to provide energy-efficient, high-quality LIGHTING for the well-being of PEOPLE that lights up the sustainable future. Regarding the new EU Energy Directive, all our products have been actively checked and tested. If necessary, modifications are planned until the directive comes into force. 55 Responsibility for our products Sustainability of our products Ecological and economic advantages For us, the advantages of LEDs are obvious: In addition to their high luminous efficacy and better quality of light in general, modern LED light sources are far superior to conventional luminaires, particularly in terms of energy efficiency. Energy efficiency is measured in lumens per watt for light sources and indicates how much luminous flux (lumens) the light source can produce with one watt of input. State-of-the-art LED illuminants now achieve values of up to 130 lumens per watt. In contrast, incandescent lamps reach a maximum value of 17 lumens per watt. HCL: Human LEDification Centric Lighting Sustainable Packaging Recycled Content Repairability In addition to their high level of energy efficiency, long service life is also a major plus point. Conventional incandescent lamps have a life cycle of around 1,500 operating hours, while modern LED lamps can be used for up to 50,000 hours or more if used correctly. The 80% of the primary energy requirement saved over a modern LED lamp’s entire lifetime is not only a convincing argument from the point of view of environmental protection, but also offers a great deal of financial added value due to its significantly lower energy costs. SLV also faces up to its responsibility in terms of reparability. Already today, more than 80% of lighting equipped with LED light sources can be repaired by a specialist. However, we are aiming to achieve a 100% quota, which we also focus on when developing our new products. Moreover, we have a range of spare parts available for many of our other products, including spare glasses, drivers, and mechanical components. 56 Responsibility for our products Customer health and product safety Together with the final conformity assessment, a detailed risk assessment completes the product development SLV places the highest priority on ensuring customer safety process. Our in-house experts for product marking, preparing in the everyday use of its products. In order to guarantee multilingual operating instructions, and optimizing packaging safety, we carefully select our suppliers and apply multi-stage make sure our products are safely handled and arrive at our testing processes to make sure our customers receive customers’ premises without damage. We also provide cushigh-quality, extremely safe products. In fact, our safety-related tomers and all those who may be interested with a wide activities often go above and beyond legal requirements. We range of supplementary product information regarding additionally use the thorough evaluation and analysis of the photometric, technical, regulatory, and safety-relevant product safety data we collect to continuously improve the characteristics in the download area of our website safety of our products. (https://www.slv.cloud/de_en/service/downloads). As a product developer and manufacturer operating interWe regularly check and audit our qualified suppliers and nationally, the careful selection of our suppliers forms the their products, even during their ongoing production basis for the safety of our products. To ensure we achieve processes. In order to guarantee interdepartmental and appropriate results in the course of these selection prointercultural understanding, SLV attaches great importance cesses, apart from the actual production process, we also to the fact that its audit teams are both interdisciplinary and take a large number of other criteria into account. These international. Assessed and calibrated testing and laboratory include, for example, inspecting our suppliers’ buildings and equipment further enable our suppliers to carry out the facilities as well as compliance with ethical, social, health, safety tests and functional tests precisely defined by SLV in and safety requirements. International standards such as a targeted and technically correct way by means of illustrated the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) or the UN and, if required, bilingual test instructions. Further mechaGlobal Compact provide us with guidance in this regard. nisms to guarantee the safety and value of our products Other fundamental criteria in the selection process are include shipping approvals provided on-site by our own compliance with regulatory requirements and site-specific inspection teams, incoming goods inspections, and recurring environmental regulations as well as effective quality manlaboratory tests. agement and quality assurance systems. SLV is convinced that successful, future-oriented products can only be created Any suggestions for improvement and advice on product if a solid foundation has been established. Accordingly, one safety, which we receive through regular dialogue with our of our foremost corporate aims is to establish long-term stakeholders, are actively used in order to further improve relationships with qualified suppliers based on mutual trust. our products. For example, customer and product feedback, detailed field analyses, and continuous market monitoring In addition to auditing our suppliers, our second method of provide us with useful information and insights about our ensuring product safety is through our product development products. In close cooperation with our established suppliers, processes. These begin with creating prototypes and series we continuously optimize the relevant processes and samples after defining the desired customer benefits, technical product characteristics in order to requirements, and state-of-the-art design. Our strict quality constantly adapt functionality, guidelines provide the framework for manufacturers to meet user-friendliness, and durability the requirements expected by SLV in terms of production to changing customer and and the accompanying quality assurance process. Subsemarket requirements. quently, the samples are checked in a multi-stage process using dynamic product checklists to ascertain safety-relevant criteria. In-house laboratories at our headquarters in Übach-Palenberg and at our subsidiary, SLV Lighting (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., enable us to conduct a large number of necessary tests to adequately ensure safety, function, and performance. These include: Safety tests (electrical & mechanical) Temperature tests Drop tests to ensure packaging quality IP checks EMC tests Artificial weathering (salt spray and climate chambers) Flammability tests Outdoor site testing X-ray fluorescence analyses Photometric measurements 57 Responsibility for our products Strengthening cooperation – supplier management in detail As an internationally operating company with an extensive our Asian suppliers. We also intend to further consolidate our network of supplier relationships, SLV has a great responsisupplier management processes going forward, make them bility for keeping the negative impacts of its supply chain on more transparent and improving them in strategic terms. the environment and society as low as possible. In our view, the decisive factor for the success in this respect is close The years 2018 and 2019 were dedicated to standardizing cooperation with partners we can rely on. At SLV, rigorous and professionalizing audit management within the SLV supplier management and relationships based on trust form Lighting Group with the aim of fulfilling the company’s global the basis for the long-term well-being of our stakeholders, responsibility for careful, sustainable supplier selection and and thus also of our company. We can only cooperate sucassessment in accordance with international regulations, cessfully in the long term if we clearly communicate exactly recognized standards, and the principles of the UN Global what we expect from our business partners. Questions of Compact. Particular focus was placed on differentiating the ethical and social conduct and responsible business manaudit scopes (basic, CSR/ESGH, and process audits), the agement also determine whether we enter into or maintain introduction of “conflict material reporting” and the addition strategic partnerships with suppliers. of a CSR lead auditor to the auditor pool. Basic audits aim to obtain a brief overview of all aspects considered in our We use the SLV Business Agreement and our Supplier Quality various types of audit. That entails examining factory Guideline as active risk management tools to regulate our facilities, organization, operations, product quality managesupplier relationships. The SLV Business Agreement ment, production processes, and CSR aspects. CSR audits provides clarity and serves to commit (potential) partners to provide information on whether resources are being utilized promoting and safeguarding the basic requirements of effectively in terms of health, safety, the environment, and occupational safety and labor law, environmental protection, governance as well as ethical and social aspects, with social standards, compliance, and good governance. The particular emphasis on SLV Lighting Group’s zero-tolerance Supplier Quality Guideline also explains and defines the issues. They also assess whether resources, documentation, regulatory and technical requirements of our products and and workplace practices and procedures are legally compliant. processes. To ensure these necessities are implemented, our auditors check compliance with them in regular on-site In 2020, our primary goals are to fully integrate all SLV Lighting audits and during product inspection visits, where compliance Group suppliers based in Asia in the biennial audit managewith the following points is checked in detail: ment cycle and improve our supplier management processes to achieve sustainability on a step-by-step basis. Legal minimum age of employees and compliance with the prohibition of child labor However, with respect to our own function as a supplier to other companies, we constantly strive to meet increased market requirements in terms of ever-greater manufacturer Occupational health and safety and product transparency. In concrete terms, we observe this development by the growing number of ad hoc enquiries about our sustainability-related activities and plans. With Compliance with legal overtime regulations these points in mind, we took part in an EcoVadis assessment for the first time in spring 2016. The assessment reviewed our performance in terms of the environment, Freedom of association and the right to labor practices, human rights, fair business practices, and collective agreements sustainable procurement. Fortunately, we managed to achieve silver status at the first Guidelines and evidence of compliance with attempt. all national laws In 2017, we were not only able to improve on this status through organizational, personnel, and content improveMeasures to maintain product quality ments in terms of sustainability, we are currently among the top 10% of all companies participating in the assessment across all industries and even among the top 5% in our Measures to combat corruption industry. The external EcoVadis seal of approval attests to our fundamental commitment to sustainable corporate management and confirms that we are on the right track. In If any gaps are identified, individually developed corrective 2018, we have received gold status and dropped back to and preventive action plans provide suppliers with specific silver as we were lacking a Sustainability Manager for half a instructions on how to implement the required improveyear in 2019. In 2020, we intend additionally to expand our ments. In the course of inspection visits, follow-up audits sustainability management processes and thereby strive to are conducted regularly each year in order to check and achieve Gold status in the next assessment. assess the progress of the measures implemented. Depending on the results of the audits, however, they can also take place at shorter or longer intervals. Over the last two years we managed to increase the number of audits conducted at 58 Responsibility for our products SLV Lighting Group Supplier locations audited 2019 2017 55 % 29 % 41 % Initial Audit Completeness for 2018 ALL ASIAN-SLV-Group-Suppliers in 2020 100% SLV GmbH Supplier locations audited 2017 2019 85 % 67 % 93 % 2018 The percentages given refer only to the audits (ESGH and Basic Audit) carried out in the respective year. These are based on the latest status of each individual year and are corresponding to the different locations of suppliers that are audited. 59 SLV NACHHALTIGKEITSBERICHT 2017 | Verantwortung für die Umwelt “ WE ARE AWARE OF THE IMPACT OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES HAVE ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND ACTIVELY ACCEPT OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE PROTECTION. 60 ” Environment Our commitment to environment and climate As a product developer and supplier, SLV is involved in business processes worldwide that generate emissions and waste and in some cases consume limited natural resources as well as water. We are aware of the negative impact our business activities have on the environment and actively accept our responsibility for environmental and climate protection. By introducing a structured indicator management system, we aim to make improvements to the key levers to reduce the ecological footprint of our business activities and become carbon-neutral in the long term. Moreover, SLV is creating considerable added value for both its customers and the environment by converting its own portfolio to energy-saving LED lighting and smart systems for use in living, working, and outdoor areas. A glance at the enormous amount of energy saved by using LED lighting in contrast to conventional lighting makes it clear that LED technology not only means lower electricity costs for customers, but also reduces electricity consumption in the overall economy, thus making a key contribution to conserving resources. Smart lighting systems also improve the living environment and people’s circumstances in general by providing greater security, savings potential, and other social and environmental aspects such as better sleep, an improved mood, decoration, and entertainment. Moving towards human-centric lighting (HCL) concepts, many other complementary characteristics of lighting will be gradually introduced in our portfolio of products. In addition, we strive to use all resources in a careful manner on our own premises, such as office materials and energy. With respect to resource conservation, as a conscious producer we endeavor to avoid the use of primary raw materials to the degree that quality criteria allow. We integrate recycled plastics as secondary raw materials in many of our products. We endeavor to replace the plastics used in our packaging with paper as far as possible. Sustainability Management has the organizational responsibility for environmental management. Since the initiation of sustainability activities in recent years, in-house environmental protection has also become increasingly important in the overall strategy of the company. The long-term goal in this field is to introduce an integrated management system in accordance with the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. In parallel, we also want to raise awareness of environmental issues internally, involve our employees more intensively in environmental protection issues, and create stronger incentives to adhere to environmentally friendly practices. By persuading our employees to actively practice “environmentally conscious thinking” both as a corporate culture and an individual culture in the form of behavioral change, we continue to strive towards a sustainable future. 61 Environment Environmental balance Since a large proportion of the environmental impact of our products is caused by our suppliers, we have integrated environmental protection requirements in all our business agreements and guidelines. In addition, our employees regularly conduct on-site audits to obtain an overview of their own compliance with the relevant statutory environmental regulations. Reporting the key environmental indicators in this and other reports will help us in the coming years to fundamentally analyze our ecological footprint and reduce it to the extent possible. Measures that have already been implemented to reduce energy consumption and thereby generate lower emission levels are presented in the rest of this chapter. Waste management and recycling For us at SLV, it is important to determine how we can avoid, In order to further reduce the environmental impact of our reduce, or recycle the waste generated in the course of packaging, we decided to switch to paper packaging mateour daily operations. By cooperating with a waste managerials as a replacement for plastic. We have also considered ment service provider, we can provide container systems the factor of resource depletion and now choose recycled that meet the requirements for professional disposal. This paper to the extent possible. The substantial decrease in the cooperation enables us to differentiate the types of volume of waste for recycling is based on the reduced waste according to location and guarantee an optimal, utilization of used paper (catalogue). subsequent method of recycling. The only hazardous waste we continue to generate is in the An analysis of the waste data shows that a large percentage form of printer cartridges and a number of end-of-life consists of the cardboard packaging used to ship products electronic devices such as computers and telephones that to our warehouses. By recycling this waste, we are making are still in use at our facilities. In a further step forward, we an effective contribution to conserving resources. Furtherreplaced all our laser printers with inkjet devices as their more, we see that material recovery in the form of waste cartridges are refillable, which had not only ecological recycling has increased in comparison to energy recovery benefits, but also cut costs for waste disposal due to (incineration), although the overall volume of waste is their reusability. increasing. We have therefore been able to reduce the emissions generated by incineration and minimized the use of primary raw materials for cardboard packaging. ENVIRONMENT Waste* 2019 2018 Total Waste Amount (t) 1 251,41 350,53 Non-hazardous waste 251,41 350,53 Hazardous waste 0,00 0,46 Disposal Methods (t) 251,41 310,47 Recycling 174,69 275,57 Incineration 76,72 74,96 *The figures in the table are based on the annual balance information provided by the disposal service for waste generated by SLV GmbH. 1 The amount of waste could be minimized by reduced catalogue sizes. 62 Environment Materials and resources used Within its internationally oriented value chain, SLV outsources as a central point for environmental protection, it stipulates production processes to specialized business partners. For that eco-friendly packaging materials are to be preferably this reason, the total weight or volume of renewable or used in the packaging process. non-renewable materials used to manufacture its products is not systematically recorded under the responsibility of the In the outgoing goods area, we use a variety of packaging headquarters in Übach-Palenberg. materials to ship our lamps and their accessories to our customers. A large proportion of this packaging material At present, as buyers of these products, we can determine consists of recyclable products such as cardboard. However, their environmental friendliness by means of the packaging non-renewable materials such as stretch film or bubble wrap specifications that are clearly regulated in the SLV Packaging are also used for logistical reasons to the extent necessary. Guideline. As an instrument for the standardization of packaging used throughout the company, the guideline is an integral part of our supplier relationship strategy. For example, ENVIRONMENT Material Utilisation 2019 2018 RENEWABLE MATERIALS Total (kg) 450.200,00 360.198,00 Material utilisation (kg) per Mio. € Turnover 2934,45 3837,96 NON-RENEWABLE MATERIALS Total (kg) 80.500,00 77.654,00 Material utilisation (kg) per Mio. € Turnover 632,63 686,26 Water management As the source of life, water is the most important resource ENVIRONMENT on our planet. Even though the Übach-Palenberg site is only Water exposed to a low to medium general water risk according to the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas of the World Resource Institute (WRI), we always handle this resource as carefully as 2019 2018 possible in all our commercial activities. The use of water WATER CONSUMPTION (m ) 3 meters at all locations in Übach-Palenberg enables us to continuously monitor water consumption and take approTotal 2.223,00 2.099,00 priate corrective measures in the event of deviations. Our consumption is limited to water taken from the local water supply. As we do not have any production sites in Germany that use water in the production process, the amount of water withdrawn also corresponds to the amount of water discharged into the sewerage system. In 2019, the higher water consumption compared to 2018 and previous years is due to the temperature increase in summer time and the frequent use of our SLV VISITOR CENTER and SLV TRAINING CENTER. 63 Environment as the kitchen area of the lounge, were also equipped with Energy consumption modern, energy-efficient household appliances. In addition, and management nearly all our offices were converted to energy-efficient LED lighting and, where appropriate, motion detectors, presence Climate change is currently considered one of the greatest detectors, and twilight switches were installed. challenges to our lives and a serious threat to our planet. In order to slow it down, the commitment of a wide range of In order to ensure optimum lighting in the warehouses as actors is required who are prepared to rethink their own well, depending on the situation, it is also possible to control patterns of action and, where possible, save energy, thereby the intensity of the lamps via a three-step system. In addireducing emissions. It is particularly important that the tion, the entire interior lighting and any computers that may economy, as a major contributor to this development, plays still be running are switched off centrally throughout the its part in slowing down climate change. The problem can company between operating hours. only be eliminated at global level by means of collective behavioral change. In future, too, we intend to devote ourselves to the expansion of further energy-saving measures, such as insulating the In the interest of mitigating climate change, we aim to roofs of our assembly and storage halls and replacing old conserve resources as we monitor and look for ways to minwindows. All the conventional lighting has been replaced imize our energy consumption and utilize alternative with LED lighting in relevant areas. renewable sources. These measures are essential factors in reducing the size of our carbon footprint. The introduction of our strategic sustainability management Emissions system has laid the foundation for systematically recording The emissions generated both directly and indirectly by our and evaluating the energy consumed in our daily business. business operations contribute to the negative impact on In this respect, it is both a major concern and a strategic the climate, which is why we are striving to continuously goal for us to reduce the internal use of energy going reduce emissions. In recording these emissions, we follow forward. In order to do so, we have taken various measures the guidelines of the internationally recognized Greenhouse that will have a positive effect on the company’s future Gas (GHG) Protocol. In addition to our prior reporting, we energy consumption, which will also have an economically now consider our flights for business purposes as the main beneficial impact. contributor to GHG emissions, which are classified as indirect business activities in scope 3. In this respect, moniAs early as 2014, we commissioned four combined heat and toring the extent of business travel by employees of Group power (CHP) plants at the Übach-Palenberg site, which headquarters is primarily considered as the first step enabled us to generate electricity and heat our commercial forward. We still try to persuade people to take trains to the premises independently. These power plants are operated extent possible and also encourage cycling to work if possible. with natural gas, which has enabled us to completely dispense with the consumption of heating oil since the conIt was previously limited to direct emissions from the version. In addition, this innovation had a positive effect on combustion of energy sources (scope 1) and indirect emisemission levels due to the more environmentally friendly sions from the use of secondary energy such as electricity method of combustion. Furthermore, in spring 2016, in (scope 2). A systematic survey approach has not yet been accordance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/ adopted to measure the emissions indirectly generated by EU implemented in Germany by amending the Energy our business activities in the whole value chain (scope 3). Services Act (EDL-G), we had an energy audit in accordance However, we plan to do so in the long term. Primarily, meawith DIN EN 16247-1 conducted at the Übach-Palenberg sures to reduce emissions are currently being taken as part site. The aim of this audit was to carry out a systematic of our energy optimization policy, as described in the inspection and analysis of energy use and energy chapter “Energy consumption and management.” consumption in order to identify and document energy flows and potential for improving energy efficiency. Even today, the energy audits carried out still provide a practical overview of the most important energy flows in the company and thus offer a suitable basis in the search for further optimization potential. In accordance with EDL-G regulations, the energy audits are repeated every four years. In specific terms, the results of the audit enabled us to derive and implement various measures to save greater amounts of energy. These included, for example, the installation of a facility for switching off the air conditioning and ventilation systems at the Daimlerstraße location during the night and at weekends as well as the introduction of a nighttime reduction in heating at our Daimlerstraße and Werkstraße locations. The newly fitted kitchens in the individual departments, as well We want to undertake all the possible steps to protect nature. 64 Environment ENVIRONMENT Environmental Balance SLV GmbH 2019 2018 ENERGY Total Electricity (kWh) 1.100.176,00 1.238.892,00 External provider (from Network) 892.943,00 990.035,00 Own generation 207.233,00 248.857,00 Electricity sold 7.317,00 3.156,00 Total Natural Gas 3.525.953,00 3.404.903,00 Boiler Consumption (kWh) 2.683.665,00 2.522.431,00 CHP Heat (kWh) 549.054,00 530.366,00 CHP Power (kWh) 207.233,00 248.857,00 CHP – Loss (kWh) 86.001,00 103.249,00 Diesel (litres) 50.052,00 45.405,00 Diesel (kWh) 496.770,00 450.649,00 Gasoline (litres) 12.993,00 9.391,00 Gasoline (kWh) 111.739,00 80.761,00 Coolant (kg) 1,20 0,00 Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 5.027.405,00 4.926.349,00 WASTE TYPES (t) Cardboard box 143,77 184,60 Plastic foil 5,67 5,17 Wood 35,73 40,43 Polystyrene (styrofoam) 30,00 121,00 Mixed scrap 1,83 0,65 Waste paper (catalogues) 2,08 43,11 Documents for destruction 0,00 0,72 DISPOSAL METHODS (t) Recycling 174,69 275,57 Incineration 76,72 74,96 1Calculated value results from the electrical eﬃciency of the CHP used. 65 Environment ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions (in t CO2 eq.) 2019 2018 Sum of Scope 1 841,07 746,12 Total Natural gas 674,15 608,29 Diesel 1 135,74 23,67 Gasoline 1 31,18 114,16 Sum of Scope 2 (Market based) 344,36 387,77 From Electricity Consumption (Market based) 2 344,36 387,77 From Electricity Consumption (Location based) 3 569,89 641,75 Sum of Scope 3 72,51 95,57 Business Travels with Flights (at HQ) 72,51 95,57 Total Sum of Scope 1 & 2 (Market based) 1185,42 1133,90 t CO2 eq. per Mio. € Turnover (Scope 1 & 2) 0,02 0,02 TOTAL Sum of Scopes 1 & 2 & 3 1257,93 1229,47 1The variation of figures between years depends on the preference change from diesel to gasoline. 2The Scope 2 „Market based“ Values refer to the average emission factors of the area where the electricity consumption takes place. Mostly the average at country level is taken as in this report. 3The Scope 2 „Location based“ Values refer to the emission factors of the electricity supplier or an individual electricity product. Appendix The present report is the first SLV sustainability report to be prepared at Group level. It demonstrates the degree to which the SLV Lighting Group is committed to sustainable management and which measures are being taken to cover the economic, social, and ecological aspects. The measures presented in this report relate to the period covering the financial years 2018 and 2019 (from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019). As this is the first Group sustainability report to be presented by the SLV Lighting Group, KPIs for reporting purposes have been kept to a basic level, but will, however, be expanded in future Group reports. We are not aware of any restatements or significant changes that need to be pointed out. In order to align the contents of this report with GRI requirements in accordance with the principle of materiality, the following measures were identified for the SLV Lighting Group in 2019, i.e., topics that are important for the sustainable business operations of the company. We then used a structured questionnaire to obtain the opinions of our most important stakeholder groups regarding this selection, in order to ensure that our stakeholders consider these issues equally relevant. The respondents also had the opportunity to assess other areas that were named. This process enabled us to identify all issues relating to social, environmental, and economic sustainability in this report, which are both our own and those considered important to stakeholders. More details are provided in the relevant chapter within this report. The key performance indicator figures mentioned in this report relate to both SLV GmbH and the SLV Lighting Group as a whole. In order to achieve greater consistency in terms of the trends and/or ratios to be reported going forward, we intend to ensure that both non-financial and financial ratios are collected and reported at Group level. 66 GRI Content Index GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2019 General Disclosure GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the Organisation 4 General Disclosure 2019 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 5-7 and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-4 Location of operations 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3-5 102-6 Markets served 4-7 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4, 5, 38, 39 102-8 Information on employees and 38, 39 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 58, 59 102-10 Significant changes to the 30, 31 In 2019 SLV Lighting Group acquires Novalux, an organisation and its supply chain Italian brand known for its architectural lighting solutions and sleek designs. DELTA LIGHT does not belong to SLV Lighting Group anymore since end of 2019. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 33 102-12 External initiatives 33 102-13 Membership of Associations 3 SLV Group is, since September 2019, a member of industrial association ZVEI (German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers‘ Association). GRI 102: Strategy 2019 102-14 Statement from senior 30 decision-maker GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 2019 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 30 GRI 102: Governance 2019 102-18 Governance Structure 24, 25 GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 48 Stakeholder Engagement 2019 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 26 102-42 Identifying and selecting 24-26, 42 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 26, 27 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 4, 5 67 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments GRI 102: Reporting Practice 2019 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 66 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 26, 66 boundries 102-47 List of material topics 27 102-48 Restatements of information 66 102-49 Changes in Reporting 66 102-50 Reporting Period 66 102-51 Date of most recent report 22.06.2018 102-52 Reporting Cycle 9 102-53 Contact point for questions 75 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance The report was prepared in accordance with the with GRI Standards GRI Standards Option „Core“ with relevant impact topics throughout the Value Chain on Group Level. 102-55 GRI Content Index 67-74 102-56 External Assurance The report has not been externally audited. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE & MANAGEMENT Ethical and moral guidelines GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 30 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 30 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 30, 31 approach GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 32 Anti-competitive Behaviour 2019 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Active fight against corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 31, 32 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 31, 32 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 32 approach 68 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2019 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 32 Our internal management guideline, which states related to corruption that our employees must behave in accordance with the law and in a socially and ethically respectful manner, was signed by all managing directors of the SLV subsidiaries. In this respect, SLV has already recognised the relevance of compliance in the company in the past, created sensitivity among managers and demanded a clear statement on this. Regular training courses on corruption are planned for the months June to August 2020. 205-2 Communication and training 32 Regular training courses on corruption are planabout anti-corruption policies and ned for the months June to August 2020. procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption No confirmed cases of corruption are known. and actions taken Compliance with national and international laws and guidelines GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 30, 31 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 30, 31 approach GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental There are no known violations of environmental Environmental Compliance 2019 laws and regulations protection laws. GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance There are no incidents of non-compliance Marketing and Labeling 2019 concerning product and service concerning product and service information and information and labeling labeling during 2018-2019. GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and In this respect there was a trademark infringeSocioeconomic Compliance 2019 regulations in the social and ment on our part due to a faulty product name, economic area but only our customers were warned. And another case where we were merely accused of design infringement but were not pursued further. 69 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Rate of accidents at work GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 49 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 49 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 49 approach GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 50, 51 Occupational Health and Safety 2019 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Workplace-specific instruction of the employees GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 49 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 49 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 49 approach GRI 403: 403-2 Hazard identification, risk 50, 51 Occupational Health and Safety 2019 assessment, and incident investigation Training for first-aid and fire protection helpers GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 50 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 50 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 50 approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year 50 Training and Education 2019 per employee WORKING CONDITIONS Respect for freedom of association for workers GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 48 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 48 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 48 approach 70 GRI Content Index GRI GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which 48, 58 Freedom of Association and the right to freedom of association Collective Bargaining 2019 and collective bargaining may be at risk Protection against discrimination of any kind GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 42, 43 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 42, 43 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 42, 43 approach GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2019 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 42, 43 corrective actions taken Secure employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 36, 37 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 36, 37 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36, 37 approach GRI 401: Employment 2019 401-1 New employee hires and employee 41 turnover GRI 404: 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 44 Training and Education 2019 regular performance and career development reviews Good work-life balance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 36, 37 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 36, 37 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36, 37 approach GRI 401: Employment 2019 401-3 Parental leave 42 Regular training for employees GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 46, 47 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 46, 47 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 46, 47 approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year 46 Training and Education 2019 per employee 71 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR PRODUCTS SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Prevention of child labour in the supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach 2019 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 58 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 58 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 58, 59 approach GRI 408: Child Labor 2019 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Due to international supplier relations SLV also significant risk for incidents of child operates in such countries, where generally a high labor risk of child labour is considered. This risk we try to counteract on different levels and eliminate. On the one hand through the SLV Business Agreement and the SLV Supplier Quality Guideline, in which our suppliers, amongst others guarantee basic rights and standards, not to use child labour and to others through regular on-the-spot checks in the form of audits. Further information you will find in the (sub-) chapter „Cooperation Strengthening: Supplier management in detail“ incl. CSR audits. SUSTAINABLE & ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS Low energy consumption when using the products GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 55, 56 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 55, 56 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 56 approach GRI 302: Energy 2019 302-5 Reducing in energy requirements of 56 products and services Focus on LED technology & Reycycled Content GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 55, 56 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 55, 56 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 56 approach GRI 302: Energy 2019 302-5 Reducing in energy requirements 56 of products and services Focus on Recycled Content GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 15 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 15 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 15 approach 72 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments GRI 301: Materials 2019 301-2 Recycled input materials used 15 PRODUCT QUALITY Regular inspection of the products with regard to safety and health GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 57 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 57 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57 approach GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and 57 100% of the SLV products are tested and approved Customer Health and Safety 2019 safety impacts of product and concerning their health and safety effects and service categories regularly checked for potential improvements. More detailed information on our testing processes can be found in the (sub) chapter „Customer Health and Product Safety“. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance In September 2018 and August 2019 SLV decided concerning the health and safety to announce voluntary product recalls. Although impacts of products and services there have been no incidents in which a consumer would have been harmed we took our responsibility and initiated these measures for reasons of preventive consumer protection. In very close cooperation with our customers and the involved international authorities, we managed to complete these measures successfully after reasonable periods. In January 2019, the French market surveillance authority informed us that one of our portable outdoor luminaires should not be compliant and would therefore pose a potentially serious risk. Thanks to the trustful and intensive cooperation with the French authorities and accredited testing companies, the sales stop of the product series that was initiated for preventive safety reasons, was released within a short time and the necessity of a recall campaign was disproven. There are not any safetyor accidentlike-issues, related to the above mentioned measures, reported to SLV until today. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Use of recycled materials in the shipping packaging of the products GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 63 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 63 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 63 approach GRI 301: Materials 2019 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 63 73 GRI Content Index GRI GRI Standard Indicators Content Pages References and/or Comments Responsible consumption of electricity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 64 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 64 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 64 approach GRI 302: Energy 2019 302-1 Energy consumption within the 65 organisation 302-3 Energy intensity 66 GRI 305: Emissions 2019 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 64, 66 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 64, 66 emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 64, 66 emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 66 Responsible consumption of water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 63 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 63 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 63 approach GRI 303: Water 2019 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 63 resource 303-5 Water consumption 63 Monitoring of waste amount GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 62 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 62 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 62 approach GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2019 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 62 Monitoring of packaging amount GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 63 Management Approach 2019 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 63 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 63 approach GRI 301: Materials 2019 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 63 74 Legal notice Legal notice The SLV Lighting Group is a registered trademark of the SLV GmbH. Project management Publisher and contact person SLV Group Holding GmbH Dr.-Ing. Pinar Erol Niederkasseler Lohweg 18 Group Sustainability Manager D-40547 Duesseldorf T +49 (0) 2451 4833 271 Germany sustainability@slv.com Presented by: Eric Lachambre, Editing and Proofreading Jens Aertgeerts, Anne Fries | Lektorat & Übersetzungen Sven Erhardt Schirmer Grafenberger Allee 277 40237 Düsseldorf T +49 (0) 2451 4833 355 F +49 (0) 2451 4188 179 Graphic design info@group.slv.com slv-lighting-group.com SLV GmbH graphic@slv.de Register court: Aachen district court Register number: HRB 9712 Bildnachweise VAT ID number in acc. with §27 a of the Values Added Tax Act: DE 122487502 SLV GmbH, Shutterstock, Volker Breuer, Jonas Weckschmied on Unsplash, copyright © & all Subsidiaries Note Acknowledgement For reasons of better readability, the simultaneous use of We would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere masculine and feminine language forms has been omitted. thanks to all employees who contributed to the preparation All references to persons apply equally to all sexes. of the report! 75 SLV Group Holding GmbH | Niederkasseler Lohweg 18 | 40547 Duesseldorf | Germany T: +49 (0)2451 4833-0 | E-Mail: info@group.slv.com | slv-lighting-group.com © SLV Group Holding GmbH, 2020
