DSV PANALPINA RESPONSIBILITY 2019 REPORT 2 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 WE SUPPORT CONTENTS Introduction Letter from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 DSV Panalpina at a glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Focus areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2019 achieving more together . . . . . . . . . 9 Our commitment Business ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 This Responsibility Report is a Communication on Panalpina was completed. This Responsibility Report is People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Progress (COP) of the Group under the United Nations part of management’s review and covers the statutory Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Global Compact, which DSV Panalpina signed in 2009. reporting on corporate social responsibility, as prescribed by section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 The Responsibility Report gives information and data on the Further, this report serves as DSV Panalpina’s statement Community engagement . . . . . . . . . . . 26 corporate responsibility activities of the parent company according to section 54 of part 6 of the UK Modern and of subsidiaries of the Group in which the parent Slavery Act. Non-financial highlights company has an ownership interest of more than 50%. of the DSV Panalpina Group . . . . . . . 29 With this progress report, we would like to express our The Responsibility Report covers the 12-month period continued support to the United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative that ended 31 December 2019. Data regarding Panalpina initiative and its 10 fundamental principles as well as its (GRI) index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 is covered from 19 August when DSV’s acquisition of efforts to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. 3 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Letter from the CEO TAKING RESPONSIBILITY Another important aspect of our increased efforts is our new CO2 reporting system, IS PART OF WHAT MAKES which will contribute to a new level of transparency. The system will improve our US STRONG ability to calculate and minimise the carbon footprint of our customers’ shipments across multi-geographical and multi-modal supply chains. A STRONGER CODE OF CONDUCT An important milestone in 2019 for us was our comprehensive update to the DSV DSV Panalpina provides global transport and showed, there is a need for more substantial Panalpina Code of Conduct. Our Code of logistics services, and we see it as a fundachanges to prevent irreparable damage to Conduct guides us to act in a responsible mental part of our value proposition to be a the environment. We are therefore going to and ethical manner, and in 2019, we upresponsible business partner and to seekdevelop a strategy in 2020 that will set new dated some of its key topics. Our ethical One of our new partnerships investigates sustainable solutions. and more ambitioustargets for corporate restandards have not changed since our last both how wind energy can be used to sponsibility. major update, but as the world changes, so produce renewable hydrogen for certain For us at DSV Panalpina, 2019 will be rememmust our way of addressing the topics that heavy-duty vehicles, and how we can take bered as the year where two great companies SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS are important to us and our stakeholders. steps to develop sustainable fuel production joined forces. We are still in the process of Our new commitment to the Science Based and infrastructure in Denmark. In another new combining the two organisations, but we Targets initiative will be central to our future We have, for example, introduced a new partnership, I will represent DSV Panalpina in believe that the new DSV Panalpina will be sustainability efforts. As part of this initiatopic outlining our firm position against working with the Danish government to find an even stronger company. This also applies tive, we are setting targets for greenhouse money laundering and modern slavery. greener solutions for land transportation – to our corporate responsibility strategy. gas reductions, which will serve as a guide We also updated our whistle-blower reporting and drive them forward. Even though we had to put several activities for our whole sustainability value chain. system to provide our employees and business on hold in 2019 to focus on the integration, Once the targets have been approved, most partners with simpler ways of anonymously We take our responsibility seriously, and we we also strengthened our existing corporate likely in the first half of 2020, it will be the reporting alleged violations of law or of our believe that our wider ambitions and new responsibility setup to better support our responsibility of everyone at DSV Panalpina Code of Conduct. initiatives will take us a step in the direction activities going forward. In 2020 we are to contribute to achieving them. of a more sustainable transport and logistics going to present a new strategy and new VALUABLE PARTNERSHIPS industry. targets, and it will require focus from the We believe that the targets will inspire us to ‘Achieving more together’ is the tagline for whole organisation to realise our aspirations improve our existing ways of working and the integration of DSV and Panalpina, so it is in this area. find new ones to the benefit of both our a phrase I have used a lot during the past customers and ourselves. A key element will few months. I believe that we have a greater Since we joined the UN Global Compact 10 be to reduce emissions from subcontracted chance of success when we bring capabilities years ago and began reporting annually on transport services and thereby help drive together. That is also why we are adding our activities, we have improved our efforts down total CO2 emissions. We see this as new partnerships to the one we have with and our transparency – but we can do more. both an environmental and a commercial the Red Cross I Red Crescent movement JENS BJØRN ANDERSEN As the latest UN report on climate change success in the making. anchored through Danish Red Cross. CEO 4 DSV Responsibility Report 2019 DSV Panalpina at a glance DSV PANALPINA AT A GLANCE APAC Asia, Australia and the Pacific Gross profit: AMERICAS DKKm North and South America Gross profit: EMEA 3,478 DKKm 5,357 Europe, Middle East and Africa EBIT before special items: DKKm 1,285 Gross profit: DKKm EBIT before special items: DKKm 14,919 2,035 EBIT before special items: DKKm 3,334 80+ countries 4th largest DKK 120 billion 60,000+ worldwide freight forwarder annual revenue* employees *Proforma revenue for a full year for the combined company DSV Panalpina 5 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 DSV Panalpina at a glance FREIGHT FORWARDING AND the world’s fourth largest freight forwarder VALUE-ADDED SERVICES generating total revenue of DKK 94,701 DSV Panalpina is a global freight forwarder million in 2019 and having a skilled workKey resources and offering transport and logistics services supforce of more than 60,000 employees. performance drivers porting our customers’ entire supply chain. People — IT systems — Industry know-how — Standardised global workflows We provide traditional transportation of goods ASSET-LIGHT BUSINESS MODEL Carrier relations — Global network with local presence as well as a variety of value-added services. DSV Panalpina is an asset-light freight forwarder. We plan and coordinate transportaValue-added services include purchase order tion from shipper to consignee as illustrated management, cargo consolidation, customs clearance, cargo insurance, warehousing, in the business model. The physical transport is outsourced to suppliers – airlines, shipping A distribution and other related services. lines, haulage companies etc. From Shipper Our services are offered through our three We create value for our customers in our core divisions – Air & Sea, Road and Solutions – strategic areas: customers, growth, people Shipment booking Cargo consolidation delivering a full range of transport and logisand operational excellence. These areas conPick-up FREIGHT Purchase order management tics solutions throughout more than 80 stitute the pillars of the services that we offer Warehouse FORWARDING Cross-dock terminal countries in which we operate. as freight forwarders when making our skills Documentation & customs clearance SERVICES Insurance and industry know-how, our specialised and DSV Panalpina was founded in Denmark in integrated IT infrastructure, and our global 1976 and has since then evolved to become network available. TRANSPORT (SUBCONTRACTED) Warehouse Labelling, configuration, testing Picking/packing LOGISTICS AND Distribution Cross-dock terminal DISTRIBUTION Documentation & customs clearance Deconsolidation E-commerce fulfilment B To Consignee SUPPLY CHAIN VISIBILITY Alerts —Exception management — Track and trace — Proof of delivery — KPI reporting 6 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Governance GOVERNANCE We aspire to be the most responsive thirdOn a daily basis, the responsibility for implebility initiatives throughout the organisation. party logistics provider of sustainable value menting, driving and ensuring compliance The department acts as the main contact chains. To maintain the necessary focus and with the Group’s corporate responsibility point for local subsidiaries in order to support attention on this aspiration, the responsibility strategies and initiatives rests with the them in driving initiatives, and together with for the area is extended from the Board of management of our local subsidiaries beother Group functions, the CSR department Directors to each local entity. cause of our decentralised structure and performs local on-site reviews. trust in local empowerment acting within Corporate responsibility activities are anchored global frameworks. ON-SITE REVIEWS with the Board of Directors, which sets the On-site reviews are part of our self-assessdirection for our strategy, targets and Group The Group CSR department plans, manages ment process. The reviews are conducted policies together with the Executive Board. and follows up on global corporate responsibased on a risk-management approach. They focus on finance, tax, legal and corporate responsibility matters to ensure compliance Annual General Meeting with procedures and reporting processes. The specific areas covered in a review are based on the risk profile of the relevant site Board of Directors and on key controls within the different review Board Committees focus areas. Executive Board Group functions In 2019, DSV Panalpina performed on-site Division Management reviews to look for opportunities for improvements in established processes and standards and to identify any systemic issues that needed to be addressed. However, the main part of reviews was put on hold in the Air & Sea Road Solutions second half of the year due to the acquisiOrganisation tion of Panalpina in August 2019 and the subsequent integration. 7 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Focus areas FOCUS AREAS As a significant, global player in the transport PEOPLE and logistics industry, our business activities Freight forwarding is a people business. It’s have an impact on the world around us. imperative that we provide healthy and safe We are committed to understanding these working environments across the organisation impacts and to taking steps to amplify the and that all employees are offered developpositive ones and minimise the negative. ment opportunities. We have identified four focus areas in which SUPPLIERS we have the biggest impact. These areas all Because of our asset-light business model, play a vital part in defining our corporate we rely on thousands of suppliers every day. responsibility strategy and measuring our As we are part of the same value chain as progress. The focus areas are: our suppliers, our business success is critically dependent on the performance of our subENVIRONMENT contractors and their adherence to the The transport and logistics industry is a major agreed processes and procedures. emitter of greenhouse gases. As the fourth largest player of the industry, we acknowledge Our efforts within each focus area are our negative impact as a natural part of our described in detail in the chapters of this activities, but also an opportunity to drive a Responsibility Report. change. You can read policies within the focus areas at: BUSINESS ETHICS We employ and do business with people www.dsv.com/responsibility/policies from all over the world. Therefore, it is essential that our employees and suppliers share the same business ethics. 8 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Focus areas DERIVED FROM A DETAILED ANALYSIS as the basis for making decisions and for deThe UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Within each of the key areas we work to The focus areas for corporate responsibility veloping DSV Panalpina’s business model to (SDGs) also play a part in assessing where minimise our impacts and, where possible, have been identified by means of the risk ensure that we continue to act in a responour business activities have the greatest make a positive difference. management process of DSV Panalpina, sible manner and stay committed to creating impacts and in conveying to our stakeholders which is described in the 2019 Annual Report. long-term value for our stakeholders. how we seek to make a difference. All SDGs We seek to drive improvements through We follow this process to ensure that our are relevant to DSV Panalpina, but our innovation, operational excellence, and by focus areas related to corporate responsiUN GLOBAL COMPACT AND SUSTAINABLE business activities have a bigger impact on partnering with our supply chain, where bility are addressed at the same level and DEVELOPMENT GOALS reaching some goals more than others. By much of our impact originates. This is realwith the same urgency as our operational We have been a signatory to the United Namatching our key focus areas with the SDGs, ised through the development of new techkey risks. tions Global Compact since 2009, and we we find that we can make the greatest nologies and approaches to provide services report annually on the progress of our efforts contributions to SDGs 8,12,13,16 and 17. to our customers or improving our internal Our material topics are identified, monitored on the Compact’s 10 principles of anti-corprocesses. In any scenario, our corporate and managed on an ongoing basis. The potenruption, the environment, and human and UNDERSTANDING OUR IMPACT IS KEY responsibility efforts follow the company’s tial impact of the identified material topics labour rights. By working systematically TO DEVELOPMENT strategy of pursuing profitable growth and on our ability to achieve the goals outlined within this framework, and reporting publicly By knowing the material topics for our corvalue creation for all stakeholders. in our strategy is carefully evaluated. The about our efforts, we aim to improve our porate responsibility efforts, we can focus Board of Directors uses these assessments performance. our efforts on improvement and change. We apply the 17 SDG goals as a framework for defining our strategies and measuring our progress with a special focus on the five global goals: SDG Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth SDG Goal 12 Responsible consumption and production SDG Goal 13 Climate action SDG Goal 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG Goal 17 Partnerships for the goals 9 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 2019 achieving more together 2019 ACHIEVING MORE TOGETHER Following the acquisition of Panalpina in 2019, At Group level, we have a dedicated QHSE entities in driving initiatives in line with DSV emissions, scope 1 and 2, and for our indirect we brought together the best of both worlds department to develop and uphold a Panalpina’s ambitions. All sustainability efemissions, scope 3, which include subconto strengthen our corporate responsibility high-quality and transparent framework for forts will support our commitment to the tracted transport services. efforts, and we secured a strong foundation QHSE standards that local entities must folScience Based Targets initiative. for governance across the organisation. low. This includes on-site reviews and the We believe that the combined DSV Panalpina possibility of ISO certifications where it Combining DSV and Panalpina – two large will be even better equipped to deliver We are going to refocus our efforts around two makes commercial sense. Likewise, a speand complex organisations – requires a results within the corporate responsibility main areas: an even stronger global focus on cialised Sustainability department focuses strong focus from everyone in both organiareas and to make a positive difference. QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety, Environment), on driving DSV Panalpina’s efforts within sations. In 2019, the shift in focus, and the and higher ambitions for sustainability. sustainability and on supporting the local change in context, meant that several of the COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS overall targets set for the corporate responCollaboration with business partners and sibility areas in 2018 were put on hold, and customers will play a significant part in setfor the same reason, no new targets were ting and working towards our targets. For set. However, the integration has offered us example, a major issue within our industry an opportunity to strengthen the corporate continues to be the reduction of carbon responsibility area – both within the organiemissions from commercial activities. If we sation and in terms of setting more ambiare to achieve our goal of reducing those tious targets – so at the end of 2020, we emissions and creating sustainable, costwill have new and more ambitious targets. efficient value chains, we can only do so together with our suppliers and customers. Our new science-based targets, however, are further ahead in development, and we Additionally, we believe that conducting expect to present them in the first half of business in an ethical manner and influencing 2020. The targets will specify how much our suppliers to do the same will also attract and how quickly DSV Panalpina needs to significant focus in the coming years. These reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, serving areas are closely linked to our key corporate as a guide for the Group’s future sustainability responsibility areas and will continue to form efforts. Targets will be set for both our direct a significant part of our efforts. 10 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 BUSINESS ETHICS We do business with integrity, respecting different cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals in all countries. 11 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Business Ethics At DSV Panalpina, business ethics are an laundering and modern slavery. The latter is integral part of the corporate culture. We a potential issue when doing transport. believe that by respecting a set of ethical Our tax contributions principles and guidelines, we create stronger When the updated Code of Conduct was and more trusting relationships with customers, launched, we conducted local training to When it comes to tax, we have made a choice to act in what investors, suppliers, authorities and other maximise awareness of our expectations to we consider to be a fair and responsible way. We aim to comply stakeholders. We also believe that ethical our employees. with tax legislation and do not engage in aggressive tax planning behavior helps us to attract and retain talented to avoid tax payments. We believe in contributing our fair share people – people want to work for a company At the same time, we updated our Code of to the societies and local communities in which we operate. that demonstrates integrity. Conduct e-learning course, which is required for all managers to ensure that they can In 2019, DSV Panalpina contributed to tax in more than Our company has activities all over the world, successfully guide employees in pursuing 80 countries and our corporate tax payments amounted to which means that we employ and do business safe and ethical work behaviours. DKK 1,084 million. Through our tax payments, DSV Panalpina with people from many different cultures. contributes directly and indirectly to local communities and Therefore, business ethics for us starts with re86% of all managers have completed the to supporting the UN’s 17 Sustainability Development Goals, spect for different cultures and respect for the updated e-learning course and in the beginspecifically SDG 16 and SDG 17. dignity and rights of individuals in all countries. ning of 2020, we aim to reach 100% as it is vital for us that everyone assigned to such DSV Panalpina does not support the concept of tax havens. A STRONGER CODE OF CONDUCT education also completes it. We do note, however, that occasionally offshore company Business ethics is guided by the DSV Panalpina constructions are inherited through mergers and acquisitions. Code of Conduct. Its core principles help us to New employees receive the DSV Panalpina In that case, our priority is to liquidate these companies as act safely and ethically in our everyday work. Code of Conduct and must give their consent soon as possible. Without exception, everybody at DSV to adhering to it. With the recent merger of Panalpina must follow the Code of Conduct, DSV and Panalpina, the combined company Currently, we are not present in any countries classified by just as they must follow national legislation and benefitted from the fact that both individual the EU as non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. international regulations. companies already had strong ethics and compliance processes and cultures. 86% We also took steps to ensure that the employees of both organisations are aware of of all managers have currently completed our expectations and committed to fulfilling the updated Code of Conduct e-learning any additional requirements regarding ethics and compliance. Tax payments In June 2019, we launched a comprehensive update to the Code of Conduct, including clearer guidance on data privacy, social media, human rights and conflicts of interest. It also DSV Panalpina contributed to tax in introduced a new topic highlighting DSV more than 80 countries Panalpina’s firm position against money 12 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Business Ethics NEW WHISTLE-BLOWER CHANNELS DATA AWARENESS If someone at DSV Panalpina, or a business Ensuring the security and privacy of our partner, witnesses a breach or a suspected data is essential in order to be a trusted  OUR TARGETS FOR 2019 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 breach of law or of our Code of Conduct, business partner. We are also obligated to they are urged to report it through our comply with international data privacy laws, We will ensure awareness of the updated The updated Code of Conduct was whistle-blower programme. In 2019, we including the European Union’s General Data Code of Conduct through: Global rolllaunched globally in June 2019 launched an updated whistle-blower website Protection Regulation (GDPR). When we out and awareness campaigns for the together with a new whistleand an app, through which incidents can be launched our updated Code of Conduct, we Code of Conduct and whistle-blower blower setup. easily reported. Our whistle-blower channels organised a campaign for our employees to programme. are administered by an external provider to ensure continuous awareness of expectations ensure the anonymity of those reporting and obligations regarding data privacy. an incident. Training in the DSV Panalpina Code of All employees below management In 2019, we also raised the level of awareConduct for employees below managelevel were trained in the updated When an incident is reported – regardless of ness of how to prevent breaches of cyber ment level in selected regions. Code of Conduct when it was where in the world it has occurred – we follow security. Such breaches can be extremely launched not just employees in up and make sure that appropriate action is damaging to our systems and to the trust selected regions. taken. In 2019, the number of incidents that we have earned from our business reported through the whistle-blower propartners. This is why we have a proactive gramme was 60, an increase compared with approach to cyber security. In 2019, this Uphold procedures to ensure that all new Due to launch and roll-out of new 2018, and an expected outcome after a included an awareness campaign, including employees at management level receive Code of Conduct and e-learning, major merger. Most of the received reports an e-learning course, on how to stay vigilant training in the DSV Panalpina Code of these procedures were put on hold. were employee issues to be resolved by with cyber security – especially when it comes Conduct. They will continue in 2020. local management. to email security and the threat of phishing. Cyber Existing employees at management level The updated e-learning course on will repeat the training at appropriate the Code of Conduct was launched. security intervals. Going forward, managers must repeat the training at appropriate intervals. Awareness campaign rolled out globally with an e-learning course On-site reviews must be carried out in 9.4 % of all operating entities all operating subsidiaries of the Group underwent a on-site review in according to an established risk and 2019. Reviews were put on hold materiality approach, according to which due to the integration. They will visits take place in intervals between continue in 2020. two and four years. Achieved Partly achieved Not achieved 13 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 PEOPLE We provide safe and healthy workplaces, and we help our employees develop through mentorship, motivation and effective talent management. 14 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 People Over 60,000 people in more than 80 countries Providing opportunities In 2019, the number of people employed in As a commercial enterprise, we aim to miniacross the world make up DSV Panalpina. our organisation grew from 47,000 to more mise employee turnover and retain the best The efforts and dedication of our employees for everyone than 60,000 when DSV and Panalpina joined people. Employee turnover in 2019 was in driving the company forward enable us to forces. During the first few months of the 23.2% compared with 20.1% the year before. deliver the best possible services to our We want our employees to be successful in integration period, we assessed people’s We attribute part of this increase to the stakeholders. Our employees bring unique their jobs and to grow their careers. To that capabilities and experience levels to ensure integration and restructuring measures. skills, backgrounds and expertise to the table, end, our local and global HR departments retention of the right talent. All new emWe expect a rise in employee turnover next and that diversity plays an important part in have several initiatives to attract, develop ployees receive the necessary training in year as well until the integration process is our continued growth and success. and retain the best people. new systems and are briefed of our expecfully completed. tations for their work to ensure a good inteWe are committed to ensuring that everyOur employee development programmes gration process. In 2020, we will continue our efforts to retain one feels valued and safe in their jobs, and are closely aligned with our business strategy employees at all levels of seniority in order to we work continuously to bring out the best and focus on customers, growth and operRestructuring measures across the organisamaintain knowledge and competencies and to in our people by: ational excellence. Ranging from talent tion was also a key step during the integration secure the company’s development. management and sales training to literacy process to ensure the best possible results. 1. offering development opportunities for courses, the programmes all serve to equip As a consequence, these restructuring all employees and employees with the skills they need to measures resulted in job cuts of overlapping 2. providing safe and healthy workplaces succeed in their roles. functions in IT and other corporate functions. EMPLOYEE Female employees MANAGEMENT Female employees EMPLOYEE Total GENDER RATIO (%) Male employees GENDER RATIO (%) Male employees TURNOVER (%) Salaried employees Hourly workers 100 100 30 75 75 20 50 50 10 25 25 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 15 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 People GLOBAL ONBOARDING A safe working environment In 2019, the rate of occupational accidents Leadership In 2019, we developed a new global framein DSV Panalpina rose from 4.6 to 5.0. The work for onboarding new employees. The result is still within the target that we set in training process was introduced to a series of counA good working environment is a safe working 2018. Sadly, we had a fatal accident in tries in 2019 to ensure compatibility with environment, and that is a top priority for 2019, which underlines the importance of local processes. In 2020, the global onDSV Panalpina. We focus on minimising risks always safeguarding the best and safest boarding approach will undergo further deMore than 600 managers received trainand raising awareness about health and possible working conditions. To ensure as low velopment, including an e-learning module – ing at 123 leadership workshops taught safety for our employees, both physical a rate of occupational accidents as possible, and will be introduced to all DSV Panalpina over 237 days and mental. the area will continue to have our focus. countries. The objective of this framework is ISO 45001 to ensure that all new employees are welOur health and safety departments’ efforts comed and integrated into the business – Leadership training at DSV Panalpina focusses are aimed at avoiding occupational accidents regardless of whether they join the company on a combination of business leadership and or injuries altogether. Both at Group and local through mergers and acquisitions or through people leadership. Topics that are covered levels, staff assess risks and make sure that Increased number of locations upgraded standard recruitment processes. include: communication, motivation, change procedures for safe conduct are in place. In from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 management, situational leadership, perfor2019, we continued our efforts to safeguard certification By focusing on the experience that people mance and much more. An important part of the health and safety of all employees. have when joining DSV Panalpina, we are the training is the preand post assignments better able to retain and to support them in that are based on each participant’s own performing their best from the beginning. challenges instead of generic examples. RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS Total This is essential to employees and to the (per million working hours) Salaried employees business. Leadership training was conducted for Hourly workers Working managers across the organisation in 2019. hours LEADERSHIP TRAINING More than 600 managers from more than 16 Our Group HR department continued to 30 countries received training. Some 123 devote attention to leadership training modules were taught in 2019 – a total of 14 across DSV Panalpina in 2019. Both DSV 237 training days. and Panalpina conducted leadership training 12 prior to joining forces. A comparison of the To make the training more flexible to each leadership programmes showed that a lot of participant’s schedule, and to ensure the 10 the contents were based on the same tools best possible learning environment, our 8 and the same approach. In both organisations, Group HR department will look into the leadership is perceived as an operational task possibilities for more online learning in 6 rather than a theoretical one. We will continue 2020 as a supplement to the ongoing, to focus on leadership training, to add new face-to-face leadership training. 4 skills and to strengthen the network between leaders across divisions and countries. 2 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 16 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 People Absence due to illness decreased from 2.4 in quality and working environment. The new 2018 to 2.1 in 2019. However, the result framework will consist of a range of clearly will not change our focus to continue minidefined measures and mandatory incident OUR TARGETS FOR 2019 OUR ACHIEVENEMTNS IN 2019 mising absence due to illness as it has high management procedures, which will help importance. ensure that every location of the DSV The rate of occupational accidents must The rate of occupational accidents Panalpina Group is a safe place to work. be kept stable and not exceed 5 per was at a stable level in 2019 and In 2019, we took the first steps to further The global framework will also include a million working hours in total. did not exceed 5 per million strengthen our Group level processes for standardised set-up for obtaining and working hours. health and safety. By joining forces with managing ISO certifications at the individual Panalpina our setup was strengthened, and locations. The intention is to make sure that we started a process to ensure an even our global set-up takes into account the The rate of lost work days due to occuThe rate of lost work days was at higher level of health and safety standards. needs of local entities and supports local pational injuries must be kept stable and 97.5 per million working hours in empowerment. Establishing and implementing not exceed 100 per million working 2019 and thereby at a stable level. In 2020, we will focus on establishing a this comprehensive framework will continue hours in total. stronger global framework for standards of beyond 2020. To ensure even better procedures for This activity was put on hold in our health and safety setup, we will 2019 due to the integration process. develop and roll out an improved global It has been resumed as described in ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS Total approach in 2019. this chapter. (%) Salaried employees Hourly workers (%) To maintain focus on a diverse workforce, This activity was put on hold in we will continue the efforts to roll out 2019 due to the integration 4,5 new diversity policy. process, which had a general 4,0 focus on the workforce rather than a specific focus on diversity. 3,5 3,0 2,5 2,0 1,5 1,0 0,5 0 Achieved Partly achieved Not achieved 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 17 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT We work with our customers and suppliers to review and improve our practices to minimise the impact on the environment. 18 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Environment With logistics being a major contributor to Optimising customer Science-based global greenhouse gas emissions, individuals and businesses are increasingly seeking more supply chains What is the Science targets sustainable ways to move cargo around the Based Targets world. At DSV Panalpina, we take our part of We work with our customers to optimise the responsibility for moving the transport their supply chains and to increase visibility initiative? sector towards a more sustainable future. We have committed ourselves to the of the impact that their supply chains have Science Based Targets initiative, which on the environment. Our efforts include CO2 The Science Based Targets initiative Most of our environmental impact is will guide our sustainability efforts emissions reporting, consolidating freight, uses measurable targets to help through the suppliers that we employ to choosing the right transportation modes, companies in their transition to the provide our services. And while there are and choosing the optimal location for warelow-carbon economy. It is a collabosome technologies available to move cargo SETTING TARGETS IN 2020 houses. Besides making sense from a comration between the CDP, the World with less impact on the environment, the A crucial new initiative is our commitment to mercial perspective for customers, these Resources Institute (WRI), the World reality is that the transport sector’s willingthe Science Based Targets initiative. The taraspects of supply chain optimisation and Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and ness to choose sustainable solutions is gets we are setting as part of the initiative visibility can help reduce the impact that the United Nations Global Compact dependent on whether they are also costwill specify how much and how quickly we transportation and logistics have on the (UNGC). efficient. Despite these challenges, we are need to reduce emissions, including both dienvironment. focused on making progress. rect emissions and indirect emissions (emisTargets to reduce greenhouse gas sions from suppliers). The targets will guide IMPROVING OUR CUSTOMER (GHG) emissions are considered Renewable our sustainability efforts, and by joining the CO2 EMISSIONS REPORTING “science-based” if they are in line initiative, we ensure that our low-carbon We provide our customers with reports on with what the latest climate science hydrogen transformation is aligned with climate science. the carbon emissions from the services we says is necessary to meet the goals provide to them. Our goal is to provide of the Paris Agreement – to limit partnership Part of our system for managing our environcomplete transparency over carbon emisglobal warming to well below 2°C mental efforts is tied to the ISO 14001 cersions, and to that end, we are strengthening above pre-industrial levels and tification, which many of our facilities have. our reporting setup with one of the leading pursue efforts to limit warming The H2RES partnership investigates how At those facilities, we have implemented risk CO2 emissions reporting systems – to 1.5°C. offshore wind can be used to produce and opportunity identification processes, EcoTransIT World. renewable hydrogen for heavy-duty continuous improvement methods and www. Sciencebasedtargets.org CO₂ customer transport. See page 20 other systems to ensure that our efforts are effective. The best way forward for us is through colThe following three activities aim to contribute calculation tool laboration with customers and suppliers. We to reaching our sustainability goals: have, for example, substantial expertise in • Optimising customer supply chains building more sustainable supply chains, and • Developing sustainable solutions we want to use that expertise to help our • Using resources responsibly An updated IT system is being customers. The number of customers eximplemented to improve customer pressing an interest in sustainable transporCO₂ emissions reporting tation and logistics continues to rise. 19 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Environment This system improves our ability to calculate integrated into our reporting system, from footprint. This includes making sure that efficiency for air transports by 2% and 8% and optimise the carbon footprint of our which we can extract customised reports trailers and containers are optimally loaded for sea transports. customers’ shipments across multi-geofor our customers. with consideration for cargo weight, volume graphical and multi-modal supply chains. and density. This will help us reduce carbon CHOOSING THE RIGHT TRANSPORT MODE EcoTransIT also allows us to optimise shipping emissions and improve energy efficiency by The choice of transportation mode and route Specifically, the software allows us to calculate options for our customers by creating transreducing the share of not fully loaded vehicles. also impacts the environment as different the direct and indirect energy consumption port simulations. This enables customers to Besides being sustainable, it also reduces the transport modes result in different amounts of and emissions of vehicles during cargo make an informed choice about which options overall costs for customers. carbon emissions. We help our customers find transports. present the best combination of speed, cost the right routes and transport modes that suit and environmental impact. We measure the energy efficiency of transtheir needs for time of delivery and budget, The software can capture information about ports, and our aim is to increase it every while still focusing on choosing the most envirouting, weight, loading factors etc. for each CONSOLIDATING FREIGHT year. We achieved that in 2019, increasing ronmentally friendly solution. Generally, the shipment and calculate the emissions with a By consolidating our customers’ shipments, energy efficiency for road transports by faster the transport and the heavier the goods, high level of detail. The calculations are we can help significantly reduce their carbon 5%. In addition, we improved energy the higher the cost and carbon emissions. Energy efficiency on average CO²e (g/tonne-km) AIR TRANSPORT CO²e (g/tonne-km) 700 SEA TRANSPORT ROAD TRANSPORT 650 CO²e CO²e 622.0 607.0 601.9 (g/tonne-km) (g/tonne-km) 588.5 579.9 15 150 600 10 100 550 6.9 72.0 73.9 72.3 71.5 67.9 6.6 6.3 6.1 5.6 5 50 500 0 0 450 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Goods transported as air freight emit the transported by road. By being flexible on Developing sustainable fuel cell trucks for commercial use and to highest amount of CO2e per tonne-km. In time of delivery, the customer may be able test them in our own supply chain. fact, air freight emits approximately 100 to choose an alternative transportation solutions times more CO2e per shipment than sea mode that emits less CO2 and sometimes NOXOUT ROOFING freight and nine times more than cargo even reduces the cost. New solutions are necessary if, as an industry In 2019, a new warehouse building next to and as a global community, we want to create DSV Panalpina’s headquarters in Denmark was a faster change towards a more sustainable completed with environmentally-friendly NOXfuture. We believe that the best way to OUT roofing. The mineral-based coating of the develop new solutions is by collaborating with roofing breaks down NOx particles, thereby Building more sustainable supply chains others, which is why we are increasing the cleaning the air of particles emitted by cars and number of partnerships that we are involved in. trucks. Three more buildings in the same area The perfect supply chain is a lean and green supply chain. will soon be fitted with the NOXOUT roofing. When we partner with other companies and Reducing supply chain waste is the job of our Supply Chain Innovation team, who political institutions to share resources and collaborate with large customers to optimise from a cost, service and sustainability ideas for sustainable solutions, we not only Using resources responsibly perspective. On average they find supply chain cost savings of 10 -15%. Those savings benefit from a larger pool of capabilities, we go hand in hand with environmental savings. also ensure greater buy-in when the time We have more than 1,400 sites around the comes to implement those solutions. Partworld, varying from small office spaces to The team is focused on building supply chains that are both economically and environnerships are particularly effective when they large warehouses of more than 100,000 m2. mentally sustainable – one won’t do without the other. When other factors are equal, involve participants from the full value chain Besides ensuring processes for recycling the team will always choose the greenest options. rather than a single link in the chain. and sorting wherever possible, we have high-standard requirements for our buildings The team’s data-crunching analysts and supply chain practitioners know where to find RENEWABLE HYDROGEN – all aiming to reduce our direct impact on improvement potential in any supply chain. Their toolbox contains measures such as DSV Panalpina has partnered with a number the environment and using our resources in maximising container fill rates through smarter consolidation and optimal packaging, of Danish companies to start an innovation a responsible manner. minimising the distance driven from a more optimal logistics network design, choosing project called H2RES, with funding from the optimal transportation mode and choosing carriers that offer the optimal balance EUDP (Energy Technology Development and RECYCLING AND SORTING between sustainability, cost and service levels. Demonstration Program) under the Danish Our recycling initiatives vary across countries Energy Agency. The purpose is to demonand types of location. Many sites recycle cardSupply Chain Innovation provides an additional, end-to-end perspective on supply strate how energy production from offshore board, paper and wooden pallets from operachains, and a big part of that is creating visibility. By knowing the performance and the wind can be used to produce renewable hytions and activities, and other sites use only inner workings of supply chains, companies can react faster and improve continuously. drogen. The hydrogen is intended to be used recyclable storage boxes in warehouses. for zero-emission fuel cell-based commerLearn more about Supply Chain Innovation cial heavy-duty transportation. The project The goal in 2019 was to recycle materials at aims to be the world’s first integrated off80% of our sites (measured in square metres), shore wind and electrolyser setup to probut due to the acquisition of Panalpina – duce renewable hydrogen, thereby decarwhich included many new buildings – we did bonizing heavy-duty transportation through not achieve the target. We recycled materials intelligent sector coupling. DSV Panalpina’s in 74% of our sites in 2019, a figure we aim role is to assess the suitability of hydrogen to increase. 21 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Environment ENERGY-EFFICIENT BUILDINGS When planning a building project, we calculate with a minimum life span of 50 years, and if The management of our buildings is an area which possible locations will provide the one of our buildings needs to be removed, which we can directly influence to reduce lowest total transportation costs, and 85% of its materials could be reused. Also, Ratings carbon emissions. We continuously renovate, thereby the lowest carbon emissions. Our new sites are built from energy-efficient soluconsolidate and build new warehouses to Group Property department, consisting of tions, such as automated lighting, low-energy Ratings are valuable tools to benchmark make sure that our buildings live up to the specialists within the area, sets standards light bulbs and water-saving fixtures, and with our corporate responsibility performance energy efficiency requirements we set for and requirements for buildings Group-wide. good working conditions for employees. against our industry peers. ourselves. When we have new locations built, we adhere Our building projects are based on business In 2020 we will make our first comIn 2019, DSV Panalpina’s buildings emitted to some of the highest national and internacases that specify our long list of requirebined submissions as DSV Panalpina. 108,000 tonnes of CO2 compared with tional building standards, and we use ments, and we are currently assessing which 101,000 tonnes in 2018. This increase in high-quality materials to ensure high energy of the UN Sustainable Development Goals ECOVADIS emissions was caused by our expansion in efficiency and to minimise the need for onwe can incorporate into our business cases EcoVadis is an online sustainability 2019. going repairs. New buildings are constructed for future construction projects. rating platform that DSV Panalpina reports to on a yearly basis. We do that through an industry-specific questionTransparency in carbon naire that focuses on four themes: emissions Environment, Labour & Human Rights, Ethics and Sustainable Procurement. These themes encompass 21 different 1% 17% We measure our total carbon footprint and topics on which we elaborate and energy efficiency for each transport mode. provide supporting documentation. Because we use suppliers to carry out the CDP transports booked by our customers, most CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) is a of the chart on the left contains carbon non-profit charity that measures coremissions from transports performed by porate action on climate change. We our suppliers. Our own emissions make up disclose our energy and greenhouse approximately 2% of total emissions. gas emissions data to CDP annually along with our reduction targets to Breakdown of The majority of greenhouse gas emissions measure our performance, risks and total emissions from our operations is attributable to air opportunities. We also use CDP’s and road transports, constituting 48% and questionnaire to improve our green34% respectively, while 17% of our carbon house gas inventory and gain a deeper emissions comes from sea freight and 1% understanding of how to manage our 34% from our buildings in 2019. carbon footprint. 48% ■ Sea transport ■ Air transport ■ Road transport ■ Buildings 22 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Environment OUR TARGETS FOR 2019 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS FOR 2019 Increase collaboration with strategic We entered into new partnerships, customers and suppliers in order to which all focus on reducing emissions. find transport solutions focusing on They are described in this report. the reduction of carbon emissions and general environmental impacts. We will report on climate parameters We have reported on this. such as Group carbon emissions, energy efficiency from transport modes and energy and water consumption from buildings. To increase awareness of and transparA new CO2 emissions platform is ency about CO2 emissions among our being implemented. customers, we will work on improving our CO2 emissions platform. HOW WE CUT METRO CONSTRUCTION TRANSPORTS BY 50% AVOIDING EMISSIONS The Copenhagen Metro's new Circle Line, unveiled in September 2019, consists of tunnel rings made of concrete that DSV Panalpina transported in the inner-city during construction. We will implement an improved setup for A new internal reporting system has The original project plan was for each truck to carry six parts for one ring at a time. But the high responsibility reporting internally and pobeen implemented. priority for DSV Panalpina and the developer to find the most environmentally-friendly solution tentially externally to ensure even better caused us to revisit the plans. transparency in our responsibility data. We ultimately came up with the idea to use special 4-axle flatbed trailers – as opposed to traditional 3-axle trailers – which made it possible to load two entire concrete rings on each truck. We also managed to reduce the size of the padding between the pieces of concrete on the trailers and We will work on increasing the share 74% of our sites (measured in thereby lower the total height of the truckload by 30 cm. of DSV locations that sort waste for square metres) sorted waste in recycling, measured per square metre, 2019. The target is therefore not This made it possible to take shorter routes back and forth from the port to the three construction sites. to 80% in 2019. achieved. This is mainly due to the As a result, the originally planned 22,000 transports were cut to 11,000 transports, which we fact that many of our new locations carried out from 2012 and onwards. The change reduced the traffic load by 50%, thus substantially do not have waste sorting schemes. reducing CO2 emissions. Learn more about this project Achieved Partly achieved Not achieved 23 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 SUPPLIERS We aim to ensure that our suppliers meet our high standards, service quality and price requirements and to demonstrate an understanding of our sustainability performance objectives. 24 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Suppliers We perform services for customers worldLIVING UP TO DSV wide, and because of our asset-light busiPANALPINA’S STANDARDS ness model, we rely on thousands of suppliThe DSV Panalpina Code of Conduct outlines Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) ers every day. Because of this business and defines the ethical standards and the model, the vast majority of our impacts, behaviour required by all employees. It also We are a member of the Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG), which environmental and others, are due to the forms the basis for our expectations for supis a platform for forwarders, shippers and carriers to come together to activities of our suppliers, which makes our pliers. To ensure supplier compliance with accelerate the decarbonisation of the cargo shipping industry. We are challenge to mitigate those impacts that these ethical standards, we have controls and proud to be a member of this forward-looking, collaborative sustainmuch greater. processes in place consisting of preventive, ability initiative that through its more than 60 members represents detective and reactive measures. over 80% of the container cargo carried globally. When our suppliers carry out services on our Updated behalf, they are DSV Panalpina ambassadors. The network is coordinated by the non-profit business network BSR Since we are part of the same value chain as (Business for Social Responsibility), which facilitates biannual meetings Supplier Code our suppliers, our business success is critically and webinars on a regular basis, resulting in project ideas and collabodependent on the performance of our subration requests. of Conduct contractors and their adherence to agreed processes and procedures. Therefore, we expect every supplier to share and live up to Sustainable Air Freight Alliance (SAFA) the same ethical standards as those to The Code has been updated to which we hold ourselves. continuously ensure the behaviour We are also a member of the Sustainable Air Freight Alliance (SAFA): expected from our suppliers a buyer-supplier collaboration between shippers, freight forwarders, We do this by making efforts to ensure that and air freight carriers to track and reduce carbon emissions from air the services provided by our suppliers are freight and to promote responsible freight transport. reliable and of the highest quality. We select One preventive measure is to make suppliers carriers that meet our high standards, price, commit to, as a minimum, our Supplier Code The platform will further sustainability-focused decision-making in service quality requirements and we prioritise of Conduct, which is based on the DSV businesses by assessing and comparing standardised carrier-level suppliers that demonstrate an understanding Panalpina Code of Conduct. In the Supplier environ­mental and social performance data. of the importance of sustainability. Code of Conduct, we clearly outline what we consider appropriate conduct by suppliers However, due to our large and widespread when they perform services on behalf of network of suppliers, we are sometimes DSV Panalpina. In 2019, we updated the faced with the risk of non-compliance by Supplier Code of Conduct to reflect legal suppliers. To minimise this risk, we continuand societal developments and to spell out ously work to achieve an even better stanall behavioural parameters, including areas dard for supplier conduct according to DSV such as anti-bribery and our stance against Panalpina’s fundamental principles. modern slavery. For suppliers carrying out road freight services, we distribute a Road Haulier Code of Conduct. In addition to defining the ethical 25 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Suppliers code, the Road Haulier Code of Conduct lists the process of identifying and assessing best requirements for truck safety, safe conduct practices for supplier management in the on the road, working rights for drivers etc. combined environment of DSV and Panalpina. We want to ensure that we have best pracSUPPLIER MANAGEMENT tices in place that support every type of To ensure our suppliers live up to our stansupplier and scenario. dards, we have processes for review in place across our organisation. Depending on the We also have the goal to develop more suscountry, the DSV Panalpina division and reletainable logistics solutions for our collaboration vant regulations, we measure supplier comwith the third-party contractors who provide pliance against these standards. transport services for us. This will contribute to achieving our science-based targets for Should a supplier witness behaviour which scope 3 emissions. The targets will be anis non-compliant with our Code of Conduct nounced in the first half of 2020, after which and/or Supplier Code of Conduct, our we will collaborate with our subcontractors to whistle-blower system is available for supfind solutions to reduce the impact of their pliers to report their concerns about any isactivities. sues, including allegations of anti-corrupNew membertion and bribery. ships with the Since joining forces with Panalpina in August OUR TARGETS FOR 2019 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS FOR 2019 2019, we have started a process of merging CCWG and two different approaches for supplier audits. The DSV Panalpina Supplier Code of An updated version of the Our aim is to develop a framework for supConduct must be communicated to Supplier Code of Conduct was SAFA plier management whereby the working suppliers and subcontractors with a launched in June 2019 together standards and corporate control of subconyearly spend above EUR 25,000. with an awarness campaign on tractors are assessed regularly. This work how to communicate it. will continue during 2020. Working together with air and ocean carriers to accelerate the COMMITMENT TO IMPROVEMENT decarbonisation of the industry The processes and procedures in place We will continue improvement of our The process was put on hold in across DSV Panalpina play an important part supplier screening process through cenparts of 2019 due to the integrain maintaining a standard for ethical business Going forward, our preventive, detective tralised and decentralised procedures. tion activities. It has been resumed conduct with suppliers and the transport and reactive measures will still be prepared as described in this chapter. and logistics sector in general. centrally and anchored at the local DSV Panalpina entities. We believe that this deAt the same time, we face challenges in centralised approach with global framework ensuring alignment across every type of is the best way to make sure that procedures supplier and the entire supply chain. In 2020, are followed throughout our organisation Achieved Partly achieved Not achieved we will continue the process started in 2019: and supplier network. 26 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We engage with and support communities in which we operate, and we use our expertise to support people in need. 27 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Community Engagement We are committed to giving back to the flooded by Cyclone Idai, which affected more communities in which we operate and to use than 900,000 people. The cyclone and the our expertise to help people in need. We subsequent heavy rainfall caused rivers to believe that long-term, local relationships and burst their banks, destroying numerous homes transparent partnerships are important for and forcing many to seek protection in evacuthe creation of lasting improvements whereation centres. We provided both warehousing ever needed. This is also an important part of space for relief items and transported emerour culture and how we maintain a positive gency equipment from neighbouring countries. working environment. When hurricane Dorian hit the coast of the Bahamas in September 2019, destroying Our community engagement is centred infrastructure and means of transportation, around our partnership with the Red Cross | DSV Panalpina helped the Danish Red Cross Red Crescent movement through Danish move equipment to the most affected areas Red Cross and supported by a number of in which an estimated 70,000 people was in local activities around the world. need of help. HELPING BY DOING WHAT WE DO BEST HELP FOR REFUGEE CAMP IN For three years, we have provided logistics BANGLADESH services and financial support to the Red Since 2017, more than 900,000 people Cross | Red Crescent movement. have arrived at Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, from the Rakhine state in Myanmar. This In Denmark, we sponsor 2,000 m2 wareinflux has made it one of the world’s largest house space for disaster relief equipment. refugee camps. With support from DSV The warehouse is split into two spaces: one Panalpina, Danish Red Cross and Bangladesh for storage of emergency relief equipment Red Cresent have been able to support and one for testing and training. This makes thousands of people living in the camp. it possible for Red Cross’ staff to practise setting up and becoming familiar with new The average space per person in the camp is equipment. When base camps need to be 24 m2, but in the most densely populated set up in disaster-struck areas, we also parts of the camp, the density is as much as transport relief equipment to the airport to 10 m2. Minimum standards set by humanideploy it as fast as possible. tarian organisations call for at least 30 m² per person. The Red Cross | Red Crescent The Red Cross | Red Crescent movement has movement has built new shelters which activities in more than 190 countries, making meet the basic standards for space. it possible for local DSV units to support the aid and relief organisation in the field. SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN IN MALAWI DSV Panalpina helps fund a programme in RELIEF IN MALAWI AND THE BAHAMAS Malawi by the Danish Red Cross and the In March 2019, large parts of Malawi were Malawi Red Cross. The programme improves 28 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Community Engagement the resilience of 150,000 of Malawi’s poorest This warning system can predict when a LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT people in the southern districts of Mwanza, weather-related disaster will occur with Around the world, we interact with the Chikwawa and Mangochi – many of them 90% certainty. communities in which we operate to make a being children. positive difference. With the funding, the Danish Red Cross and It pays to Local help before the Malawi Red Cross have been able to priority support thousands of children and several communities in Malawi with education, healthcare and water facilities. disaster strikes Community engagement is also a NEW INITIATIVE – PREPARING FOR local priority for DSV Panalpina DISASTER BEFORE IT HITS The climate is changing, creating more freTraditionally, funding for humanitarian aid is quent and large-scale unpredictable disasters. provided after a disaster has hit. The new DSV Panalpina in Ecuador, for example, did a Since the 1990s, the yearly average number approach, which is based on in-depth forecast blood donation drive with the local Red Cross of weather-related disasters, such as floods information and risk analysis, aims to anticin October 2019. The drive was a success, and droughts, has increased from 220 to ipate disasters, prevent their impact, if as 42% of the Quito staff helped to meet 317 globally. The result is an increased need possible, and reduce human suffering and patient needs through blood donations. for disaster relief in affected areas. losses. In Denmark, the Red Cross is currently the only humanitarian organisation to use For years, DSV Panalpina has made annual To meet the challenges of more weatherFbF to anticipate disasters and to raise donations to the Child’s Cancer Fund related disasters and a greater need for help, funding for pre-disaster efforts. As a first (Børnecancerfonden). In 2019, DSV Panalpina the Red Cross | Red Crescent movement has step, DSV Panalpina is providing support to again made a donation to the foundation. created a weather-based alerting programme help establish FbF programmes in Mali, Sudan, called Forecast-based Financing (FbF). Zimbabwe, Malawi and Nepal. Following the devastating bushfires in Australia, DSV Panalpina has shipped containers with donated products from New Zealand to various relief sites in Australia free of charge. We have also set up Red Cross collecting boxes at local receptions, enabling staff and visitors to easily contribute if they wish to do so. Staff at our Melbourne office have also been provided with collection bins for donations of clothing, shoes, books and toys, which are collected and distributed to fire victims via Red Cross centres. 29 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Panalpina Group NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE DSV PANALPINA GROUP Environmental data 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Transport emissions (‘000 tonnes) Euro engine standards (%) Estimates on Suppliers Proportion of trucks of DSV Road 0.2 0.7 0.7 1.2 1.6 CO²e emissions – Total transport 7,911 6,344 6,278 5,921 3,687 satisfying Euro 2 standard or older CO²e emissions – Sea transport 1,359 715 738 757 516 (own and suppliers’ trucks) CO²e emissions – Air transport 3,793 2,660 2,593 2,425 1,270 Proportion of trucks of DSV Road 16.5 19.3 20.8 24.1 29.8 satisfying Euro 3 or 4 standards CO²e emissions – Road transport* 2,759 2,969 2,947 2,739 1,901 (own and suppliers’ trucks) Direct emissions (‘000 tonnes) Proportion of trucks of DSV Road 83.3 80.0 78.5 74.7 68.6 satisfying Euro 5 or 6 standards CO² emissions – Buildings** 108 101 93 115 88 (own and suppliers’ trucks) Water (‘000 m3) Recycling of paper, Total water consumption – Buildings** 1,596 1,485 1,435 1,151 716 cardboard and plastic (%) Energy efficiency on average (gram Proportion of locations recycling paper, 74 79 74 70 88 CO2e per ton transported one km) cardboard and/or plastic from offices, terminals and warehouses CO²e (g/ton-km) – Sea transport 5.6 6.1 6.3 6.9 6.6 CO²e (g/ton-km) – Air transport 579.9 588.5 607.0 601.9 622.0 CO²e (g/ton-km) – Road transport 67.9 71.5 72.3 73.9 72.0 * Our own fleet make up 0-1% of total road emissions ** Comparative figures have been restated 30 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Panalpina Group Social data 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Employees (Full-time employees) Rate of absence due to illness (%) Total 61,216 47,394 45,636 44,779 22,783 Total 2.1 2.4 2.0 2.1 3.3 Salaried employees 32,820 23,088 22,730 23,436 14,540 Salaried employees 2.0 2.7 2.0 2.0 2.9 Hourly workers 28,396 24,306 22,906 21,343 8,243 Hourly workers 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.2 4.0 Rate of occupational accidents (per million working hours) Employee gender ratio (%) Total 5.0 4.6 4.2 4.6 5.9 Proportion of female employees 39 38 39 38 38 Salaried employees 0.9 0.5 0.8 1.3 1.2 Proportion of male employees 61 62 61 62 62 Hourly workers 9.1 8.3 7.6 8.9 14.1 Management gender ratio (%) Rate of lost work days due Proportion of female managers 33 28 31 31 26 to occupational injury (per million working hours) Proportion of male managers 67 72 69 69 74 Total 97.5 98.0 81.2 64.1 112.0 Age distribution of employees (%) Salaried employees 22.0 23.2 20.8 9.7 26.2 Employees <25 9.5 8.0 8.3 7.9 8.0 Hourly workers 173.8 164.5 142.5 133.5 263.7 Employees 25-34 29.3 30.0 30.7 31.8 28.6 Fatal accidents Employees 35-44 30.6 29.8 29.6 28.7 28.0 Fatal accidents in absolute numbers 1 0 0 0 0 Employees 45-54 19.5 20.5 20.5 20.2 22.6 Employees >54 11.1 11.7 10.9 11.4 12.8 Quality management standards (%) Employee seniority (%) ISO 14001 52 33 24 23 31 ISO 9001 61 40 39 43 55 Seniority <1 year 17.7 19.4 19.1 19.5 16.8 ISO 45001 (OHSAS 18001) 40 19 12 15 15 Seniority 1-2 years 22.7 21.9 21.1 21.5 17.3 Seniority 3-5 years 19.8 17.2 16.2 16.1 15.8 Distribution of DSV Panalpina’s Seniority 6-10 years 15.5 15.2 17.3 18.1 18.9 Supplier Code of Conduct (%) Seniority 11-25 years 20.0 21.4 20.5 19.0 24.1 Proportion of companies having distributed 100 95 93 79 80 Seniority >25 years 4.3 4.9 5.8 5.8 7.1 DSV Panalpina’s Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers delivering goods and services Employee turnover (%) for more than EUR 25,000 each year Total 23.2 20.1 17.4 25.5 17.6 Salaried employees 21.0 20.7 17.4 26.0 16.8 Hourly workers 25.4 19.4 17.3 24.9 19.0 31 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Panalpina Group ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR Social data RATE OF ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS Number of days of absence due to illness NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS relative to the number of working days GENERAL DETAILS during the year adjusted for maternity/ The figures and charts of the 2019 Responpaternity leave, agreed holidays and national sibility Report have been prepared in accorpublic holidays. Absence due to illness is dance with the policies applied last year. measured on the basis of wage/salary Environmental data WATER Total consumption of water at DSV Panalpina’s EMPLOYEES system records. lo­cations. Number of full-time employees at year-end. RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS GENERAL DETAILS Number of reported occupational accidents The figures and charts of the 2019 ResponENERGY EFFICIENCY EMPLOYEE GENDER RATIO resulting in more than one day of absence per sibility Report have been prepared in accorAverage emissions from shipment relative to Number of female and male employees million working hours scheduled for the year. dance with the policies applied last year. freight volume and transportation distance. relative to total employees at year-end. RATE OF LOST WORK DAYS DUE EMISSIONS EURO ENGINE STANDARDS MANAGEMENT GENDER RATIO TO OCCUPATIONAL INJURY Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from Proportion of different Euro engine standards Number of female and male managers Number of reported days of absence from transport activities are calculated based on of trucks operating for DSV Road Europe. relative to total managerial employees at occupational accidents resulting in more than average fuel consumption ratios from supyear-end. one day of absence per million working pliers and trucks owned by DSV Panalpina, RECYCLING OF PAPER, hours scheduled for the year. combined with data on freight volumes and CARDBOARD AND PLASTIC AGE DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES routing from our own traffic management Total square metres at DSV Panalpina locations Number of employees by age group relative FATAL ACCIDENTS systems. The calculations include CO2 having initiated recycling schemes for paper, to total employees at year-end. Absolute number of fatal accidents. emissions from air and sea carriers and cardboard and/or plastic, relative to the total road hauliers. number of square metres at locations of EMPLOYEE SENIORITY QUALITY MANAGEMENT STANDARDS DSV Panalpina. Number of employees by seniority level Percentage of DSV Panalpina entities certified Carbon emissions from buildings are cal­ relative to total employees at year-end. according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 or ISO culated based on direct consumption of 45001 (OHSAS 18001). Number of entities electricity, gas, oil and water from DSV EMPLOYEE TURNOVER certified relative to the total number of entiPanalpina’s locations. Number of employees leaving DSV Panalpina ties of the Group. Group during the year relative to the average number of employees calculated on the DISTRIBUTION OF DSV PANALPINA’S basis of monthly surveys of the actual number SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT of employees at the end of the month. Number of companies having distributed DSV Panalpina’s Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers relative to total number of companies of the Group. 32 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index GLOBAL REPORTING General Disclosures Location in Report Level of Reporting INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Strategy 102-14 102-15 Statement from senior decision-maker Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities RR 3 AR 29-33, RR 7-8 The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organisation that has produced a set of indicaEthics and Integrity tors and guidelines for sustainability reporting. The main goal of the GRI is to create a frame102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms RR 10-12 of behavior work for systematic, transparent and comparable sustainability reporting for corporations. 102-17 Advice Mechanisms and Unethical Behavior RR 10-12 DSV Panalpina follows the GRI standards for determining content and quality in terms of maGovernance teriality but does not apply specific GRI-disclosures. To increase the transparency and com102-18 Governance structure RR 6, AR 34-37 prehensibility of the detailed content table below, we indicate whether our level of disclosure 102-19 Delegating Authority RR 6, AR 34-37 covers the GRI requirements fully or partially. To simplify the table, we have included only in102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, RR 6 dicators for which we provide either full or partial data. environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, RR 6-9 environmental, and social topics In addition, every profile or performance indicator applied is linked to a specific section on our 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body AR 37 corporate website (www.dsv.com), the Annual Report (AR), the Responsibility Report (RR) or and its committees our latest report to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 34-37 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AR 34-37 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of Interest AR 34-37 Location in Level of 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting RR 6 General Disclosures Report Reporting purpose, values, and strategy Organizational Profile 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance AR 37 body 102-1 Name of the organisation RR 34 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s AR 34-36 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 6-7, 11, RR 5 performance 102-3 Location of the headquarters RR 34 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, AR 34-36, RR 7-8 102-4 Location of operations AR 84-91 environmental, and social impacts 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 38-39 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes RR 7-8 102-6 Markets served AR 19-28 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, RR 6-9 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 3-12 and social topics 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 19-28, RR 13-16, 30 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in RR 6 102-9 Supply chain AR 10-13, RR 23-25 sustainability reporting 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and AR 4-9 102-33 Communicating critical concerns RR 6 its supply chain 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns AR 29-33, RR 6 102-11 Precautionary Principle approach AR 29-33, RR 7-8 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 36 102-12 External initiatives RR 2 102-36 Process for determining remuneration See Remuneration Policy at 102-13 Membership of Associations www.dsv.com/csr investor.dsv.com 1) AR = Annual Report, RR = Responsibility Report, CDP = Reporting to CDP 2019 2) = Full reporting, = Partical reporting, = No reporting 33 DSV Panalpina Responsibility Report 2019 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index Location in Level of Information Level of General Disclosures Report Reporting GRI Reference Available Reporting 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration See Remuneration Policy at GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts investor.dsv.com 203-2 Significant Indirect Economic Impacts RR 7-25 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio See Remuneration Report at investor.dsv.com GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total See Remuneration Report at 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to RR 10-12 compensation ratio investor.dsv.com corruption Stakeholder Engagement 205-2 Communication and training about antiRR 10-12 corruption policies and procedures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups RR 4-9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements RR 10-12 GRI 302: Energy 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders RR 4-9 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation RR 29 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement RR 4-9 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation RR 29 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised RR 10-25 302-3 Energy intensity RR 29 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption RR 17-22 Reporting Practice 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products RR 17-22 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated AR 84-91 and services financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries RR 6-9 GRI 303: Water 102-47 List of material topics RR 7-8 303-1 Water withdrawal by source RR 17-22, 29 102-48 Restatements of information N/A GRI 305: Emissions 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions RR 17-22, 29 102-50 Reporting period RR 34 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) emissions RR 17-22, 29 102-51 Date of most recent report Responsibility Report 2018, 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions RR 17-22, 29 published on 7 February 305-4 GHG emissions intensity RR 17-22, 29 2019 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions RR 17-22, 29 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding RR 34 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance the report 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and N/A 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Core option regulations GRI Standards GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 102-55 GRI content index RR 32-33 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply RR 17-22 102-56 External assurance Part of Management’s chains and actions taken review AR GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover RR 1-16, 30 Information Level of GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI Reference Available Reporting 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees RR 30, AR 41 GRI 201: Economic Performance GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 3-28 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and RR 17-22, 30 201-2 Financial Implications of Climate Change CDP actions taken 1) AR = Annual Report, RR = Responsibility Report, CDP = Reporting to CDP 2019 2) = Full reporting, = Partical reporting, = No reporting DSV Panalpina A/S Hovedgaden 630 2640 Hedehusene Denmark Tel. +45 4320 3040 E-mail: info@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR-No 58 23 35 28 Group Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 43rd financial year Published 7 February 2020
