2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS ABOUT THE REPORT 05 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 07 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 09 ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING 10 KİBAR GROUP 12 GOVERNANCE AT KİBAR GROUP 16 SUSTAINABILITY AT KİBAR GROUP 19 WE GROW 41 WE EMPOWER 49 WE INNOVATE 61 WE CARE 73 WE ENCOURAGE 87 WE SHARE 95 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 104 GRI CONTENT INDEX 107 2 1 “We continue to provide our gains into service of the society with our social responsibility approach.” Asım Kibar Founder and Honorary President Kibar Holding 2 3 GRI 102-45, 102-46, 102-49, 102-50, 102-54 Kibar Holding Sustainability Report 2019 was prepared in order to present a summary of the sustainability approach and performance of Kibar Holding and Group companies, which are few of the well-established industrial organizations of Turkey. The information included in the report covering the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 includes consolidated data of Assan Alüminyum, Assan Foods, Assan Hanil, Assan Panel and İspak, which represent Kibar Holding’s main operations, and the sustainability approach of Kibar Group, unless otherwise stated. The data shared in the section “About Kibar Holding” includes all Holding companies and affiliates in ABOUT THE order to provide general introduction about the Holding. REPORT This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This report also aims to meet the annual Progress Reporting requirements of the Global Compact signed by Kibar Holding in 2013. The report includes the performance of Kibar Holding in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 5 5 GRI 102-14 Dear Stakeholders, As we all know, the global economy is growing of trust and integrity, protecting natural resources due to population growth, industrialization, and the environment by considering the needs of urbanization, globalization, use of natural future generations, and realizing social investments resources and technological developments in and social responsibility projects. As an industrial the world. This growth brings along the rapid group, we increase operational excellence, consumption of natural resources. innovative technologies and resource efficiency in all our facilities. We make investments in the fields The business world has an important role in of education, health and social life through the ensuring economic growth without harming the Kibar Education and Social Aid Foundation, which environment and natural resources, preventing we established in 1999. or minimizing the harmful effects of activities on the environment and combating environmental We will continue to act with the awareness pollution. This requires an understanding in which that resources are not infinite and unlimited in resource consumption, investment decisions, the world and continue our activities with the technological transformation and corporate consciousness of our responsibilities to future development are carried out in harmony, and the generations. As an employer brand that provides potential of meeting human needs today and in opportunities for young people and supports the future is improved. creativity, we will speed up our sustainability efforts. We will continue to develop sustainability As Kibar Group, we consider sustainability as a activities, which we handle with a holistic management paradigm. By integrating economic, approach, and carry them further in line with environmental and social factors with corporate the requirements of the United Nations Global governance principles, we evaluate them in all Compact, of which we are a signatory. practices, activities and decision mechanisms and ensure their effective management. We I would like to express my great pleasure to accommodate the sustainability understanding, present you the Kibar Holding 2019 Sustainability MESSAGE FROM which we inherited from our corporate values, Report, which includes our economic, with current global requirements and integrate it environmental and social performance. THE CHAIRMAN into all our business processes. We believe that a sustainable business can only be achieved with I would like to thank you, our valuable business a profitable model that respects people and the partners, stakeholders, customers and colleagues, environment. who support our activities in the field of sustainability, contribute to us by adopting the Throughout our history of nearly half a century, “Kibar Holding Sustainability Principles” based on we continue to contribute to the economy of our internationally accepted universal declarations and country. We continue our economic growth with the Global Compact. a human-oriented approach, based on our values Ali Kibar Chairman of the Board 66 7 7 GRI 102-14 Dear Stakeholders, With the effects of climate change becoming evident As Kibar Group, we adopt the principles and goals of on all ecosystems, the global temperature rises, and the Global Compact. We believe that the world is not climate change problem has been brought to the a legacy from our ancestors that we can use roughly, agenda of the whole world. Increase in temperature, but a sacred relic that we should pass on to future melting of glaciers, rising sea levels, droughts, generations. excessive rainfall, storms, reduction of agricultural land; they all reveal climate change and environmental We adopt a circular economy, sustainability and degradation in a way that everyone can notice. innovation-based production model. We use natural resources efficiently, increase reuse with effective This period, when we started to feel the effects of waste management and prefer environmentally environmental degradation in all areas of our lives, friendly disposal methods. We support efforts to shows us that human beings failed to use natural combat climate change. We make the utmost effort resources properly, started to produce waste above to invest in projects that provide environmental and the transforming capacity of the world, and caused social benefits. the disruption of the natural cycle and ecological system. We secure human rights in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Global When we evaluate what needs to be done for these Compact, national and international legislation. We developments to result in favor of humanity, the provide our colleagues with the working conditions concept that emerges is “Sustainability”. The concept they deserve by taking international standards as of sustainability, which is defined as meeting the guidelines. We expect our suppliers and business needs of today’s generation without endangering partners to prevent any kind of discrimination and the ability to meet the needs of future generations, monitor their practices. has a multidimensional meaning. It contains the past, present and future and represents a dynamic process Within the scope of the works we carry out with that is constantly renewed. this awareness, we prepared the “Kibar Group’s Sustainability Strategy 2025”, taking into account the Undoubtedly, all current or future steps taken towards United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and MESSAGE combating climate change, using natural resources efficiently and supporting the circular economy will be the targets planned to be achieved until 2030. We defined the 2025 strategy with the “Sustainability FROM THE CEO an opportunity for the future of the world. Principles of Kibar Group” and tailored by with our Group’s sustainability priorities. We will continue Practices that focus on sustainability will cause radical to transparently share our progress towards goals changes in people’s lifestyles, sociology, production covering our economic, environmental and social and manufacturing methods, and investment performance. decisions. Therefore, individuals, companies, countries and international organizations have important I would like to state that our Group’s “Targets for responsibilities. 2025” form the basis of the model of transition to the low-carbon circular economy based on sustainability. The United Nations Global Compact established a general framework for sustainability practices such We would like to express our gratitude to our as reducing poverty and hunger, increasing access colleagues, business partners, customers, suppliers to healthcare and education standards, eliminating and all our stakeholders who support our activities inequalities, combating climate change and reducing in the field of sustainability for their valuable negative impacts on the environment, setting contributions, and we are happy to share our 2019 standards and making significant progress in building Sustainability Report with you. a common language. Haluk Kayabaşı CEO 88 9 9 GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-7, 201-1 GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-7, 201-1 ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING KiBAR HOLDiNG WAS ESTABLISHED IN 1972 20 COMPANIES + 20 PRODUCTION EXPORT TO 100 OVER COUNTRIES IN FACILITIES 5 RANKS 5 CONTINENTS th + 7000 7 7 DIFFERENT BILLION USD SECTORS TURNOVER IN TURKEY EMPLOYEES IN EXPORTS *Data covers Kibar Holding A.Ş companies and their subsidiaries. Financial data is obtained from independently audited solo financial statements. 10 10 11 11 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 ASSAN ALÜMİNYUM ASSAN HANİL HYUNDAI ASSAN TSI AIRCRAFT SEAT PRODUCTION KiBAR Assan Alüminyum, one of the world’s leading Assan Hanil, one of Kibar Group’s automotive Another of Kibar Group’s automotive TSI Aircraft Seat Production was established manufacturer in the flat-rolled aluminum (FRP) investments, was established in 1997 in investments, Hyundai Assan, began production with the joint venture of Kibar Holding, Turkish GROUP industry, has been producing rolled aluminum partnership with South Korean Seoyon E-Hwa in Turkey in 1997 in partnership with Kibar Airlines and THY Teknik A.Ş. TSI manufactures Tuzla products since its establishment in 1988. İzmit 1 and has started production as OEM Part Supplier İzmit Holding Hyundai. Hyundai Assan Izmit Factory, İstanbul aircraft seats with the authorization of EASA in the automotive sector. Assan Hanil is a With rolls, sheets, foils and painted aluminum which has an annual production capacity INDUSTRY supplier of driver and passenger seat as well as (European Aviation Safety Agency) and FAA products, it offers its products to a variety of 245,000 units and a production area of (Federal Aviation Administration). The seats door panels, front and rear bumper, instrument of sectors such as packaging, distribution, 1,000,000 m2, exports its i10 and i20 models to are used in A320, A330, A350, B737, B777 İzmit 2 panel, console, carpet, FEM Carrier, blow molding Dilovası construction, consumer durables, automotive parts, headlining, glove box, and various interior more than 45 countries, produced with more and B787 aircraft series. TSI also produces Utah and heating and cooling. Assan Alüminyum, with and exterior plastic components. Assan Hanil than 2,500 employees. The countries Hyundai aircraft seat spare parts with the authorization its annual installed capacity reached 300,000 became one of 5 companies worldwide which Assan is most exporting to are Germany, of PMA (Parts Manufacturing Authority) and tons of flat aluminum industry, is Turkey’s design, develop and manufacture air suspension England and Italy, and it is among the top five provides maintenance services with Part 145 Chicago Bursa leading organization. It is also one of the three driver seat. While Assan Hanil was supplying most admired automotive brands in Turkey. certificate. As a result of the audits conducted largest producers in Europe with a production parts only for Hyundai Assan in the early years of by EASA, ADOA (Alternative Procedures to capacity of 100,000 tons of aluminum foil. Assan its establishment, it has become one of the most İSPAK AMBALAJ important suppliers of Ford Otosan as of 2005. Design Organization Approval) was received Manavgat Alüminyum exports to more than 70 countries on In the upcoming years, Assan Hanil has added Established in 1974, İspak Ambalaj is a fast in November 2012 and POA (Production Aksaray four continents, mainly in Western Europe and growing and well-established packaging Organization Approval) in December 2013; Isuzu, Honda, Agco, Mercedes-Benz Turkey and North America. Turkey’s Automobile Initiative Group (TOGG) to company. With over 40 years of expertise thus, aircraft seats are produced with the İzmit and R&D studies, it produces integrated its customer portfolio respectively. With over one authorization of EASA and FAA. TSI SEATS Inc., ASSAN FOODS thousand specialized employees working in its packaging from raw material supply to established by TSI for the American aviation Gölcük plants covering a total area of 175 thousand m2 lacquering, lamination and extrusion, from industry, operates in Salt Lake City Utah. Assan Foods, founded by Kibar Holding in in five different locations; the company performs printing and slitting to the delivery of special 1998, produces over 300 products including automation based production activities with high packaging products. With its factory designed high quality tomato and pepper paste, technology. with Industry 4.0 technology in Asım Kibar İstanbul ketchup, mayonnaise and various sauces in Organized Industrial Zone, it has increased its its facilities in Susurluk and the Aegean Free ASSAN PANEL production capacity to 30,000 tons per year. Zone. The Susurluk Factory has one of the Assan Panel, the leader company of Insulation Panel Solutions and Systems sector, started It produces packaging materials for chocolate highest capacities of tomato processing in a its production in 1990 with its first factory in products, confectionery, dairy products, Susurluk single location in Turkey. The facility, which is Tuzla with a capacity of 4,000,000 m2 per year. beverages, dried food and snacks, medical established on an open area of 200,000 m2, Tuzla Assan Panel invested respectively in İskenderun equipment and pharmaceutical packaging, has the capacity to process 4,500 tons of fresh Facility with a capacity of 3,000,000 m2/year hygiene products and pet foods, especially with tomatoes per day. Assan Foods exports to more in 2004, Balıkesir Facility with a capacity of its expertise in flexible packaging production than 50 countries on 4 continents. In addition, 3,000,000 m2/year in 2009 and Jordan Facility and its ability to offer a variety of applications. it supplies tomato paste, pepper paste and Balıkesir with a capacity of 4,500,000 m2/year in 2012. The company also designs and supplies pepper juice as a raw material to multinational In 2015, the Company completed the second packaging applications for tobacco and companies in many countries of the world. line investment in Tuzla İstanbul Facility with a industrial products. capacity of 3,500,000 m2/year and reached a capacity of 18,000,000 m2/year. EGE ASSAN İskenderun Assan Panel, which is the leader in its sector, POSCO ASSAN TST Ege Assan was established by Assan Foods contributes to the construction of sustainable Posco Assan was founded in 2011 in partnership in 2010 in the Aegean Free Zone for tomato and environmentally friendly buildings with its with Kibar Holding, Pohang Iron and Steel production of chemical products such as: PIR Company (POSCO) and POSCO Daewoo. Posco paste export. Ege Assan facility has an annual and rockwool filled cold room, roof and facade İzmit Assan TST, Turkey’s first and only facility which İzmir packaging capacity of 24,000 tons of tomato Ürdün sandwich panel products, panels ready for has a stainless steel cold rolling facility, started paste on an area of 4,500 m2. The company’s installation of solar systems, project-specific products are exported to North Africa, Middle production in 2013 with an annual production accessories, polycarbonate skylights, fasteners East and Arabian Peninsula countries. capacity of 300.000 tons. consisting of screw types, sealing and filling products. The company exports to 76 countries and is among the most powerful global players 12 12 in the sector. GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6 ASSAN GAYRİMENKUL KİBAR ENERJİ ASSAN BİLİŞİM İNTERAKTİF ÇEVRE DANIŞMANLIK​ KiBAR KiBAR Founded in 2008 within Kibar Holding, Assan Kibar Enerji was established within the Kibar Assan Bilişim was established in 2006 to meet all İnteraktif Çevre started operations in 2016 Gayrimenkul provides services in real estate Group in 2011 to import and wholesale natural IT needs of Kibar Holding group companies. It is with the joint venture of Kibar Group and The GROUP Karaköy development, investment and management. Determining the areas where the Group will make Karaköy gas in Turkey’s Energy Market. Kibar Enerji, which took over 1 billion m3 of natural gas purchase and Tuzla a technology company which is a reliable partner of all Group companies by providing advanced İstanbul Heritage Group of USA to provide competitive and innovative solutions in the field of total GROUP TRADE SERVICE new investments, making purchases, following up sale contract annually within the scope of the technology services and solutions. waste management and environmental the legislation and legal process, developing and Western Line Contract transfer in 2012, has been consultancy. Providing customers with the implementing the final project are among the importing and wholesaling natural gas since ASSAN LOJİSTİK opportunity to report their wastes online 24/7 Tuzla main activities of Assan Gayrimenkul. January 1, 2013. It was established in 1996 to provide portthrough comprehensive data management related logistics services. Assan Lojistik, which solutions, İnteraktif Çevre plays a role as the ASSAN YAPI KİBAR INTERNATIONAL provides domestic transportation, warehousing, solution partner of its customers on the road Assan Yapı, established in 2007 within the Kibar International SA, established in Switzerland Tuzla storage, non-gauge freight transportation and to sustainability. In addition to total waste structure of Kibar Group, operates in all fields in 2001, has acted with the group companies in port services throughout Turkey, performs management and environmental consultancy, within the construction sector. The projects providing the commercial and financial solutions intermodal, highway, maritime, airway and İnteraktif Çevre provides services to its İstanbul completed and put into service by Assan İsviçre through local and European financial institutions project transportation operations abroad. customers at international standards through Yapı include Pendik-Kurtköy Houses, Asım as well as the realization of the targets in all As of 2017, Assan Lojistik started scheduled comprehensive training modules and audit Kibar Vocational and Technical Anatolian High processes from the supply of raw materials, partial transportation services to the Western services. School, Tuzla Municipality Semiha Kibar Social mainly ferrous and non-ferrous metals, to the Mediterranean and North African countries. With Facilities, Tuzla Semiha Kibar Teacher House, sale of semi-finished and finished products. its Istanbul-Tuzla and Hatay-Iskenderun facilities, IRB SİGORTA Tuzla Municipality Waterfall Park projects. Assan Mersin Sales Office, self-owned truck fleet and Kibar Sigorta, which has been carrying out Alüminyum Dilovası Facilities rehabilitation and large supplier pool, it provides services to many insurance activities for 25 years within the expansion investments new factory buildings large companies in the sector. structure of Kibar Holding, started to provide construction, Coil-to-Coil paint line construction İstanbul services in the fields of insurance and risk and Assan Hanil expansion investments new ASSAN PORT management as IRB Sigorta ve Reasürans plant projects were carried out by Assan Yapı. Assan Port, which started to serve as the first Brokerliği A.Ş. in 2015. IRB’s expert staff helps In 2016, Assan Yapı undertook the contracting container terminal in Iskenderun Bay in 2010, design, cost optimization and risk transfer of of “İspak Ambalaj Factory” project on turn-key has become a very important alternative for the corporate clients’ insurance programs. It also basis. The factory, which is one of the biggest in İskenderun region today. As of the end of 2013, it continues provides consultancy services to minimize the Europe in its sector, has been completed in 2016. its commercial activities in partnership with risk factor by supporting the determination and Terminal Investment Limited SA (TIL). With an implementation of proactive measures with Risk KİBAR DIŞ TİCARET annual container handling capacity of 250,000 Engineering Services. The Company provides Established in 1985, the company meets the TEU, Assan Port serves container, general cargo, Damage Advisory services to the insured in exports of many leading companies in Turkey project cargo and dry bulk cargo ships. Assan matters such as compensation of damages in and the raw material requirements of these Port İskenderun is the closest container terminal a correct and rapid manner, and monitoring of Karaköy organizations. The foreign trade volume of the to the west for Northern Iraq, as well as providing rights and liabilities. company has reached 1,500,000 tons per year. advantages to companies in the Eastern Kibar Dış Ticaret ranks first among the Export Mediterranean and Southeastern Anatolia and Champions announced by the Turkish Exporters south of Central Anatolia. Assembly every year. 14 15 15 GRI 102-18 GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-18, 102-30, 205-1 The basis of Kibar Holding Corporate Governance in strategic decisions and acts with out with the coordination of Risk In the event of an interruption, crisis management approach is based on a risk management approach that Management, Insurance Management or disaster, business continuity Kibar Group adopts a management the efficient and effective use of supports global developments and and Risk Engineering units within plans have been prepared and structure compliant with corporate resources in order to adapt to rapidly current management fundamentals. the Group. Decisions and actions put into use in order to ensure the governance principles as required changing conditions. All resources by its ethical and transparent to prevent operational risks and continuity of business processes, such as natural resources, human management approach. The Board Within the scope of corporate risk minimize losses are carried out with products and services, and to return resources, capital, information, of Directors is the highest strategic management, Kibar Holding carries the participation and cooperation to normal working order within the equipment and infrastructure decision-making body of the out the necessary work in accordance of all relevant functions. The Risk planned periods. The main purpose are planned and evaluated in the Group. The Board is responsible with international standards to identify Engineering department, established of these plans is to make the critical most effective and efficient way. for determining corporate goals, and effectively manage corporate within the group’s insurance and processes and assets determined by An effective communication is ensuring compliance with corporate risks to its stakeholders, assets brokerage firm, identifies and tracks business impact analysis re-function carried out with all stakeholders. governance principles, determining and operations. Risk management the findings that create operational in predetermined periods in case of and managing strategic orientations, activities, which are a part of In group companies, transparent risk in the production areas of any interruption. Drills and trainings and ensuring the functionality of risk corporate governance, are carried out communication is provided with the companies, in coordination with for corporate business continuity management and control systems. within the framework of corporate risk shareholders and the management internal and external audits, and offers programs are carried out every year. team, and the strategic plan and management principles. companies its suggestions for the Kibar Holding Board of Directors long-term planning and management consists of six members. In Kibar improvement of these risks. Internal Audit and Control Corporate risk management and elements are prioritized. Holding, the duties of the Chairman of business continuity principles are In Kibar Holding, auditing activities the Board of Directors and the CEO The necessary work and the action structured in accordance with are carried out with a proactive This management approach are carried out by different members. plans determined for the effective The Risk Management Committee, international standards such as methodology based on International accelerates the transformation of our management of operational risks are ISO 31000 Risk Management and Internal Audit Standards and Kibar GOVERNANCE AT Group companies into businesses that prioritize innovation in all processes, Sustainability Committee, Audit Committee and Ethics Committee play ISO 22301 Business Continuity effectively and regularly followed up by all relevant company executives Holding Code of Ethics. The audits Management System, company KİBAR GROUP centering around product safety and customer satisfaction, develop an active role in the performance of the Kibar Holding Board of Directors. strategies and corporate culture. and employees. All policies and procedures for the management carried out by the Internal Audit Department are realized in a risk and The main task of the top management Annual risk assessments are carried process-oriented manner in order to innovative products, easily adapt to under the leadership of the CEO is the out by the Risk Management of such risks at the time of the ensure compliance with legislation, new technologies and systems, are implementation of the strategic plan Directorate, which is responsible for case and for the following business corporate policies and principles and highly competitive and aim to grow and corporate policies approved by the coordination of risk management continuity have been established and determined strategic goals. on a global scale. the Board of Directors. activities of Kibar Holding and Group communication with employees has companies, detailed risk maps are been ensured. You can find detailed information Internal audits in Kibar Holding are Since the day it was founded, Kibar created, and the risk action plans are about Kibar Holding Board of carried out in four areas: process Group has adopted a participatory, determined. In case of an event or business Directors and Senior Management at audit, compliance audit, financial audit innovative, reliable, environmentally interruption where operational https://www.kibar.com/en/holding/ and information technology audit. sensitive and people-oriented Emergency Preparedness risks occur, the companies are board-of-directors Findings obtained through evaluation management approach. With this equipped with strategies and tactical The mitigative actions for operational of controls to manage risks which are understanding, economic, social competencies to be used in planning Risk Management risks such as natural disasters and identified within the scope of audit and environmental factors are and intervention in order to continue epidemics, which have the potential activities are conveyed to relevant evaluated together in all strategic and The Kibar Holding Board of Directors their activities at a predefined and to endanger the lives and assets of units together with improvement operational processes and decisionkeeps the risk, growth and return acceptable level. stakeholders and disrupt the flow suggestions. making mechanisms, and this balance at the most appropriate level constitutes the basis of Kibar Group’s of products and services, is carried 16 sustainability approach. 17 17 GRI 102-29 The basis of Kibar Holding’s Kibar Group companies are obliged sustainability approach is based on to comply with the principles of the the principles of trust and integrity Global Compact and the policies defined by its founder and honorary and strategies determined by Kibar president Asım Kibar as the core Holding in line with these principles in all of their operations. Human values of Kibar Group. The deeprights are secured in accordance with rooted corporate governance the Universal Declaration of Human tradition, innovative perspective, Rights and the Global Compact, and business ethics approach, the provisions announced by national social responsibility culture and and international legislation. All kinds sustainability understanding shaped of discrimination, child labor, forced in accordance with the United and compulsory labor practices are Nations Global Compact, of which prevented. Group companies expect it is a signatory, constitute the their suppliers and business partners business culture of Kibar Group. to meet similar working standards; Integrating its sustainability monitor their practices in this area and contribute to the realization of understanding into corporate the conditions. governance, Kibar Holding takes into account the economic, Employees are offered a fair workenvironmental and social factors life balance in which human rights simultaneously in all its activities are protected, occupational health SUSTAINABILITY AT and decision mechanisms. Kibar Holding and Group companies and safety is prioritized, professional development is supported, and KİBAR GROUP adopt the “10 Principles of the Global Compact” regarding providing equal opportunities to all. human rights, working conditions, At every stage from production to environment and fight against distribution, all necessary measures are taken to eliminate or minimize corruption. the negative effects of the activities on the environment. Efforts to combat climate change are carried out in accordance with national and international standards. Efforts are made to turn potential threats created by environmental problems into opportunities with nature friendly technologies and products. There is no tolerance for bribery and corruption. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption approach covers all relevant stakeholders, especially suppliers and business partners, as well as the Group employees. 19 19 GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-29, 102-31, 102-32 GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-31, 102-32 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Governance Structure MANAGEMENT Sustainability management has been created in a participatory structure. SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY The Sustainability Committee and the COMMITTEE WORKING GROUP Sustainability Working Group constitute the main elements of sustainability CEO Holding Corporate management. Communications CHAIRMAN The chairmanship of the Sustainability Manager (Coordination) Assan Alüminyum Committee is carried out by the Strategy and CEO of Kibar Holding, who is the top GROUP COMPANIES HOLDING UNITS Marketing Director executive of the Group. Committee Corporate members consist of the relevant Applications and function managers of the Holding and Corporate Digital Technologies Assan Foods the general managers of the Group Communications companies. Human Resources, Financial Director Operation Director Manager Affairs, Strategy, Procurement, Internal (Coordination) Audit, Information Technologies, Corporate Communication, Sales and Assan Alüminyum Holding Marketing managers of the Holding Chief Financial General Manager Assan Hanil Business Finance Director and companies are included in the Officer, CFO Development Director Sustainability Working Group. Executive Vice Assan Foods Technological The Sustainability Committee General Manager Assan Panel President of Infrastructure and determines the sustainability approach Strategy and of the Group, formulates its policies Internal Audit Operation Director Marketing Director and strategies, prepares an action Assan Hanil plan, determines goals and monitors Executive Vice General Manager sustainability performance. The President of Strategy Internal Sustainability Working Group carries and Corporate Audit Manager İnteraktif Çevre out the preliminary preparations for the Development Assan Panel Danışmanlık Manager decisions of the committee based on Vice President of General Manager international standards in sustainability. Digitalization and The Group realizes the implementation Procurement Human Resources and action plan within the scope Analytics and Project İspak Sales and Vice President of İnteraktif Çevre of the approach determined by the Management Manager Marketing Director Human Resources General Manager Sustainability Committee. In addition, Energy Investments the Working Group members coordinate Director the sustainability activities carried out İspak Holding Purchasing in their own sector and fields and the Risk Governance and Strategy and Business sustainability activities on the basis of Executive Management Committee Member Internal Customer Development Manager the function they represent. Director Experience Manager 20 20 21 21 CONTRIBUTION 2 ZERO HUNGER GOAL 2: 5 GENDER EQUALITY GOAL 5: 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GOAL 8: 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION GOAL 12: Responsible 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS GOAL 17: Zero Hunger Gender Equality GROWTH Decent Work and AND PRODUCTION Partnerships TO SUSTAINABLE Economic Growth Consumption and for the Goals Production DEVELOPMENT We increase the yield and In order to increase women’s In order to provide our employees with the We adopt a circular economy, We adopt the principles GOALS income from agriculture participation in business life, we working conditions they deserve, we take sustainability and innovationand objectives of the United through Good Agricultural increase the number of female international standards as guidelines, and based production model, use Nation Global Compact. Kibar Holding and Group companies Practices, Smart Farming and employees, ensure women to in our procurement procedures, we do not natural resources efficiently, We collaborate with others contribute positively to the following trainings for farmers. be more active in management employ child labor and forced labor, and increase waste reuse with to support low carbon Sustainable Development Goals of and continue awareness-raising ensure fair working conditions. We increase effective waste management and circular economy. the United Nations Global Compact : activities through seminars that production and economic growth through prefer environmentally friendly “Zero Hunger”, “Good Health and Wellpromote gender equality. investments in R&D and innovation. disposal methods. being”, “Quality Education”, “Gender Equality”, “Clean Water and Sanitation”, 3 GOOD HEALTH GOAL 3: 6 CLEAN WATER GOAL 6: 9 INDUSTRY, GOAL 9: 13 CLIMATE GOAL 13: AND WELL-BEING AND SANITATION INNOVATION AND ACTION “Affordable and Clean Energy”, Good Health and Clean Water and INFRASTRUCTURE Industry, Climate Action “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, Well-being Sanitation Innovation and “Industry Innovation and Infrastructure”, Infrastructure “Reduced Inequality”, “Responsible We support access to health We develop sustainable water We support innovation and innovative Within the scope of efforts to Consumption and Production”, “Climate services through social benefit strategies and decrease products for sustainable development. combat climate change, we limit Action” , “Peace and Justice Strong investments in the field of water intensity through our Since the day we were established the negative impacts of our Institutions” and “Partnerships for the health and strive to provide the investments to protect the with our innovative investments in activities on the environment, Goals”. best possible health conditions ecosystem. We also ensure the metal, automotive, packaging, building increase energy efficiency, for employees through reuse of water by recycling. materials, real estate, logistics, energy, reduce energy and emission occupational health and safety We protect water resources food and service sectors, we have intensity and generate electricity practices. with our Wastewater Recovery been making significant contributions from renewable energy sources. Facility investment. to the national economy and social welfare. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION GOAL 4: 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN GOAL 7: 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY GOAL 10: 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG GOAL 16: Quality Education ENERGY Affordable and Reduced INSTITUTIONS Peace and Justice Clean Energy Inequality Strong Institutions Through social benefit investments As a result of energy efficiency We ensure equal opportunity We define our group’s in the field of education, we improve projects and awarenesswith our performance-based approach to combating children’s access to education. We carry raising activities implemented management system. We sign bribery and corruption with out children and education-focused throughout the Group, we the Kibar Group Framework written rules. We expect our corporate social responsibility activities reduce energy and emission Agreement before working with understanding of anti-bribery for disadvantaged schools. We provide densities. We generate suppliers to ensure that they and anti-corruption from access to vocational training and electricity from renewable cannot be treated differently all relevant stakeholders, lifelong learning opportunities through energy sources. We develop and unfairly due to personal including suppliers and development activities for group products that contribute to low characteristics and preferences business partners, as well as employees. carbon economy. such as language, religion, race, group employees. 22 22 gender. GRI 102-21, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47 GRI 102-21 PRIORITY the business model of the Group, economic-social and environmental THE SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES MATRIX OF KİBAR HOLDİNG In addition, the activities of the business world in the field of SUSTAINABILITY issues, strategic priorities in the sustainability on a global scale, how SECONDARY ISSUES field of sustainability and the United TERTIARY PRIORITY ISSUES PRIORITY ISSUES PRIMARY PRIORITY ISSUES sustainability will frame the future, potential gains and risks, threats Nations Sustainable Development 5 2 1 8 and opportunities, the Group’s The active participation of the Group Goals to be focused on. 480 natural 6 employees and the stakeholders or legal persons participated in 23 7 4 3 contribution to the principles and 9 in the entire value chain in the the survey research. Sustainability 17 14 11 10 objectives of the Global Compact, 18 15 13 12 and the sustainability strategy and sustainability efforts forms the basis priorities have been updated 16 our targets were evaluated at the S TA K E H O L D E R R E V I E W S 29 of the sustainability approach of according to the survey research 19 24 workshop. Kibar Group. Surveys are conducted, results. 27 25 21 20 events are organized, communication 28 22 The Senior Management and tools are used, and systematic Sustainability priorities are classified 26 Sustainability Committee has arrangements are made in the into three groups using statistical 32 determined the sustainability business model in order to ensure methods: “Primary Priority Issues”, 31 30 priorities of the Kibar Group, participation, mutual interaction and “Secondary Priority Issues” and 33 considering the opinions of all regular feedback. “Tertiary Priority Issues”. stakeholders and employees taken in different channels, corporate The sustainability priorities of the The Kibar Holding materiality matrix, values and policies, results of survey Group are determined by focusing on which was created in line with E VA L U AT I O N S O F K İ B A R G R O U P E M P L O Y E E S research, sustainability meetings the global developments, global risks, the results of the survey research, and workshops. Material issues have sectoral developments, Kibar Holding was evaluated in the “Kibar Group 1. Customer Satisfaction 18. Use of Renewable Energy been determined in accordance Sustainability Workshop”, which was 2. Product Quality and Safety Resources policies and strategies, Kibar Holding with the standards of the United 3. Occupational Health and Safety 19. Waste Management sustainability approach, Sustainability held with 15 speakers and more than 4. R&D, Innovation and Digitalization 20. Circular Economy Nations Global Compact and Global Committee and Working Group’s 200 participants from Kibar Holding 5. Employee Development and 21. Environmental Products Reporting Initiative with a holistic opinions, the Group’s contribution and Group companies. Sustainability Satisfaction 22. Corporate Governance Practices perspective. to the United Nations Sustainable activities and operations, material 6. Business Ethics 23. Water Efficiency 7. Employee Development and Talent 24. Gender and Equal Opportunity Development Goals, Global Reporting issues and Sustainable Development 13 priorities were determined: Management 25. Local Development and Social Initiative indicators and stakeholder Goals and targets of the Group are 8. Consumer Health and Safety Responsibility Business Continuity, Corporate expectations. discussed in detail 9. Working Conditions 26. Green IT and Electronic Waste Sustainability Management, 10. Supply Chain Management Management Occupational Health and Safety, 11. Efficient Use of Resources 27. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Employee Participation and The expectations, opinions and 12. Business Continuity 28. Emission of Harmful Gases Satisfaction, Employee Development suggestions of all stakeholders 13. Data Security 29. Soil Pollution and employees are evaluated with 14. Disaster and Emergency 30. Green Building Practices and and Talent Management, Gender Preparedness Certification and Equal Opportunity, Business great care and provide important 15. Energy Efficiency 31. Freedom of Association Ethics, Customer Satisfaction, R&Dinput. In this direction, surveys were 16. Access to Sustainable Finance 32. Land Use Innovation-Digitalization, Circular conducted in order to determine Tools 33. Noise Pollution Economy, Combating Climate the global trends that may affect 17. Product and Process Certification Change, Sustainable Procurement 24 24 Chain and Social Responsibility. GRI 102-29, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 SUSTAINABILITY WE GROW 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION APPROACH with sustainability principles GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE AND PRODUCTION We continue to grow steadily, add value to the economy and create employment Having a human-oriented management within the framework of sustainability principles through innovative investments. approach since the day it was founded, Kibar Group’s sustainability approach is based on a stable economic growth model that takes WE EMPOWER 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG social and environmental factors into people GROWTH INSTITUTIONS consideration, seeing sustainability We work like a family united and taking power from each other. not as a necessity but as a way We share the future, success and life. of doing business and making it corporate culture, adopting the “10 Principles” of the United Nations Global Compact and “17 Sustainable WE INNOVATE 2 ZERO HUNGER 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND Development Goals”, developing for the future GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE sustainability policies and strategies, We consider product quality and customer satisfaction at the highest level, and we see institutionalizing sustainability technological development and innovation as the cornerstone of sustainable growth. activities, extending sustainability to all operations and processes, and encouraging stakeholders in the field of sustainability. WE CARE 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS for next generations ENERGY AND PRODUCTION Kibar Group Sustainability Principles, With the awareness that natural resources are not infinite and unlimited, we act with future which are determined by reference generations in mind. to the Global Compact’s Sustainable Development Goals and which form the basis of the sustainability strategy of Kibar Group, represent the sustainable WE ENCOURAGE 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS growth of the Group with economic, our stakeholders GROWTH INSTITUTIONS social and environmental dimensions. We expect our stakeholders to adopt Sustainable Development Goals. These principles are defined as: “WE GROW with sustainability principles”, “WE EMPOWER people”, “WE INNOVATE for the future”, “WE CARE for next generations”, “WE WE SHARE 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION ENCOURAGE our stakeholders” and for the communities “WE SHARE for the communities”. We continue to serve the society with our social responsibility approach. 26 26 27 27 Corporate sustainability is handled as a management paradigm in Kibar Group. SUSTAINABLE PRIORITY The understanding of sustainable THE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES DEVOLOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FOR 2025* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 PROGRESS* management includes the integration OF THE KIBAR GROUP GOALS ISSUES of economic, environmental and social B1.1. Sales revenues B1.1. Sales revenue increased by 102% compared to the reference year 2016. factors with corporate governance principles and their consideration Target B1. Maintaining B1.2. Number of companies in the ISO 500 list B1.2. Our 4 companies are included in the ISO 500 list. and effective management in all economic growth. B1.3. It was ranked 5th among the companies with the highest exports announced applications, activities and decision B1.3. Most export companies ranking in Turkey by TİM and ranked 1st in the “Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals” category. mechanisms. Full integration of sustainability into corporate governance Target B2. To realize new investments B2.1. Full compliance of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and B2.1. Two new facilities, which started operations in Aksaray and Kocaeli in 2019, requires the development of a within the framework Kibar Holding Sustainability Principles with investment and decisionproduce high technology and quality in accordance with international standards, in sustainability strategy. of sustainability making processes accordance with automation, and carry out their activities with a design approach. principles. Business WE GROW with sustainability principles In this context, “Kibar Group’s Continuity Target B3. To increase B3.1. Number of clean and environmentally friendly new products / projects B3.1. Production of solar capped roof panels has started at Assan Panel. Sustainability Strategy 2025” was resource efficiency for the sustainable B3.2. Full compliance with national environmental legislation B3.2. National environmental legislation is complied with in all activities. prepared based on the principles, development, goals and targets of the United Nations to use clean and B3.3. Actions for the regulations of Europe circular economy with low B3.3. International Environmental and Energy Management System Standards are Global Compact and the Standards environmentally carbon followed. friendly technologies KIBAR GROUP’S of the Global Reporting Initiative. The 2025 Strategy is defined by the and processes. 8 DECENT SUSTAINABILITY Target B4. To be WORK sustainability principles of the Group AND ECONOMIC B4.1. Disaster and Emergency Action Plan B4.1. Emergency situations are defined,emergency actions and the procedure to be with sustainability principles GROWTH prepared for disasters applied are determined. and tailored by sustainability priorities. and emergencies. STRATEGY 2025 WE GROW B5.1. In order to increase the effectiveness of Awareness / Information activities, Analyzes were made to determine the B5.1. Sustainability Internal Communication Plan an infrastructure has been established to diversify sustainability communication contribution of Kibar Group to the 169 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND methodology and tools. INFRASTRUCTURE Goals that the UN Global Compact B5.2. UNGC Progress Report in GRI Standards B5.2. UNGC Progress Report has been prepared in GRI Standards. plans to achieve by 2030. Within Target B5. Adopting the scope of sustainability priorities Corporate sustainability practices B5.3. Inclusion of companies in at least one initiative based on Sustainabilty and reporting B5.3. Studies are ongoing. determined by studies with high 12 sustainability practices TARGETS FOR 2025 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Management sustainability AND PRODUCTION participation 40 goals have been set. performance. B5.4. Inter-functional coordination to ensure that all stages of the B5.4. Meetings and events were held with the participation of the Sustainability Performance indicators for “Targets for sustainability strategy are implemented in harmony and integrity Commitee, Sustainability Working Group and employees. 2025” were defined and the realizations B5.5. A working group was established to reduce the use of plastic within the for 2019 were reported. B5.5. Establishing project-based sustainability working groups scope of the Business Plastics Initiative. * The reference year in determining the “Targets for 2025” is 2016, which is the first date in which performance indicators are declared in the first report prepared in the GRI Standards. 28 28 29 29 SUSTAINABLE PRIORITY THE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES DEVOLOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FOR 2025* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 PROGRESS* OF THE KIBAR GROUP GOALS ISSUES Occupational Target G1. To continue to provide occupational health and safety at international standards at G1.1. Occupational Health and Safety training hours per person G1.1. Increased by 44%. Health and workplaces. G1.2. Accident severity rate G1.2. Accident severity rate is 0.198. Safety Target G2. To prevent the effects of hazardous chemicals and wastes on employee health. G2.1. Occupational disease rate G2.1. Occupational disease rate is 0 . G3.1. Participation rate in Employee Opinion Survey G3.1. The rate of participation in the Employee Opinion Survey was 94%. G3.2. Efforts are underway to expand the suggestion reward system to all companies. It is aimed to Employee appreciate and reward the outstanding efforts and contributions of all company employees in different G3.2. Spreading the suggestion reward system to all companies Engagement and Target G3. To ensure inclusive and participatory decision-making at all levels. categories with the online recognition and rewarding platform BİZPLUS , which is planned to be put into Satisfaction use in 2020 at Kibar Holding. G3.3. Employee satisfaction / engagement survey score G3.3. An increased of 14% was achieved in the Employee satisfaction / engagement survey score. G3.4. Performance culture index G3.4. Performance culture index increased by 10%. G4.1. Participation rate in the Managerial Development Program G4.1. Participation rate is 86%. G4.2. Training hours per person within the scope of the Specialist Target G4. To ensure that all employees have access to quality technical and vocational G4.2. 14 hours of training per person. Development Program training. G4.3. Leadership Development Program recommendation score G4.3. Leadership Development Program recommendation score was measured 9.1 out of 10 points. Employee 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Development G4.4. Number of Development Ambassadors G4.4. The number of Development Ambassadors is 17. G5.1. The number of employees receiving technical and vocational training G5.1. The number of employees receiving technical and vocational training increased 2.6 times. and Talent Target G5. To increase the number of employees of all ages with technical and professional Management skills. G5.2. Number of employees receiving technical and vocational training by age G5.2. Technical and vocational training continues to be provided in all age groups. The distribution of distribution trained employees by age groups will be able to be reported from 2020. G6.1. Number of employees G6.1. The number of employees increased by 6.6%. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Target G6. To increase employment and employee trainings. G6.2. Number of students recruited from K-Team Young Talent Internship Program G6.2. The number of student who recruited from the K-Team Young Talent Internship Program is 17. G6.3. Training hours for employee development G6.3. Training hours for employee development increased 1.6 times. WE EMPOWER people Target G7. To increase the full and effective participation of women in decision-making G7.1. Number of senior female manager G7.1. The number of senior female managers increased by 18%. processes, to increase the number of senior female managers by 30% and the number of white-collar female employees by 15% G7.2. Number of white-collar women employees G7.2. The number of white-collar women employees increased by 12%. 5 GENDER EQUALITY Gender and G8.1. Number of women employee G8.1. The number of women employees increased by 2.7%. Target G8.To ensure gender equality in employment and employee income, to increase the Opportunity number of female employees by 5%. G8.2. In accordance with the total reward policy, a different and unfair practice cannot be applied due to G8.2. Kibar Holding Total reward policy WE EMPOWER Equality personal characteristics and preferences such as language, religion, race, gender. G9.1. Ratio of women in white-collar recruitment G9.1. The rate of women in white-collar recruitment is 21%. Target G9. To ensure equal opportunities increasing the rate of women in white-collar 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC recruitment. G9.2. Ranking in the top five among companies employing the highest number GROWTH G9.2. Assan Hanil is one of the companies that employs the highest number of disabled people. of disabled people G10.1. Compliance audits for Kibar Holding Code of Ethics G10.1. Ethical compliance audits are carried out. G10.2. Business Ethics traning G10.2. Business Ethics traning is provided to all recruited personnel. TARGETS FOR 2025 G10.3. Reporting is made to the Chairman of the Board of Directors regarding the ethical notifications and 10 REDUCED INEQUALITY G10.3. Reporting of notifications received on the ethical line and their results results. G10.4. Establishing early warning mechanisms with technology support G10.4. Misconduct risks are examined within the scope of audit studies. Target G10. Maintaining accountability and transparency at all levels. G10.5. Obtaining a statement from all employees regarding whether they are in G10.5. Situation that may cause conflict of interest are examined within the scope of audit studies. The Business Ethics a situation that will cause conflict of interest. form and process for the statement is designed. 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG G10.6. Sharing the Code of Ethics Booklet with all employees G10.6. Code of Ethics Booklet is shared with all recruited personnel. INSTITUTIONS people G10.7. Do You Think This is Ethical? project continues. The contact information of the relevant persons G10.7. Awareness studies for Code of Ethics regarding the Code of Ethics and Code of Ethics Consultants list is available on the company intranet. G10.8. A review system that will ensure that the Code of Ethics is updated G10.8. Studies on updating the Code of Ethics continue. according to the needs and new developments 30 30 Target G11. Ensuring public access to information and protecting fundamental freedoms. G11.1. Sustainability Performance Progress Report G11.1. Sustainability Performance Progress Report of Kibar Group was released. 31 31 * The reference year in determining the “Targets for 2025” is 2016, which is the first date in which performance indicators are declared in the first report prepared in the GRI Standards. SUSTAINABLE PRIORITY THE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES DEVOLOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FOR 2025* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 PROGRESS* OF THE KIBAR GROUP GOALS ISSUES Y1.1. Assan Alüminyum ISO 31000: Corporate Risk Management System. ISO 14001: Environmental Y1.1. Management standards, quality and safety systems followed Management System and TS18001 (OHSAS): Occupational Health and Safety Management System Y1.2. Assan Alüminyum; TSE Certificate of Conformity, DoP No 1_EC Performance Statement and ISPM15 documents and certificates. Assan Foods; Halal Food Certificate, Kosher Certificate, BSCI: Social Responsibility Standard, ICS: French Trade and Distribution Organization Standard, Sedex: Supply Chain Assessment System, Walmart SCS: Supply Chain Safety Certificate. Assan Panel; LPCB: Safety and Fire Protection Certificate, TSE-14509: PIR and PUR Customer Y1.2. Product and process certificates Target Y1. Leadership in product and service quality. Filled Insulation Panels Certificate, TS EN 508-1: Roofing Plates, Trapezoidal Section Corrugated Board Certificate, Satisfaction FM Approval: Fire safety certificate, TS 7677: Corrugated Boards Certificate of Aluminum Alloys and Greenguard Gold: Certificate of conformity to the standards that promises that the product does not harm human health by chemical release. Y1.3. Customer satisfaction surveys Y1.3. Efforts are underway to address 0 customer complaints. Y1.4. Customer requests are answered by full time teams. Feedbacks are answered as soon as possible Y1.4. Turnaround time to customer demands depending on the type of request. Y2.1. With the Smart Agriculture application, all plant development processes from planting to harvest Target Y2. Creating sustainable food production systems. To implement agricultural practices Y2.1. Smart Agriculture practices have been analyzed on a 12,500 decare land in South Marmara. The aim of this study is soil and product that increase production, help protect ecosystems and improve soil quality. management, more efficient use of resources and minimization of negative effects on the environment. Target Y3. To increase added value/economic growth through technological developments, Y3.1. Two new production facilities of Assan Hanil started operations in Aksaray and Kocaeli. The facilities Y3.1. High-tech investments improvements and innovation. produce high technology and quality based on automation, in accordance with international standards. Y4.1. At Assan Foods, productivity has been increased with the technology investment made in the WE INNOVATE for the future automatic pasteurization system. The purpose of the packaging weight reduction project carried out by Target Y4. To increase resource efficieny for sustainable devolopment, to apply clean and Y4.1. Innovative improvement investments that contribute to the circular İspak and Assan Foods is to reduce the harmful effects on the environment. Assan Hanil contributed to environmentally friendly technologies and processes. economy fuel savings and reduction of carbon emissions with the Composite Fender Part Development Project . At Assan Panel, the production of 'solar capped roof panels' compatible with solar energy electricity generation systems on roofs has started. Y5.1. R&D Laboratory / Center Y5.1. All companies have R&D Labs / Centers. Y5.2. Collaborations in R&D studies Y5.2. Collaborations with 7 different universities continued in R&D studies. Y5.3. Encouraging R&D studies Y5.3. The third of the Asım Kibar Mavi Damla Awards program was realized. Y5.4. R&D budget Y5.4. R&D budget is over 30,000,000 TRY. Target Y5. To increase R&D studies. Y5.5. Number of patent applications Y5.5. The number of patent applications is 6. R&D, WE INNOVATE Innovation and Y5.6. Number of patents obtained Y5.6. The number of patents obtained is 3. Digitalization Y5.7. Number of utility models Y5.7. The number of useful models is 2. 2 ZERO HUNGER Y5.8. Number of R&D employees Y5.8. The number of R&D employees increased by 33%. Y6.1. Planned studies for 2019 have been completed according to the digitalization roadmap,which is Y6.1. Compliance with the digital transformation roadmap reviewed and updated annually in line with technological developments and business processes. Studies on the targeted projects on the roadmap continue. TARGETS FOR 2025 Y6.2. Corporate data architecture Y6.2. The corporate data architecture project has been completed. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC Target Y6. To complete the infrastructure works and digitalization processes within the scope Y6.3. As an output of the corporate data architecture project, a roadmap has been created for studies in GROWTH Y6.3. Analytical and Artificial Intelligence Studies of the Digital Transformation Road Map . the field of analytics and AI. Analytics organization was determined and added to the budget. Y6.4. Related studies have been carried out. The project, which will be started with pilot studies in 2020, for the future Y6.4. Robotic process automation will be spread to all companies. Y6.5. Studies are ongoing. Projects related to digitalization of the production area, incremental 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND Y6.5. Industry 4.0 manufacturing, digital twin and IoT technologies are included in the roadmap. INFRASTRUCTURE Y7.1. Quality and uninterrupted service Y7.1. There were no unexpected interruptions that would affect production and service. Target Y7. To provide all kinds of transactions and data security in the field of Information Y7.2. Cyber security infrastructure Y7.2. Efforts to strengthen the infrastrucure are updated and maintained. Technologies. Y7.3. Standards followed Y7.3. ISO-IEC 27001 Information Security Management System is followed. 32 Y7.4. Machine learning supported discovery and intelligence solutions Y7.4. Studies are ongoing. 33 32 33 * The reference year in determining the “Targets for 2025” is 2016, which is the first date in which performance indicators are declared in the first report prepared in the GRI Standards. SUSTAINABLE PRIORITY THE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES DEVOLOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FOR 2025* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 PROGRESS* OF THE KIBAR GROUP GOALS ISSUES O1.1 Sustainability Management, consisting of the Sustainability Commitee and Sustainability Working O1.1. Sustainability Management Group, constitutes the main element of corporate governance. O1.2 Four companies within the scope of reporting have ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and O1.2. Energy and Environmental Management Systems and compliance with the Target O1. To ensure the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources. two companies ISO 50001 Energy Management System certification. All companies act in accordance with relevant legislation the relevant legislation. O1.3 Targets for 2025 are defined in the Kibar Group 2025 Sustainability Starategy prepared in O1.3. Measurable targets for sustainability performance accordance with UNGC and GRI Standards. O2.1 Assan Foods produce tomatoes, which it uses as a raw material, within the framework of Good Target O2. To reduce food losses in the production and supply chain. O2.1. Sustainable production program Agricultural Practices defined by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and with smart agriculture. Circular O3.1. Recycled / recovered raw material amount O3.1. The amount of recycled / recovered raw materials used as input has increased by 46.6%. Economy O3.2. Amount of reclaimed products and packaging materials sold O3.2. Reclaimed products and packaging materials sold increased by 16.2%. Target O3. To minimize the negative effects of wastes on the environment / To reduce waste O3.3. Amount of recycled waste O3.3. The amount of recycled waste has increased by 31.1%. 6 CLEAN WATER generation through reduction, recycling and reuse. WE CARE for next generations AND SANITATION O3.4. Recycling / recovery rate of the waste generated O3.4. Rate of recycling / recovery is 89%. O3.5. The Business Plastics Initiative protocol was signed. A commitment has been made to determine the O3.5. Plastic reduction amount amount of reduction in plastic use by 2021 and to make it public. Target O4. To reduce water intensity by 15% on production basis, especially in water-intensive O4.1. Due to the tracking of Assan Hanil's production amount as a vehicle set, the cumulative water O4.1. Water intensity based on production amount companies. intensity on production basis will be given with a different methodology. 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY O5.1. Amount of recycled water reused O5.1. The amount of water reused by recycling increased 28.5%. Target O5. To increase the amount of recycled and reused water by 35%. O5.2. The ratio of recycled and reused water to total water consumption O5.2. The rate of recycled and reused water is 60%. Target O6. To reduce energy intensity by 5% on production basis, especially in O6.1 Due to the tracking of Assan Hanil's production amount as a vehicle set, the cumulative energy O6.1 Energy intensity on production basis energy-intensive companies. intensity on production basis will be given with a different methodology. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Target O7. To increase the ratio of electricity generation from renewable energy sources to AND PRODUCTION O7.1. The amount of renewable energy production O7.1. The ratio of electricity generation from renewable sources to total electricity consumption is 70%. consumption. O8.1. Annual Risk Assessment Studies O8.1. The Climate Change Risk Assessment Study, prepared in 2017, is updated annually. Target O8. Increase the resilience and adaptation to climate-related hazards and natural WE CARE disasters. O8.2. Studies are carried out to measure the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions O8.2. Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions weights for next generations weights in all companies. 13 CLIMATE ACTION O9.1. Studies are carried out through many communication channels within the scope of internal O9.1. Awareness / informing studies for employees, internal communication communication plan. TARGETS FOR 2025 Combating Target O9. To increase the studies for sustainable devolopment and to reduce the negative O9.2. Measuring the awareness levels of employees O9.2. It is planned to conduct survey researches every year to measure the awareness levels. Climate effects of climate change and to carry out information /awareness raising activities. O9.3. The website has been revised to include detailed information on the Group's sustainability efforts. Change 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS O9.3. External stakeholder communication Sustainability Procedure Pack have been prepared and sent. A wide variety of activities are given to combat climate change and circular economy. O10.1. There are 4 cooperations with organizations operating in the field of sustainability in national and Target O10. To devolop global collaborations for sustainable development. O10.1. Corporate Memberships international platform. Target O11. To support and encourage public, private sector and NGO partnerships to achieve O11.1. Corporate Memberships O11.1 TÜSİAD Climate Change Group / UNGC-TR, The Business Plastics Initiative established by TÜSİAD and SKD. the targets. * The reference year in determining the “Targets for 2025” is 2016, which is the first date in which performance indicators are declared in the first report prepared in the GRI Standards. 34 35 34 35 SUSTAINABLE PRIORITY THE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES DEVOLOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FOR 2025* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 PROGRESS* OF THE KIBAR GROUP GOALS ISSUES 8 DECENT WE ENCOURAGE WORK AND ECONOMIC T1.1. All suppliers are expected to follow the Code of Procurement Ethics. And the rules,principles that all GROWTH suppliers must comply with on Business Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Bribery, Forced Labor, Child Labor, T1.1. Procurement Code of Ethic Harassment, Remuneration, Working Hours, Non-Discrimination, Local People, Occupational Health and Safety, Environment, Biodiversity, Honesty, Quality and Continuous Development, and Information Security are defined in details. 10 REDUCED paydaşlarımızı INEQUALITY Target T1. To ensure that suppliers and stakeholders adopt UNGC principles and objectives. Sustainable T1.2. Before starting to work with suppliers, the Framework Agreement is signed to ensure that critical Supply Chain T1.2. Kibar Group Framework Agreement TEŞVİK EDİYORUZ 16 PEACE AND JUSTICE STRONG sustainability priorities are adopted by the suppliers. our stakeholders INSTITUTIONS T1.3. Supplier training hours T1.3. Efforts were made to double the supplier training hours. 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Target T2. To define a standard regarding the reduction of environmentally harmful effects T2.1. Certifications of suppliers for compliance with environmental legislation T2.1. ISO14001 Environmental Management System Certificate is questioned during supplier audits. to be applied in all suppliers auidits. and standards P1.1.The number of farmers benefiting from the training P1.1. Systematic measurements will begin in 2021. Target P1. To contribute to the increase in income of small-scale food producers by providing systematic training on good agricultural practices. P1.2. Training hour P1.2. Systematic measurements will begin in 2021. 2 ZERO toplum için PAYLAŞIYORUZ HUNGER WE SHARE Target P2. To increase participation of employees in social responsibility activities. P2.1. The number of Kibar Volunteers P2.1. 542 Kibar Volunteers Social for the communities 3 GOOD HEALTH Responsibility TARGETS FOR 2025 AND WELL-BEING Target P3. To reach 10,000 disadvantaged children in the scope of social responsibility projects. P3.1. The number of children reached P3.1. 4,000 children have been reached. 4 QUALITY EDUCATION P4.1. The number of student participated P4.1. Studies are ongoing. Target P4. To organize trainings for children of primary school age regarding global warming, climate change, environment and children’s rights within the scope of social responsibility projects. P4.2. Organized training hours P4.2. Studies are ongoing. 36 * The reference year in determining the “Targets for 2025” is 2016, which is the first date in which performance indicators are declared in the first report prepared in the GRI Standards. 37 36 37 WE GROW with sustainability principles WE EMPOWER people WE INNOVATE for the future WE CARE for next generations WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders WE SHARE for the communities with sustainability principles WE GROW We continue to grow steadily, add value to the economy and create employment within the framework of sustainability principles through innovative investments. 41 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 2017 2019 2015 2015 2015 İspak Turkey started its operations in İzmit with its 2 new production facilities established by Assan Hanil KIBAR GROUP INVESTMENTS Assan Hanil Bursa İnteraktif Çevre was Manavgat new factory having Industry 4.0 technology, and Plant started its established with Hydroelectric Power 2014 which is the largest flexible packaging investment in Aksaray and Kocaeli Kibar Group, which started its first operations. Heritage company Plant was incorporated Assan Hanil Kocaeli 2nd Plant 2013 made at once. started operations. production by opening a sheet metal Assan Hanil New Facility from USA. into the Group. and Paint Shop Facility Assan Alüminyum processing unit in Kartal in 1972, Investments started operations. started its today operates with more than 20 Assan Hanil started its production operations. companies in the metal, automotive, activities in its 4th production facility 2011 2011 2011 packaging, building materials, real established in Aksaray in 2019, with 2010 2011 Kibar Industry, the largest Kibar Energy Turkey’s first and only cold rolled estate, logistics, energy, food and its fully automatic paint shop and service sectors and is among the Launched Assan Port in 2009 TSI Aircraft Seat Manufacturing panel manufacturing was established. stainless steel producer Posco Assan leading business groups in Turkey. plastic injection machines. With the Co., the first aircraft seat facility in the Middle was established in partnership with 5th production facility commissioned Iskenderun and started Assan Panel started its production facility in Turkey, East, was established in South Korean Posco. operations in maritime operations in Balıkesir in Kocaeli in 2019, it performs was established with Teknik Amman, Jordan. The Group has become an and port sectors. facilities. sequential shipments at a location A.Ş. which is one of the Turkish important power contributing to the development of the Turkish economy close to the customer and directly Airlines companies. 2008 with its reputation, brand image, to the customer lines. 2005 2006 2006 2007 Assan Gayrimenkul was strong partnerships and knowledge The facilities, which produce high Assan Panel İskenderun 2001 Assan Bilişim Assan Alüminyum Assan Yapı was established. and experience in the markets. technology and quality based on plant started its Kibar International was 1999 (Informatics) Dilovası Facilities established. Among the international business automation, in accordance with operations. founded in Lausanne, Kibar Education and was founded. started operations. partners of Kibar Group are Hyundai, international standards, carry out Switzerland. Social Aid Foundation THY, Posco, TIL, Seoyon E-Hwa and WE GROW with sustainability principles their activities with a sustainable was established. Heritage, which are among the world’s WE GROW 1997 1998 leading brands. production approach. with sustainability principles 1996 1995 Assan Foods, which has the Assan Logistics and 1993 1990 In partnership with South Korea’s Seoyon E-hwa, Assan Hanil which largest integrated sauces & Kibar Holding ranks among separately Assan Hanil continues to grow South Korean Hyundai by producing in a total area Fleet Leasing was Shares of İspak, Assan Panel was condiments manufacturing with its many companies operating Kibar Group makes significant and Hyundai Assan operates in the automotive established. operating in the flexible established and Assan plant, was founded. in different sectors in the list of the of 175.000 m2 in five different contributions to the Turkish were founded and the industry, was founded and started packaging sector, were Panel Istanbul factory biggest 500 industrial companies in locations, together with the economy with its industrial foundation of Izmit production. taken over. investment was realized. Turkey, announced every year. establishment of two new facilities providing high factory was laid. production capacity, 1989 Kibar Group has been growing facilities as well as an expansion employment, export volume and steadily by continuing its investments of approximately 3,000 m2 in its South Korean Hyundai social investments. 1985 1988 Motor Company’s since the day it was founded and contributes significantly to the current facilities. distributorship in Turkey Kibar Dış Ticaret 1984 1980 1982 Assan Alüminyum was gained. national economy and social welfare. (Foreign Trade) Kibar Group Kibar Sigorta started its However, it acts with the awareness was established. Galvanized companies gathered was founded. operations. of its ecological, economic and social production facility under the umbrella of responsibilities. was established. Kibar Holding. 1972 Sheet metal processing unit was established 42 in Kartal. 43 43 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1 ECONOMIC VALUE HUMAN RESOURCE The sales revenues of Kibar Group The number of employees in Kibar companies within the scope of the Group companies within the scope of reporting increased by 11% in 2019 the reporting has increased by 6.6% in compared to the previous year and by the last 3 years. 102% compared to 2016. Economic Value Generated Human Resource 3,485,302,149 2016 4,638,534,974 2017 6,344,200,220 2018 7,044,212,870 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 3,175 3,345 3,382 3,384 WE GROW with sustainability principles Sales revenues of Kibar Group The number of employees companies within the scope in Kibar Group companies of the reporting within the scope of the have increased by reporting has increased by 102% in the last 3 years. 6.6% in the last 3 years. The sales revenues of Kibar Group companies within the scope of the reporting increased by 11% in 2019 compared to the previous year. 45 45 GRI 102-6 EXPORT Kibar Group is one of the largest exporters in Turkey with exports to more than a hundred countries. 2.34 billion dollars of export was realized in 2019. Kibar Dış Ticaret ranked fifth overall Turkey with its export performance in 2019, and first in the category of “Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals”, in the list of the “Top 1000 Exporters” announced annually by the Turkish Exporters Assembly. In 2019, at the Metallic Stars of Exports Awards organized by the Istanbul Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals Exporters Association, with WE GROW with sustainability principles the export of Assan Alüminyum Kibar Holding was deemed products, was awarded “Metallic Star worthy of the 25 of Exports” first prize in “Aluminum Goods Groups – Leader of the th Year Special Industry Exports” category. Jury Award In the Turkey’s Top 500 Industrial Enterprises Survey 2019, announced at Şahabettin Bilgisu Environment by the Istanbul Chamber of Awards organized by Kocaeli Commerce, following rankings have Chamber of Industry with its been achieved: Hyundai Assan 12th, as wastewater recycling facility in one of the pioneers of the automotive Kocaeli Asım Kibar Organized industry; Assan Alüminyum 35th, as Industrial Zone. the leader of flat aluminum industry in Turkey and one of the three largest In addition, our Group company manufacturers in Europe; Posco Assan Hyundai Assan received the 83rd, as one of the steel producers with the first and only stainless steel “Environment Award” cold rolling mill in Turkey; Assan Hanil in the large-scale enterprise category at the 234th, operating as the main supplier of parts in the automotive sector. Şahabettin Bilgisu Environment Awards. 46 46 WE EMPOWER We work like a family united and people taking power from each other. We share the future, success and life. 49 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 DIVERSITY AND The number Kibar Holding sees a participatory Support for Women’s business life as the key to both INCLUSION of white-collar female Employment employee satisfaction and corporate In order to provide its employees with employees has success. Accordingly, employees are increased by With the ergonomic improvements 2016 2019 encouraged to participate in decisionthe working conditions they deserve, 12.2% made in the production lines in Assan making processes, taking into account Kibar Group takes international Hanil, women employees have been their expectations and suggestions. agreements, decisions and standards provided to work on these lines in the last 3 years. Employee opinions are collected such as the International Labor comfortably, and the number of female through the Employee Opinion “A satisfactory result can only be Organization (ILO) Conventions, the employees has increased by 3% in 2019 Survey conducted by an independent UN Universal Declaration of Human achieved with a happy team.” compared to the previous year. Assan institution since 2014. Survey results Rights as a guide and develops The number Hanil, was awarded the “ Award for are examined, and necessary remedial systems to protect these rights. of female senior Founder and Honorary President Promoting Women’s Employment ” by studies are carried out in line with the Asım Kibar managers increased by Kocaeli Municipality and İŞKUR in 2019, feedback. 14.3% In order to prevent gender inequality, 2018 2019 just as in 2018. practices that support and strengthen Kibar Group continues its journey of the employment of female employees in 2019 compared becoming “WE”, which it started on continue in Kibar Group. Group “I Support Gender Equality” Employee Referral System to the previous year. Rota the day it was founded, under the companies carry out various activities Seminars themes of “Future”, “Success” and in order to encourage women’s Assan Hanil has a suggestion At Assan Hanil, The Knowledge “Life”. “WE” symbolizes the future, participation in business life. system where all employees Mill Seminars on “I Support can submit their suggestions. success and the power of sharing The number of female Gender Equality”, organized by In the companies covered by the Suggestions evaluated by the life. Kibar Group believes in the senior managers Ford Otosan and AÇEV reporting, 80 female employees Suggestion Evaluation Committee importance of creating a sharingcontinue. has increased by 2016 2019 are implemented if deemed started to work in 2019. The number 18.5% oriented work culture by acting appropriate. The benefits of these together like a family. Employees of white-collar female employees WE EMPOWER people suggestions in areas such as finance, at Kibar Holding and its affiliated has increased by 12.2% in the last 3 Support for Employment of ergonomics and process/method years. The number of female senior in the last 3 years. companies are provided with a work People with Disabilities are measured. Suggestions are environment based on trust, integrity, managers has increased by 14.3% rewarded within the scope of the Assan Hanil develops various suggestion award system as a result diligence, innovation and flexibility, in 2019 compared to the previous projects in order to encourage of quarterly evaluations through a and that supports unity and a culture year and by 18.5% in the last three “Respect for Human Award” disabled employees to be more transparent process. of working together. years. Thus, the ratio of female senior involved in business life and to Assan Hanil managers, which was 17% in 2016, continues joint studies with İŞKUR In 2019, with the sustainability reached 21% in 2019. In 2019, Assan Hanil was awarded to recruit disabled employees. approach, Employee Referral the “Respect for Human Award” Assan Hanil was awarded the System ROTA was transferred to the given by Kariyer.net every year. “Disability Employement Award digital environment and motivation of The Year” in the “No Barriers at factors were diversified in order to Work” project organized by Kocaeli increase participation. Municipality and İŞKUR in 2019. 50 50 51 51 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-2 GRI 404-2 With the online recognition and rewarding platform “BİZPlus”, which FUTURE TALENTS determined and career development plans are carried out in line with the Executive Development Program Young Talent Acquisition Award In order to support the development is planned to be commissioned in Employees are seen as the most needs and objectives of the employees to Kibar Holding of leadership skills, “Executive 2020 at Kibar Holding, it is aimed important value that will carry Kibar and the organization. With the to appreciate and reward the The K-Team Project was deemed advantage of being a multi-company Development Program” has been Group to the future. Shaping the outstanding efforts and contributions worthy of the silver award in the “Best implemented and nearly 400 employer brand in this direction, Kibar Group, intercompany rotation and job of all company employees in different youth recruitment strategy” category employees have been included Group aims to prepare its employees change of employees evaluated in the categories. at the Stevie International Business talent group are supported. in the program. The first two-day for the future with talent acquisition Strengthening the communication Awards, and the Gold Award Winner module of this program, consisting programs, talent management Within the scope of the project between companies and employees (second prize) in the “HR Brilliance Within the scope of development of two modules, was completed and continuous improvement at Kibar Holding is one of the main Awards” given by the UK-based BOC activities for employees in Kibar WE HAVE THE POWER in 2019. In the module in question, goals of the “BİZ” employer brand. opportunities and effective Group, the competencies, professional Global Events & Training Group. Executive Development creating a relationship of trust, values, Under this brand, it is aimed to make performance management. knowledge and skills of the employees effective feedback, appreciation and all employees feel how valuable are increased. In addition, employees are Program the culture of working together is Talent Acquisition recognition are discussed. In addition, “Geleceğimiz İçten” platform was enabled to discover their strengths and and to increase the awareness of experience sharing sessions were held established in order to ensure the aspects that are open to improvement. WE HAVE THE POWER “BİZ” in the whole Group through Recruitment activities are carried in which senior managers’ experiences visibility of career opportunities within In this context, methods such as continuous sharing. Employees out objectively and fairly, with equal Expert Development Program were shared. 5,232 hours of training the company and to give priority. On development center practices, internal are informed of the developments opportunities for all candidates. was achieved within the training held within the Group through different this platform, vacancies in all Group trainings to support learning from The candidate selection process is in 19 groups. It is aimed for every communication platforms. The annual companies are published, awareness each other, development programs WE HAVE THE POWER meticulously carried out in order to fill to support competence and technical manager participating in Kibar Group management meeting, the in-house and career mobility among group Leadership Development network Porttakal and the magazine the positions opened throughout the development, and distance learning to go through this basic program. companies are provided. Program “Kibarca” prepared both digitally group with the right skills. Throughout tools are used. Programs designed by and printed are the most important the process, different tools such as considering the needs of employees also Expert Development Program communication channels of the Group. personality inventory, competencycontribute to the increase of interaction WE HAVE THE POWER Talent Board Award to İspak An “Expert Development Program” based interviews and assessment between employees and strengthening Development Ambassadors Employer branding and internal has been established in order to center are used, and different career İspak was once again awarded the Talent of communication between different communication activities positively ensure the competence development WE EMPOWER people portals and databases are used to Board Candidate Experience Award in companies and functions. affected employee engagement. In WE HAVE THE POWER of employees in expert staff. the Employee Engagement survey, increase diversity. the survey, in which 241,100 candidates All development programs carried out Together Achieving Analyzes were made to determine a score of 11% above the Turkey shared their experiences with 266 within the Kibar Group were gathered the competency development needs average was obtained with “60% K-Team Young Talent Internship companies, and became one of the 14 HR Development Program loyal employee ratio”. According under a single roof and the “We Have of the employees and a catalog Program, which was initiated in companies in Europe, Middle East and to previous survey, there was a 14% the Power Development Programs” was prepared in the areas deemed increase in the engagement score. In 2014 with the motto “Real career Africa region that were awarded. project was put into practice. It is WE HAVE THE POWER necessary. This catalog includes the Performance Culture Index, where starts with real internship” in order aimed to spread the continuity of the Game Changers programs have efficient working and reaching results, training and development activities, to bring young talents to our Group Talent Management development process and the culture performance management, career been implemented. problem solving and reaching results, and prepare them for business life, of learning from each other with opportunities and correct targeting Within the scope of talent management creative and innovative thinking, continues. Since the beginning of the processes, employees who make a programs in many areas from leadership are evaluated, an improvement of 31% financial modeling, negotiation skills, program, 189 young talents have had difference with their performance and development to training internal trainers has been achieved with an increase of tax training and effective presentation internship opportunities in Group potential throughout the Group are and mentors. 10% compared to the previous year. techniques. companies and 66 participants have 52 52 been recruited. 53 GRI 404-2 GRI 404-3 Leadership Development Program and experience voluntarily provide Assan Alüminyum Employee Sales Department employees were Asım Kibar Blue Drop Awards and training within the company or Development Practices given World Sauces Training by Bilgi Total Reward Management System are Total Reward Policy “Leadership Development Program” among the Group companies. Kibar University Culinary Arts Department renewed and continue. is a program designed for the Group carries out many projects Assan Alüminyum has a “Leadership Remuneration and fringe benefit academicians. development of directors and higheraimed at continuously improving the Development Program” which has Kibar Holding believes that policies are built on an objective, fair, level managers. Newly hired or newly professional knowledge, skills and appointed managers at this level been systematically followed for Assan Hanil Development Academy development is a journey. For this dynamic and competitive structure personal competencies of employees four years. In addition, the “Shift compared to the target market, participate in the Effective Leaders with the “lifelong learning” approach. The Development Academy activities, reason, the performance management Workshop, which lasts three days. Supervisor Development Program” taking into account internal balances. In 2019, 117.583 hours of training which were established in Assan system in which employees’ corporate In the Effective Leaders Workshop, was prepared in order to increase the Employees of Kibar Holding and was provided to Group employees Hanil in order to ensure that bluegoals are transformed into individual Korn Ferry consultants explain the in various training and development competence and awareness of shift Group companies are offered a fair collar employees become competent, and team goals and development plans leadership model by associating it activities organized within this scope. managers, who are the first managers and competitive total salary, taking participatory, motivated and loyal are created accordingly, is called the with the results of the organizational of field workers, in such matters as into account different criteria such climate and leadership styles of the “leaders” in the field and thus find “Path to Success and Development”. leading the team, developing the as job families, roles, responsibilities, person. The program includes a 1.5areas of development for themselves, In order to generalize the performance Employee Trainings-Hour team, and providing feedback. The knowledge, skills and competence hour personalized feedback session. continue. In addition, trainings related management system throughout the levels, within the scope of the In this session, managers are expected (Person x Hour) first two modules of this program to the development of technical organization and to provide effective determined salary policy. Fair and to prepare detailed action plans for were implemented in 2019. With competencies, internal trainer system, and accurate feedback to employees, competitive remuneration is guaranteed their development. The score for this program, 110 Shift Officers quality training and development trainings are organized for team with internationally accepted job recommending this program to other were included in a comprehensive processes have been restructured. managers during interim and year-end evaluation methodologies and salary people was measured as 9.1 out of leadership program. In the “Learning 10 for managers who participated in from Experience” meetings held Leader assignment processes evaluation periods. Business goals and comparison studies. In accordance the development program in 2019. It every month, it is aimed to share for field workers are included in individual competencies are evaluated with the total reward policy, a different 2016 2017 2018 2019 is ensured that managers who have within the scope of the performance and unfair practice cannot be applied 117,583 the assessment center process. 72,429 75,383 70,478 information in different managerial defined leadership development areas. Intensive participation takes Thus, transparency and employee management system. The performance due to personal characteristics and actions and need external coaching motivation have increased. management system also provides preferences such as language, religion, place in these meetings, where topics support in this process are provided important data for different processes race, gender. with services from experienced are determined interactively. İspak Flexible Packaging Academy such as training and development, coaches. In addition, a sharing Training provided to group Assan Foods Employee talent management, recognition and Kibar Holding believes that the platform has been established to “Flexible Packaging Academy”, WE EMPOWER people facilitate the follow-up of current Development Practices rewarding. most reliable resource that will employees increased by which was implemented within İspak, make a difference in order to adapt trends. 66.8% is a training program prepared for At Assan Foods, Kaizen field trainings The Kibar Group uses a total reward rapidly to the changing competitive vocational high school students and Development Ambassadors are carried out in cooperation with system that is compatible with the environment is the employees. In aims to make students familiarize with Shingijutsu Global Consulting. Group and company strategies, rewards this regard, emphasis is placed on The Development Ambassador in 2019 compared business life and get used to business It is aimed to develop Kaizen business results and contribution creating environments that will enable Training Program has been to the previous year. life before finishing their school. representatives within the company to company performance, and is employees to realize their creative implemented with the aim of with field trainings. In 2019, “7 Habits and innovative ideas. The Asım Kibar maintaining the culture of sharing in Kibar Group and thus contributing to of Effective People Training” and PERFORMANCE integrated with all Human Resources Blue Drop Awards project is carried processes. In addition to the base salary, the career and personal development “7 Habits of Effective People for MANAGEMENT social and fringe benefits offered to out in order to reveal and reward creative and innovative ideas and of the employees. Within the scope Executives” trainings were organized Activities aiming to increase the employees are part of the total reward of the program, employees who are to increase the personal and to spread success stories. With the motivation of employees such as the management system. called Development Ambassadors professional development of all office motto “Every successful project starts and want to share their knowledge employees. Assan Foods’ R&D and Performance Management System, with a drop of ideas and spreads in 54 54 55 55 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 waves”, Asım Kibar Blue Drop Awards SOCIAL LIFE lives of employees are carried out Regulation and OHSAS 18001 / ISO Trainings are given to increase are aimed at achieving the strategic within the companies, independent of 45001 standards. The dangers of all the awareness of employees on Kibar Group strives to establish a through different channels such goals of the Group, recognizing the activities organized throughout the activities are determined, and the risk occupational health and safety sustainable world for employees not as phone, website and mobile and rewarding success based on Group. level of these dangers is determined, throughout the group. In 2019, only in terms of performance, but application, strictly complies competency. and action plans are prepared. employees received 49,916 hours of also in terms of living and sharing with the principle of information Employees at İspak facilities are Awareness is raised by sharing the OHS training. In 2019, 8,851 hours of life. In this direction, a happy and confidentiality. Asım Kibar Blue Drop Awards provided with social facilities and identified risks with the employees. training were organized for contractor participatory work environment is process is regularly reviewed every sports facilities where they can company employees in Kibar Group, created where employees can develop In 2019, Avita was used by a total of The health risks in the work areas which spread Occupational Health year, necessary improvements spend time outside of work, while belonging. Acting like a family, Kibar 3,459 clients, 3,056 employees and are evaluated and the precautions and Safety culture to the entire value are made and finalized with a families of employees in Assan Hanil Group accepts all its employees as a 403 employees’ relatives within the frequently come together with events to be taken are determined. chain. transparent evaluation. In this part of this family and believes in the Kibar Group. organized on special occasions. Environmental measurements are context, a pre-evaluation step was importance of sharing moments that added to the Asım Kibar Blue Drop While kickboxing, yoga, pilates and made, and necessary measures are OHS Training Provided to add value to life. With the Kibar Group Sports Festival, folk dance clubs operate in Assan taken in line with the measurement. Awards process in 2019. Category Employees – Hour which has been going on since 2016, Alüminyum, football tournaments Awareness-raising training is provided committees composed of managers employees are encouraged to do (Person x Hour) between factories are organized in to employees in the field with a single who are experts in the subject were Employee Support Program sports. In this way, it contributes to the Assan Hanil and employees who are point lesson. With the life coaching established, an awarding system Employee support program Avita, establishment of strong communication professionally interested in a sports practice, studies are carried out for a was created, and the pre-evaluation which was implemented in 2018 between Group companies and branch are supported. In 2019, Assan safer and healthier work environment. process was defined. and is among the innovative employees and to the formation of a Foods sponsored the Bandırma Bicycle All facilities are subjected to regular “BİZ” culture within the Group. Kibar Group, of which its employees are hygiene tests. Chronic patients, human resources applications of Of the 56 projects that applied, 44 Group Sports Festivals bring sports, pregnant and breastfeeding Kibar Group, provides unlimited also a member, and supported the 3rd 2016 2017 2018 2019 went through the pre-evaluation entertainment and togetherness, as 40,980 Traditional Kapıdağ Peninsula Bicycle employees are followed up and 41,476 49,916 and free consultancy support to 36,179 process and continued with the next well as the pleasure of achieving goals Festival. necessary precautions are taken. Kibar Group employees and their steps. With the Asım Kibar Blue together. In Kibar Group, office ergonomics families 24/7. Within the scope of Drop Awards project, which aims to the Employee Support Program, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH is also an issue followed within the advance the culture of development, The Kibar Group Sports Festival, which scope of risk management. For office consultancy services are provided in AND SAFETY 9 awards were given to 24 projects has become traditional throughout the workers, improvements are made many subjects such as psychology, Occupational Health and with 112 participants in 2017, 14 awards Kibar Group, was held in 2019 with the As a group operating in the industry to the ergonomics of the working medicine, law, financial information Safety trainings increased by WE EMPOWER people to 39 projects with 212 participants participation of 788 employees in eight and production sector, Occupational environment and ergonomic computer services, healthy nutrition, 20.3% branches including football, volleyball, Health and Safety (OHS) is among equipment is provided. in 2018, and 12 awards to 44 projects ergonomics, technology, veterinary, basketball, tennis, table tennis, the priority issues of Kibar Holding. with 238 participants in 2019. social life and general information swimming, athletics and bowling. Occupational Health and Safety services. processes are managed under the in 2019 compared In addition to Kibar Group Sports responsibility of OHS boards in line to the previous year. BİZPlus Appreciation, Recognition The questions and problems of Kibar Festivals, Kibar Volunteers with international standards. As of and Rewarding Program Group employees and their families Organizations, Kibar Group Festivals, 2019, 110 employee and employee are supported by experts in their Occupational Health and Safety Week representatives take part in 10 OHS With BİZPlus, which has been fields. When necessary, face-to-face Competitions and April 23 Painting committees operating in Kibar Group implemented to increase the visibility, psychological support is provided Contest for the children of employees companies. appreciation and rewarding of free of charge for up to six sessions on the day of Turkish National successes, managers can reward their with the guidance of the clinical Sovereignty and Children’s Day are Risk assessments are carried out colleagues in six different categories. psychologists at the call center. The organized throughout the Group. In using the Fine Kinney method in program, which can be accessed addition, activities to support the social accordance with the Occupational 56 Health and Safety Risk Assessment 56 57 GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-2 GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2 As a result of the information In the workshops held every year in Kibar Group respects the beliefs and may occur, ways to avoid conflict to investigate and resolve complaints Fight Against Corruption and awareness studies and order to increase the Occupational personal values of all its employees, of interest, how the issue should be and notifications regarding violations. Kibar Group does not tolerate bribery preventive measures, significant Health and Safety efficiency throughout stakeholders and business partners. handled when a conflict of interest Working under the Chairman of the and corruption in any way and takes improvements have been measured Kibar Group, the activities of the Based on internationally accepted occurs, and application details Board of Directors of Kibar Holding, measures to prevent such behavior. in all occupational health and safety previous year are evaluated and universal declarations, Kibar Group regarding gift exchange are explained the Ethics Committee consists of The Group’s approach to fight against performance indicators in Kibar the planning for the next year is acts within the framework of values in detail. The responsibilities of Kibar the Vice President of Internal Audit, bribery and corruption is defined in Group. made. In 2019, three projects were and principles. The Kibar Group Group to laws, customers, employees, the Head of the Human Resources the Kibar Holding Code of Ethics. carried out on “Chemicals Change “Code of Ethics” covering the business partners, competitors, Department and the Group Legal Compliance with ethical rules is the Management”, “Occupational Health aforementioned values and principles society and humanity are set forth Counsel. responsibility of all Group managers We Are Safety and Safety – Increasing the Efficiency of In addition, there are Code of Ethics is published on the corporate website. within the framework of Code of and employees. All employees are Environmental Boards” and “Increasing Consultants assigned to support obliged to report any breach of ethics İspak Ambalaj implemented the “We Ethics. The Code of Ethics document the Efficiency of OHS Trainings”. all kinds of needs and questions or suspected bribery or corruption. Are Safety” Project in the packaging Code of Ethics also includes case examples and Fourteen OHS and environment of employees regarding the The notices sent are evaluated within production field in 2018 in order examples of behaviors expected to be professionals worked in these projects. In Kibar Group, the principles implementation of the Code of Ethics the framework of confidentiality. to spread the occupational safety implemented in situations that may be of behavior towards working in Group companies. Internal control against corruption culture and raise awareness among encountered in business life. risks is evaluated within the scope of All occupational accidents, including life, the fundamental rights and employees. Thanks to the project, the minor accidents, that occur in group responsibilities of the employees are An Ethics Line has been established the process audits, examination and accident frequency and weight ratio companies are examined in detail that can be contacted from within investigation activities carried out by determined within the framework of has been improved. by occupational safety experts and the Group or from outside, in case of the Internal Audit Department. In this the “Code of Ethics”. Employees are relevant unit representatives, and In-class Business Ethics any violation of the Ethical Rules. This context, process audits, examination informed about ethical rules and can necessary preventive and corrective Training was provided to line includes an e-mail box, telephone and investigation activities were directly access the Ethics Committee. carried out in Group companies in measures are taken. Thanks to this 762 employees in 2019 line and a mailbox for information to 2019. Applied Awareness in Behavioral approach, there were no fatal accidents be delivered by mail, only accessible Kibar Group Code of Ethics consists and 3,078 employees in Risks Project or occupational diseases within the by the Ethics Committee, in order to of seven main headings: honesty, the last 5 years. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption Group. deliver the issue to the Committee. confidentiality, justice, quality and approach is binding on all relevant In Assan Hanil, “Applied Awareness All notices sent to the Ethics continuous improvement, conflict stakeholders, especially suppliers and in Behavioral Risks Project (Process BUSINESS ETHICS of interest, our responsibilities, and Committee via telephone, e-mail and/ business partners, as well as group WE EMPOWER people Employee perception is kept up or mail are handled and evaluated Shadowing)” was initiated in 2019. accepting/giving gifts. Kibar Group is employees. The business ethics understanding of to date with “Do You Think This Is confidentially, appropriate units are The aim of the project is to minimize based on the principle of honesty in Kibar Group requires employees to Ethical?” themed posters in common assigned to carry out the necessary Kibar Group employees are not occupational accidents resulting from all its activities and considers honesty, act with the highest ethical standards. areas. Efforts are underway to provide studies, and all work related to the held responsible for direct or behavioral risks in the short term and sincerity and high business ethics online training to all employees on The understanding of business ethics case is meticulously made. The Ethics indirect damages that the company to contribute to the safety culture in above all else. In this respect, the the Code of Ethics every year. It is Committee takes the necessary based on the values of honesty and may suffer due to their acting in the long term. With the contributions integrity constitutes the basis of doing protection of the private information planned to first give in-class training measures to prevent any negativities accordance with ethical principles. In of the project, the number of category business beyond legal requirements of all stakeholders, the understanding to new employees in line with the such as retaliation, pressure and the 2019 operating period, there were C occupational accidents was reduced in all activities including financial and of justice based on equality of Code of Ethics, and then to provide intimidation that may occur against no reports of ethical values, violations by 50% in 2019 compared to the operational activities, technological opportunity, quality and continuous online training every year. individuals who report ethical of universal human rights or cases previous year. assets and brand values. improvement goals are discussed in violations. of corruption. During the period in detail in the Code of Ethics document. Within the Kibar Group, it is the Ethics question, there were no lawsuits filed Situations where a conflict of interest Committee’s responsibility to ensure You can access Kibar Holding Code against Kibar Group regarding this compliance with the Code of Ethics, of Ethics at issue. 58 58 https://www.kibar.com/en/~/media/files/pdf/etik-kurallar/2020/11/code-of-conduct-en.pdf WE INNOVATE for the future We consider product quality and customer satisfaction at the highest level, and we see technological development and innovation as the cornerstone of sustainable growth. 61 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 417-1 PRODUCT AND Company Management System and Quality Certificate SERVICE QUALITY ISO 50001: Energy Management System In Kibar Group, product safety, quality ISO IEC27001: Information Security Management System ISO 9001: Quality Management System and customer satisfaction are business IATF16949: Quality Management System priorities that are managed at the ISO 14001: Environmental Management System highest global standards beyond all ISO 31000: Corporate Risk Management System TS18001 (OHSAS): Occupational Health and Safety Management System financial concerns. In addition to the Assan CE: EU Certificate of Conformity management systems required by Alüminyum NSF: International Health Organization Certificate of Conformity Kosher: their sectors, all Group companies Kosher Food Compliance Certificate ISPM15: Certificate of Conformity for Wooden Packaging Materials follow many quality and safety Authorized Liability Status standards according to customer ISPM15 Documents and Certificates TSE Certificate of Conformity expectations. DoP No 1_EC Performance Statement WE INNOVATE Kibar Group offers differentiated products and services to its customers BRC: International Food Safety Standard IFS: International Food Standard for the future Kosher Certificate by evaluating developing technology Halal Food Certificate and digital opportunities together Assan Foods BSCI: Social Responsibility Standard Kibar Group, a well established with business models. Group ICS: French Trade and Distribution Organization Standard industrial enterprise, owes its Sedex: Supply Chain Assessment System corporate success to its ability companies develop customer-oriented Walmart SCS: Supply Chain Security Certificate to always prioritize quality in its business processes based on effective products and services while meeting and transparent communication. In ISO / IEC 27001: Information Security Management System WE INNOVATE for the future all Kibar Group companies, necessary ISO 9001: Quality Management System the needs of its customers and to Assan Hanil IATF16949: Quality Management System anticipate future needs. studies are carried out according to ISO 14001: Environmental Management System the results of independent customer TS18001 (OHSAS): Occupational Health and Safety Management System For this purpose; products, systems satisfaction surveys conducted every ISO 9001: Quality Management System and processes are updated using the year, efforts are made to increase the ISO 14001: Environmental Management System most modern technologies. Thanks to added value provided by products ISO-IEC27001: Information Security Management System LPCB: Safety and Fire Protection Certificate the importance given to innovation and services. In addition, action plans TSE-14509: PIR and PUR Filled Insulation Panels Certificate Assan Panel TS EN 508-1: Roofing Plates, Trapezoidal Section Corrugated Board Certificate and digitalization, productivity is are created based on the results of TS 7677: Corrugated Boards Certificate of Aluminum Alloys increased, new markets are reached, this research. FM Approval: Fire safety certificate GREENGUARD GOLD: Certificate of compliance with the standards that and the negative effects of products, promise that the product does not harm human health by chemical release. services and processes on the ISO 22000: Food Safety Management System environment are minimized. Kibar BRC: International Food Safety Standard Holding works together with the İspak ISO IEC27001: Information Security Management System ISO 9001: Quality Management System entire value chain in order to create ISO 14001: Environmental Management System the Kibar of the future and reflects TS18001 (OHSAS): Occupational Health and Safety Management System the understanding of “We Are Strong 63 63 Together” to its technology studies. GRI 417-1 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 417-1 At Assan Alüminyum, customer suppliers and customers are managed a result of the root cause analysis, and innovative ideas. For this purpose, relations are meticulously managed, through the 8D process. Customer the work to be done is determined “Asım Kibar Blue Drop Awards With the project implemented in 2019, and sector-based technical training feedback is evaluated by a team of and revisions and improvements are Project” was implemented to reveal Assan Alüminyum will become the is provided to customers every year. relevant units under the leadership made to prevent the problem from the innovative ideas of the employees facility that can produce the thinnest Along with the delivered products, the of the quality unit, and temporary happening again. and to share their success stories with foil in Turkey. With the project in package label and test certificates and measures taken regarding problems group companies. question, foil with a thickness of less are reported within 24 hours and than 7 microns will be produced that product specs prepared according permanent measures within 48 hours. R&D AND INNOVATION The basis of innovation work is to appeals to all areas of use. In addition, to customer requests are sent. Social media posts and e-bulletins Actions that describe the problem Kibar Group constantly reviews its increase productivity, reduce resource it is aimed to increase corrosion are prepared in order to share the and how it was solved are reported in operations in line with the aim of use and waste generation, increase resistance with the addition of rare company’s agenda with customers 8D format and recorded in the ASHA making growth sustainable, rapidly product quality and variety, reduce earth elements in 3000 series brazing transparently. Routine assessment QDMS system. adapts to changing global conditions, costs and risks, produce new business alloys. meetings with domestic authorized closely follows the technology and models and technologies that will In Assan Panel, the accessory sales developments in the world with create value for stakeholders, and Assan Foods dealers and business partner meetings method was changed with the project Industry 4.0 practices that will develop environmentally friendly and Since Assan Foods’ Factory has one covering all customers are among implemented in 2019 in order to bring efficiency to higher levels, and high value-added products. of the highest capacities of tomato customer communication practices. increase the product and service shapes R&D and innovation strategies processing in a single location in quality. The weight of accessory accordingly. Turkey, it focuses on optimization Creating full time teams to respond R&D and Innovation Projects materials produced from sheets studies in its production processes. to customer requests and complaints, Assan Alüminyum It is aimed to increase productivity Assan Foods uses customer feedback cut with the project in question is Innovation and innovative products Assan Alüminyum carries out its with new technology investments while designing product content and calculated by the system, the lot play an important role in Kibar research and development activities realized within the scope of the lean packaging. In 2019, a dealer meeting number is generated from the same Group’s strategy to shape the future. in the R&D Center registered by manufacturing project that started in WE INNOVATE for the future with the theme “We Are Growing item code for this scrap and the Within the scope of innovation the Turkish Ministry of Science, 2018. with Your Trust” was held with the customer delivery balance is updated. studies aiming to create new markets Industry and Technology. R&D work participation of domestic dealers. Thus, the resulting scrap is minimized. and bring customers together with focuses on the development of high During the two-day meeting, new With this project, product prices were environmentally friendly and valueperformance, industry and customer Assan Foods reduced the batch products were introduced with R&D reduced by 20%. added products, joint studies are specific products. Within the scope preparation process from 55 minutes and production facility visits. carried out with many organizations, of research and development studies, to 28 minutes with its emulsified sauce A quality certificate containing all especially universities. Companies cooperation was made with Vrije automatic pasteurization system In Assan Hanil, in addition to the technical features and measurement within the scope of reporting received University, technical consultancy service within the scope of the new project feature code and raw material results of the product is also delivered five patents in 2019 through research was received from the Middle East implemented in 2019. Pasteurization information on the products, a to the customer at İspak. The quality and development studies. Technical University within the scope of process, which was previously barcode system is used to ensure certificate includes all the tests made the Turkey Scientific and Technological performed as a batch process in a traceability. In projects carried out for the product, the standards by With the responsible and innovative Research Institution project, and single tank, can be performed as a jointly with customers, some products which the tests are carried out and perspective it adopts, Kibar Holding academic consultancy service was continuous process in a triple tank are lightened with alternative the results. Root cause analysis is attaches great importance to creating received from academicians from system with this project. materials. Problems submitted by performed on problems by examining the conditions that will enable its Koç University and Izmir Institute of customer complaints one-to-one. As employees to realize their creative Technology. 64 64 65 65 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Assan Hanil Different versions of the existing ASD In Assan Panel, within the scope of Assan Hanil continues its research In the “Composite Fender Part seat started to be developed under the Chemical Reintegration project, and development activities that can Development Project” carried out the name ASD1.0 project. the formulations of Assan B3 System respond quickly to the changing in Assan Hanil in 2019, it was aimed chemicals were developed, a chemical trends of the automotive sector and to produce fender carrier parts as In the bidding and pre-development production facility was established, the expectations of its manufacturers composite in order to reduce weight. It process of the new generation Ford and Optiwall M was added to the at the R&D center established in is aimed to reduce weight by 25-40% in Transit (V710) Vehicle Seats, which Polyurethane product range. 2010 with the support of the Turkish will start mass production in 2023, the the new fender carrier parts. The biggest Ministry of Science, Industry and development process continues with İspak gain of the project is the fuel savings Technology. While basic research is Ford UK, Germany and Turkey teams İspak Packaging, with its new factory and reduction of carbon emissions to be mainly carried out with universities, for DCIV and SB seat types. designed with Industry 4.0 concepts, achieved using lighter vehicles. has made the largest investment applied research and experimental development studies are carried out Assan Hanil continues its efforts to in flexible packaging made at once within Assan Hanil’s R&D Center. develop the “New Generation Air in Turkey. İspak aims to expand its Smart Factory Investment from Suspension Commercial Vehicle portfolio in food packaging and Assan Hanil, which carries out studies Assan Hanil Seat (truck Seat 2.0)” project in industrial product areas in its new on innovative projects for weight With Assan Hanil’s smart factory order to develop a new generation facility where automatic production reduction, cost optimization and design, it is aimed to produce air suspension seat that meets systems, simulations, clean room, increasing quality, has 59 Intellectual and ship orders for the Aksaray advanced technology expectations horizontal and vertical software Property Rights and 6 trademark factory unmanned. Thus, following and is lightweight and suitable for all integration, cyber security and cloud registrations, including 31 patents, improvements will be possible: specifications. technologies are used. 12 utility models and 16 industrial designs. Efficiency in production by using Assan Panel system power instead of manpower In the project carried out by İspak Assan Panel has accelerated its In addition to seat product Instant monitoring of operation and Assan Foods in 2019 in order WE INNOVATE for the future R&D studies in its own “Euronorm” development competence, a performance indicators on field to reduce the weight of stick sauce standard laboratory, which has department was established in the screens packages by preserving their shelf life, hardware and software that can R&D Center for the development the unit package weight was reduced Save time and money perform all kinds of physical and of automotive trim components, by approximately 14%. Efforts are System capacity is approximately mechanical tests of the sandwich which have an important commercial underway to make lighter packaging, 80,000 products. panel. It has made an investment in potential in our country. In the the second step of the project. a new chemical laboratory for the projects carried out in the Virtual Air Suspension Commercial Vehicle quality management of polyurethane. Analysis (CAE) and Production With the studies in this field, it is İspak aims to develop a smart Seat (ASD) Ford F-Max and ASD1.0 Engineering departments, a structure aimed to increase the number of packaging application for food HMC FCEV Development Project and that will support innovative design, patented products and to develop products with the R&D center project FORD F-Max truck seat improvement modeling and production processes expertise in polyurethane material. initiated with Sakarya University in studies continue. In addition to has been established. Assan Panel increased its product 2019. With this application, which weight reduction activities, product range with pilot productions realized will be the first in its field, the end development studies are ongoing by applying cost-benefit optimization consumer will be able to preserve the for options such as removable cover, in the Optipanel series, which is in the freshness of the product. In addition, ventilation and massage systems. economic panel segment. efficiency will be achieved in fresh meat products that cause a lot of 66 66 waste in the procurement process. 67 67 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 DIGITALIZATION been successfully expanded. Business Smart Agriculture from Assan Foods With the operational excellence processes that become digital with practices in Assan Hanil, all operations Digitalization is a corporate With the “Smart Agriculture Project”, e-transformation save both workforce are traceable and reportable. priority for Kibar Group, which which was initiated in South Marmara and time by minimizing transaction User-friendly screens have been makes innovative investments that and covers an area of 12.500 acres, times. Transferring corporate it is aimed to follow and analyze all designed and the opportunity to require intensive R&D activities documents to the digital environment the parameters of the whole plant enter the system regardless of the and constantly improves products increases efficiency and reduces the development process, from planting environment is provided. With the according to the needs of customers. possibility of errors. Transformation to harvest in pilot fields, soil and new scoring system, the objective Digital transformation efforts continue projects have been completed with product management, more efficient evaluation process has been in all Kibar Group companies. e-delivery note and e-producer use of resources and minimizing developed. Approval processes have transitions. negative effects on the environment. been accelerated with the relational In digitalization projects, Industry workflow structure. With the Instant 4.0 and new technologies are In the project initiated in 2017, data Customer Line Stock Tracking System, focused on operational efficiency, Assan Alüminyum obtained from the air and soil are the criticality of the shipped parts was technological infrastructure, cyber “Cast & Roll” program shared with the farmers, reducing monitored on a facility basis and the security and system continuity. water consumption and pesticide The “Cast & Roll” program aims at shipment process was optimized by Efforts are underway to move Office use, and fighting the disease at the the digitalization and automation developing a warning system. applications to 365 cloud structure highest level. This contributes to the of all business processes in Assan regional economy and product quality. in order to ensure safe and efficient Alüminyum and includes fifteen In2019, as an addition to the existing Assan Panel started using the Building access to data, thus enabling access information technology projects. physical stations, new stations were Information Modeling (BIM) digital to applications from all devices in a With this program, it is aimed to established to expand the coverage product design platform in 2019. Thus, secure and corporate framework. improve the Customer Relationship area, the number of parameters products are displayed on a digital was increased and studies on data WE INNOVATE for the future Management with advanced planning platform and customers can easily Creating corporate data architecture analytics continued. systems and processes, to realize access up-to-date information and and increasing productivity with Manufacturing Execution System details. analytical and artificial intelligence With the customer portal located projects and to ensure full automation projects have been determined within Assan Foods, requests are of Procurement-2-Pay processes with In Ispak’s Izmit Facility, which has as business priorities. Process collected during customer visits the Supplier Management Portal. Industry 4.0 infrastructure, the Smart determination studies continue in and processed into the system and Warehouse was commissioned in 2019 Robotic Process Automation (RPA) pre-order records are automatically and the integration of the Solvent studies. created by ERP. Recovery Facility was completed. Sales teams have access to all data via Assan Foods plans to increase Customer EDI Integration project salesforce (CRM). Scrap management efficiency with e-transformation has been initiated at Assan Hanil in system has been established. projects initiated. With e-invoice, order to automatically add records Digitalization has been provided for e-ledger, e-export, e-validation, to the system and create plans in the the management of the curing time of e-archive, e-delivery note, e-producer, system by increasing the technology the products. the e-transformation process has integration with customers. 68 68 69 69 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 INFORMATION Components in a Common Pool and Examining Anomaly Situations by SECURITY Associating with Smart Algorithms, DLP – Tracking Mechanism Preventing Increasing digitalization brings along Intra-Group Intellectual Assets from the necessity of high information Leaking Out, Network Segmentation security standards. Kibar Group aims and Change Management projects are at the highest information security by aimed at increasing the resistance of following new technologies. Cyber Security. Kibar Group companies within Classification, securing and the scope of reporting have ISO anonymization of data within the 27001 certification or information scope of compliance with the management systems based on this Personal Data Protection Law are management system. Corporate data among the studies carried out and information belonging to all meticulously. stakeholders are secured. Information technologies infrastructure needs are managed with an end-to-end central discipline from data centers to end-user computers. Cyber security does not only cover malicious attacks. Uninterrupted and consistent access to data is an essential part of information security. Infrastructure works were carried out in order to eliminate external attacks and to provide easy/uninterrupted access to information with many projects implemented. New generation technologies in cloud solutions and automation fields are considered as a critical development area that will create value in business processes. In this direction, Robotic Process Automation, Collecting Logs Collected from SIEM-IT 70 70 WE CARE for next generations With the awareness that natural resources are not infinite and unlimited, we act with future generations in mind. 73 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Kibar Group works to reduce the Research shows that the average In Assan Hanil, products passing negative effects of its activities on global temperature raises should be through IMDS (International Material the environment and to increase limited to at most 2° C in order to Data System) are used as raw awareness at every stage from limit the destructive effects of climate materials and thus, the effects of production to distribution. Within change. This requires reducing the the products on climate change the scope of R&D activities, it greenhouse gas concentration in the throughout the life cycle are tried to transforms potential threats created atmosphere to the equivalent of 450 be minimized. by environmental problems into parts per million on average. opportunities by developing nature friendly technologies and products. Climate change and diminishing As the main raw material of Assan natural resources directly affect Alüminyum, aluminum is a lighter COMBATING CLIMATE natural life and the global economy. and nature friendly material CHANGE Changing climate conditions create compared to its alternatives. new needs and declining raw Aluminum preserves food longer Climate change has become one of materials must be replaced with and provides a logistical advantage. the most important problems of our rational alternatives. Kibar Group It helps to reduce CO2 emissions age that concerns the entire world. continues its activities by considering thanks to its contribution to Factors such as population growth, the risks and opportunities created by reducing vehicle weight in the industrialization, urbanization, land changing climate conditions. automotive sector. It is a preferred use, increase in fossil fuel use and material in the construction and WE CARE reduction of forests cause an increase Within the scope of efforts to combat durable consumption sectors due for next generations in greenhouse gas emissions in the climate change, Kibar Group limits to its high corrosion resistance, atmosphere and change in emission the negative effects of its activities lightness and easy formability. WE CARE for next generations The use of energy and natural volumes. This situation increases on the environment, reduces energy Aluminum is a green material that resources is increasing in the global warming and brings along consumption, increases energy can be 100% recycled after the end world, which causes environmental climate change. efficiency, decreases energy intensity, of its life. In this way, it can provide problems. Acting with the awareness generates electricity from renewable 95% energy savings compared to that natural resources are not In addition to the increase in global energy sources and manages the the use of primary aluminum. infinite and unlimited, Kibar Group temperature, climate change is also use of natural resources with a adopts a sustainable development effective in the change of weather sustainability approach. approach that will enable the transfer events such as extreme rainfall, floods, of resources to future generations. severe hurricanes, ozone depletion, The maintenance and protection of This understanding is based on air pollution, drought, desertification, Asım Kibar Love Forest, which was a human-oriented, economically, rise of ocean and sea level and created by Kibar Holding in Istanbul environmentally and socially deterioration of the ecosystem. in 1995 on an area of 10,000 m2, is sustainable system. supported by the group. 4,750 trees were planted by the group companies in 2019. 75 75 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5 implementing energy-efficient were achieved by avoiding separate Good Agricultural Practices in projects and investments. In 2019, heating processes for each line. In Assan Foods many efficiency projects were carried addition to the gain in production out within the Kibar Group and lines, productivity was increased by Good Agricultural Practices significant savings were achieved. preventing stoppages. are defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the Assan Alüminyum has saved In Assan Panel, with the SPA-10 United Nations (FAO) as “the approximately 3 million kWh of Continuous Panel Line Laminator procedures to be implemented to energy with 27 energy efficiency Zone project, the energy consumption make the agricultural production projects realized in 2019. More of the laminator zone heating system socially viable, economically than 70 energy efficiency projects system elements has been isolated profitable and efficient, protecting have been implemented in Assan and thus reduced. As a result of human health, giving importance Alüminyum in the last 6 years and this improvement, a more effective to animal health and welfare and as a result of these projects, annual use of hot water has been achieved the environment”. Harvesting of savings reached the level of 20 million for heating the laminator, and an tomatoes which Assan Foods use kWh. improvement has been observed as raw material inline with the in heating times. Heat loss in the framework of Good Agricultural At Assan Alüminyum Tuzla facilities, laminator area has been reduced by Practices and with smart agriculture. energy efficiency was increased by 84%. In Good Agricultural Practices, replacing five high flow inefficient traditional farming methods pump motors with an efficient are combined with the latest pump motor group. Compressor Contribution to Sustainable technologies. Thus, by increasing energy consumption was improved Buildings from Assan Panel WE CARE for next generations production efficiency, product by revising the ring system in the Assan Panel contributes to quality is kept at the highest compressed air system of the Dilovası low carbon economy with level, production that does not facility. Automation projects have environmentally friendly products been implemented for some units harm the environment, human in its product range. It contributes on the process at Tuzla and Dilovası and animal health is carried out, to the construction of sustainable plants. The amount of emission natural resources are preserved, the buildings with products that reduced by these projects is over quality of life for the producer, local have thermal insulation and fire 2.150 tons of CO2 equivalent. people and society is increased, resistance, ensure maximum benefit and traceability and sustainability in from daylight in the building where With the CIP water heating project agriculture is ensured. it is used, and are suitable for implemented in Assan Foods, it is aimed to prevent energy and time electricity generation from solar ENERGY MANAGEMENT losses in line washing. With the energy. project in question, savings were Kibar Group continues its efforts achieved in all production line to combat climate change by washing times and energy savings 76 76 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-5 As a result of energy efficiency Energy Intensity Energy efficiency and the use of projects, the energy intensity of Kibar renewable energy sources in energy Greenhouse gas emission Group companies has decreased. production are the most important intensity decreased by 2.7% Energy intensity, which represents components of sustainable the amount of energy consumed to development. With the Manavgat generate a unit of revenue on the 650 GJ/million TL Hydroelectric Power Plant, which 815 GJ/million TL 475 GJ/million TL 436 GJ/million TL in 2019 compared 2018 2019 basis of companies within the scope is a renewable energy investment of reporting, decreased by 8.2% made by Kibar Group within to the previous year. 2016 2019 in 2019 compared to the previous 2017 2018 the scope of efforts to combat year and by 46.5% compared to climate change, 153,785,000 kWh 2016. It decreased by 11% in Assan of electricity was produced from Alüminyum, 19% in Assan Foods, 1% renewable energy sources in 2019. NOx, SOx and other in Assan Hanil, 6% in Assan Panel and emissions decreased by The ratio of electricity production 6.2% 4% in İspak. The energy intensity of to meet consumption is 69%. Energy intensity reduction rates Kibar Group companies within the scope of the Assan Alüminyum, one of the in 2019 compared 2018 2019 of Kibar Group companies in energy-intensive Group companies, reporting decreased by to the previous year. 2019 compared to the previous reduced its greenhouse gas year 2018 8.2% 2019 emission intensity by 2.7% and nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur in 2019 compared oxide (SOx) emissions by 6.2% in 11 % 19 % to the previous year. 2019. WE CARE for next generations The energy intensity of 1% 6% Kibar Group companies within the scope of the reporting has decreased by 4% 2016 46.5% 2019 in the last 3 years. 78 78 Kibar Holding Manavgat Hydroelectric Power Plant GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 WATER MANAGEMENT Water Intensity Wastewater Recovery Facility Assan Foods, one of the waterThe amount of water recycled Investment Population growth, industrialization intensive companies of Kibar and reused at Assan Foods The Wastewater Recycling Facility, and agricultural activities increase the Group, has reduced its water increased by 43.1% in 2019 which was integrated into the demand for water and cause pollution intensity by 35.2% compared compared to the previous year. Wastewater Treatment Plant 209 m3/million TL with various parameters. Despite the 417 m3/million TL 276 m3/million TL 199 m3/million TL to the previous year and 58.7% The ratio of water recycled and established in 2014 in the Asım increase in water demand, the scarcity compared to 2016 on a unit of reused to the amount of water Kibar Organized Industrial Zone of water resources requires efficient revenue basis in 2019, as a result consumed, which was 72% in 2016 2019 in Kocaeli, where Kibar Holding 2017 2018 use of existing water resources and of its investments to reduce water 2018, rose to 93.6% in 2019. pioneered the establishment therefore right management. consumption. and is a participant, transforms The main purpose in the sustainability wastewater into high quality Recycled water ratio of water resources is to consider The water intensity of Assan Foods’ water utility water by subjecting it to the needs of future generations Kibar Group companies intensity decreased by an advanced treatment, and 35.2% without changing the functioning within the scope of the can meet the water needed by of the hydrological cycle. Acting reporting decreased by companies to use in their process 4.8% with this awareness, Kibar Group lines. Wastewater Recovery in 2019 compared continues the necessary studies for Facility was commissioned in May to the previous year. 2018 2019 2018 2019 sustainable water use and continuous 2018. The amount of recovery in 2019 compared 2016 2017 2018 2019 improvement of water management. water produced at the facility in to the previous year. %70.1 %84.4 %72.0 %93.6 2019 and used as irrigation water As a result of the efforts made to in companies’ process lines is ensure the sustainability of water 525,000 m3. WE CARE for next generations resources, the water intensity of Kibar The water intensity of Assan Foods’ water The amount of water Group companies within the scope Kibar Group companies intensity has decreased by that is recycled and of the reporting has decreased. The within the scope of the 58.7% companies covered by the reporting reused increased by reporting has decreased by have reduced their water intensity, which represents the amount of 52.3% in the last 3 years. 43.1% 2016 2019 2016 2019 2018 in 2019 compared 2019 water consumed to produce a unit of revenue, by 4.8% in 2019 compared in the last 3 years. to the previous year. to the previous year and by 52.3% compared to 2016. 80 80 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 WASTE MANAGEMENT The amount of waste recovered in The packaging materials used in all Kibar Kibar Group companies within the Group companies are collected back Effective waste management is of scope of the reporting increased in accordance with legal requirements. great importance for the circular by 9.4% in 2019 compared to the Approximately 4,400 tons of packaging economy with the protection and previous year and by 31.1% compared materials were collected in 2019 at Kibar efficient use of natural resources to 2016. Group companies within the scope of the reporting. The amount of packaging that form the basis of sustainable material reclaimed has increased by 7.9% development. Reducing, recycling The amount of recycled in 2019 compared to the previous year and disposing of wastes with waste has increased by and by 16.2% in the last three years. environmentally friendly methods are among the priorities of Kibar Group in this field. 9.4% Reclaimed packaging material quantity 2018 2019 in 2019 compared Kibar Group supports Industry 4.0 to the previous year. principles and circular economy in line with its sustainable industry goal. In this context, Kibar Group 3,781 ton 4,016 ton 4,071 ton 4,394 ton companies aim to ensure that every waste generated is re-evaluated by The amount of recycled 2016 2017 2018 2019 constantly reviewing their production waste has increased by processes. Thus, it is aimed to provide resource efficiency and environmental 31.1% The amount of 2016 2019 benefit. The amount of recycled and in the last 3 years. WE CARE for next generations packaging material reused raw materials in Kibar Group, recycled increased by which has adopted a production model based on circular economy, 7.9% 2019 sustainability and innovation, has increased by 46.6% in the last three 2018 in 2019 compared years. to the previous year. The amount of recycled The amount of and reused raw materials packaging material has increased by reclaimed has increased by 2016 46.6% in the last three years. 2019 2016 16.2% in the last 3 years. 2019 82 82 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 production requires 95% less energy Plastic Reduction Optimizing the chemical than primary aluminum, this practice The İnteraktif Çevre Consultancy Commitment of Kibar Holding composition of 3,105 alloys in provides significant benefits in terms company, which was established Assan Alüminyum of sustainability. in 2015 within the Kibar Group, With the awareness of its Primary aluminum is the most provides services to Group responsibility in the field of energy-intensive and costly item companies in total waste sustainability, Kibar Holding has Recycling Project in management and environmental started a new activity in order to of aluminum semi-finished product Assan Foods consultancy with an understanding support the low-carbon circular production. The use of secondary aluminum and scrap aluminum Separation system installed in Assan that adopts the circular economy economy. Signing the Business produced by remelting instead of Foods the oil in the wastewater and attaches importance to R&D Plastics Initiative protocol primary aluminum in production formed after washing was prevented studies in waste. İnteraktif Çevre established by the United Nations significantly reduces raw material from being discharged into the contributes to the improvement of Global Compact Turkey, Turkish costs and reduces resource use and environment. In addition, with this the Group’s performance in resource Industry and Business Association energy requirement. With this project system, the need for pool cleaning use and waste minimization. and the Sustainable Development Association on 20 November 2019, completed in 2019, the chemical has been eliminated, and the use of it has made a commitment to composition of 3,105 alloys has been DAP fertilizers has decreased. The Kibar Group organized a total determine its plastic use reduction optimized, increasing the use of separated oils were collected and of 5,793 hours of environmental commitments until 2021 and make it secondary resources and reducing recycled. training in 2019, 5,504 hours for public. the raw material cost. Thus, Assan Group employees and 289 hours for Alüminyum’s energy consumption At Assan Foods, packaging reduction contractor company employees. Thus, has decreased, the circular economy tests were carried out in 2019, and the environmental education provided has been supported using secondary portion pack stick packages have since 2016 has reached 15,391 hours. WE CARE for next generations resources, and its carbon footprint switched from 9-micron aluminum has been reduced. 55-micron PE structure to 7-micron aluminum and 45-micron PE structure. Continuing its activities in the circular economy area within the framework İspak closely follows developments of international standards such as in packaging manufacture from the European Aluminum “Circular sustainable sources and packaging Economy 2030 Action Plan” and design suitable for recycling. İspak ASI standards, Assan Alüminyum R&D Center works on different increases the use of secondary specifications for both recyclable and (made of scrap) aluminum and biodegradable packaging. İspak has aluminum scraps in order to reduce developed a cover foil suitable for external dependency and create an recycling in a joint project with Nestle. effective waste management. Thanks With this project, İspak produced a to the fact that recycled aluminum recyclable, environmentally friendly packaging for its cover foil products. 84 84 WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders We expect our stakeholders to adopt Sustainable Development Goals. 87 GRI 102-9, 102-12, 102-21, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS The sustainability understanding of Kibar Group is based on an approach that includes not only its own practices but also the practices of all stakeholders. In this direction, Kibar Group maintains its relations with stakeholders, including suppliers, producers, distributors, retailers and customers in the entire value chain, from raw material procurement to production and distribution to the end customer, based on the economic, human rights, environmental and social activities of its stakeholders. WE ENCOURAGE In the selection of the stakeholder WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders our stakeholders group with which it will cooperate, Kibar Holding considers the potential Kibar Group has integrated operating of contribution in the social field, in accordance with universal creativity and innovation. It expects its principles into its corporate culture stakeholders to act in accordance with since the day it was founded. the sustainable development goals. Evaluating economic growth together with its goal of “sustainability”, Kibar Group considers it its which includes economic, social and corporate responsibility to provide environmental factors, Kibar Group accurate and timely information acts with the responsibility and to all its stakeholders. For this awareness of revealing the potential reason, it continues its stakeholder of its stakeholders in achieving communication on many platforms sustainable development goals. The specially prepared for different studies carried out within the scope stakeholder groups. of supply chain management in Kibar Group constitute an important part of corporate sustainability practices. 88 88 89 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 GRI 102-9, 102-12, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 412-3, 414-1, 414-2 STAKEHOLDER GROUPS SUSTAINABILITY Environment, Biodiversity, Integrity, Cannot offer bribe to any Kibar Quality and Continuous Development employee, under any name or MANAGEMENT IN Employees Group Companies Customers Dealers Shareholders and Investors Public Institutions Academic Institutions SUPPLY CHAIN and Information Security. Kibar Group companies demand the standards condition. Employees’ salary, including salary %87 LOCAL required by their sectors from their and overtime, cannot be lower SUPPLIER Annual Report(annual) Annual Report(annual) UNGC Report (annual), UNGC Report (annual), Annual Report(annual) UNGC Report (annual), UNGC Report (annual), COMMUNICATION TOOLS AND FREQUENCY Kibar Group has a wide supplier supply chains within the framework of than the minimum level specified in UNGC Report (annual), UNGC Report (annual), Reputation Research Reputation Research UNGC Report (annual), Reputation Research Reputation Research (annual), (annual), (annual), (annual), network due to its size and portfolio these principles while managing their applicable laws and regulations. Employee Satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Reputation Research supply chains. Cannot treat employees with any %13 Research (2 years), Research (2 years), Ethical Rules Ethical Rules (annual), Ethical Rules Web (continuous), of companies operating in different (continuous), (continuous), (continuous), sectors. The Group works to ensure discrimination regarding race, ethnic Reputation Research Reputation Research Ethical Rules Collaborations with (annual), (annual), Web (continuous), Periodical Publications (continuous), Web (continuous), Universities (seasonal) that its corporate ethics and origin, language, religion, sexual GLOBAL (continuous) Audits (instant / Procurement Procedures developed SUPPLIER sustainability approach is also adopted orientation, gender, political and Suggestion Systems Suggestion Systems Focus Group Studies Web (continuous), annual), Sectoral Reviews in accordance with the United (instant), (instant), (instant), Web (continuous), (instant) by the supply chain, therefore it prefers ideological views in any employment General Assembly Nations Global Compact, cover Ethical Rules Ethical Rules Product / Brand / Dealer Meetings and Meetings (annual), long-term business agreements. In the decision, including recruitment, (continuous), (continuous), Market Research Research (annual) issues such as not employing child joint purchasing structure, suppliers promotion, compensation, benefits, (annual), Information and labor and forced labor, ensuring fair Employee Training Employee Training Material Disclosures with high technology and energy training, forced layoffs and (continuous), (continuous), Customer / Consumer (instant), working conditions and reducing Support Lines efficient products and services are termination. Supplier selections are made in Occupational Health Occupational Health (continuous), Roadshow and Investor environmental impacts. preferred, and purchasing activities are Provides a healthy and safe work accordance with the rules specified in and Safety Boards and Safety Boards Presentations (instant) (continuous), (continuous), Consumer Satisfaction carried out through a global supplier environment for its employees to the Group purchasing procedure and Measurement (annual) Kibar Group Framework Periodical Publications Periodical Publications network. prevent accidents and injuries. the approved supplier list. Supplier (continuous) (continuous) Agreement Can prove that it fully complies risk assessment studies are carried WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders Internal Information Internal Information All suppliers are expected to Before starting to work with with all legal regulations aimed at out for all suppliers in Kibar Group. Announcements Announcements implement the Purchasing Ethical suppliers, the Kibar Group Framework protecting the environment in all its (instant), (instant), All legal and environmental risks are Rules, which are an integral part of the Agreement is signed to ensure that activities. Web (continuous), Web (continuous), included in this process. The supplier Kibar Group Code of Ethics, defined by critical sustainability priorities are also Intranet (continuous) Intranet (continuous) is expected to be able to prove that it corporate documents and procedures. adopted by suppliers. Kibar Group adopts local procurement fully complies with all legal regulations The sustainability performance of the practices as much as possible in order to protect the environment, human Non-Governmental Organızatıons Unıversity Career Clubs / wide supply network consisting of In the framework agreements of Kibar to increase the contribution of its Media rights, health and safety conditions. And Trade Unions Unıversity Students more than 4.600 active suppliers is Group, the following provisions are activities to the national economy. For this purpose, the certifications constantly monitored and improved. included under the heading of “Ethical In 2019, Kibar Group has 4,031 local Rules and Legal Obligations”. of the suppliers are examined. At suppliers and the local supply rate is UNGC Report (annual), UNGC Report (annual), Surveys (instant), 87%. Assan Hanil and İspak, ISO14001 The rules that all suppliers must Web (continuous), Web (continuous), Joint Projects (instant) Kibar Group supplier; Environmental Management System comply with on following issues are Cannot employ its staff by force in certificate is questioned during Memberships (continuous), Press Meetings and Statements (instant) K-Team Young Talent Internship Program (annual) defined in detail: Business Ethics any way. supplier audits. Joint Projects (seasonal) Principles, Anti-Corruption and Bribery, Forced Labor, Child Labor, Harassment, Cannot use child labor force. Remuneration, Working Hours, Cannot expose employees to Non-Discrimination, Local People, corporal punishment or physical, Occupational Health and Safety, sexual, psychological or verbal abuse. 90 90 91 GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-2 At Assan Alüminyum, a Supplier Relations Management Structure has been established in order to make the supply chain flows traceable through a single platform with standard processes. The “Control Tower” application was implemented in order to establish the necessary infrastructure to increase the level of monitoring and traceability. At Assan Hanil, suppliers are provided with informative trainings on different subjects within a plan every year. In this context, 139 suppliers attended 3 different WE ENCOURAGE our stakeholders trainings held in 2019. At Assan Hanil, every supplier is audited at least once a year. 124 audits were conducted in 2019. Performance of 94 suppliers was evaluated and 65 actions were planned. The work to be done for 108 areas open to improvement determined during the audit process has been planned. 92 92 WE SHARE for the communities We continue to serve the society with our social responsibility approach. 95 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 SOCIAL BENEFIT Semiha Kibar Kindergarten, which 89 patient beds. The hospital has all family budget. With Semiha Kibar was built by Kibar Group in Sarıseki, in the necessary follow-up and treatment Practice Hotel, the aim is to benefit INVESTMENTS Iskenderun district of Hatay in 2014, is facilities without the need to refer the the tourism sector of our country. the first and only kindergarten in the patient to a different center due to Waste oils, paper and recyclable Kibar Education and Social Aid region. In Semiha Kibar Kindergarten, kidney disease. Semiha Kibar Organ plastic materials are collected at the Foundation was established in which was built to support the access Transplant and Dialysis Hospital, facility for recycling and sent to the 1999 in order to institutionalize the of children aged 36-71 months to which provides access to treatment relevant units. philanthropic activities within the preschool quality education, 545 for hundreds of people every year, Kibar Group. While Kibar Holding children have received preschool has provided organ transplantation to Semiha Kibar Social Life Center, makes significant investments in education so far. more than 1.500 patients and dialysis which was built by Kibar Holding in education, health and social life in our services to more than 5,500 patients Istanbul in 2011 and transferred to country under the umbrella of Kibar Between 2016-2019, Semiha Kibar so far. Tuzla Municipality, stands out with Education and Social Aid Foundation, Kindergarten received the “Nutrition its crescent-star-like architectural Group companies carry out social responsibility projects that create Friendly School” certificate for Social Benefit Investments in structure. In Semiha Kibar Social Life value for the society. the second time in the scope of Social Life Center, which has 2 conference halls “Adequate and Balanced Nutrition in for 550 people and a digital library in Meetings, concerts, educational events the Fight against Obesity and Regular an area of 2,200 m2, 300 conferences Social Benefit Investments in and entertainment organizations are Physical Activity Habits in Schools” have been held so far and nearly Education held in Asım Kibar Culture Center, of the Turkish Healthy Nutrition and 100,000 visitors have attended these which was built by Kibar Holding in WE SHARE 5.800 students have graduated Active Life Program. conferences. In Semiha Kibar Social 2013 in Iskenderun district of Hatay from Asım Kibar Vocational and Life Center, more than 350,000 and covers an area of 3,000 m2. for the communities Technical Anatolian High School, Both schools have been awarded the people were served in the restaurant In more than 8,000 events, nearly WE SHARE for the communities WE SHARE for the communities which was built by Kibar Group in “White Flag” by fulfilling the standards area and more than 50,000 people 500,000 people have benefited from In line with the principle of our Istanbul and started education in set by the Turkish Ministry of National were provided with the opportunity the facility, which has a Children’s Founder and Honorary President Asım 2010. The activities carried out at Education and the Turkish Ministry to benefit from the library. The Playground and Sports Hall. Kibar, “We will continue to present the school in order to give students of Health in terms of cleaning and wastes generated in Semiha Kibar our gains to the service of the society a culture of sustainability, are part hygiene rules. Social Life Center are separated and Semiha Kibar Practice Hotel, built by with our understanding of social of the sustainability studies of Kibar recycled through the relevant units. Kibar Holding in Istanbul and started responsibility”, Kibar Holding and its Group. In this context, information Social Benefit Investments in its activities in 2012, is the first in its affiliated companies carry out studies activities are carried out in the areas Healthcare region. It was made for the students that contribute to the increase of the of environmental awareness, climate who are studying in the field of hotel welfare of the society. change and recycling. Domestic Semiha Kibar Organ Transplant management and tourism to receive oil, paper and plastic materials are and Dialysis Hospital, built by Kibar practical training in the presence of collected for recycling and delivered Holding in the Erciyes University expert teachers. By hosting more to the relevant units. Teachers and campus in Kayseri, started service than 25,000 guests, 2,500 students students develop projects to meet in 1995. The hospital, where have been given the opportunity to the shelter and nutrition needs approximately 100 healthcare gain experience and contribute to the of stray animals in the immediate professionals serve, has 41 rooms and 96 96 surroundings. 97 97 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 SOCIAL we are willing In the projects carried out by Kibar Volunteers with four nonvolunteers. Volunteers can participate in activities with project proposals in RESPONSIBILITY to add governmental organizations in six different areas or by participating ACTIVITIES 2019, support was provided to the in existing projects. value to life education of children in need. Kibar Volunteers • Corporate Social Responsibility In the Istanbul Marathon, where 50 Project / Support to Disadvantaged The Kibar Volunteers Project has Kibar Volunteers ran, donations were Schools: It is the work carried out been prepared to organize social collected for the Turkish Education by volunteers within the scope of responsibility activities voluntarily Foundation and Darüşşafaka, which corporate social responsibility projects carried out by employees of Kibar work for the benefit of education and carried out by Kibar Holding. Holding and Group companies. The children in need. Kibar Volunteers • Corporate Social Responsibility Kibar Volunteers project, which was became the 26th team to reach the Projects of the Company: Volunteers implemented as a result of the survey highest number of donors among 597 can participate in corporate social conducted within the Kibar Group, corporate teams that participated in responsibility projects to be carried was designed in a comprehensive and the run. out in Group companies on a flexible structure so that employees voluntary basis. can participate in volunteering With the “Basic Needs Association • Volunteer Projects: These are activities. With this project, the aim – Products Brought to Life” project, volunteer activities carried out on a is to contribute more to the benefit “Support for Disadvantaged in which Kibar Holding and Group project basis. The volunteers decide of society by combining volunteering Schools” Project by Kibar companies are included, clothing, together in which field they will work, activities under a single roof. Volunteers book and toy collection areas were and they can continue their work WE SHARE for the communities Kibar Volunteers brought the established in 12 different locations. by forming a project group among With the Kibar Volunteers project Kibar Volunteers coordinated the themselves. Library, Chess and Intelligence focusing on “children” and collection, sorting and preservation of • Non-Governmental Organization Games Workshop and the Design“education”, 4,000 children were suitable products. Reusable products Volunteering: Volunteers can engage Skill Workshop to Tuzla Mimar Sinan reached in 2019. Volunteering have been delivered to those in need. in social responsibility activities by Primary School, where more than activities were carried out in three being included in the volunteering 2.000 students are studying. With different regions with the “Support Activities were organized to support programs of non-governmental this work of Kibar Volunteers, Mimar to Disadvantaged Schools Project” children in the Umut Foundation for organizations. Non-governmental Sinan Primary School has become designated as a Corporate Social Children with Cancer Family Houses organizations with which Kibar the only school with three activity Responsibility project. by giving morale to children during Volunteers will cooperate are classes among the public schools in their illness. determined by prioritizing according the Anatolian Side of Istanbul. to the “Açık Açık” platform. In-group coordination of volunteering • Skill-Based Volunteering: It is the activities is carried out through volunteer work carried out by Kibar “Volunteer Leaders” selected by Volunteers in the fields such as informatics, accounting, education 99 99 and human resources in the form of presenting their expertise in the Working with Seasonal Cooperation with TOÇEV subjects and projects needed by Agricultural Workers different institutions. Volunteering Promotion Project Assan Hanil, within the scope • In-House Volunteering: It is the Application Request Opening-Closing Exploration of the living conditions of the cooperation initiated in volunteer work carried out by Kibar Process of seasonal agricultural workers 2016 with Tuvana Foundation for Volunteers to present their expertise continue by Assan Foods. In 2019, TOÇEV, contributes to covering the to different organizations such as hygiene packages with cleaning education expenses of children. municipalities, public institutions, nonproducts were distributed to The education expenses of governmental organizations and social seasonal agricultural workers approximately 360 students have Project Permission enterprises in different fields, in the Applications Request working in the tomato season. been covered until today. subjects and projects they need. Assan Foods continues its studies to expand the cultivation areas in the region where it operates. In this context, trainings are organized Vetpro 4.0 Project 542 Volunteers for farmers. By explaining smart Procurement Budget With the training provided within Number of Request Control farming practices to farmers, it is 25 the scope of the Vetpro 4.0 Project, Children ensured that farmers keep up with Activities Reached: implemented by Assan Hanil with Total developing technologies. 4,000+ the aim of training qualified human Volunteer Saplings were donated at Assan resources, it is aimed to make Hours: Alüminyum within the scope of the students more technically equipped. 1,700 230 Active “Breath to the Future” campaign. In The project, initiated in 2018, is WE SHARE for the communities kibargonulluleri.com Volunteers Views: 56,286 addition, within the scope of the “Art planned to last for one and a half in the Factory” project, the paintings years. of 50 students studying in the Fine A 24/7 accessible volunteer portal Arts department were purchased During this period, 64 students and was established in order to evaluate and support was provided for art 16 teachers will be trained on smart the demands and suggestions of and education, a book-toy-clothing production systems. Students with Kibar Group employees in the field donation event was organized and technical infrastructure and who pass of volunteering as soon as possible. robotic training was given to children the interviews will benefit from the In this context, all processes are in Manavgat., internship opportunity at the end of progressed through kibargonulluleri. the process. In the last 3 years, the com and a structure integrated monthly education expenses of 221 with Human Resources, Purchasing students have been covered on behalf and Finance processes has been of the customers. established within the Kibar Group. In this way, it is aimed to make volunteer works sustainable. 100 101 101 APPENDICES For detailed information about Kibar Holding Sustainability Report, you can contact Kibar Holding Corporate Communications Department. kurumsaliletisim@kibar.com We thank for their contributions during the reporting process. Consultant : Kıymet-i Harbiye Design : Being Çözüm GRI 102-8, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1 GRI 403-1, 403-2 Employee Demographics Employee Development Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Trainings Employees 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trainings 2016 2017 2018 2019 Injury Rate 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of Employee Trainings Number of Participants Direct Employees 3,175 3,345 3,382 3,384 Total OHS training hour for employees 36,719 40,980 41,476 49,916 employees Female 4.87 6.52 9.86 5.76 White collar female Blue collar 2,076 2,185 2,427 4,914 197 219 219 221 employees Male 12.10 14.65 16.13 12.08 Total OHS training hour for contractors 4,015 4,481 5,507 8,851 White collar male 463 495 508 507 White collar 489 532 581 1,635 Contractors employees Blue collar female Female 9.82 3.80 0.00 11.46 Number of employees participated to OHS trainings 8,063 5,482 9,275 14,750 204 206 193 191 Female 350 354 400 736 employees Male 16.25 23.26 14.17 20.62 Blue collar male 2,311 2,425 2,462 2,465 Male 2,215 2,363 2,608 5,813 Number of contractors participated to OHS trainings 2,017 1,371 3,454 1,523 employees Accident Severity Rate Total number of female Direct Employees 401 425 412 412 Employee Trainings Total Hours employees Female 0.21 0.04 0.05 0.02 Total number of male 2,774 2,920 2,970 2,972 Occupational Health and Safety Governance employees Blue collar female 2,067 1,803 2,857 1,966 Male 0.13 0.14 0.25 0.23 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employees by age groups Contractors White collar female 8,820 8,838 8,003 4,856 Below 30 909 912 1,004 878 Female 0.05 0.01 0.00 0.02 Number of OHS Committees 7 8 10 10 Blue collar male 43,675 47,336 43,325 98,423 Male 0.01 0.11 0.16 0.49 30-50 2,188 2,347 2,318 2,441 Number of OHS Committee members 55 55 110 110 PERFORMANCE White collar male 17,867 17,406 16,293 12,338 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) Above 50 78 86 60 65 Direct employees INDICATORS Total 72,429 75,383 70,478 117,583 Number of employee representatives at OHS committees 7 8 10 18 Female 0 0 0 0 Total number of executives* Suggestion Systems Male 0 0 0 0 Female 27 31 28 32 Suggestions made 1,192 2,223 3,305 4,899 Contractors Male 130 127 121 120 Female 0 0 0 0 Suggestions realized 472 615** 1,077 1,109 Female executive ratio (%) 17 20 19 21 Male 0 0 0 0 Employees Under Performance Review Fatal Accidents Parental Leave Direct Employees Female 199 257 293 227 Number of employees on 14 19 16 19 Female 0 0 0 0 maternity leave Male 1,480 1,851 2,192 1,709 Male 0 0 0 0 Number of employees on 212 227 245 218 paternity leave Contractors Total 1,679 2,108 2,485 1,936 Number of employees Female 0 0 0 0 returning from maternity 9 15 16 18 **Excluding Assan Hanil. leave Male 0 0 0 0 Number of employees returning from paternity 198 211 241 217 leave *It includes managers and above employees. 104 104 105 105 GRI 102-48, 301-1, 301-2, 301-3, 302-1, 302-3, 303-1, 303-3, 306-2 GRI 102-10, 102-55 Environmental Performance Disclosures Fight against climate change GRI CONTENT INDEX Natural Resource Use 2016 2017 2018 2019 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Total amount of production (ton)* 402,154 404,471 420,991 445,590 Natural gas 2,003,650 2,114,694 2,090,748 2,103,804 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Total amount of natural resources used (ton) 579,487 582,888 600,020 656,422 Coal 136,758 125,782 150,936 172,295 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Recyled/reused input materials 88,727 105,134 136,177 130,030 Total direct energy consumption 2,140,408 2,240,476 2,241,684 2,276,099 Corparate Profile Recyled/reused input materials (%) 15% 18% 23% 20% Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 102-1 About Kibar Holding, page 10-11 Reclaimed packaging material (ton) 3,781 4,016 4,071 4,394 Electricity 698,988 776,264 779,306 796,765 102-2 About Kibar Holding, page 10-11; Kibar Group, page 12-15 Total water consumption (m3)** 1,453,316 1,281,089 1,328,610 1,400,646 Total energy consumption (GJ) 2,839,396 3,016,740 3,020,990 3,072,863 102-3 Contact, back cover Total amount of recycled water reused (m3)*** 657,600 662,400 590,400 844,800 Energy intensity (GJ/1,000,000 102-4 Kibar Group, page 12-15 815 650 475 436 TRY) Water intensity (m3/1,000,000 TRY)** 417 276 209 199 Renewable Energy Production (GJ) 368,680 454,540 475,200 553,626 102-5 https://e-sirket.mkk.com.tr/esir/Dashboard.jsp#/sirketbilgileri/12030 Waste Management**** 102-6 Kibar Group, page 12-15; Export, page 46 Management Approach Hazardous waste (ton) 8,763 9,150 12,733 12,337 102-7 About Kibar Holding, page 10-11; Economic Value page 45; Human Resources, page 45 Environmental trainings (total hours) Energy Recovery 76 980 296 245 102-8 Human Resources, page 45; Performance Indicators, page 104 GRI CONTENT Trainings for employees 616 1,375 5,798 5,504 Recovery 8,296 7,941 12,169 11,782 102-9 We Encourage our Stakeholders, page 88; Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 Trainings for contractors 231 302 1,277 289 Landfill 383 225 263 310 Saplings planted 870 164 595 4,750 INDEX 102-10 GRI Content Index: There are no significant changes in reporting period. Incineration 5 0 0 0 102-11 Risk Management, page 17 Other 2.76 3.64 4.41 0.63 102-12 Stakeholder Relations page; 88-90; Our Memberships and Cooperations, page 114-115 Economic Performance Disclosures Non-hazardous waste (ton) 9,595 10,349 9,518 11,283 102-13 Our Memberships and Cooperations, page 114-115 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Recovery 103 1,289 1,405 1,131 Strategy Net sales revenue 3,485,302,149 4,638,534,974 6,344,200,220 7,044,212,870 (TRY)* Recovery 7,746 7,486 7,047 9,244 102-14 Message from the Chairman page 7; Message from the CEO page 9 *The data is provided by returning with the average exchange rate through the IFRS Report, and the Landfill 1,299 1,434 892 850 102-15 Risk Management, page 17 data is revised every year after TTK report publication. Incineration 0 0 0 0 Ethics and Integrity Other 447 140 173 58 102-16 Business Ethics, page 58-59 102-17 Business Ethics, page 58-59 * Excluding Assan Hanil. Assan Hanil production amount is monitored as a set of vehicles. ** It has been revised by adding the amount of well water. For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 *** The measurement error has been corrected retrospectively. to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. This service was performed on the Turkish version of this report. ***** It was revised with the data of a facility that started to be measured in 2019 and the measurement error of a facility was corrected retrospectively. 106 106 107 107 GRI 102-41, 102-52, 102-55, 102-56 GRI 102-55, 410-1 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL ISSUES Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Standards Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Business Continuity GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary We Grow with Sustainability Principles, page 42-43, 45 Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components We Grow with Sustainability Principles, page 42-43, 45 102-18 Governance in Kibar Group, page 16-17 Reporting Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach We Grow with Sustainability Principles, page 42-43, 45 102-19 Sustainability Management, page 20-21 102-45 About the Report, page 5 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About Kibar Holding, page 10-11; Economic Value, page 45 102-20 Sustainability Management, page 20-21 102-46 About the Report, page 5 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 or that underwent human rights screening 102-21 Sustainability Priorities, page 24-25; Stakeholder Relations page 88 102-47 Sustainability Priorities, page 24 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 Sustainability in Kibar Group, page 19; Sustainability Management, page 20; 102-48 Performance Indicators, page 106 102-29 Sustainability Approach, page 26 Sustainable Supply Chain 102-30 Risk Management, page 17 102-49 About the Report, page 5 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 102-31 Sustainability Management, page 20-21 102-50 About the Report, page 5 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 102-32 Sustainability Management, page 20-21 102-51 https://www.kibar.com/tr-tr/surdurulebilirlik/surdurulebilirlik-raporlari 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 102-52 GRI Content İndex: Reporting is annual. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91-92 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91-92 102-40 Stakeholder Groups, page 90 102-53 Contact, back cover 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria. Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 GRI Content Index: There is no collective bargaining agreement in Kibar 102-54 About the Report, page 5 102-41 Holding. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91-92 102-55 GRI Content Index, page 107-112 102-42 Stakeholder Relations page 88-90 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 labor 102-56 GRI Content Index: There is no external assurance. 102-43 Stakeholder Relations page; 88-90; Sustainability Priorities, page 24 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Sustainability Management in Supply Chain, page 91 102-44 Stakeholder Relations page; 88-90; Sustainability Priorities, page 24 Business Ethics 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Business Ethics, page 58-59; Combating Corruption, page 59 103-2 The management approach and its components Business Ethics, page 58-59; Combating Corruption, page 59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business Ethics, page 58-59; Combating Corruption, page 59 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Internal Audit and Control, page 17; Combating Corruption, page 59 corruption, significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Combating Corruption, page 59 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Business Ethics, page 58 GRI Content Index: All security personnel have completed the 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures necessary legal training. 108 108 109 109 GRI 102-55, 303-2, 306-3, 307-1, 402-1 GRI 102-55, 403-3, 405-2, 406-1 MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIAL ISSUES Standards Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Standards Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Circular Economy Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Waste Management, page 82; Energy Management, page 76; Water Management, page 80 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Occupational Health and Safety, page 56-58 103-2 The management approach and its components Waste Management, page 82; Energy Management, page 76; Water Management, page 80 103-2 The management approach and its components Occupational Health and Safety, page 56-58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Waste Management, page 82; Energy Management, page 76; Water Management, page 80 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Performance Indicators, page 106 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Occupational Health and Safety, page 56-58 301-2 Recycled input materials used Performance Indicators, page 106 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Performance Indicators, page 105 management–worker health and safety committees GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Performance Indicators, page 106 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Indicators, page 106 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workPerformance Indicators, page 105 related fatalities 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal GRI Content Index: There are no water sources significantly affected by Kibar Holding’s operations. GRI Content Index: We do not have employees in specific professions with a high risk of accidents of water 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases or occupational diseases. Yet there are 1204 field employees in Assan Alüminyum considered related to their occupation 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance Indicators, page 106 having dangerous occupations. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Indicators, page 106 Employee Development and Talent Management 306-3 Significant spills GRI Content Index: No spill incidents occurred during the reporting period. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Future Talents, page 52 Combating Climate Change 103-2 The management approach and its components Future Talents, page 52 We Care for Next Generations, page 75;Combating Climate Change, page 75; Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management, page 76-78 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Future Talents, page 52 We Care for Next Generations, page 75; Combating Climate Change, page 75; Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Management, page 76-78 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Performance Indicators, page 104 We Care for Next Generations, page 75; Combating Climate Change, page 75; Energy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Management, page 76-78 Talent Management, page 52-55 transition assistance programs 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Indicators, page 106 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Performance Management, page 55-56 ; Performance Indicators, page 104 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 performance and career development reviews 302-3 Energy intensity Performance Indicators, page 106 Gender and Opportunity Equality 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Management, page 76-78 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 Energy Management, page 76-78 services 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy Intensity, page 78 103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 GRI Content Index: No significant fines received in reporting period. regulations GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Performance Indicators, page 104 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women GRI Content Index: Kibar Holding and its affiliates employ equal work-equal pay understanding. to men There are no gender-based salary differentiation. 103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI Content Index No discrimination incident occured during the reporting period. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity and Inclusion, page 51 taken 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational GRI Content Index: Legal notice periods are taken into account for significant changes. changes 110 110 111 GRI 102-55, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 418-1 MATERIAL ISSUES Standards Disclosure Descriptions and Page Numbers Customer Satisfaction 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Product and Service Quality, page 63 , Data Security, page 70 103-2 The management approach and its components Product and Service Quality, page 63 , Data Security, page 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Product and Service Quality, page 63 , Data Security, page 70 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. and safety impacts of products and services GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Product and Service Quality, page 63-65 and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing GRI Content Index: There are no cases of non-compliance in the reporting period. communications 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of GRI Content Index: There are no incidents of breach in customer data security. customer privacy and losses of customer data R&D ,Innovation and Digitalization 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary R&D and Innovation, page 65,67 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components R&D and Innovation, page 65,67 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach R&D and Innovation, page 65,67 Social Responsibility 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary We share for the communities, page 96 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components We share for the communities, page 96 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach We share for the communities, page 96 Corporate Sustainabilty Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Approach, page 26 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Approach, page 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Approach, page 26 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. This service was performed on the Turkish version of this report. 112 112 113 113 GRI 102-12, 102-13 GRI 102-12, 102-13 MEMBERSHIPS AND COOPERATIONS ASIM KİBAR ORGANİZE SANAYİ BÖLGESİ ESNEK AMBALAJ SANAYİCİLERİ DERNEĞİ Adres : Tunus Caddesi 54/8 Kavaklıdere 06680 ANKARA Tel : 0312 466 60 23 Fax : 0312 466 60 24 easd@ambalaj.org.tr FLEXIBLE PACKAGING MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION Adres : Tunus Caddesi 54/8 Kavaklıdere 06680 ANKARA TURKEY Tel : +90312 466 60 23 Fax : +90312 466 60 24 easd@ambalaj.org.tr Türkiye İMSAD logo kullanım kılavuzu Türkiye İMSAD logo kullanım kılavuzu; Türkiye İMSAD kurumsal kimliği kapsamında, tüm görsel malzemelerde, Türkiye İMSAD logosunun kullanım düzeni ve kurallarını içerir. Türkiye İMSAD kurumsal kimlik kılavuzunun kısaltılmış hali olan bu kitapçık, görsel malzemelerde logo uygulamalarında çıkabilecek temel uygulama sorularına yol 114 114 göstermek için hazırlanmıştır. Kitapçıkta yer almayan sorularınız için Türkiye İMSAD ile iletişim kurabilirsiniz. 115 115 Kitapçığın temel amacı; amblem, logotayp ve logo gibi temel unsurların belirli bir kaynaktan alınarak kullanılması ve bu unsurların inisiyatif kullanarak üretilmesinin engellenmesidir. Türkiye İMSAD'ın amblem, logotayp ve logosu izin alınmadan hiçbir şekilde kullanılamaz. Kibar Holding A.Ş. UNGC 2019 / Disclaimer: Kibar Holding A.Ş. Sustainability Report (“The report”) was prepared by Kibar Holding A.Ş. and / or Kibar Group Company (“Kibar Group”) within the scope of Global Reporting Initiative’s “Core” level. The report is prepared for information purposes only and is not intended to form the basis for any investment decision. The information contained in the Report has not been subject to independent audit and review and includes forward-looking statements, estimates and projections only. As of the reporting period, all information and related documents are believed to be accurate and disclosed in good faith. Any forward-looking statements contained in the Report provide valid information as of the date of preparation, and the Kibar Group does not assume any responsibility to update any forward-looking statements, except for statutory requirements, to reflect the circumstances or events that occurred after the date of the declaration or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. The forecasts and projections reflected in the forward-looking statements in the Report may be proved to be inaccurate and actual results may differ from expectations. Kibar Group does not make any statements, warranties or commitments depending on the information in the report. Kibar Holding A.Ş. or Kibar Group Company, the members of the board of directors, consultants and employees of these companies are not responsible for any loss or damage incurred by a person directly or indirectly based on the information contained in the Report. For commercial or personal purposes, the information contained in the Report may not be used, shared, copied or reproduced in all printed, visual, audio, digital fields, including, but not limited to, the platforms enlightening the public without permission and without reference. Any action in breach of such matters will require civil and criminal liability. * Kibar Group Company: Kibar Holding A.Ş. directly or indirectly; owning the right to vote for the majority of the members who have the majority of the voting rights or forming the majority in the management body in accordance with the contracts of the company, or by itself or by other shareholders or partners based on a contract, alone or together with other shareholders or partners, constituting the majority of voting rights. means the organization, company or any other legal entity that owns the majority or the amount of shares that can make decisions that can manage it. 116 117 GRI 102-3, 102-53 Zorlu Center Levazım Mahallesi Koru Sokak No: 2 Ofisler Bölgesi Kat: T4 Beşiktaş 34340 İstanbul T: +90 (212) 924 73 00 F: +90 (212) 924 73 04 info@kibar.com
