Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 2 Management Vision CONTENTS We are an energy co-creation company that values diversity and inclusion, 2 Management Vision, Action Mindset, Contents GOVERNANCE 3 Editorial Policy 49 Message from Outside Directors creates new values with customers and stakeholders, and seeks harmony 4 Message from President 50 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members with the environment and society. 7 Medium-term Management Plan and Executive Officers 10 Review of Operations 52 Corporate Governance 11 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 56 Compliance ■ We will deliver various forms of energy and materials in a sustainable manner. 57 Risk Management ENVIRONMENT 59 Intellectual Property ■ We will expand and share our problem-solving capabilities with the world. 15 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy 17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our ESG Data ■ We will grow stronger by anticipating change and responding flexibly. Business Activities 61 Environment 18 Response to Climate Change 70 Social 23 Response to Circular Economy 75 Governance 24 Waste Reduction 76 Environmental Data of Refineries and Complexes Action Mindset 25 Water Management Independence 26 Conservation of Biodiversity Comparative Table and autonomy 27 Land Use Change 78 Comparative Table with GRI Standards We think and act initiatively 28 Management of Chemical Substances and 88 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Reduction of Hazardous Substances 29 Pollution Prevention 90 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Co-creation Innovation We embrace diverse Growth We challenge new things continuSOCIAL capabilities to Aiming for the peak ously with 30 Human Resources Policy initiate chemical future-oriented together 32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and reactions mindset by believing in infinite Providing Growth Opportunities potentials of our people 33 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources Health and Integrity 35 Efforts to Improve Workplace Culture and Motivation 36 Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and safety We act modestly and sincerely That Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind We prioritize based on high 38 Promotion of Employees’ Health health and safety ethical upon all 39 Ensuring Safety standards 42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 43 Collaboration with Partners 45 Social Contribution Activities Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 3 Editorial Policy In order to deepen stakeholders' understanding of Idemitsu Group's management and corpo-rate activities as a whole, Reference guidelines information is provided through the Idemitsu Integrated Report, Idemitsu Sustainability Report and the Sustainability In the compilation of this report, reference has been made to the International Integrated Reporting Framework published Website on our website. by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), GRI's Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Standard), SDGs, ISO Idemitsu Group and Showa Shell Group are disclosing the 26000, TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures), and METI's Value Creation Guidance. Details results of their efforts in FY2018 under the unified reporting standards wherever possible. Publication information Idemitsu Japanese version: Published annually since 2001, and the previous edition was published in November 2018. Sustainability Idemitsu Integrated Report (Booklet version) Report English version: Published annually since 2003, and the previous edition was published in January 2019. (This report) It includes financial and non-financial information, the vision of the Sustainability new integrated company, and an explanation of its business operWebsite ations, all of which are aimed at helping people under-stand our Performance data with independent practitioner’s assurance Non-financial Financial group from a medium to long-term perspective. information information To ensure the reliability of the numerical data, we obtained independent practitioner's assurance of the data indiIdemitsu Integrated Report cated with in the Japanese version of this report by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. The Independent Idemitsu Sustainability Report (Web version) Practitioner's Assurance Report is presented at the end of this report. The non-financial information in the Idemitsu Integrated Report is provided in greater detail to help people understand our environ* Any plans, projections or targets contained in this report that are not historical facts are based on decisions and assumptions of our company with the information currentBasis ly available. Actual results may differ substantially from forecasts due to various factors. Factors that may affect the results of operations include economic situations, crude mental, social, and governance initiatives for realizing a sustainable oil prices, trends in petroleum products, market conditions, and currency exchange rates, but are not limited to these factors. society. * As of April 1, 2019, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. became the wholly owning parent company and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. became the wholly owned subsidiary through the share exchange. Both companies also entered into an absorption-type company split agreement in which Idemitsu becomes the succeeding company to the absorpSustainability Website tion-type company split, effective on July 1, 2019. Both companies are proceeding with the business integration and aim to create even more synergies by transferring Showa Shell’s assets, liabilities, and rights and obligations to Idemitsu through the Company Split, and integrating their organizations and businesses. We disclose information on a wide range of topics from the envi* Shell has licensed its brand to Showa Shell. Under this license, Showa Shell uses the Shell Trademark. The opinions expressed in this report are those of Showa Shell and ronmental, social, and governance perspectives. are not stated on behalf of any other Shell Group company. Furthermore, these opinions do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Shell Group. We also provide information on the results of our efforts in a timely manner. https://sustainability.idemitsu.com/en Contact point for inquiries about Idemitsu Sustainability Report Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. Scope of the reporting Contact form on the official website: https://www.idemitsu.com/contact/flow/ As a general rule, this report covers Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. and its 239 group affiliates (major affiliates, general affiliates, subsidiaries, and equity-method affiliates) as of April 1, 2019. However, if the scope is different, this fact is noted. Reporting period This report covers Idemitsu Group’s performance for the period from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (FY2018). However, the reporting period for the Showa Shell Group for FY2018 is 15 months from January 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 due to the change in the accounting period. When the reporting period differs, statement to that effect is included. Some activities after April 2019 are also included. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 4 Message from President Aiming to Become an Energy Co-Creation Company What do you think of the new integrated of social issues by utilizing the technological capabilities, products and sercompany's Management Vision? vices, and business know-how that we have developed and accumulated for over 100 years. One example is building petroleum products supply chains in We chose the path of business integration in order to build a strong manageemerging countries, particularly in Asia, where economic growth is booming. ment base capable of bearing the heavy responsibility of energy security in Co-creation expresses our determination to create new values together Japan. with our customers, local communities, all our business partners, and employNow that we have integrated, it is natural that we aim to create integration ees, who are our group's strengths and assets by standing at a new starting synergies and enhance competitiveness through economies of scale. However, point. I believe that there is no future as an extension of the past. Collaboration business integration is a means, not a goal. It is putting the cart before the horse with diverse stakeholders is essential to creating new values. if the integration loses what each company has cherished. We have carefully We will discuss Diversity & inclusion and Harmony with the environment discussed what our company should become, based on fundamental questions and society in another section. such as why we exist, what our stakeholders expect from us, and what points are unique, while watching the history of both companies. Please tell us about People-centered management. Management Vision There is another common value that both companies have valued. The idea is We are an energy co-creation company that values diversity and that People-centered management. To be clear, I believe that our group's inclusion, creates new values with customers and stakeholders, and ultimate goal is to develop people who are useful and respected in society, and seeks harmony with the environment and society. our business is a means to this end. This is different from the idea of developing human resources to maximize corporate value. For example, we may be able to Both Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd., and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., the predecesincrease our corporate value by making investments with limited risks and high sors of the new integrated company, were established in Japan in the Meiji era returns. However, we basically do not make investments that do not lead to (1868-1912). Both companies have a long history of selling petroleum products human development. We place a high priority on the process in which our and fighting for energy security in Japan during and after the turbulent times of employees engage directly in each business and work hard, overcome numerthe war. We have always been challenging ourselves to create new values in ous difficulties, and grow vigorously through various experiences. order to realize the ideal society. For example, in Japan, Marcus Samuel, one of This is not just about naive thinking or idealism. In a turbulent business the founders of Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., started selling kerosene oil (kerosene) environment, it is difficult for management alone to respond quickly and approfor heating and lighting. Sazo Idemitsu, the founder of Idemitsu Kosan, led the priately to a variety of simultaneous and frequent issues. In many cases, it is Nisshou Maru Incident, which triggered the start of free international trade in oil. more efficient and effective to trust experienced employees who are familiar Since then, Sazo Idemitsu has continued to work on the construction of the with the workplace and leave decisions to them. Also, in order to create a future world's largest tanker and the world's first heavy oil direct hydrodesulfurization that is not in line with the present, it is necessary for employees with diverse unit. The new integrated company will inherit the DNA of these founders and backgrounds to constantly breathe new life into the company. Human develmake it the core value of the company. opment is not only the ultimate management objective, but also the principles Japan's environmental and safety regulations and standards for quality and of management indispensable to the development of our group. service are among the strictest in the world. We intend to contribute to the With this in mind, the new integrated company's slogan is Hitowa, development of each country and region outside of Japan and to the resolution Mugenno Energy. (People have limitless energy.) This means that each Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 5 Message from President employee can make the best use of his or her abilities without limiting them. At strengthen the international competitiveness of our refineries to achieve worldmanagement issue. Accordingly, from FY2019 to 2021, we plan to return profits the same time, the team strength of the entire organization and supply chain is class operational reliability and maintenance cost efficiency in FY2030. Based to shareholders with a return ratio of at least 50%. Policies for FY2022 and enhanced to contribute to the development of society, thereby enriching one's on this, we will continue to expand our overseas business in response to growbeyond will be determined in FY2021. own life. Also, it expresses the preciousness of energy in humans and our ing demand in Asia, taking advantage of the potential of our competitive group's mission as an energy company. refineries. At the Nghi Son Refinery, we will make an early contribution to earnBased on the idea that human resources are the source of management ings. In growth businesses, we will use cash generated from our revenue base What is your approach to the ESG vitality, we believe that the greatest responsibility of management is to create an business to expand our business scope and scale while making use of M&As in (Environment, Society and Governance)? environment in which employees can work energetically. As a result, we believe our functional materials business. Our business portfolio for 2030 consists of that we will be able to promote sustainable growth, which in turn will increase operating income from revenue base businesses such as petroleum products, Another basic policy of our medium-term management plan is building a busiour attractiveness in the capital market. oil exploration and production, coal business, and equity in earnings of affiliated ness platform that meets the needs of society. companies which account for less than half of the total, compared to 60% in As an energy supplier, our group recognizes that harmony with the global FY2019. Our goal is to expand our functional materials business, which includes environment and society is a top priority. The goals of the SDGs (Sustainable What is the basic policy of the medium-term lubricants, advanced materials & performance chemicals, Electronic materials; Development Goals) were first linked to respective businesses in the current management plan? especially OLED materials, agri-bio products, and all-solid lithium-ion rechargemedium-term management plan, and then priority issues (materiality) that our able battery materials, to more than 30% of the total operating income. group should focus on and address specifically were clarified. Next, we set Domestic demand for petroleum products peaked out in 1999 and has been on Furthermore, in order to create next-generation businesses, while keeping GHG (Greenhouse Gas) reduction targets. a gradual decline due to a dwindling of population and the spread of eco-cars. an eye on changes in society, diversification of customer needs, and progress Our specific target for 2030 is to reduce CO2 emissions from Scope 1 + 2 This trend is expected to accelerate even in the future, and is expected to in decarbonization, we will develop new business models to meet new energy by 2 million t-CO2 (▲15% of 2017 levels). This target exceeds the level of the decline by 30% in 2030 due to the shift from car ownership to shared use. As an demands, such as the development of next-generation service stations, the reduction targets (1 million kl crude oil equivalent, about ▲2.7 million t-CO2 energy supplier, responding to climate change issues is important and urgent, development of decentralized energy businesses, and the development of circompared to 2010) set by the national oil industry in light of Japan's draft comand we recognize that it is difficult to continue to be overly dependent on our cular businesses. mitments to the Paris Agreement. This is a very challenging target, but we petroleum products, oil exploration and production and coal business. AccordI will also touch on our response to the digital innovation. Our group estabintend to achieve it with all our group's resources. ingly, in order to remain a strong corporate group 30 years from now, in 2050, our lished the Digital Innovation Department in January 2020 as a specialized It goes without saying that Ensuring safety and Quality assurance are group embarked on the formulation of the current medium-term management department. The purpose of the establishment is to increase operational effithe most important issues. Our group recognizes that its social mission and the plan from the perspective of how, what, and by when it must change. In Novemciency through digitalization of core businesses, create new customer value, foundation of its management are to continue safe and stable operations at ber 2019, the company announced its first medium-term management plan and create entirely new businesses. I expect these activities will take place refineries and complexes and to supply a stable supply of energy while earning (FY2020-2022) after the business integration. To begin with, we drew up several across the group. the trust of local communities. We will continue to work to improve safety and business environment scenarios up to 2050 based on the Paris Agreement. As a foster a safety culture with the goal of achieving zero accidents. The number of result, although the environmental forecast for 2050 is extremely uncertain, all group refineries increased due to the management integration. There has scenarios are on the same track until 2030. Therefore, we have decided to set What is your view on cash balance in the already been active communication among refineries, creating opportunities to management targets with 2030 as a milestone. We have set 2030 as a turning medium-term management plan? learn from each other about common issues at production sites, such as safety, point, and we intend to establish a system that will enable us to respond flexibly security, quality, and maintenance, based on risk management. I feel that safety to any changes in the environment that occur after that. We then backcast our Under the current medium-term management plan, we forecast a 3 year cumuand quality management have been further strengthened. We will continue to 2030 management targets into a medium-term management plan. lative net profit of ￥480 billion, and cash in will secure ￥1.03 trillion, including pay close attention to the wide range of our group products and concentrate Our 2 basic policies for 2030 are Realization of resilient business portfolio depreciation and amortization, asset sales. our energies on ensuring product safety and quality throughout the entire and Building a business platform that meets the needs of society. Let's talk Cash out is calculated on the assumption that ￥630 billion will be allocated supply chain. about the former. for capital investment, including M&As, and ￥200 billion will be allocated for Finally, let's talk about Progress in governance. To revitalize and I would like to reiterate that our basic philosophy is to promote Structural shareholder returns. Free cash after shareholder return is expected to be ￥200 strengthen the functions of the Board of Directors, we will continue to have at reform of the revenue base business, Expansion of growth businesses and billion. After comprehensively considering such factors as income and expendileast 1/3 of the Board of Directors as independent outside directors. In addition Creation of next-generation businesses in order to be a company that can ture, we intend to allocate these resources to strategic investments in growth to these external standards, we will use a skill matrix to optimize the overall respond flexibly and resiliently to any environmental change. In the revenue areas, to strengthen our financial position, or to expand the source of returns to structure of the Board of Directors. At present, 5 out of 13 directors are outside base business, we will take various measures to secure cash flow in the petroshareholders from FY2022 onwards. directors, and when formulating the medium-term management plan, they gave leum business for the next 10 years. We will maximize integration synergies and Our group recognizes the return of profits to shareholders as an important advice from their respective specialized perspectives. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 6 Message from President Please tell us about your initiatives for diversity, started digitization, BPR (Business Process Redesign), and smart work initiawork style reform, and business reform. tives that enable a variety of work styles, including the introduction of RPA (Robotic Process Automation). At the outset of our management vision is Diversity & inclusion. There is no I believe that no matter what changes occur in the business environment, future as an extension of the present situation, and if we try to transform our as long as we nurture well-trained and respected people, we will be able to business structure in this context, sometimes our past successes and knowlovercome any difficulties and open a new era. edge become obstacles. Also, the strengths that the company has worked hard to accumulate may turn into weaknesses in an instant. How should we deal with it in such an era? I believe that one solution is to initiate chemical reactions What is the role of the Idemitsu Group in the society? while drawing out the full potential of each individual by incorporating diverse viewpoints, values, and powers. That's why diversity & inclusion is important. Recently, disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons hit the Japanese archiDiversity & inclusion is generally defined as recognizing and accepting pelago, threatening the lifeline of the people. Our group's social mission is to diversity, but it is ambiguous. At our group, we are promoting diversity & inclusupport energy security in Japan and protect the lifeline of its people. We will sion by creating an environment that enables our employees to achieve a good work to maintain and strengthen our supply chain in the event of an emergency. work-life balance that they can make time to improve their individual capabiliTo fulfill this responsibility, we must create new services and business models ties, streamlining existing operations for the employees to interact with people that meet the needs of each region without further reducing our nationwide We intend to build a resilient business portfolio that can respond flexibly and outside the company, and combining knowledge to create new values. In addiservice station network. resiliently to any environmental change. We will report on the progress of our tion, the strength of each individual can be demonstrated only when he or she The number of service stations has halved from the peak of approximately medium-term business plan to our stakeholders in a timely manner. We will also is healthy as well as when he or she enriches his or her personal life. Along with 60,000 to around 30,000 as a result of excessive competition for many years promptly report any changes in our strategic assumptions. the promotion of diversity & inclusion, we are also promoting healthy manageunder the name of free competition. In particular, service stations in rural areas Energy is indispensable for the people of the world to lead cultural lives. At ment by positioning the promotion of healthy working conditions for both such as mountainous areas have decreased. Assuming that demand for petropresent, oil and coal are the primary energy sources required. However, for our physical and mental health as a management issue. leum products will decline by 30% over the next 10 years, the number of service group, whose main product is fossil fuels, responding to climate change is an At the same time, the acceleration of business change is essential to stations is certain to decline further if we remain idle. Our group is working to inevitable challenge. The fact that our group has set a GHG emission reduction improving our group's competitiveness. To this end, Next Forum plays a maintain and strengthen its network by thoroughly pursuing what service statarget despite its difficulties is an indication of our determination. In addition, we major role. In February 2019, we began holding Next Forum, where employees tions can do and increasing the added value of their services. Service stations are actively engaged in renewable energy-related businesses such as solar, and the top management communicate directly. play an important part as social infrastructure in rural towns and villages, where geothermal, biomass, and wind power. Our medium-term management plan Forum committee members selected from each department gather opinpublic transportation is not available and automobiles are a vital means of sets a target of achieving a total of 5GW of renewable energy development ions from the workplace and form a group of 7 to 8 members on a theme that is transportation, and in sparsely populated areas where the population is aging. overseas by 2030. We will assess changes in the structure of energy demand considered to be the company-wide issue. Directors also participate in this As an example, we have begun a demonstration of the MaaS (Mobility as a and work to ensure a stable supply of energy required in each region, while group to actively exchange opinions and finally compile proposals. One of the Service) business that utilizes ultra-small EVs. This initiative has received high boldly addressing global environmental issues. results of these efforts was the launch of DTK(Dattara Ko Shiyo)Project(=Busipraise from various parties as a reassuring initiative for the elderly and other As a Energy co-creation company, we will strive to create new values ness Process Redesign) triggered by Next Forum and other events. people with poor transportation. We are also taking on the challenge of creating together with all our stakeholders while maximizing the synergies of people and DTK Project is aimed at developing a corporate culture that not only unifies new services based on the needs of our customers by making full use of digital businesses resulting from the management integration. We look forward to work procedures and systems, but also promotes sustainable and autonomous technology. From “Last Mile” perspective, we believe that service stations have hearing your frank opinions and requests regarding our group. Thank you very business reform activities. The name reflects the desire of all employees to great potential and has room to expand into a variety of businesses. much for your continued understanding and support. make their work more efficient and reform the way they work, to thoroughly discuss any issues they face, to come up with solutions based on flexible ideas Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. and to carry out the decisions as a whole. What is your message to stakeholders? President and Representative Director We hope that the time saved by these activities can be used to encourage individuals to pursue higher-value-added work, to spend time on their own In formulating this medium-term management plan, our group conducted sceShunichi Kito development, and to enhance their personal lives, thereby increasing their motinario analysis focusing on energy demand through 2050. vation and capabilities, which in turn will lead to the expansion of growth fields This hypothesis was created based on the information obtained at present, and the creation of next-generation businesses. At the same time, we have and it is necessary to continue to collect, analyze, and refine this information. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 7 Medium-term Management Plan Medium-term Management Plan Theme Co-creation Figure2 Long-term Changes in Conditions of the Energy Business (Asia-Pacific region) Idemitsu Group operates in 42 countries and regions. It is said that Japan's environmental and safety regulations and Petroleum demand Electricity demand quality and service requirements are the most stringent in the world. Based on the technological capabilities, products and services, and business know-how that have been developed and accumulated in Japan through these efforts, we 2030: will create new values to many important and serious issues that we face both in Japan and overseas. For the issues Petroleum which cannot be easily solved, we will use innovative and flexible ideas such as Dattara Ko Shiyo (DTK). demand peaks Collaboration with stakeholders is essential to creating new values. With all of its customers in Japan and overseas, 2040: Electricity members of the communities in which it operates, closely linked distributors and dealers, logistics and maintenance demand doubles subcontracting companies, business partners in Japan and overseas, including oil-producing countries, and our employees with diverse backgrounds, we are taking on the challenge of creating those new values. Co-creation expresses our passion. 2020 2030 2040 2050 Long-term Energy Business Environment Scenario Figure3 Long-term Changes in Conditions of the Energy Business (Japan) The climate change issue will have a significant impact on the management and business continuity of Idemitsu group, whose core business is energy. We have therefore set 2050 as a long-term target based on the Paris Agreement, and has Petroleum demand 2040 Electricity demand prepared a number of long-term energy business environment scenarios towards that year. -Share of electricity 2017: from non-fossil fuel Scenario analysis identifies energy demand and the effects of climate change in the Asia-Pacific region and the -Share of electricity from nonsources: 50% fossil fuel sources: 21% -Share of distributed business environment in 2050 is assumed. Four scenarios were prepared, including a scenario in which the increase in -Share of distributed power: 3% power: 20% energy demand exceeds the trend toward low-carbon emissions due to the high growth of the Asian economy, and a 2040: Petroleum scenario in which the targets of the Paris Agreement are achieved. (Figure 1) We are drawing up the medium-term mandemand 2030: Petroleum 2050: Petroleum agement plan and examining specific priority topics with a strong awareness of the Prism scenario (Cases where the halved demand falls by demand falls power to seek environmental measures has increased and the government or companies have responded to such 30% 2030s: by 70% demands), in which the company is expected to take stronger environmental measures. Rapid shift to EVs 2020 2030 2040 2050 Figure1 Long-term Scenarios for Conditions of the Energy Business in the Run-up to 2050 In the Prism scenario, energy demand in the Asia-Pacific region and Japan was estimated. Figure 2 shows the outlook for demand for oil and electricity in the Asia-Pacific region. Although demand for oil will Petroleum demand in the Asia-Pacific region Scenario peak in 2030 and will be on a downward trend thereafter, demand is expected to remain almost unchanged in 2050. Growth “Squall” in demand Electricity demand will double in 2040 and will continue to rise thereafter. On the other hand, Figure 3, which shows the outlook for domestic demand for oil and electricity, shows that High economic growth in Asia; Growth demand for oil is expected to decline by 30% in 2030, and then by 70% in 2050 as the population declines and the shift in petroleum demand outpaces efforts to reduce CO 2 emissions to EVs progresses. Although demand for electricity is expected to remain stable, the ratio of non-fossil power sources is Demand expected to increase to 50% and the ratio of distributed power sources to 20% in 2040, indicating significant progress unchanged in the shift to renewable energy and the diversification of power sources. Scenario Slower economic growth Based on these projections, we recognize that the threats we face as an energy supplier coexist with opportunities “Cloud” Decrease in Asia; Solutions to for business expansion into 2050. Based on this recognition, we have formulated the medium-term management plan. in demand environmental issues shelved Governments and Dramatic decrease businesses respond more in demand strongly to opportunities to Scenario address environmental “Prism” issues Powerful decarbonization efforts Scenario advanced as each country’s “Azure” government prioritizes addressing environmental issues above all Today c. 2030 c. 2050 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 8 Medium-term Management Plan Business Environment Recognition (Assumptions for 2030) Basic Policies and Priority Topics for 2030 The environment surrounding Idemitsu group, including the energy situation, is complex and diverse, making it difficult Based on the recognition of the business environment given on page 12, Idemitsu group established 2 basic policies to accurately forecast the 2050 year future. However, every scenario is expected to follow a similar trajectory through toward 2030: Realizing a resilient business portfolio and Building a business platform suited to the needs of society. 2030. We have set 2030 as a relatively reliable milestone, aiming to become a company that is flexible and resilient no In addition to promoting business activities based on them, we will also work to resolve social issues. matter what future comes. Based on these scenarios, we see the business environment in 2030 from 3 perspectives: Structural changes to Basic Policy Priority Topics Main Initiatives energy demand, Advancement of technological innovation and Changing lifestyles and demands from society. Structural reforms to ■ Pursuing profits in the petroleum business (maximizing integration synergies, core revenue-generating making refineries more reliable) businesses ■ Enabling Nghi Son Refinery to contribute to profits ■ Expansion of business scale and domains Realizing (M&As on a scale of ¥100 billion during the medium-term management plan period) a resilient business Expansion of growth ■ Increasing the share of functional materials business to 30% by 2030 Structural changes to energy demand Advancement of technological innovation businesses ■ Increasing total power generated from renewable energy to 5GW by 2030 portfolio (of which, 4GW is renewable energy) Decreased demand for fossil Idemitsu ■ Increased demand for new materials ■ Transformation of solar-power business fuels, increasing diversificaGroup’s for use in new technologies (such as Developed tion (electrification, shift to business EVs and robotics) countries Creation of distributed energy, shift to environment next-generation ■ Creating new businesses with an eye on societal changes, diversifying customer renewable energy) ■ Advancement of digital innovations needs, lessening environmental impact, etc. in 2030 businesses Emerging Increased demand for energy due to strong economic countries growth Over the next 10 years, we will steadily secure cash flow in the petroleum business, which is our revenue base. With this cashflow, we will use M&As in growth fields such as functional materials businesses to expand our business scale and scope. At the same time, with a view to responding to changes in society, diversifying customer needs, and reducing environmental impact, we are working to create next-generation businesses, including the development of next-generation service stations, the development of decentralized energy businesses, and the creation of circular businesses. Changing lifestyles and demands from society ■ Advancement of a recycling-oriented society as consumers’ ecological Basic Policy Priority Topics Main Initiatives awareness increases Harmony with the global ■ Efforts to reduce GHGs ■ Changing customer needs (from ownership to use) environment and society (2030: Down 2 million t-CO2 vs. 2017(down 15%)) ■ Progression of ageing society and depopulation in Japan Building a business ■ Increasing demands for corporate social responsibility in areas such as practical contributions to achievement of the SDGs platform suited Progress in governance ■ Enhancing roles and functions of the Board of Directors (environmental measures, contributing to communities, strengthening goverto the needs of nance, improving workplace environments, diversity, etc.) society Acceleration of ■ Utilizing digital technologies to create new values digital innovations As specific targets for the harmony with the global environment, we have set quantitative reduction targets for GHG (Greenhouse Gas) and our own monitoring indicators. In particular, we will give top priority to reducing CO2 emissions, which account for more than 90% of GHG emissions in Japan. In order to be a company that can earn the trust and expectations of shareholders and all other stakeholders, we will not only strengthen our governance functions, but also use digital technology to enhance our operations and create new values for our customers. We are also working to create an environment in which every employee can continue to work and grow according to his or her life stage. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 9 Medium-term Management Plan Quantitative Targets for 2030 Main factors behind changes vs. 2019 Operating income and equity in earnings of affiliates for FY2030 are set at ¥300billion, and we are transforming our busiMaximization of integration synergies ness portfolio from a comprehensive perspective, including growth potential, stable earnings, and reduced Petroleum +64 Expansion of overseas sales environmental impact. As a result, we will reduce our excessive dependence on the fossil fuel business. The GHG reducImproving earnings of Nghi Son Refinery tion target was set at 2 million t-CO2 (15%) compared to FY2017. (GHG reduction target P.44) Basic chemicals ▲40 Downturn in product markets (aroma, etc.) FY2019(Projected) FY2030 vs. FY2019 Expansion of domains of lubricants/advanced materials & performance Operating income+equity ¥168 billion + ¥132 billion Functional materials +19 chemicals businesses, etc. earnings of affiliated companies (Excluding inventory impact) ¥300 billion Strengthening the electronic materials Operating income ratio of Expansion of power development from renewable energy sources overseas 3 businesses 60% Less than 50% ▲10% Power and renewable energy +18 (petroleum, exploration, coal) Expansion of the domestic electricity business Operating income ratio of + 12% Commencement of production at Vietnam gas field 18% 30% or more functional materials business Resources ▲10 Downturn in coal market Cumulative total power 1.0GW 5GW or more development (0.2GW) (4GW) + 4GW Others ▲40 Increase in costs of new business development, etc. (overseas) Management Targets for the Medium-term Management Plan Period (FY2020 FY2022) Maximizing Integration Synergies Our goal is to realize synergies of ¥60 billion by FY2021. Procurement of crude oil FY2022 (Final year of medium-term management plan) Three-year cumulative total Demand/supply, Overseas, Distribution, Sales Of this amount, ¥30 billion is expected to be achieved by Manufacturing, Procurement 60 Net income ¥175 billion ¥480 billion FY2019 through initiatives launched in May 2017. The 2 Others remaining ¥30 billion will be achieved by FY2021 through Operating income+equity integration of brand policies, review of sales strategies, earnings of affiliated companies ¥260 billion ¥720 billion (Billions of yen) optimization of refining costs, and improvement of oper29 ational efficiency through DTK(Dattara Ko Shiyo) ROE (Return on equity) 10% or higher 30 Project(=Business Process Redesign), with the aim of 1 creating further synergies. 11 FCF (Free cash flow) ¥400 billion 21 12 7 9 FY2019 FY2021 Operating Income + Equity Earnings of Affiliated Companies, by Segment (Billions of yen) Resources Power and renewable energy Functional materials Basic chemicals Petroleum Others Return to Shareholders ▲4 ■ At least 10% of the amount to be returned to FY2019 (Projected) 42 31 45 59 168 FY2019 FY2021 Return to shareholders with a shareholders will be allocated to repurchase treasury total return ratio of at least 50% stock, with a minimum dividend of ¥160 per share. ▲5 ■ Planned retirement of treasury stock acquired FY2022 Consider further shareholder returns, (Planned) 41 14 50 41 123 260 such as increasing dividends in accordance with ■ The final policy will be decided in FY2021, taking into account the overall cash balance, such as strategic ▲9 *Excluding inventory impact From FY2022 earnings levels and flexibly acquiring treasury investment for growth and strengthening the financial stock, with a minimum dividend structure. of ¥160 per share. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 10 Review of Operations Idemitsu Group is expanding its business globally in such areas as petroleum products, lubricants, asphalt, oil and gas development, renewable energy, coal, petrochemicals, electronic materials, and agri-bio products. Petroleum Basic chemicals Functional materials Power and renewable energy Resources Crude oil exploitation Ocean transportation Petroleum refining Domestic transportation Sales of petroleum products Crude oil production Number of crude oil tankers managed Crude oil processing capacity Number of oil depots Number of service stations 6,400 locations by our company and regularly chartered 27,000 BD 21 ships 945,000 BD 35 locations Sales volume of domestic petroleum products 43 million kL/yr Sales volume of overseas petroleum products 20 million kL/yr Coal Thermal coal production 12 million tons/year Advanced materials & Lubricants Asphalt Basic chemicals Performance chemicals Sales volume of lubricants Sales volume of asphalt Production capacity of ethylene Sales volume of engineering plastics 1.3 million kL/yr 380,000 tons/year 1 million tons/year 150,000 tons/year Production capacity of styrene monomer Production capacity of 750,000 tons/year adhesive materials Production capacity of 76,000 tons/year paraxylene and mixed xylene Photovoltaic power generation Geothermal power generation Biomass power generation Wind power generation Thermal power generation such as LNG 1.28 million tons/year Total generating capacity Production capacity of solar module 1GW 0.9 GW/yr (of which, 0.2 GW of renewable energy) Electronic materials Agri-bio products Production capacity of Sales volume of agri-bio products OLED materials 10 tons/year 13,000 tons/year Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 11 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability At Idemitsu group, we value contributRelationship Between Priority Topics (Materialities) and SDGs ing to society through our business. Our mission is to continue supplying Materiality Major initiatives Mainly related SDGs Risks and opportunities (impact on society and Idemitsu group) energy that supports people's lifelines Risk while contributing to social developStructural reform to core ■ Resource (energy, water, materials and land) use may increase due to business expansion ment. In recent years, the environmental revenue base businesses ■ Pursuing profitability in the petroleum business ■ Reputation decline and increased costs for environmental measures impact of energy use has become a Build a strong supply chain and (maximizing integration synergies, making refineries more reliable) Opportunity further strengthen stability and ■ Enabling Nghi Son Refinery to contribute to profits ■ GHG emissions reductions from energy efficiency improvements that could lead to cost major social issue, and we recognize competitiveness through collabo■ Using the pacific rim supply chain to meet growing demand in Asia savings in our company that harmony with the global environration with partners in the revenue ■ Southeast Asia gas development ■ Contributions to the improvement of accessibility to basic services such as energy inframent and society is an important and base business centered on petrostructure, employment, and income distribution in new business areas. With those urgent issue. Accordingly, with a longleum products and chemicals. contributions, it is expected that we will strengthen its ties with the local regions term perspective, we have identified priority topics that it should prioritize ■ Expansion of business scale and domains (M&As on a scale of ¥100 Risk Expansion of growth businesses billion during the medium-term management plan period) Resource (energy, water, materials and land) use may increase due to business expansion during the medium-term management ■ Expand business scale and scope ■ Increasing the share of functional materials business to 30% by 2030 ■ Reputation decline and increased costs for environmental measures plan as materiality. The entire our by strengthening R&D in growth ■ Increasing total power generated from renewable energy to 5GW by 2030 Opportunity group will work as one to resolve fields such as functional materials (of which, 4GW is renewable energy) P.20 ■ Promoting R&D can create new products and services that simultaneously create technoissues of materialities, with the aim of and renewable energy, which are ■ Transformation of solar-power business logical innovation, solve social issues, and increase our profits achieving our sustainable developbecoming increasingly necessary ■ Development of black pellets (biomass fuel) P.20 ■ Opportunities to expand low-carbon products and services in the world. ment with the global environment and ■ Strengthen development of functional materials through open innovation ■ Opportunities to expand agribio businesses that contribute to safe and secure food society. Risk Creation of next-generation ■ Resource (energy, water, materials and land) use may increase due to business expansion businesses ■ Creating new businesses with an eye on social changes, diversifying ■ Reputation decline and increased costs for environmental measures customer needs, lessening environmental impact P.22 Opportunity Accelerate technological innovation ■ Development of next-generation service stations ■ Promoting R&D can create new products and services that simultaneously create technoand innovation beyond organiza■ Distributed energy business development, etc. logical innovation, solve social issues, and increase our profits tional frameworks to create new businesses with an eye toward the ■ Circular business P.23-24 ■ Opportunities to expand the renewable energy business future. ■ New business establishments and reputation improvement through reduction of environmental impact and effective use of resources Risk Harmony with the ■ Risk of increased costs such as capital investment to achieve GHG reductions global environment and society ■ Efforts to reduce GHGs (2030: Down 2 million t-CO2 vs. 2017 (down 15%)) Opportunity Promote measures to realize a P.19 ■ Practices of specific measures to climate change can lead to improvement of our compalow-carbon and recycling-oriented ■ Contributing to areas in which we conduct business P.26, 45-48 ny's reputation society in consideration of climate ■ Practice of diversity and inclusion P.31, 34 ■ Opportunities for co-creation with partners through new initiatives change risks, and promote diver■ Improving employee satisfaction P.35 ■ Opportunities for regional revitalization, invigorating local economic cycles, and strong sity and inclusion in partnership ■ SDGs educational activities P.12 partnership between our company and the region with business partners, communi■ Opportunities to promote understanding of diversity among employees, which can lead to ties, and employees. improvements in the workplace environment and the creation of diversed innovations Progress in governance Opportunity Strengthen governance functions ■ Enhancing roles and functions of the Board of Directors P.52-55 ■ Transparency and fairness enhancement. to maintain the trust of sharehold■ Initiatives promotion support. ers and all other stakeholders. Acceleration of digital innovations Risk ■ Increased initial investment costs associated with the introduction of new systems and the Capitalize on evolving digital technol■ Utilizing digital technologies to create new values ogies to transform existing business risk of problems during the transition period ■ Digitalization of core businesses processes and management in (established in January 2020 Digital Innovation Department ) Opportunity response to the business environ■ Opportunities to reduce costs and create time by improving operational efficiency. ment and customer needs. ■ Opportunities to solve social problems through technological innovation Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Materiality Identification Process We are considering measures to minimize or eliminate the impact of these social issues. Specifically, we will set In determining materiality, we identified issues to be considered by referring to international guidelines such as the GRI reduction targets for GHG emissions related to the use of petroleum resources and the risk of climate change, and will Standards and ISO26000, as well as research items from SDGs and ESG evaluation organizations. Idemitsu group's consider measures to achieve them. The entire group will also work together to promote the recycling of plastics and business activities and environmental and social issues that could be affected by these activities were identified and other petrochemical products and solar panels. sorted out into 38 categories. We also conducted a questionnaire survey of internal and external stakeholders, including customers, business partners, shareholders, investors, and group employees, to confirm their expectations. In the end, we identified six materialities by aligning them with our medium-term management plan, which is our corporate strategy, and taking into account discussions at the management level. Materiality is closely linked to corpoOur Group's Efforts to Promote Understanding of SDGs rate and departmental strategies, and is priority topics in our medium-term management plan. We will use the SDGs as an opportunity to raise the awareness of each employee so that they can see social issue as their own issues and take initiative in solving them. We will essentially promote the SDGs understanding through workshops and internal information media. The SDGs, which combine the views of experts from various fields, member As an energy co-creation company, we continue to challenge new values creation with various stakeholders. In order to do so, we considered priorities from a long-term perspective, taking into account environmental and social issues, and set them as our countries, and various stakeholders, serve as a valuable reference for us in pursuing sustainable growth together with priority topics Materialities. society. We are confident that by raising each employee's awareness of social issues through the SDGs, we will be aware Level of Importance of the link between our business activities and social issues and will create measures to solve them. We will promote Step 1 Extraction the issues High understanding of the SDGs through internal communication so that the key points of the SDGs are reflected in future We extracted environmental and social issues that may be related to corporate strategy and materiality. our business activities by referring to international guidelines such For the society as GRI Standards and evaluation criteria of SDGs and ESG evaluaAt present, we consider the following to be important points of SDGs. tion organizations. ■ Acknowledging from multiple perspectives ■ Thinking in an integrated manner and ■ Having a sense of connectedness and inclusiveness deriving a solution ■ Visualizing and taking action Step 2 Confirming how important the issues are to the stakeholders Examples of initiatives in FY2019 We conducted a survey of a wide range to stakeholders; both internal and external, to assess the importance of each issue. For the company High Step 3 Alignment with the company-wide strategy Taking into account their impact on society and our management, issues considered to be highly We ensured consistency with the medium-term management plan important for both internal and external stakeholdand verify priorities and appropriateness of the issues. ers were classified into the following 6 categories On April 3, as part of the new employee education program, we On August 8 and 9, we held “Children's Visit & SDGs Workshop” held “SDGs Workshop,” in which 181 new employees particifor employees' children (elementary school students) to promote 1. Structural reform of the revenue base business pated and experienced the essence of SDGs by using card understanding of SDGs among employees through parent-child 2. Expansion of growth businesses games. communication. Step 4 Discussions and decisions by management 3. Creation of next-generation businesses The final decision was made after discussion by the Management 4. Harmony with the global environment and society 5. Progress in governance Committee chaired by the President. 6. Accelerating digital innovations Signing of the United Nations Global Compact Idemitsu announced its support for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in July 2019. The 10 Relevance Between Materialities and SDGs principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption represent the most fundamental We considered the impact on the SDGs through the promotion of key initiatives that Areas where goals can aspects of corporate compliance. Idemitsu group will promote responsible management from a global are classified as materiality and linked to materiality. We realize that all goals of the especially be achieved perspective, respond to requests from stakeholders, and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. SDGs are connected to each other. Therefore, our business activities will bring impact, not only to one specific goal, but also the SDGs as a whole, although the impact itself may vary from one goal to another. In particular, we believe that the following three areas can contribute to the achievement of goals through our business activities. Support for TCFD Recommendations Idemitsu expressed its support for the TCFD (Task Force on Climate Financial Disclosures) recommendations in February While working to achieve the goals, there are also aspects Areas that especially need to be addressed due to 2020. Considering and implementing the risks and opportunities of climate change and their countermeasures in line with in which promoting the achievement of the goals leads to possibility of risks arising from business activities the TCFD recommendations are the very essence of our business strategy and we believe that these will lead to contriincreased use of resources and GHG emissions. We recognize butions to a sustainable society. We will use the TCFD framework to appropriately disclose information to stakeholders that our business activities might impose burden to the followand make sincere efforts to address climate change. ing areas and keep us away from achieving the goals. Therefore, it is necessary to make serious efforts to address them. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 13 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Dialogue with Stakeholders Our group's Management Vision is to continue to create new values together with stakeholders.Through responsible dialogues with a wide range of stakeholders, we strive to contribute to sustainable improvement of corporate value and social development through our business activities. Stakeholders Initiatives Details ■ We have an official website to provide the latest information on our group in a timely manner. All Information disclosure via website The website has various contact points to promote active communication. Official Website ■ We participate in corporate briefings and IR events for individual investors across Japan, where the executive officer in charge of IR and the general manager of the Finance Information disclosure to individual investors Department explain the business outline, management strategies and business conditions. ■ The Shareholders' Meeting is held every June, and the “Idemitsu IR Communications” (Japanese only) is issued twice a year. Shareholders and investors Information disclosure to analysts and ■ In addition to quarterly financial results briefings, we hold individual IR meetings and small meetings with analysts. institutional investors ■ Top management visit institutional investors in Europe, North America, and Asia to explain our management strategies and business conditions. ■ Customer center counters promptly responds to customer inquiries. For inquiries of a nature, including those related to petroleum products, lubricants and other Maximizing the role of Customer products, or complaints about customer service at service stations, the quality of gasoline, the driving manners of tanker truck drivers and other matters, the customer center counters P.14 center Center works in cooperation with responsible departments to respond appropriately and ensure that necessary improvements are made. counters Customers Public relations activities through advertising ■ We continue advertising and publicity campaigns to gain a better understanding of its business operations and other initiatives. ■ We maintain close communication with corporate clients and promotes the development of products and solutions suited to their needs. Our Branches throughout Japan hold Corporate customer Holding customer seminars P.14 seminars for corporate clients to deliver information on the latest technical trends in the energy-saving and environment-related fields as well as on regulatory conditions and other topics directly useful to their operations. ■ We hold explanatory meetings once a year or more to which we invite local community representatives, such as heads of neighborhood associations in the vicinity of refineries, Holding regional explanatory meetings complexes and plants. (report on safety and environmental activities) We explain our safety and environment-related efforts and hear the opinions of community members. Community Implementation of environmental ■ We conduct classes mainly for elementary school students in the vicinity of refineries, complexes and plants to promote their better understanding of climate education P.16,26, 46 change issues such as global warming. Implementation of environmental ■ We participate in cleanup activities in the vicinity of refineries, complexes and plants, as well as local forest and beach conservation activities, contributing not only protection activities P.16, 26 to the local community but also to interaction among employees. ■ Aiming to become a better company, we hold a company meeting twice a year to provide opportunities for both employees and management to directly communicate, exchange opinions and make proposals to each other on company-wide issues. Next Forum P.35 Forum members selected from each department directly have dialogue with management by delivering candid opinions from workplaces. Employee ■ The survey is conducted once a year to quantitatively and continuously analyze employees' engagement, mutual trust, and unity. Conducting an employee engagement The first survey after the business integration was conducted from late July to early August 2019, covering a total of 10,344 employees from our company and affiliated compasurvey P.35 nies, and receiving responses from 9,970 employees or 96.4%. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Dialogue with Stakeholders ■ Number of inquiries and complaints received by Customer center counters (FY2018) Idemitsu Showa Shell 昭和シェル 出光 Complaints and comments Compliments and others 4.5% (436) 0.8% (77) Compliments and others 21.2% (937) Inquiries Inquiries Number of receptions 57.7% (2,543) Number of receptions 94.7% (9,132) 4,411 cases 9,645 cases Complaints and comments 21.1% (931) ■ Major seminars for customers (FY2018) Venue Frequency (times) Participants Number of participating organizations Number of participants (people) Customers in the coal and petroleum The 15th Apollo Energy Meeting Tokyo 1 158 381 products fields Seminar on the Environment and Customers in the petroleum Nationwide 28 324 757 Energy-Saving products field Study Session on Cutting Oil Tokyo and Osaka 2 (1 for each) 90 160 Study Session on Thermal Treatment Tokyo and Osaka 2 (1 for each) 156 283 Customers in the lubricants field Practical Seminar on Lubricant Chiba 1 9 9 Engineering Seminar on Lubricants Basics Chiba 1 16 22 Status of inclusion in the ESG Index In recognition of its efforts in the ESG (Environment, Society and Governance) business, Idemitsu has been selected as a SNAM Sustainability Index by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd., for 8 consecutive years since 2012. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 15 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy Concept of the Environment Environmental Management System Idemitsu Group works to reduce the environmental impact caused by our business activities in order to contribute to the We have positioned Safety, Health and the Environment as the foundation of its management, and has established the creation of a sustainable society with the harmony between economy and environment. We strive to protect the global Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters to promote initiatives to secure and preserve them. It is comprised of environment by appropriately allocating and utilizing our resources and actively promoting advanced initiatives to solve the General Manager and the Deputy General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters, general environmental problems such as global warming. We conduct business activities based on our policy with criteria to managers of executive departments that manage business sites, other managers appointed by the General Manager of prioritize global and regional environmental protection in all business segments. the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters and the secretariat.The executive officer in charge of safety assurance and environmental protection issues (director), who is delegated by the President and Representative Director, serves as the General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters, overseeing the headquarters as Environmental Protection Policy the person in charge of safety, health, and environment, and the Safety, Environment (HSSE) & Quality Assurance Depart1. Make an effort to prevent leaks and contamination and contribute to environmental protection. ment serves as the secretariat. The role of the Headquarters is to determine the Medium-term Management plan, the annual basic policies and 2. Actively contribute to preventing global warming and make an effort to reduce greenhouse gases emitted through our business priority issues on HSSE, to assess and evaluate performance through audits, to maintain, review, and improve the Safety activities. Management System and the Environmental Management System (page 16), and to instruct all executive departments 3. Effectively use resources in all our business activities. and major group companies to secure management resources necessary to establish, implement, maintain, and contin4. Promote green procurement when purchasing material, construction work, services, etc. ually improve the Management Systems. As a general rule, the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Meeting 5. Be aware of the importance of biodiversity and actively contribute to its maintenance. shall be held once a year in December to decide on our annual basic policies for the next fiscal year. 6. Work to develop and diffuse technologies and products that create a better environment. When establishing and reviewing the Medium-term Management Plan, the annual basic policies and priority issues 7. Set environmental objectives based on the annual basic policies, and gather power from within and outside the organization on HSSE, the secretariat creates a draft proposal putting into consideration of the social environment surrounding HSSE. to achieve those objectives. The secretariat holds deliberations on the draft at the Safety and Environmental Managers Meeting, and get approval at 8. Continually improve the Environmental Management System to enhance environmental performance. Safety and Environmental Protection Headquarters Meeting. After approval by the General Manager of the Safety & 9. Actively disclose environmental information and promote communication with parties outside the company to ensure the reliEnvironmental Protection Headquarters, the secretariat reports them to the Management Committee. If the instructions ability of our company and improve corporate value. or opinions from the Management Committee are to be reflected, the General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters approves the final version again. Environmental issues, including climate change, are reported to the Board of Directors as necessary and can be oversighted by the Board of Directors. ■ Position of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters within the Corporate Governance System, and the Safety and Environmental Management System Board of Directors Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Reporting Supervision, appointment, and dismissal The General Manager of the Safety & The executive in charge of security Environmental Protection Headquarters and environment (director) Members General managers of executive departments Business execution President Secretariat Safety, Environment (HSSE) Enterprise Risk Management Committee & Quality Assurance Department Management Committee and Management Meting Each executive Major affiliated Reporting Supervision Safety & Environmental department 主要関係会社 companies and directions Protection Headquarters Reporting Safety and Environmental Managers Meeting Reporting Supervision Various Committees Quality Assurance and directions Supervision Headquarters Supervision Reporting and directions and directions Refineries Oil depots and Affiliated Each execution department and affiliated company and complexes service stations companies Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 16 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy Environmental Management System Environmental Education and Awareness-Raising Activities Our environmental management system comWe provide environmental education for the entire group under the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters. We bines the PDCA cycle for the entire group, ■ Environmental Management PDCA Cycle are also engaged in activities to raise awareness of environmental protection in line with the United Nations World centered on the Safety & Environmental ProEnvironment Day as well as the Environment Month promoted by the Ministry of the Environment. In June 2019, focusing tection Headquarters, with the PDCA cycle for Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Medium-term Management Plan on global warming and the marine plastic waste problem, we conducted light-down campaigns and clean-up activities each executive department. P to raise environmental awareness among employees. Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Annual basic policies and priority issues The Safety & Environmental Protection ■ Beach clean-up activities (Odaibakaihin Seaside, Tokyo) Headquarters formulates the Medium-term D D Management Plan, the annual basic policies Secretariat of the Safety & Executive departments and priority issues on HSSE, on which each Environmental Protection Headquarters P P executive department formulates action plans. Action plans Confirmed by Action plan the Headquarters Each executive department implements A D the PDCA cycle where it carries out its busiDo Annual review Annual review Do ness activities based on the action plans, and C Evaluation C Evaluation periodically evaluates and reviews the activiAudits by the Headquarters ties to identify improvements, which will be reflected in the action plans for the next fiscal year. The secretariat of the Safety & EnvironOverall review and identification Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters of improvements mental Protection Headquarters evaluates and A reviews the operation of the environmental Annual basic policies and priority issues Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters for the next fiscal year management system for the entire group every year, and shares the necessary improvements at the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Meeting at the same timing of the review by the executive departments, in order to make continuous improvements. Safety and Environmental Audits In order to confirm and promote the HSSE activities of each executive department, the General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters or top management visits business sites to provide Safety and Environment-related instructions or safety patrols, or the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters secretariat conducts Safety and Environment audits at business sites. In particular, at our company's refineries and plants, the General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters provides Safety and Environment-related instruction and safety patrol once a year, while the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters secretariat conducts Safety and Environment audit once a year. Safety and Environmental audits are conducted at other sites every three years in principle. When issues to be improved in safety and the environment are found through audits, the secretariat follows up on each case from the formulation of a response plan to its completion. Environmental Compliance (Number of Serious Compliance Violations) In FY2018, there were no serious compliance violations. We will identify minor compliance violations that are not classified as serious compliance violations, investigate their causes to prevent recurrence, and strive to ensure environmental protection. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities (FY2018) Extraction Crude oil procurement and import Domestic manufacturing Domestic transportation Domestic sales Consumption Idemitsu’s performance from April 2018 to March 2019 (12 months) Oil refining + Petrochemicals Energy 30 PJ Energy 13 PJ Energy 139 PJ Energy 3.6 PJ Energy 0.7 PJ Gasoline 7,691 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 780 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 336 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 3,584 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 92.5 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 18.7 thousand kl Jet fuel 1,973 thousand kl Seawater 1,288,375 thousand t Kerosene 2,280 thousand kl Water 60,130 thousand t Water 12.6 thousand t Diesel oil 6,041 thousand kl Heavy fuel oil A 2,099 thousand kl Input Heavy fuel oil C 2,143 thousand kl LPG (propane) 2,577 thousand t LPG (butane) 641 thousand t Coal 6,868 thousand t Lubricants 601 thousand kl Basic chemicals 3,493 thousand t Performance chemicals 50 thousand t CO2-Scope1 285 thousand t CO2-Scope1 190 thousand t CO2-Scope1 6,862 thousand t CO2-Scope1 0 thousand t CO2-Scope1 10 thousand t CO2-Scope1 0 thousand t CO2-Scope2 73 thousand t CO2-Scope2 0 thousand t CO2-Scope2 363 thousand t CO2-Scope2 0 thousand t CO2-Scope2 24 thousand t CO2-Scope2 0 thousand t CO2-Scope3 1,410 thousand t CO2-Scope3 740 thousand t CO2-Scope3 – thousand t CO2-Scope3 253 thousand t CO2-Scope3 0 thousand t CO2-Scope3 79,318 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 1,769 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 931 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 7,225 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 253 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 34 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 79,318 thousand t SOx 20,450 t SOx 17,711 t SOx 6,066 t SOx 3,122 t SOx 91,223 t NOx 5,959 t NOx 26,156 t NOx 6,640 t NOx 3,274 t Output Soot/dust 231 t Water discharge 1,345,984 thousand t Water discharge 6.0 thousand t COD 97 t Total nitrogen (TN) 104 t Total phosphorus (TP) 1.5 t Total waste* 209,828 t Total waste 18.9 t Final disposal (landfill)* 1,383 t Final disposal (landfill)* 5.4 t Unit energy consumption* 8.87 l/kl (refinery), 0.396 kl/t (petrochemical plant) Unit energy consumption* 8.77 kl/million t∙km *Covering only refineries and petrochemical plants *Covering petroleum products + lubricants + petrochemical products + coal Crude oil ■ Idemitsu Tanker Co., Ltd. Refineries Petrochemical plant ■ Oil depots ■ Idemitsu Petroleum Norge AS ■ Astomos Energy Corporation ■ Hokkaido Refinery ■ Chiba Complex (Kushiro, Hakodate, Hachinohe, Akita, Shiogama, ■ Chiba Complex ■ Tokuyama Complex Hitachi, Tokyo, Hachijojima, Oigawa, Niigata, Coal ■ Aichi Refinery ■ Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation Fushiki, Kishiwada, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, ■ ENSHAM COAL SALES PTY. LTD. Kochi, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kagoshima) Boundary MUSWELLBROOK COAL COMPANY LTD ■ Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works ■ Other manufacturing [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to the ■ BOGGABRI COAL OPERATIONS PTY LTD ■ Advanced Technology Research Laboratories ■ BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. consumption of products sold in Japan ■ TARRAWONGA COAL SALES PTY LTD ■ Lubricants Research Laboratory ■ Omaezaki Factory ■ Coal & Environment Research Laboratory * Lubricants and petrochemical products that are not ■ PT MITRABARA ADIPERDANA Tbk ■ Keihin Lube Center used as fuel are not included in the calculation. ■ Offices ■ Moji Lube Center * The sales volumes of LPG (propane) and LPG (Head Office, Branches, Idemitsu Retail (butane) are those of Astomos Energy Corporation. ■ Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd. [Scope 3] CO2 emissions from crude oil and [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to Marketing Co., Ltd. Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd., CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the coal extracted from oil fields and mines owned transportation using ships chartered from ■ SDS Biotech K.K. transportation by contracted transport SDS Biotech K.K., etc.) investment ratio in Astomos Energy Corporation by other companies other companies ■ Union Oil Industry Co., Ltd. companies and maritime shipping companies (51%). Showa Shell's performance from January 2018 to March 2019 (15 months) Oil refining Other manufacturing Domestic transportation and storage Not aggregated Energy 12 PJ Energy 88 PJ Energy 2.9 PJ Energy 2.9 PJ Energy 2.3 PJ Gasoline 9,555 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 315 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 2,282 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 75 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 75 thousand kl Equivalent in crude oil 61 thousand kl Jet fuel 2,501 thousand kl Seawater 170,600 thousand t Kerosene 3,248 thousand kl Industrial water 40,316 thousand t Industrial water 1,479 thousand t Diesel oil 6,622 thousand kl Tap water 194 thousand t Tap water 110 thousand t Heavy fuel oil A 2,255 thousand kl Input Underground water 2,102 thousand t Heavy fuel oil C 1,070 thousand kl LPG (propane) 80 thousand kl LPG (butane) 160 thousand kl Lubricants 344 thousand kl Basic chemicals 1,448 thousand kl Others 8,980 thousand kl Not aggregated CO2-Scope1 0 thousand t CO2-Scope1 6,982 thousand t CO2-Scope1 32 thousand t CO2-Scope1 1.0 thousand t CO2-Scope1 0 thousand t CO2-Scope1 0 thousand t CO2-Scope2 0 thousand t CO2-Scope2 434 thousand t CO2-Scope2 108 thousand t CO2-Scope2 4.3 thousand t CO2-Scope2 9.9 thousand t CO2-Scope2 0 thousand t CO2-Scope3 873 thousand t CO2-Scope3 – thousand t CO -Scope3 2 – thousand t CO2-Scope3 193 thousand t CO2-Scope3 102 thousand t CO2-Scope3 63,331 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 873 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 7,416 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 139 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 198 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 112 thousand t Total CO2 (Scope 1-3) 63,331 thousand t SOx 2,972 t Output NOx 2,769 t Soot/dust 95 t Water discharge 196,122 thousand t Water discharge 3,691 thousand t COD 255 t Total waste 51,296 t Total waste 23,009 t Final disposal (landfill) 0t Domestic transportation Unit energy consumption 7.28 l/kl Unit energy consumption 10.1 kl/million t∙km N/A ■ Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ■ Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Storage ■ Showa Shell Contract Service Stations ■ TOA Oil Co., Ltd. ■ Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. ■ Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (approx. 3,000 locations) Boundary ■ Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. ■ Keihin Biomass Power Co., Ltd. ■ Wakamatsu Gas Co., Ltd. ■ Solar Frontier K.K. ■ Japan Oil Network Co., Ltd. [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to the [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to ■ Nippon Grease Co., Ltd. [Scope 3] CO2 emissions attributable to [Scope 3] CO2 emissions from energy consumption of products sold in Japan transportation using ships chartered from ■ Shoseki Kako Co., Ltd. (excluding Sunamachi Plant) transportation by contracted transport consumption at service stations that are not * Lubricants and petrochemical products that are not other companies ■ Rekisei Kagaku K.K. companies and maritime shipping companies included in Scope 1 and 2 used as fuel are not included in the calculation. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 18 Response to Climate Change Basic Stance Risks and Opportunities Recognizing that responding to climate change is one of the most important issues that must be addressed on a global On the basis of scenario analysis, we examined the risks and opportunities we face. As for risks, we recognize a decline scale, Idemitsu Group works to solve this issue through both mitigation and adaptation by making maximum use of in demand for petroleum products due to the spread of electric vehicles (EVs) as well as changes in consumer awareour resources. ness, and a decline in the reputation of the fossil fuel business. On the other hand, with an increasing demand for renewAssuming multiple scenarios of future possible business environments through scenario analysis, we identify risks able energy and environmentally friendly products, we are aware of opportunities to contribute to the realization of a and opportunities and reflect the results in its strategies and initiatives. low-carbon society and to expand our businesses. We aim to reform its business portfolio in order for the Group to become a group of resilient companies by responding to these risks and strengthening its business initiatives to capture opportunities. (Quantitative targets for business Scenario Analysis portfolio transform on Page 9) With regard to risks and opportunities associated with climate change, we used scenario analysis to explore possible energy transition pathways, resulting from decarbonization, development of environmental technologies, and social change, and to examine their impacts on our company. Classification Matters to be evaluated Response and initiatives Scenario analysis identifies energy demand and the effects of climate change in the Asia-Pacific region and the ● Market monitoring and the establishment of optimal production, Decline in demand for petroleum products due to the spread management environment in 2050 is assumed. Four scenarios were prepared, including a scenario in which the increase of EVs and changes in consumer awareness supply and sales systems ● Departure from the business portfolio depending on fossil fuel in energy demand exceeds the trend toward low-carbon emissions due to the high growth of the Asian economy, and a scenario in which the targets of the Paris Agreement are achieved. (Figure below) We are examining specific priority ● Strengthening of the competitiveness of the entire supply Decline in energy prices due to technological advances Transition risk chain topics with a strong awareness of the Prism scenario, in which the company is expected to take stronger environmen● Development of mixed burning technology with black pellets tal measures. Possibility of divestment of the coal mining and biomass Decline in the reputation of the oil and coal business ● Strengthening of external engagement ■ Long-term Scenarios for Conditions of the Energy Business in the Run-up to 2050 Suspension of equipment operation and damage to bases ● Reinforcement of equipment maintenance and strengthening due to abnormal rainfall and others of the supply chain Physical risk Petroleum demand in the Asia-Pacific region Scenario Impact of sea-level rise on manufacturing and distribution ● Measures such as reinforced seawall and relocation of control Growth in “Squall” bases rooms demand ● Development of renewable energy sources in Japan and Expanding demand for renewable energy overseas High economic growth in Asia; Growth in petroleum demand outpaces efforts to Strengthening of IMO (International Maritime Organization) reduce CO2 emissions ● Efficiency improvement and reinforcement of refinery facilities regulations Increasing demand for environmentally friendly products with ● R&D and overseas expansion of lubricants for electric vehicle Demand unchanged low environmental impact units, advanced greases, and biological pesticides Scenario Slower economic “Cloud” ● Development of applications for next-generation materials growth in Asia; Increasing demand for energy-saving materials and commercialization of all solid state lithium-ion battery Solutions to environmental Decrease in demand issues shelved Opportunity materials ● Development of and entry into VPP (virtual power plant) Development of distributed energy resource systems control services Dramatic decrease Governments and businesses respond more ● Development of recycling technologies for waste plastics, in demand Development of the circular economy strongly to opportunities to Scenario solar panels, carbon, etc. address environmental issues “Prism” ● Development leveraging the existing SS (service station) Advent of the MaaS (Mobility as a Service) society network and entry into ultra-compact EVs Powerful decarbonization efforts Scenario advanced as each country’s Development of natural gas resources ● Shifting focus from oil to gas “Azure” government prioritizes addressing environmental issues above all Today c. 2030 c. 2050 Risk Management Climate-related risks are also identified and assessed by the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters. In addition, receiving advice from outside experts, the Safety & Security Advisory Committee conducts risk management from objective viewpoints. We are also developing a comprehensive risk management system that incorporates ESG elements into our internal control system. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 19 Response to Climate Change Concept of Climate Change Mitigation CO2 Reduction Targets and Monitoring Indicators We believes it is important to reduce GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions not only our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, but also We recognize that environmental contribution by reducing own CO2 emissions is not enough in the light of corporate throughout the value chain including Scope 3, because emissions from the consumption of our products (Scope3) are sustainability. At the same time, we believe it is important to contribute to society overwhelmingly larger than those from direct emissions (Scope 1) of refineries, plants, and factories or emissions from by providing low-carbon energy with a view to the transition to a low-carbon sociIndicator 1 CO2 reduction electricity use (Scope 2).(Refer to the figure below). In particular, we place top priority on reducing CO2, which accounts ety in the future, and to contribute to the economy by continuing to generate profits (Contributing to Environment) for more than 90% of Japan's GHG emissions. while transforming our business portfolio. In addition to its fossil fuel business, we conduct business related to the develIndicator 2 Indicator 3 opment of renewable energy and environmentally friendly products, as well as Idemitsu ■ Our group's CO2 Emissions by Scope research aimed at solving social issues. These activities contribute to the reduction group Idemitsu Scope1 Scope2 Scope3 Showa Shell Scope1 Scope2 Scope3 of CO2 emissions on a global scale throughout our value chain. We recognize that (thousand t-CO2) (thousand t-CO2) this concept will become even more important in the future along with the reducEnergy supply Revenue (Contributing to (Contribution to 120,000 120,000 tion of CO2 emissions by the Group. Society) Economy) 100,000 Based on this recognition, our group will accelerate its efforts to reduce CO2 100,000 92,526 89,530 emissions by establishing 3 indices. 80,000 80,000 72,070 63,115 The CO2 reduction targets in Indicator 1 are set in Japan's 2030 Nationally Determined Contribution of GHG reduc57,496 60,000 60,000 tion targets in a way that greatly surpasses the targets of industry associations to which we belong. Indicator 2 is based 84,637 81,722 81,723 40,000 40,000 57,448 57,448 51,470 51,470 64,500 64,500 on the assumption that energy demands of customers are stably supplied. At present, indicator level is set in a manner that is consistent with the levels required by society as outlined in our company’s scenario “Prism. However, we will 20,000 424 460 20,000 530 444 556 revise the indicator level as needed while monitoring trends in low carbon energy demand by society. 7,465 7,347 5,137 5,582 7,015 0 0 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2017 2018 2018 (Fiscal Year) Reference value Fiscal year totals (January to (January 2018 to December 2018) March 2019) * Idemitsu's results for FY2017 do not include S3-6 (Business Travel) and S3-7 (Employee commuting). Target value * Figures of Showa Shell for 12 months (January – December 2018) listed for reference purpose are not covered by the independent practitioner’s assurance. Indicator 1 Scope1 + 2 Reduction of Our group There are many areas in diversified value chains related to the Idemitsu Group businesses that could contribute to reducing (An indicator of the extent to which Scope1 + 2 emissions has been reduced through promotion of energy CO2 emissions. Therefore, we will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions by strengthening activities in these areas. conservation activities at refineries, plants, and factories, etc.) ■ Value chains in various businesses and examples of contribution to reducing CO2 missions 2030 Target (compared to 2017 levels): 2 million ton-CO2 (▲15%) Example 1 Example 2 (Calculation formula) = CO2 emissions in target year (Scope1 + 2) CO2 emissions in base year (Scope 1 + 2) Petroleum and Crude oil Crude oil Crude oil Product Product Product Consumption petrochemicals production transportation refining manufacturing storage transportation and use Monitoring indicator Example 3 Coal Production Transportation Storage Consumption and use Indicator 2 Low carbon level of supplied energy Example 4 Renewable energy Power Power Power Consumption (Indicator of the extent to which an energy company can reduce the CO2 emissions per unit of energy supplied to society) power generation generation transmission distribution and use Example 5 2050 Indicator Level (compared to 2017 level): ▲30% Manufacturing of Production of Transportation of Panel Product Panel Power Panel recycling solar panels raw materials raw materials manufacturing transportation installation generation CO2 emissions (Scope1 + 2 + 3) CO2 avoided emissions * (Calculation formula) = Amount of energy supplied to society Examples of contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions in the value chains Example 1 Reduction of fuel consumption by improving the operating efficiency of crude oil carriers Indicator 3 Degree of carbon exit from corporate earnings Example 2 Reduction of fuel consumption by promoting energy-saving at refineries (Indicator of how the Revenue level per unit of CO2 emitted by the company as a whole is being raised) Example 3 Reduction of coal consumption by introducing a high-efficiency combustion system for coal-fired boilers Revenue Example 4 Limitation of fossil fuel power generation by expanding renewable energy power generation (Calculation formula) = CO2 emissions (Scope1 + 2 + 3) CO2 avoided emissions * Example 5 Expansion of renewable energy power generation by manufacturing and supplying solar panels * CO2 reduction contribution through the entire value chain Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 20 Response to Climate Change Contribution to the Reduction of CO2 Emissions Through the Entire Value Chains We promote the development of environmentally friendly products in growth business fields as follows: We are committed to reducing CO2 emissions on a global scale throughout the entire value chains. We will promote contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions through our business activities in the following five areas. ■ Products compatible with EVs (high-performance lubricants and grease) ■ Development of all-solid lithium-ion rechargeable battery materials ■ Promotion of energy conservation and zero emission of power consumption ■ Next-next-generation high-performance (e.g., ultra-high-efficiency) solar panels ■ Provision of environmentally friendly products and services ■ High-performance grease (utilization of cellulose nanofiber, a biodegradable and safe material derived from wood pulp for food ■ Expansion of renewable energy power generation machinery) ■ Expanding supply of biomass fuels ■ Development and social implementation of innovative technologies Expansion of Renewable Energy Power Generation As of November 30, 2019, we are operating renewable energy power plants generated by solar, geothermal, Promotion of Energy Conservation and Zero Emission of Power Consumption biomass, and wind power in Vietnam as well as in Total power source We will work to reduce direct and indirect CO2 emissions from refineries, complexes and plants. We hold monthly meetNiigata, Oita, Kanagawa, and Aomori. We will signifidevelopment in Geothermal ings at major manufacturing sites to monitor the progress of energy-saving activities and to share best practices. cantly expand the use of renewable energy sources in Biomass Japan and overseas Japan and overseas toward 2030 by leveraging our (cumulative) ■ Construction of high-efficiency naphtha ■ Illustration of renewable energy supply to cracking furnace (Tokuyama Complex) an offshore oil field accumulated operational know-how. 4GW Solar Specific Initiatives in FY2019 ■ Construction of 49.5MW mega solar plant completed in Wind power Mega solar Vietnam ■ Decision made to commercialize biomass power generation at the Tokuyama Complex 0.2GW ■ Start of 100MW photovoltaic power generation project in Colorado, USA 2019 2030 ©Equinor ASA ■ Start of 50.5MW photovoltaic power generation project in California, USA Reducing energy consumption through new capital Participation in a joint project with Equinor and other investment partners Expanding Supply of Biomass Fuels Provision of Environmentally Friendly Products and Services We are working on the development of black We will contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions not only for the Idemitsu Group but also for other companies by pellets, a biomass fuel that can reduce CO2 emisMixed burning providing products and services that help reduce CO2 emissions. sions by co-firing with coal at coal-fired ■ Production of domestic solar panels ■ Sale of control optimization system for coal-fired boilers power stations. Black pellets are made by (Kunitomi Plant, Solar Frontier K.K.) (ULTY-V plusTM) pulverizing, drying, roasting, and semi-carbonizing wood. They are superior to conventional Black pellets Coal white pellets in terms of water resistance and pulverization, and can be handled in the Coal-fired thermal power plant same way as coal. As a result, it is possible to reduce coal consumption and increase the use of renewable energy (black pellet) without modifying existing facilities. We are preparing to expand our business in Southeast Asia, with a demonstration plant in Thailand at the center. One of the largest production capacities in Japan Reduction of coal consumption through optimal operation control Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 21 Response to Climate Change Development and Social Implementation of Innovative Technologies Concept of Climate Change Adaptation For transition toward a low-carbon society, we will continue to actively promote the practical application of CCS (Carbon Climate change is said to be one of the 6. causes of intensification of natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, it dioxide capture and storage), CCU (Carbon dioxide capture and utilization), and CO2-free hydrogen, for which technois extremely important to clarify damage estimates, identify risks, minimize damage to refineries and complexes, and logical innovation will be significantly expected in the future, through demonstration tests and other means. restore operations as soon as possible. In order to enable Idemitsu to fulfill its mission of energy supply, we work on investing in facilities and equipment as a mean of safety4 assurance Myersmanagement, as well as enhancing emergency responses from the perspective of disaster 900hPa 920hPa 940hPa 960hPa 150km mitigation in the event 36km/hr 920hPa of unexpectedly20large-scale disasters. We also work on ■ Cooperation in the CCS Demonstration Test Project strengthening our ability to respond to disasters by conducting training in collaboration with 4 local governments and inWe have been cooperating in a carbon capture and storage (CCS) demonstration project that the Japan CCS Co., Ltd. has dustry associations to prepare for operations 900 920 940 960hPa in the event of a disaster. been operating in Tomakomai, Hokkaido Prefecture , on commission from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) Recently, an increasing number of typhoons crossed the country while maintaining their strength. High tides caused and New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). The project is utilizing CCS technology that by5.1 typhoons will increase the risk of flooding at refineries and complexes located in coastal areas. The Idemitsu Group absorbs CO2 from gaseous power plant emissions before it can be released into the atmosphere, pumping it deep undertherefore simulates the route along which 6.1 the largest-scale typhoon expected in the future directly hits refineries and ground to sequester it. Since April 2016, our role in the project has been to supply the gas containing CO2 from the Hokkaido complexes, 44 and analyzes 3 the impact of inundation caused 9 by high tides. Based on this analysis, we are considering inRefinery for use in the demonstration project. vestment (installation of flood-prevention 62 walls for seawater 3 pump rooms, reinforcement 9 of tetra-pods for seawalls, etc.) ■ Participation in the Working Group on the Roadmap for Carbon Recycling Technologies and emergency responses. We participated in the Working Group on the Roadmap for Carbon Recycling Technologies established by the METI. The Working Group was established to promote an effective and rapid development of carbon recycling technologies. The roadmap was compiled in June 2019. ■ Assumption of typhoon tracking maps to be used as a basis for studying Case3 9to refineries and complexes Case3 9 high tide damage ■ Cooperation in the Hydrogen Supply Chain Demonstration Project We are cooperating in the world's first international hydrogen supply chain demonstration project promoted by the Advanced 45 45 Case3 Chiba Complex Case3 Aichi Refinery Hydrogen Energy Chain Association for Technology Development (AHEAD) supported by NEDO. This project will contribute to (Tokyo Bay) (Ise Bay) the utilization of hydrogen, which does not emit CO2 during combusCase2 Case2 tion, in large-scale power generation. In this project, hydrogen will be ■ Conceptual drawing of the dehydrogenation plant 40 40 Case1 Case1 separated from liquid (methylcyclohexane), which will be transported from Brunei Darussalam, by a demonstration plant newly constructed by AHEAD on the premises of Keihin Refinery of TOA Oil Co., Ltd., 35 35 the company of our Group. The plant is scheduled to be operated at the Keihin Refinery from 2020. 30 30 130 135 140 145 130 135 140 145 44 3 62 9 3 9 ■ Assumed image of high tide damage Rise in sea level due to weather conditions 2016 8 1 0:00 = inverse barometer effect + rise in average sea level due to breaking waves + wind surge 45 1 11:00 2 1:00 69 SWAN ter wa nd air a Seawall overflow due to high tide een n betw Low pressure Frictio ng Stro d △10 hPa=10 cm 46 win Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 22 Column Idemitsu Group's Technologies Underpinning Innovation R&D Structure External Evaluation of Idemitsu Group's Technologies Technological innovation is essential to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement, an international framework to address climate change Our technologies are highly appreciated by the international community. As an example, issues, where corporate R&D activities will play an important role. Idemitsu Group will continue to create innovations that can contribute to solving Idemitsu and Showa Shell have been ranked 1st and 3rd respectively in the world among the various social problems, including climate change, through the development of state-of-the-art technologies in various fields, which it has cultivated industry subgroups* for three consecutive years since 2017 in the Opportunities in Clean over the years through the development of petroleum products. Tech, which is one of the items evaluated by MSCI, an ESG evaluation organization. (Table Our R&D system is comprised of Advanced Technology Research Laboratories , which supervises corporate R&D, and research laboratories in below) each department. Each of them carries out specialized development. In addition, we established Research and Development Committee as the We will continue to make the most of its advanced R&D capabilities to contribute to the company-wide organization to not only examine the direction of company-wide research and development, strategies, and issues, but also to deepen solution of global issues through collaboration with others. cooperation among laboratories and to strengthen technological capabilities. * Within GICS (Global Industry Classification Standard), Idemitsu Group belongs to the Oil & Gas Refining and Marketing industry subgroup. Segment and name of laboratory Outline of Initiatives ■ Research on climate change measures (Biofuels and Biochemicals), development of biological ■ Ranking of companies in the sector of MSCI’s Opportunities in Clean Tech Environment & Energy Research Laboratory materials and high performance materials Ranking 2019 2018 2017 Frontier Materials Development Laboratory ■ Development of advanced functional materials Advanced 1 Idemitsu Idemitsu Idemitsu Technology ■ Development of advanced battery materials related with all-solid-state lithium ion battery and Advanced Battery Materials Research Laboratory Corporate R&D Research lithium recovery technology Laboratories 2 Company A Company A Company A (ATRL) ■ Research on climate change measures (Artificial photosynthesis and biomass conversion Atsugi Research Center technology) 3 Showa Shell Showa Shell Showa Shell ■Development of high-performance inorganic thin film semiconductors and devices Analytical Technology Center ■ Providing advanced analysis and solutions to a wide range of fields throughout the group 4 Company B Company B Company D ■ Technology development in the area of engineering design, construction, operation, quality 5 Company C Company C Company B Petroleum Technology & Engineering Center control & assurance, and asset integrity & reliability segment ■ Technology-driven contribution to existing and new businesses Lubricants Research Laboratory ■ Research and development of lubricants and tribology (lubrication technology) Examples of Specific Initiatives Idemitsu Lubricants America Corporation R&D Center ■ Local-based research and development of lubricants Lubricants Idemitsu Lube (China) Co., Ltd. Research & Development Center ■ Global development of lubricants products and technologies with the Lubricants Research ■ Development of CIS solar cell technology Laboratory (Japan) as the mother research center Idemitsu Lube Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. R&D Center ■Rapid product development and provision of technical services to meet local needs in overseas At the Atsugi Research Center of Solar Frontier K.K., we are engaged in leading-edge research and development related to CIS solar cells, aiming to improve energy conversion efficiency at Nippon Grease Co., Ltd. Technical Research Laboratory ■ Research and development of grease, rust prevention oil, cutting oil, etc. both the research and commercial production levels, as well as developing new applications and Performance Materials Laboratories ■ Development of advanced materials through high-value-added petrochemical raw materials developing advanced next-generation products with market development potential. Advanced In January 2019, a joint research project with the NEDO (New Energy and Industrial Technolmaterials & Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd. R&D Center for Plastic Products ■ Research and development for resin processing product Performance ogy Development Organization) led to the achievement of a world record energy conversion effichemicals Lion Idemitsu Composites Co., Ltd. Composite Materials Research Laboratory ■ Design, development and analysis of customer grades of composite materials that meet cusciency of 23.35% for the cadmium-free CIS solar cell (Cd-Free CIS solar cell)’s cell (about 1 cm2). tomer needs This record is approximately 0.4 percentage points higher than the highest conversion efficiency Functional Electronic Materials Development Center materials ■ Research and development of OLED materials of 22.9% (Achieved by our company in November 2017) for cadmium-containing CIS solar cells, segment Idemitsu OLED Materials Europe AG and represents the highest conversion efficiency in the world for all CIS solar cells. By applying Electronic materials Advanced Electronic Materials Development Group ■ Research and development of special polycarbonate resins and functional coating agents basic technologies, we are working to lower costs by increasing the output of panels and to deliver environmentally friendly and economical products to customers. Inorganic Materials Development Group ■ Research and development of oxide semiconductor materials ■ Utilization of Collagen and Mucin Derived from Jellyfish ■ Basic research on asphalt and its applications Asphalt Bitumen R&D Section These days, jellyfish are popular in aquariums because of their beautiful appearance. However, ■ Development of high performance asphalt ■ Development of active ingredients for pesticides and feed additives derived from microorganjellyfish may have a negative impact on fisheries and businesses of companies along the coast. Agri-Bio Technology Section isms and natural products The use of jellyfish as a resource is desired worldwide. Agri-Bio SDS Biotech K.K. ■ Development of safe and useful products for the protection of livestock and plants and preJellyfish Research Laboratories, Inc. (Kanagawa Prefecture), the company of our Group, has Tsukuba Research & Technology Center vention of diseases invented a technology to utilize useful ingredients made from jellyfish. Collagen derived from jellyLithium-ion battery Battery Material Development Center ■ Development of sulfide-based solid electrolytes for practical application of all-solid-state lithfish has been confirmed to be effective in promoting the regeneration of epidermis which is material ium ion batteries considered to be difficult to regenerate, and is expected to be used in the fields of regenerative Power and renewable Photovoltaic Office of Next Generation Product Development medicine and beauty treatment. Mucin derived from jellyfish is also expected to have potential as ■ Research and development of CIS solar cells energy segment power generation Solar Frontier K.K. Atsugi Research Center a treatment for knee osteoarthritis. Resources ■ Only private research institute specializing in coal By taking advantage of the characteristics of jellyfish, we will create the future of life science Coal Coal & Environment Research Laboratory ■ Provision of technology services that anticipate needs and development of clean coal technolsegment ogies to meet the needs of a low-carbon society and contribute to the quality of life of people around the world. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 23 Response to Climate Change Response to Circular Economy Idemitsu Group’s Information Disclosure on Climate Change Concept of Circular Economy We disclose information in accordance with TCFD* recommendations. We will proactively disclose information to stakeIdemitsu Group recognizes that the goal of realizing a circular economy is to transform the conventional mass producholders by accurately identifying risks and opportunities of climate change in our business through our information distion, mass consumption and mass disposal society into a society that minimizes the consumption of natural resources closure framework. and reduces the burden on the environment as much as possible. We are promoting a variety of initiatives to ensure that renewable resources are consumed within their renewable capabilities, that resources without renewable capabilities are consumed in the most effective manner, or can be shifted to other renewable resources while reducing their use over a Page for Area TCFD recommendations Idemitsu’s disclosure disclosure long period of time. 1. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities ● Governance system for climate change P.15 Governance Examples of Specific Initiatives 2. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related We aim to realize sustainable circular business by reusing renewable resources as much as possible and incorporating ● Governance system for climate change P.15 risks and opportunities them into its business supply chain. Specifically, we are engaged in plastic recycling, solar panel recycling, and, from a long-term perspective, carbon ● Identification of risks and opportuni1. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization ties P.18 recycling, which treats CO2 as a resource. has identified over the short, medium, and long term ● Responding to risks and opportunities Strategy 2. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the ● Identification of risks and opportunities P.18 Plastic Recycling organization's businesses, strategy, and financial planning ● Responding to risks and opportunities We are working on the practical application of chemical recycling, in which collected plastics are decomposed and 3. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into P.7, 9, returned to chemical raw materials by using the cracking units for petroleum refining. ● Scenario Analysis consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or ● Business portfolio reform lower scenario 18 ● Climate change risk assessment 1. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing process (Evaluation by each business P.15, climate-related risks site and the Safety & Environmental 16, 18 Protection Headquarters) Collection Decomposed Risk ● Climate change risk assessment 2. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related P.15, management process (Report to the Management Waste plastic Refinery cracking units Plastic resin risks 16, 18 Committee and evaluation) 3. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing cliThe problem of marine plastic waste involves the related all companies in the supply chain. Idemitsu has joined two ● Climate change risk assessment P.15, mate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk manprocess industry associations and started sharing and exploring information. We are also working to raise awareness of the probagement 16, 18 lem of marine plastics waste within the Company. 1. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related ● GHG emissions absolute amount and risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management P.19 per unit of production ■ Japan Initiative for Marine Environment (JaIME) process JalME was established by five Japanese chemical-related associations (Japan Chemical Industry Association, The Japan Metrics 2. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG (green● GHG emissions reduction targets P.19 Plastics Industry Federation, Plastic Waste Management Institute, Japan Petrochemical Industry Association, and Vinyl and Targets house gas) emissions, and the related risks Environmental Council). 3. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related ■ Clean Ocean Material Alliance (CLOMA) ● GHG emissions reduction targets P.19 risks and opportunities and performance against targets CLOMA is affiliated by 250 companies in the plastic supply chain. * TCFD: The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures established by the Financial Stability Board in 2015 Recycling of Solar Panels In collaboration with NEDO, Solar Frontier K.K. of our Group is working on the development of CIS solar cell recycling technology. This recycling technology is characterized by the separation and collection of each material. It has been confirmed that more than 90% of rare metals such as indium and selenium contained in the battery can be collected. We will apply this treatment technology to the recycling of crystalline silicon solar panels. In the future, we plan to construct a pilot line at the Kunitomi Plant, where we will study the feasibility of solar panel recycling technology. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 24 Response to Circular Economy Waste Reduction Carbon Recycling Concept of Waste Reduction Considering CO2 as a carbon resource, we promote carbon recycling by producing various carbon compounds from CO2 Idemitsu Group works on reducing environmental impact by reducing the volume of industrial waste generation and by and reusing them for chemicals, fuel, minerals, etc. promoting the reuse of raw materials and the utilization of recycled raw materials from the perspective of the effective Idemitsu is a member of the Working Group on the Roadmap for Carbon Recycling Technologies organized by the use of resources. Japanese government, and is engaged in research and development of carbonation, artificial photosynthesis, and other Major wastes generated by our businesses include waste catalysts used in refining processes at refineries, sludge technologies. from tank cleaning, and sludge from wastewater treatment facilities. On the other hand, we reduce the volume of these wastes and make them harmless through intermediate treatment such as incineration, dehydration and dissolution, and promote their reuse as raw material for cement, continuing zero emissions to reduce the final disposal volume of ● Carbonate production wastes to 1% or less. Our company, with the participation of Ube Industries, Ltd., JGC Corporation, and several universities, established the ■ Breakdown of industrial waste disposal (FY2018) Industrial waste CCSU (Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage with Utilization) containing a lot Idemitsu Showa Shell Study Group as an industry-university collaboration to develop Ion extraction of calcium Volume of final disposal 1,383 t Volume of final disposal 0 t new technologies that convert CO2 emitted from thermal CO2 Volume of Volume of power plants and factories into resources by utilizing industrial Carbonate reduced by reduced by intermediate treatment Volume recycled intermediate treatment waste containing a large amount of calcium. As the Japanese production 107,605 t 14,102 t 26,087 t government promotes the development of technologies for Volume of Volume of total waste total waste CO2 recovery and other measures to combat global warming, Volume recycled 209,828 t * Scope of data: Hokkaido Refinery, 40,188 t * Scope of data: we are working on the development of new technologies that 100,840 t Chiba Complex, Aichi Refinery, Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., Tokuyama Complex, TOA Oil Co., Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. utilize industrial waste containing high levels of calcium and Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation, * Reporting period: April 2018 to March other substances to react with CO2 for production of carbonMass consumption Carbonates High added value Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works 2019 ate and added-value materials. ● Artificial photosynthesis ■ Final disposal rate at group refineries We have succeeded in the direct synthesis of methane and (%) Idemitsu Showa Shell other hydrocarbons from water and CO2 using a gas diffuHydrocarbons and alcohols 1.2 Achievement of zero emissions in the industrial recognition sion electrode loaded with our original catalysts. Renewable energy (Final disposal rate was less than 1%) We will continue developing the gas diffusion electrode to 1.0 advance research on artificial photosynthesis. By 2030, we will Oxygen 0.8 0.659 establish technology to produce valuable materials such as hydrocarbons and alcohols from water and CO2 using renewable 0.6 0.439 * The final disposal rate at Idemitsu increased significantly since FY2017. This was mainly due to the disposal of materials generated by the removal of the energy sources with high efficiency. Through the reuse of CO2, CO2 0.4 oil refining equipment (suspended in March 2014) and others in Tokuyama we will contribute to realizing a sustainable society. Complex. The disposal is scheduled to be completed by FY2020. 0.2 0.075 0.064 * Scope of Idemitsu's data: Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex, Aichi Refinery, 0.052 0.008 0.000 Tokuyama Complex, Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation, Prime Polymer Co. Gas diffusion electrode (Anode) 0.0 Ltd., Anesaki Works 0.032 0.034 0.036 * Scope of Showa Shell's data: Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil Co., 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 25 Water Management Concept of Utilization of Water Resources Reduction of Water Consumption by Collaboration with Other Companies The problem of water resources in the world has become serious. It is said that more than two billion people are unable At Aichi Refinery, we are working on reducing water consumption by sharing cold water with other companies through to obtain safe drinking water. Japan has abundant water resources, and so it is rare to face a severe water shortage cooperation within the industrial complex. This is an initiative supported by the Research Association of Refinery Integraproblem. However, there are many countries and regions overseas where water resources are depleted. Idemitsu Group tion for Group-Operation (RING). By effectively using the chilled water discharged from the LNG vaporizer of Chita LNG is committed to the efficient use of water resources, as we operate business in areas with high water stress. Co., Ltd., which is adjacent to the complex, as process cooling water, we are contributing to the reduction of water intake In addition to conventional water risk assessments, we have begun to identify and review risks of droughts and flood in the Chita area as a whole. at some of our complexes, with reference to AQUEDUCT issued by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and information provided by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. In Japan, the risk of flooding is high, and damage is expected to increase due to climate change in the future. Therefore, we are working to strengthen related infrastructure ■ Chilled water supply through cooperation within the industrial complex facilities. (Concept of Climate Change Adaptation on page 21) Supply Chilled water Demand Chilled water is produced after Supplying chilled water from LNG Cooling water required vaporization process plant to refinery to operate refineries Liquid Gas Thermal power station etc. Examples of Specific Initiatives LNG storage Vaporizer Strengthening of Water Recycling at Refineries and Complexes Ambient temperature water Our refineries and complexes, which use a large amount of water, are working on reducing their water consumption. Chita LNG Co., Ltd. Aichi Refinery A certain amount of water (seawater and fresh water) is required to cool the process fluid during the oil refining process at refineries. Fresh water (hot water) used for cooling is circulated in an air-cooled condenser for cooling, and is Sea used again as cooling water for the process fluid to reduce the impact on the natural environment. As a water user, we will make further efforts to recycle water resources. Recycling of industrial water (FY2018) Idemitsu Showa Shell Industrial water intake (thousand t) 59,281 40,316 Recycled (thousand t) 543,645 1,144,821 Recycling rate (%) 90.2 96.6 * Scope of Idemitsu's data: Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex, Aichi Refinery, Tokuyama Complex, Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation, Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works * Scope of Showa Shell's data: Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil Co., Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 26 Conservation of Biodiversity Concept of Conservation of Biodiversity Collaboration with External Institutions and Organizations It is said that there are a wide variety of living organisms on the earth, which intertwine complicatedly to form an ecosysSince December 1996, Hokkaido Refinery has been using the Corporate Forest Program started by the Forest Agency, tem which absorbs various external changes to restore the original state. Idemitsu Group recognizes that it is an importin which corporates participate in the upkeep of national forests to contribute to society and the environment. We named ant mission for a company to hand over this ecosystem to future generations and maintain an environment in which diour watershed protection forest “Idemitsu Appenai Watershed Forest” and manage it appropriately. In addition, Aichi verse living organisms can continue to live. For this reason, we pay attention to air, water, and soil, which are Refinery is a key active member of the Inochi wo Tsunagu Project*” which aims to improve biodiversity and promote the indispensable for living organisms, from the stage of designing our various production facilities. formation of ecosystem networks. Kunitomi Plant of Solar Frontier K.K. uses groundwater of Aya Town, Miyazaki Prefecture. Every year since 2012, the Plant has participated in the Teruha no Mori Ongaeshi Project which protects and restores the large laurel forest in Aya Town. The Examples of Specific Initiatives large laurel forest in Aya Town is home for many rare and endangered species, helping protect these animals and plants. * Inochi wo Tsunagu Project”: An organization mainly comprising Aichi municipalities, companies, university students, and experts that aims to increase greenery and create Establishment of Green Belts at Refineries easily habitable environments for wildlife Our refineries developed and maintain significantly larger green belts than the area required by law when it constructed In addition, in the Tokyo area, we participate in the Public-Private Cooperation Forum for Tokyo Bay Restoration where its refineries. This initiative is based on the recognition that we must coexist in harmony with society, including local we work on restoring biodiversity in Tokyo Bay by creating evaluation indicators for Tokyo Bay restoration and conductresidents, and minimize the environmental impact when operating its refineries. ing surveys on water quality. Our initiative like this is highly evaluated by external organizations. Hokkaido Refinery and Aichi Refinery have re■ Idemitsu Appenai Watershed Forest ■ Teruha no Mori Ongaeshi Project ceived the highest grade of 5 (Superlative Stage) in the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) organized by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. Providing Students with Opportunities for Environmental Education General public access to our facilities is strictly restricted because our production bases, namely refineries and complexSource: SEGES website (Japanese only) https://seges.jp/ es, handle hazardous materials. This has allowed the green spaces in the facilities to become rich in biodiversity, function as sanctuaries for birds and other small animals, and in some spots, become ideal habitats. Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba ■ Green belt of Hokkaido Refinery ■ Green belt of Aichi Refinery Complex, and Aichi Refinery use these green spaces and natural parks to provide opportunities for environmental education to children and students of local elementary schools. ■ Wild bird watching (Hokkaido Refinery) ■ Nature observation (Aichi Refinery) Conservation of Rare Species Every time we install new equipment at our refineries and complexes, we conduct an environmental assessment to shelter any endangered plants species that have been identified through ecosystem surveys. Currently, at Aichi Refinery we are working to conserve the endangered plant species, Salvia plebeia (designated as a quasi-endangered species by the Ministry of the Environment), which was discovered when new facility construction was undertaken. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 27 Conservation of Biodiversity Land Use Change Ballast Water Measures in Ocean-Going Transportation Concept of Land Use Change Our ocean-going tankers have undertaken various activities in accordance with the Ballast Water Management ConvenSoil, along with air and water, is an important element in considering the global environment. In recent years, along with tion (International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments), which came into world population growth, areas that used to be green belts have been developed and converted to agricultural land at an effect on September 8, 2017, and guidelines of the IMO (International Maritime Organization) to prevent the ecosystem accelerated rate. The United Nations has pointed out the importance of initiatives related to Land Use, Land-Use Change destruction induced by foreign species. Ballast water is water (seawater) used as weight for ship stabilization. The conand Forestry (LULUCF). These land-use changes will result in the loss of CO2 sinks and have serious adverse effects from vention mandates the installation of ballast treatment systems within a certain timeframe. In line with this rule, tankers the perspective of climate change. In addition, nutrient-rich topsoil, which had been protected from wind and rain by (VLCC) managed by Idemitsu Tanker are being installed with said systems. As of January 31, 2020, we finished installing forests, was lost due to deforestation, leading to desertification. electrolytic or filter/disinfectant treatment systems on APOLLO DREAM and APOLLO ENERGY. Idemitsu Group is actively engaged in projects to minimize the environmental impact of changes in land use. To prevent disturbance of local ecosystem at ports of call, we use ballast water treatment systems to eliminate the harmful aquatic life and pathogens in ballast water. Or during transit our ocean-going tankers replace the seawater they take in as ballast water when leaving port with water from the open ocean, which has little impact on local ecosystems. Examples of Specific Initiatives Rehabilitation of Coal Mines in Australia We are engaged in coal mining business in Australia. At a mining site where mining has been completed, we are rehabilitating the mining site by replacing stockpiled topsoil and plants to restore its original and natural state. In addition, we have acquired around 11,000 ha of land surrounding our mines, and protects plants and animals to maintain biodiversity. These measures have minimized the impact of the land use associated with the coal mining project on the surrounding environment. ■ Rehabilitation of the mining site Coal Topsoil covering Topsoil Topsoil removal Coal mining Stripping Replacing and leveling of ground Planting and greening * Prepared by Idemitsu based on data provided by Japan Coal Energy Center ■ State of rehabilitation Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 28 Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of Hazardous Substances Concept of Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of Hazardous Substances CAS Discharged amount Transferred Substance name Unit Total Idemitsu Group, which manufactures and supplies petrochemical raw materials and products, has established the GenNo. Atmosphere Water body Soil amount eral Principles of Quality Assurance and works on improving the safety of production process workers and product 349 phenol t 0.2 0.0 0.0 6.7 6.9 users by conducting prior risk assessment of chemical substances, reducing and eliminating hazardous substances from 389 hexadecyltrimethylammonium chloride t 0.0 9.8 0.0 0.0 9.8 production processes and products, and providing information on chemical substances contained in products. In order 392 n-hexane t 40.4 0.0 0.0 2.6 43.0 to minimize not only the impact on human health but also the negative impact on the ecosystem and the environment, 400 benzene t 4.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.4 we comply with stricter regulations on chemical substances in Japan and overseas. 406 polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) t 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.2 4.2 411 formaldehyde t 0.0 0.0 0.0 33.6 33.6 412 manganese and its compounds t 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.0 8.0 Measures for Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of Hazardous Substances 453 molybdenum and its compounds t 0.0 0.0 0.0 22.0 22.0 * Scope of data: Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex, Aichi Refinery, Tokuyama Complex, Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation, Prime Polymer Co. Ltd., Anesaki Works, BASF Management of PRTR-Designated Substances Idemitsu Co., Ltd., Omaezaki Factory, Advanced Technology Research Laboratories, Technology & Engineering Center * Chemicals are not listed if the total volume of discharge and transfer is less than 0.1 ton per year. Figures presented above may not be consistent with the totals since they Among the chemical substances regulated by the PRTR Law *1, benzene, toluene, xylene, normal hexane and other are rounded off to the nearest one decimal place. highly volatile substances contained in crude oil, petroleum products, petrochemical raw materials will be partially evaporated into the atmosphere as VOC *2 whenever oil is transferred into or removed from storage tanks as well as when it Discharge and transfer of PRTR-Designated substances (Showa Shell FY2018 Results) is loaded onto tanker trucks and ships. To minimize such VOC emissions, the Idemitsu Group stores these chemicals in CAS Discharged amount Transferred Substance name Unit Total floating roof tanks that reduce evaporation, and carries out measures aimed at ensuring VOC recovery during transport. No. Atmosphere Water body Soil amount Chemical substances transferred to locations outside complexes are disposed of in compliance with the Waste Dispos33 asbestos t 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 al and Public Cleansing Law. 53 ethylbenzene t 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 *1 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register 80 xylene t 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 *2 VOC: Volatile Organic Compounds 243 dioxins mg-TEQ 0.00 0.26 0.00 0.00 0.26 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene t 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 Discharge and transfer of PRTR-Designated substances (Idemitsu FY2018 Results) 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene t 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 CAS Discharged amount Transferred 300 toluene t 24.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 24.8 Substance name Unit Total No. Atmosphere Water body Soil amount 392 n-hexane t 67.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 67.0 1 water-soluble compounds of zinc t 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.8 400 benzene t 7.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.7 13 acetonitrile t 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 1.1 * Scope of data: Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil Co., Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. 20 2-aminoethanol t 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.6 50.6 * Reporting period: April 2018 to March 2019 * Chemicals are not listed if the total volume of discharge and transfer is less than 0.1 ton per year. Figures presented above may not be consistent with the totals since they 33 asbestos t 0.0 0.0 0.0 34.4 34.4 are rounded off to the nearest one decimal place. 37 4,4'-isopropylidenediphenol (commonly known as bisphenol A) t 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 3.0 53 ethylbenzene t 7.4 0.0 0.0 0.8 8.2 xylene Controlling PCBs 80 t 13.7 0.0 0.0 59.0 72.7 104 chlorodifluoromethane t 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 In accordance with the Law concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes, at refiner186 dichloromethane t 0.4 0.0 0.0 10.7 11.1 ies and complexes, we appropriately store and manage oil containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as well as trans190 dicyclopentadiene t 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 formers or other equipment that contain these substances. Under the same Law and the national Basic Plan for PCB 232 N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) t 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.5 9.5 Waste Treatment, final deadlines have been set for the completion of the treatment of all PCB waste and, accordingly, we 240 styrene t 28.0 0.0 0.0 6.5 34.5 are steadily carrying out the processing of such waste. 262 tetrachloroethylene (TCE) t 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 1.4 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene t 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene Managing CFCs 297 t 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 300 toluene t 19.4 0.0 0.0 117.6 136.9 In accordance with the Act for Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, which came into effect on April 302 naphthalene t 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 1, 2015, we have been implementing steps to prevent the leakage of fluorocarbons. The Safety, Environment (HSSE) & 308 nickel t 0.0 0.0 0.0 17.0 17.0 Quality Assurance Department undertakes annual inspections on the progress of changeover to non-fluorocarbon cool309 nickel compounds t 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 ants at our facilities. As our refineries and complexes house a significant portion of our large-scale processing equipment 321 vanadium compounds t 0.0 0.0 0.0 29.0 29.0 containing CFCs and HCFCs, which damage the ozone layer, we have been replacing these equipment during the performance of major shutdown maintenance, aiming to eliminate the use of CFCs and HCFCs by March 2026. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 29 Pollution Prevention Concept of Pollution Prevention Measures against Ground Pollution To reduce the environmental impact of our business, we not only comply with environment-related laws but also autonThere are ground contamination risks at our oil refineries, complexes, plants, SS (service station) caused by oil leaks from omously take preventive measures in accordance with internal rule (Basic Essential Points on Health Safety Security and underground pipes etc. To address the risks, we have been implementing autonomous surveys of ground and groundEnvironment (HSSE)). Furthermore, in order to contribute to pollution prevention not only within the Company but also water pollution and undertaking purification measures if any. In particular, when the closure or rebuilding facilities cause within society as a whole, we feed back Idemitsu Group's knowledge and experience to committees of the Ministry of changes in the character of the land, we implement proper management to prevent pollution, including resurvey of the Environment and Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) that review the application of the Water Pollution Control ground pollution, in compliance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law. Law and the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law, where we work on developing research and analysis methods * In FY2018, there were no serious oil spills. and reducing the environmental impact by strictly preventing emissions of pollutants. Measures to Prevent Water and Marine Pollution Measures to Prevent Air Pollution In offshore oil development operations, effluent water containing oil is generated during test drilling and development. To Air pollutants discharged through our businesses include sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and soot/dust emitprevent sea pollution, the generated water is treated using a separator and the oil is transported to land-based facilities ted from boilers and furnaces as well as volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from crude oil or petroleum product storage for processing and the oil-free water is returned to the sea after being treated to meet effluent water standards. In additanks and tanker truck loading facilities. Thus, our refineries and complexes carry out operational management to ensure tion, we always consult an expert to conduct an environmental impact assessment prior to test drilling and development compliance with emission standards under laws and regulations as well as with emission limits prescribed by regional to ensure that the impact is at an acceptable level. In case of a marine oil spillage, we promptly deploy an oil containment pollution prevention agreements. boom to restrict its spread and recover the spilled oil in accordance with our “Oil Pollution Contingency Plan. During transport by ocean-going tankers, we take measures from aspects of both equipment and personnel to ■ Trend of air pollutant emissions maintain a record of zero oil spillage. In the area of equipment, each of our very large crude carriers (VLCC) in operation Idemitsu SOx NOx Soot/dust Showa Shell SOx NOx is double-hulled (to prevent oil spillage due to a minor damage), thereby reducing the risk of oil spills. In terms of personSoot/dust nel, we provide regular training, including onboard emergency response drills and safety and environmental education, (t) 7,967 (t) ( t )of data: Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex, Aichi Refinery, * Scope for( tall ) crew members. 8,000 7,105 7,058 400 8,000 Tokuyama Complex, Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation, Prime Polymer 400 Emissions of SOx and NOx Emissions of SOx and NOx 6,392 6,453 6,565 5,994 6,066 Co. Ltd., Anesaki Works, BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd., Keihin Lube Center, Emission of soot/dust Emission of soot/dust 6,457 6,640 232 245 285 Moji Lube Center, Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd., SDS Biotech K.K. 230 231 300 6,000 6,000 300 3,018 4,000 200 4,000 2,262 2,694 2,972 200 2,902 2,125 135 2,189 2,250 2,769 1,942 80 91 95 2,000 100 2,000 72 100 Crude oil Crude oil Crude oil Crude oil Crude oil Crude oil 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Sea water ballast tank Single hull cross section Double hull cross section t Showa Shell SOx NOx Soot/dust t) (t) (t) * Scope of data: Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil Co., Ltd., 0 8,000 400 Emissions of SOx and NOx Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. In addition, we will aim to provide safe and stable energy and materials, and will contribute to the creation of a sustainEmission of soot/dust Emission of soot/dust able society by proactively engaging in environmental protection activities, including solving the problem of marine 0 6,000 300 plastics waste. In September 2019, Idemitsu Group joined the Clean Ocean Material Alliance (CLOMA) which aims to 3,018 solve the problem of marine plastics waste. 0 4,000 2,262 2,694 2,972 200 2,902 2,125 135 2,189 2,250 2,769 1,942 80 91 95 0 2,000 72 100 0 0 r) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 30 Human Resources Policy Action Mindset Human Rights Priority Issues In order to realize Management Vision, Idemitsu group has 1. Promotion of Diversity 6. Freedom of Association and Recognition of the Right established the Action Mindset which is the basis for all 2. Prohibition of forced labor to Collective Bargaining employees' attitudes and actions to be taken. Believing in Independence and autonomy 3. Prohibition of Child Labor 7. Maintaining our Working Environment the limitless possibilities of human beings, we strive to 4. Prohibition of Discrimination 8. Land, Water and the Use of Natural Resources grow by constantly increasing each other's potential, and We think and act initiatively 9. Respect for the Rights of Indigenous Peoples have the following 5 pillars: Independence and autono5. Prohibition of Harassment my Innovation Co-creation Health and safety and Integrity. Co-creation Innovation All employees shall strive to deepen understanding of We embrace diverse Growth We challenge new things Idemitsu Group Human Rights Policy https://sustainability.idemitsu.com/en/themes/201 capabilities to initiate continuously with Management Vision, Action Mindset and various policies, chemical reactions future-oriented take pride in being a member of us, be aware of their reAiming for the peak together mindset by believing in infinite sponsibilities, and conduct fair and transparent corporate potentials of our people activities. Health and safety Integrity Concept of Diversity and Inclusion As an energy co-creation company originating in Japan, Idemitsu Group will work with diverse stakeholders to create We prioritize health and We act modestly and safety upon all sincerely based on high new values in order to solve the various social issues. ethical standards Idemitsu Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy has been established to clarify the significance and purpose of diversity and inclusion in our group and to promote them with a common understanding. Concept of Human Rights Idemitsu Group Diversity & Inclusion Policy ttps://sustainability.idemitsu.com/en/themes/200 Idemitsu Group believes in the infinite possibilities of “the power of human beings”. By maximizing the full potential of all our employees, trusting, and cooperating with each other, we aim to contribute to the energy security of countries and regions around the world for the brightness and prosperity of the people who live there. With this vision for our group, respecting human rights is at the core of everything we do and is the fundamental element of our business. This policy applies to all executive officers and employees of our group. We also expect all business partners, including our suppliers, to understand and comply with this policy. We seek to work in harmony with both the international and local community, and does not allow discrimination against any individual or groups. In addition, we prohibit words or actions that could harm human dignity, be it physically or mentally. We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, as we conduct business both in Japan and worldwide. We also support the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the United Nations Global Compact. In addition, we comply with the laws of the countries and regions where we operate, and if local laws contradict internationally recognized human rights standards, we will seek ways to honor the principles of international human rights without violating local laws. We promote a culture of open communication and feedback so that employees can discuss human rights concerns with their managers. In addition, to deal with violations or potential violations of the Code of Conduct, including human rights issues, we have a reporting and consultation service (Internal and External Contact Points on page 56) for executives and employees. Also, we have a contact point (Customer Service Center on page 13-14) for external stakeholders to report concerns about our business activities. We also disclose information on our efforts to respect human rights on our website as needed. Our group's Human Rights Policy has been approved by the Management Committee, which deliberates on important matters relating to the execution of business, and the Board of Directors, which is the decision-making body for the execution of business, with the advice of outside experts. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 31 Human Resources Policy Basic Concept of Personnel Strategy ■ Overview of Personnel Measures Idemitsu recognizes that human resource risks include mismatches in aptitude and career levels resulting from rapid environmental changes such as digitization and robotization, and a shortage of human resources due to intensifying Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities competition in the acquisition of human resources. At the same time, however, we recognize that these environmental changes provide opportunities for diverse employees to grow autonomously and transform themselves into a company ● Development of education system to realize Management Vision that creates new values. • Enhancement of rank-based and open training to acquire business skills and mindsets • Improving management skills to create new values In such an environment, our Management Vision and Action Mindset state that Hitowa, Mugenno Energy. (People • Development of domestic and overseas study programs, overseas interns, and external training programs to have limitless energy.) as our slogan. We are developing personnel measures that support the people-centered manGrowth broaden our horizons agement along the slogan We aim not only to contribute to the development of society, but also to enrich the lives of our in My Own Way employees by enabling each and every one of us to make the best use of our abilities and by enhancing the team strength ● Career development support (CDP) for employees based on structural changes and system atic development of management personnel of the entire organization and supply chain. • Formulation and implementation of a training plan that emphasizes mutual understanding between employees and the company • Internal recruitment system and personnel transfers to build autonomous career plans Growth in My Own Way Creating New Values Together × • Linking succession plans with education and transfer plans (including national staff) Stimulating self-growth Creating a Workplace Where Diverse motivation and providing Employees Can Create Together growth opportunities and Hiring Human Resources Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources ● Creating workplaces that take advantage of diversity • Flexible and flat organization and personnel shift to growth areas • Creating time to create new values by promoting DTK project Hitowa, Mugenno Energy. Creating • Expanding cross-divisional networks, such as promoting the active participation of women (People have limitless energy.) New Values • Improvement of workplace culture based on an employee engagement survey and Next Forum Together • Constructing a collaborative environment through 360 degree evaluation (multifaceted evaluation) ● Recruitment of diverse human resources • Creation of a (recruitment strategy) recruitment and branding method that takes into account the youths' point Trust of Employees and of view and the uniqueness of us the Company • Examination of recruitment timing and targets based on the characteristics of each division Establishment of personnel systems that are rewarding and that enable employees to focus on their work with peace of mind Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind ● Shared vision and development of a fair and equitable, and reliable personnel system • Understanding and dissemination of Management Vision and Action Mindset • Establishment and operation of a fair and equitable personnel evaluation system Trust • Efficient and reliable business operations through the introduction of a new personnel system of Employees ● Dissemination of systems that respect diversity and work styles regardless of place or time and • Enhancement of systems, including flexible working hours and telework, and development of measures to the Company promote the use of such systems ● Enhancement of systems that enable employees to focus on their work with peace of mind • Enhancement of systems related to childcare and nursing care and measures to support the return of employees on leave • Implementation of health management leading to autonomous health management • Development of systems and measures for further advancement of employees 60 years and older Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities Concept of Human Resource Education Examples of Specific Initiatives Setting human resource development as one of our management objectives, we are committed to planning and designing employee education based on our Management Vision and Action Mindset. On the basis of skills development Educational Cross-Industry Training for Developing Leadership through on-the-job training (OJT), we support each employee to make the best use of their abilities by complementing With the aim of training personnel to demonstrate leadership rooted the off-the-job training system (Off-JT) linked to the grading system. To this end, we will provide them with opportunities in their own convictions, we have been holding cross-industry trainfor self-development by combining selective, open, and level-specific training. ing for mid-level employees in conjunction with other companies Until FY2018, Idemitsu and Showa Shell had conducted rank-based and age-based training, selective training, (daily necessities and insurance industries) since FY2016. Every compliance training, and other programs based on their respective educational systems. Idemitsu made most of its year, 24 people (from three companies) participate in about sixtraining in-house while Showa Shell implemented most of its training supported by other companies, resulting in a differmonth training program that creates opportunities for them to gain ence in the amount of investment in training. Since FY2019, however, the new integrated company has worked to implegood people skills and creative vision by encountering diverse valment cross-industry training for new graduates education and leadership development. ues and ideas, as well as by exploring their own leadership skills for leaders of future generations. In addition to this training, we actively send employees to outside training. Training hours and amount of investment in FY2018 Idemitsu Showa Shell Total hours 70,880 14,633 Workshop for Developing the Foundation of the Organization Training hours (hours) Per person 17.8 21.0 In FY2019, we held workshops throughout Japan, including at overseas bases. In the first workshop, 600 managers, who have subordinates from different backgrounds, participated in a skill and mindset training program aimed at understandTotal amount 226,769 299,611 ing events that are likely to occur during the integration phase and facilitating the smooth integration. In the second Amount of investment in training (thousand yen) workshop, we encouraged representatives of both managers and staff in charge to further promote understanding of the Per person 57 430 management vision and to set their own declaration of conduct to achieve it. * Results are from training organized by the Human Resources Department of Idemitsu and Showa Shell respectively. First workshop Second workshop Number of times 20 times 37 times Personnel Assignments and Transfers to Match the Right Person to the Right Place Our employees have individual interviews with their superiors once a year to share their hopes and thoughts based on Number of participants 600 people 856 people their future planning sheet which contains information on the level of satisfaction of their current job or workplace, career plans, and personal details. Grasping the direction of each individual employee’s development, the Human Resources Department assigns them to appropriate positions in line with changes in the business structure. We also make changes in their job category and work location as opportunities for them to develop themselves. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 33 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources Employment situation New graduate retention rate (Average for newly hired employees between 2014 and 2016)  (Unit: %) * Average rate of three-year retention of new graduates in the relevant fiscal As of July 1, 2019, Idemitsu has 13,756 consolidated and 4,825 non-consolidated employees. We are promoting initiayears (FY2014 – 2016) tives that enable all employees, regardless of age, gender, nationality, or disabilities, to work energetically. Idemitsu Showa Shell 91.5 95.5 Status of Employees (As of July 1, 2019) ■ Turnover rate of new graduates with less than three years of employment Total Men Women Percentage of women (%) Graduates (Average of all industries) *1 Number of Employees 4,825 people 4,254 people 571 people 11.8 % 35 Graduates (Business establishments with 1,000 or more employees) *1 30 32.3 31.9 32.2 32.0 Idemitsu *2 Number of employees 31.8 971 people 949 people 22 people 2.3 % Showa Shell *2 in managerial positions 25 23.6 24.2 25.0 24.3 Average age 43.0 years old 43.3 years old 41.0 years old 20 22.8 23.8 Average years 15 10.6 19.3 years 19.6 years 16.9 years 13.8 employed 10 7.3 4.0 Percentage of employ2.11% 5 ees with disabilities 5.8 5.0 4.8 0.0 4.0 * The above data covers Idemitsu hiring (employees, seniors, full-time contract employees, and advisors). Includes employees seconded from Showa Shell , but excludes 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Year of employment) employees seconded to other companies. However, the percentage of employees with disabilities includes employees seconded to other companies. * The percentage of employees with disabilities is calculated based on the calculation method of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. *1 Please refer to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's report on the turnover rate of new graduates. *2 Turnover rate of new graduates within three years after employment in the relevant fiscal year Status of Recruitment We said, Hitowa, Mugenno Energy. (People have limitless energy.) Under the slogan, we are recruiting people who can Career Recruitment in FY2018  ( Unit : people) challenge themselves and create new values together while respecting diversity. In the hiring process, we make it a priIdemitsu Showa Shell ority to ensure that employees do not make any mismatches after joining the company by providing internships and contact points with close senior employees so that they can see what we really are. We are also working to raise employ67 42 ee motivation, improve the corporate culture, and expand the system to improve employee retention. * Showa Shell's career recruitment include contract employees. Recruitment of New Graduates in April 2019 Percentage of Ratio of foreign Total Men Women Foreign nationality women nationality 178 people 142 people 36 people 20.2 % 5 people 2.8 % ■ Winter internship meeting Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 34 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources Promotion of Activities by All Employees (Promotion of D&I) Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Training and Other Activities We have formulated the General Employer Action Plan based on the Act on the Promotion of Women’s D&I Experience Event Participation and Advancement in the Workplace to promote participation and career advancement of women. In addition, we have been recognized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a childSince October 2018, the event has been held to meet the needs of care support company for the formulation and implementation of the General Employer Action Plan each department of Idemitsu and Showa Shell with a total of 826 based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children and participants as of December 31, 2019. In the experience event, parhave received the certification mark Kurumin. * Based on the plan, we will continue to improve the ticipants discuss common dilemmas in the workplace (including employment environment and working conditions that will contribute to the development of the next balancing work and childcare) within a group to recognize the difgeneration and to implement measures to support the development of the next generation. ference between their thoughts, values and what they treasure and * Kurumin is a mark awarded by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies that actively support the development of the next generation. Based on the Act on those of other members. We will continue to hold this kind of expeAdvancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, the General Employer Action Plan can be formulated and certified if certain standards are met. rience event to promote activities conducted by diverse human reWe have obtained certification since 2012. sources through D&I. Promotion of Activities by Employees Aged 60 and Over Seminar for Managers Who Have Subordinates Who Have Newborn Babies The system will be revised to allow each employee to make the most of his or her abilities after the age of 60 and to work with a sense of satisfaction and security against a backdrop of diversification of working age and form and willingness to In June 2019, we held a seminar for 110 managers who have subwork. Beginning in FY2021, we will introduce a retirement age selection system for employees aged 60-65. In FY2025, ordinates who had returned to work from childcare leave and who we plan to introduce a system in which all employees can work as employees up to the age of 65. had newborn babies. At the seminar, the participants shared management skills for employees with restricted working hours as well as examples of problem solving at workplace. Going forward, while providing seminars and workshops for child-rearing employees and Promoting the Active Participation of People with Disabilities their superiors, we will continue to work on creating an environment We are working to create an environment in which people with disabilities can demonstrate their abilities and work, and where superiors can understand the relevant employees as well as to provide opportunities for such people. In addition to operations at the head office and other sites around the country, the employees can balance their work and childcare. in 2011 we began cleaning accommodation facilities at our training centers and in 2015 we began operations in the horticulture division (Idemitsu Yume Farm), which cultivates flowering plants using the greenhouse facilities of our Advanced Technology Research Laboratories. In 2019, we constructed a strawberry plantation in Tokuyama Complex using waste heat from the site, creating employment opportunities such as cultivation work. The strawberries are used in Harassment Prevention Seminars company cafeterias, and in the future we plan to increase the number of cultivation houses and hire more people with disabilities. We are also considering ways to promote the employment of people with disabilities in each department, and Since December 2018, we have held harassment prevention semiwith a view to expanding operations at our head office, we will continue to promote the creation of workplaces and emnars for directors and managers with the aim of eradicating any ployment opportunities where people with disabilities can work with pride and enjoyment. kind of harassment such as sexual harassment, abuse of authority, ■ Trend of percentage of employees with disabilities ■ Strawberry farm in the Tokuyama Complex and pregnancy discrimination. A total of 1,022 directors and managers (as of October 31, 2019) from Head Office, complexes, and （％） Idemitsu Showa Shell branches participated in the seminars. The seminars provided par2.5 2.30 ticipants with an opportunity to deepen understanding of sexual 2.20 2.11 harassment and abuse of authority in the workplace and to consid2.24 2.11 er the role of managers to prevent such harassment. We will contin2.0 2.10 2.14 2.01 ue these seminars to create harassment-free workplaces. 1.5 ～ 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal Year) * The data for FY2019, as of July 1, 2019, cover Idemitsu hiring (Including employees seconded from Showa Shell and employees seconded to other companies). * Idemitsu's data in FY2015 to 2018 are as of June 1 of each year. * Showa Shell's data in FY2015 to 2017 are as of December 31 of each year. * Showa Shell's data in FY2018 was not disclosed due to the timing of data calculation. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 35 Efforts to Improve Workplace Culture and Motivation Next Forum Initiatives Creation of integration synergies, employee engagement survey, and initiatives to address priority issues raised at Next Forum Next Forum is a company meeting for employees and management to directly discuss, exchange opinions, and make DTK (Dattara Ko Shiyo) Project (=Business Process Redesign) proposals on company-wide issues with the aim of becoming a better company. Meetings are held twice a year, and This project was launched with the aim of reforming the work flow and working style of all employees to ensure the susforum members (total of 110 persons) selected from each department gather opinions from the workplace and directly tainable development of the new integrated company. communicate with management. The opinions of employees are fed back into company-wide activities, and we are imProductivity improvement requires improvement in three factors: improving results, reducing volume of work, and plementing better measures so that everyone can work energetically. improving work engagement. Improving results and reducing volume of work are equivalent to the existing operational In 2019, meetings were held in February and July to discuss ways to improve work efficiency, including the results improvement. The productivity improvement envisioned by this project is aimed at operational improvement x improveof an employee engagement survey and the many comments received from forum members, as well as factors that imment of each employee's work engagement. The project is divided into two phases: Phase I, which aims to unify operpede the improvement of work efficiency, such as work structures and workplace culture. ations of divisions in which the former companies’ operations coexist, and Phase II, which seeks to create new ways of working in all divisions, including digitization. In both phases I and II, we held workshops for leaders appointed by DTK division and members appointed by other divisions and determined guidelines for mission project activities of the project team and delved into issues. Having shifted into Phase II, we are holding study sessions and workshops on BPR (Business Process Redesign), Process Digitization, Smart Work and Agile Work for all departments. All employees of Idemitsu Group work together to improve their work engagement to ensure that they can feel a sense of achievement at the new integrated company that solved any issue that could not have been solved by a single company. ■ Shift to high-value-added businesses Growth ■ Reduction of opportunity loss by Work engagement (Sales and speeding up decision-making PDCA Cycle Based on an Employee Engagement Survey profits, etc.) ■ Increase in output through agile ■ Job satisfaction and sense of development due to an increase in planning and execution We conduct an employee engagement survey once a year to quantitatively and continuously analyze employees' enProductivity high-value-added work ■ Increased excitement through gagement, mutual trust, and unity. improvement ■ Reduction of meeting time advanced work practices The first survey after the business integration was conducted from late July to early August, covering a total of and traveling time ■ Improved relationship with 10,344 people in our company and affiliated companies (27 companies), with 9,970 people (96.4% of total) responding. Volume ■ Work reduction by superiors and co-workers by of work sharing knowledge increasing the frequency of The results of the survey are fed back to management and all employees. Then they are analyzed in detail, and specific ■ Work reduction communication action plans are formulated and implemented based on it. The results of these analyses and plans are then confirmed in through digitization the next year's survey. This is the PDCA cycle. Business Process Redesign (BPR) ■ Results of the 2019 Questionnaire Survey of Motivation Plan ■ Exchange of opinions at forums Decision on overall (management level) initiatives ● Percentage of employees who reported that they are motivated to work 69% Action Do ● Score of the operational efficiency question ■ Reflection in ■ Promotion of ■ Favorable response ■ Interim response ■ Unfavorable response company-wide initiatives company-wide initiatives ■ Reflection in ■ Promotion of Q. In my department, business decisions are smooth. (Unit: %) departmental initiatives departmental initiatives 22 11 67 Q. In my department, we have been able to eliminate the Check factors that make business efficiency worse ■ Workplace opinion hearing (bureaucracy, waste, unnecessary rules, etc.). (Unit: %) ■ Employee engagement survey 35 32 33 Reform of Working Styles at Manufacturing Sites ●  Engagement, mutual trust, and unity scores by age group With the aim of enhancing employees’ work engagement and competitiveness in the Manufacturing & Technology DeBased on the results of the above survey, we will promote compa(Units:%) partment, Head Office established a task team that includes members from manufacturing sites. We are working to reny-wide work flow reforms through the creation of a flat organization Under Age Age Age Total 30 years between between between 60 years form our business by mainly diversifying worksite operations, reducing operations with immediate results, and shifting and the DTK (Dattara Ko Shiyo) project (=Business Process Redesign). or older of age 30 and 40 40 and 50 50 and 60 workers mainly to daytime work. Specifically, we are considering reforms based on the themes of designing operations The results of these efforts will be confirmed in the following 69 62 63 70 76 74 in accordance with needs and abilities of employees and reducing the night workload. year's survey. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 36 Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind Fair Evaluation and Compensation Promotion of Diverse and Flexible Working Styles Idemitsu’s evaluation system is designed to help each and every employee understand the significance of their evaluaAs part of our efforts to create a worker-friendly environment for a diverse range of employees, we have established tion and contribute to their personal development. It consists of ability evaluation for evaluating work attitudes and systems and structures such as the work-from-home system, the flextime system, and satellite offices that could help performance and target achievement evaluation for evaluating performance results and contributions. In interviews reduce the burden of commuting. In FY2019, we participated in Telework Days 2019 organized by the National Governwith the superior, employees confirm the target setting, the level of achievement, and abilities to be developed. The rement and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to promote the use of the telecommuting system. We will work to ensure sults of these evaluations are used for employees’ future development, and are reflected in compensation (salary and that these systems are used to promote efficient work practices going forward. bonus) and personnel allocation and transfers. As for the management of working hours, we use the work management system to appropriately grasp the actual Our compensation system is based on the principle of guarantee of livelihood and fair treatment of employees. Our working conditions of employees and to regularly raise their awareness of working hours, aiming to increase productivisalary system for employees consists of the basic salary that is paid stably to employees who demonstrate their abilities, ty. In FY2018, overtime work hours increased due to the reduction of the prescribed working hours by Idemitsu (7.5 a bonus (target achievement evaluation) for the previous year's performance results and contribution, and various allowhours/day) and the temporary work load resulting from the management integration. In efforts to improve the workplace ances. This is based on the concept that we respect each employee’s lifestyle and values while wishing for the happiness culture and promote job satisfaction (page 35), we aim to achieve a work-life balance by reviewing work and improving of their family. work efficiency. ■ Average overtime work hours per employee ■ Overview of systems for human resource development Idemitsu Showa Shell (Hours/month) (Hours/month) Each employee fulfills Action Mindset at a high level 16.0 15.3 16.0 14.8 14.0 14.0 12.3 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.0 Grading system 9.9 10.0 10.0 8.0 8.0 Provide a system that is consistent 6.0 6.0 with Action Mindset 4.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 Determination of evaluation criteria Determine the level of compensation 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Determine promotion or demotion * Results for Idemitsu and Showa Shell non-consolidated, excluding employees in managerial positions, employees on leave and seconded employees. Compensation system Training and evaluation system Provide satisfactory and secured Promote continuous development ■ Average annual paid leave taken by an employee compensation that supports the toward the fulfillment of Action Idemitsu Showa Shell fulfillment of Action Mindset Reflection of treatment Mindset (Days) (Days) 16.0 16.0 14.9 13.9 14.0 14.0 13.3 12.7 11.7 12.0 11.2 12.0 10.0 10.0 ■ Development cycle toward the fulfillment of Action Mindset 8.0 8.0 6.0 6.0 Setting targets in light of 4.0 4.0 Development through daily Action Mindset and the grade 2.0 2.0 work and communication definitions 0 0 Target setting 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Job performance and lookback * Results for Idemitsu and Showa Shell non-consolidated, excluding employees on leave and seconded employees. Development cycle toward the Average usage rate of annual paid leave per employee fulfillment of (FY2018) (Unit: %) Action Mindset Feedback Idemitsu Showa Shell 68.4 74.6 Identify strengths and Evaluation Confirm development of weaknesses and clarify key abilities and achievement * Results for Idemitsu and Showa Shell non-consolidated, excluding employees on leave and points of ability development of targets seconded employees. * Average usage rate of annual paid leave per employee is the ratio of the number of paid leave taken to the number of paid leave given per year. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 37 Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind Expansion of systems to promote D&I System for employees providing family care To create a worker-friendly environment for a diverse range of employees, on the basis of our Diversity and Inclusion Employees can take up to 365 days of nursing care leave per family member (division of leave Nursing care leave Policy, we will expand the current systems of Idemitsu and Showa Shell in FY2020 as follows: is available). Employees can take up to 10 days of special paid leave per year to provide family care. Family care leave Employees can take them in full-day, half-day or one-hour increments. Systems for all employees Paid leave are granted annually based on the number of years of service (up to 21 days per Systems for employees who provide childcare or nursing care Annual paid leave year). Employees can take leave in half-day increments. Employees can reduce their working hours by up to two hours per day in 30 minute increments Accrued paid leave can be carried over to the next year if the accrual has been yet taken (up to Reduced working hours for Carryover of annual paid leave (childcare: up until the child becomes 3rd grade of elementary school; nursing care: for up to 31 days per year). parenting three years). Flextime Employees can decide the working hours of the day by themselves and can work flexibly. Employees can work from home for two days a week (childcare: up until the child becomes 3rd grade of elementary school; nursing care: up until nursing care is no longer necessary). Telecommuting Employees can use the system three times a week up to 10 times a month, including other Telecommuting Employees can work from home once a week. systems for all employees. Self-development leave of Employees can take a leave of absence of up to two years to attend school or obtain Employees can be exempted from overtime work (childcare: up until the child becomes one Exemption from overtime work absence qualifications that will contribute to their career development at the Company. year old; nursing care: up until nursing care is no longer necessary). Employees can take a leave of absence of up to two years for activities such as disaster relief Employees are allowed to limit overtime work and holiday work to within the range of 24 hours Limitation on overtime work Volunteer leave of absence and international cooperation, nature and environmental conservation, support for people with per month and 150 hours per year (childcare: until the child enters elementary school; nursing and holiday work disabilities, and support for the cultivation of future generations focusing on children. care: until nursing care is no longer necessary). In addition to annual paid leave, employees can take three days of special paid leave per year Employees can be exempted from late-night shift (childcare: until the child enters elementary Exemption from late-night shift for activities such as disaster relief and international cooperation, nature and environmental school; nursing care: until nursing care is no longer necessary). Volunteer leave conservation, support for people with disabilities, and support for the cultivation of future generations focusing on children. Various systems usage numbers in FY2018  (Unit: people) Leave of absence to accompany Idemitsu Showa Shell Employees can take a leave of absence up to three years to accompany their spouse overseas. the spouse overseas Name of system Total Men Women Total Men Women Lay judge and prosecution If an employee is appointed as a lay judge or a prosecution councilor, they will be granted councilor leave necessary special paid leave in addition to annual paid leave. Maternity leave 28 28 26 26 Childcare leave 47 3 44 37 3 34 System for employees for childbirth or childcare Nursing care leave 3 3 0 2 2 0 Female employees can take special leave from six weeks (14 weeks for multiple births) before Reduced working hours for parenting 42 1 41 38 0 38 Maternity Leave (female) the expected date of delivery until eight weeks after delivery. Leave to care for sick / injured child 113 51 62 113 56 57 Special leave for childbirth by When the spouse gives birth, her husband (employee) can take five special paid leave. the spouse (male) Family care leave 43 34 9 17 11 6 Childcare leave Regardless of sex, employees can take a childcare leave until the child becomes two years old. Telecommuting 191 111 80 Female employees can take up to one hour of childcare time per day in 30 minute increments Self-development leave of absence 3 1 2 Childcare time (female) (up until the child becomes one year old). * Idemitsu's systems are available for direct and temporary employees, but not for workers from other temp-staff companies. * Idemitsu also had a telecommuting system in FY2018 for reasons of childcare or nursing care, but the number of employees who used the system has not been disclosed. Employees can take up to 10 days of special paid leave per year to take care of their sick/injured Leave to care for sick/ * Showa Shell's systems are available for only direct employees and contract employees (re-employed only). child (up until the child completes the 3rd grade of elementary school). injured child * During the Telework Days period (July to September 2019), the number of employees who worked from home increased to 1,247. Employees can take them in full-day half-day or one-hour increments. Exchange of Opinions with Employees on Personnel Policies We strive to comply with all applicable labor laws and regulations at home and abroad and to create workplace environments in which all employees can concentrate on their work with assurance and satisfaction. In formulating personnel policies, the Human Resources Department exchanges opinions with employees in advance on the content of policies, salary levels, labor conditions, and welfare benefits by holding briefing sessions for employees and making proposals to the Showa Shell Labor Union, aiming to develop policies that are highly convincing and empathetic. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 38 Promotion of Employees’ Health Achievements and Specific Measures Promotion of Medium-term Initiatives In FY2018, both Idemitsu and Showa Shell promoted employees’ health based on their respective policies. In FY2020 and beyond, we will embody Give priority to health and safety as set forth in the Action Guidelines to build workplace environments in which employees are able to concentrate on their work with assurance by putting into pracActual Results of Specific Initiatives tice health-oriented management that leads to autonomous health management. ■ Mental health measures: In FY2018, a total of 5,774 employees participated in e-learning programs. ■ Measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases: Health guidance was implemented according to the health management cateMain priority Issues and specific measures gory defined by the company. 1. Improvement of health awareness ■ Established health support systems and programs for overseas employees to help manage their health in a different environWe regularly inform employees of our health declaration, policies, and quantitative conditions, thereby creating opportunities ment from that in Japan to discuss health issues on a daily basis. ■ Implemented workplace health seminars in collaboration with health insurance associations in some areas 2. Prevention of leave of absence due to diseases or injuries To support employees with mental health problems, we will enhance our in-house expert team and develop measures against lifestyle-related diseases to promote autonomous prevention. ■ Health seminar themed on effective walking (Held at Head Office (Teigeki Building) in November 2019) 3. Reinforcement of promotion system and PDCA We will clarify the promotion system, regularly reported to the Management Committee, and make an effective use of the systems so that we will implement the PDCA cycle effectively. Health indicators (current status and goals) In the promotion of the above specific measures, we will implement them by setting targets for the following health indicators: ● Mental health We learned how to walk with proper posture, stride Percentage of employees who took a leave of absence of at least one month due to mental health problems length and speed, as well as how to walk effectively FY2018 results: 1.3% ⇒ FY2022 target: 1.0% or less to increase calorie consumption. For FY2019, the two companies has promoted integration of their health-related systems step by step, taking advantage ● Physical health of their respective strengths in the occupational physician system, medical examination items and standards, stress Percentage of health management categories (Unit: %) checks, and health management support systems. FY2018 Results Targets for FY2022 Total Age of 40s Age of 50s Age of 60s Age of 40s Examples of Initiatives ■ Appointed industrial physicians to complexes with less than 50 employees and provided meticulous follow-up Healthy 49 44 37 36 50 or more ■ Extended company-sponsored cancer screening to young employees at periodic health checkups (only for those who wanted) At risk 41 44 51 53 ■ Company-wide implementation of workplace health seminars (it is scheduled to hold a total of 20 seminars at 14 refineries, Poor 10 12 12 11 Less than 10 complexes, laboratories, and branches nationwide) ■ Use of the Health Committee, internal information portal, and internal newsletters to raise awareness of health consultation * The health management category is defined by the company for items related to lifestyle-related diseases among medical examination items in reference to the standards of medical society (in the poor group, BMI is 30 or higher, blood pressure at systolic phase is 160 or higher, HbA1c is 8% or higher, etc.) services and to introduce health clinics at each base * Ultimately, we aim for 50% or more of the healthy group and less than 10% of the poor group in each age group. We have set targets of improvement in the age of 40s as an outcome indicator in the medium-term goal because it takes a considerable period of time before taking effects. ● Health awareness and lifestyle Indicators in the results of health checkups (Unit: %) FY2018 Results Targets for FY2022 Percentage of employees who have problems in a medical questionnaire 78 in health checkups (lifestyle) Of these, the percentage of insufficient exercise 47 Of these, the percentage of insufficient sleep 33 Percentage of employees practicing self-care 50 or more Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 39 Ensuring Safety Policy for Ensuring Safety Activities and Results Based on the Annual Basic Policies on HSSE To ensure the safety of people as our highest priority, reduce and eliminate risks through the appropriate allocation of management resources and the maintenance and improvement of facilities, pro-cesses and work mechanisms with the Annual Basic Policies on HSSE in FY2018 aim to eliminate accidents and injuries while also making efforts to cultivate our safety culture is the policy for ensuring Continue to take on the challenge of zero accidents, and aim for Zero serious accidents , Zero fatal and lost safety. The ensuring of safety based on this policy is the result of management efforts and realizing zero accidents and time injuries, and Zero environmental anormalies. In particular, continue to promote Strict adherence to disasters is the foremost achievement of these efforts. Based on this recognition , the following specific policies are eslivesaving rules and Caring for and encouraging peers. tablished as the most important standard to be prioritized to ensure safety for the various criteria for determining value in each scene and stage in all our busi-ness activities including production, logistics, sales and research and developSafety, Health and Environmental Performance in 2018 ment, in all our operations and all our activities . (including partner companies)  (Unit: cases) *1 In February 2018, an explosion and fire occurred at the Showa Shell Yokohama Plant of SDS Biotech K.K., killing an employee of Idemitsu Group’s Group’s a subcontractor (There were no serious accidents at refin1. Ensure the safety of people eries or business sites.). Serious accidents 1*1 0 2. Ensure the safety assurance of facilities and processes * 2 Including the above serious accidents * 3 In April 2018, an employee of a subcontractor fell into the sea 3. Ensure safety in work mechanisms and procedures Fatalites 1*2 1*3 while moving 2 container ships that were berthing, and died. 4 Properly allocate and utilize management resources Lost time injuries 16 7 5. Cultivate safety culture and promote safety management Environmental anormalies 0 0 System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives ■ Occupational accidents frequency rate*1 ■ Severity rate *1 (Degree of severity of accident) Our group has traditionally positioned Safety, Health and the Environ-ment as the foundation of its management, and has (Frequency of occurrence of accidents) *Excluding employees of partner companies *Excluding employees of partner companies established the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters to promote initia-tives to secure and preserve them. The Idemitsu *2 Showa Shell *3 Idemitsu*2 Showa Shell *3 executive in charge of safety and environment (director), who is delegated by the President and Representative Director, A verage for all industries with 100 or more employees A verage for all industries with 100 or more employees serves as the General Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters, overseeing the headquarters as the 0.16 2.0 1.83 person in charge of safety, health, and environment. 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 The role of the Headquarters is to determine the Medium-term Management Plan, the annual basic policies and prior0.12 1.6 ity issues on HSSE, to assess and evaluate performance through audits, to main-tain, review, and improve the Safety 0.12 0.10 Management System and the Environmental Management System (page 16), and to instruct all executive departments and 0.09 0.09 0.09 1.2 major group companies to secure management resources necessary to establish, implement, maintain, and continually 0.08 improve the Manage-ment Systems. As a general rule, we have the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters Meet0.8 ing once a year in December to decide on our group's annual basic policies for the next fiscal year. 0.07 0.51 0.40 Each executive department appoints a manager in charge of safety and environment to manage and promote the 0.39 0.04 0.03 0.4 0.28 overall HSSE activities of the department, including the business sites under its management. 0.03 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.39 0.00 0.00 0.00 In addition, in order to confirm and promote the HSSE activities of each executive department, the General Manager 0 0.22 0.00 0 of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters or top management visits business sites to provide Safety and En2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Year) vironment-related instructions or safety patrols, or the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquar-ters secretariat con*1 Number of fatalities and injuries due to work-related accidents per 1 *1 Number of lost working days per 1,000 hours of actual work million hours of actual work *2 Idemitsu Kosan's data covers Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex Aichi ducts Safety and Environment audits at business sites. In particular, at our company's refineries and plants, the General *2 Idemitsu's data covers Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex, Aichi RefinRefinery, Tokuyama Complex, Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works, Manager of the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters pro-vides Safety and Environment-related instruction and ery, Tokuyama Complex, Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works, BASF BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. safety patrol once a year, while the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquar-ters secretariat conducts Safety and EnviIdemitsu Co., Ltd. *3 Showa Shell's data covers Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil ronment audit once a year. *3 Showa Shell's data covers Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd., TOA Oil Co., Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd., Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Furthermore, in order to prevent large-scale disasters at our busi-ness sites, we have established the Safety and Safety Assurance Advisory Committee, which consists of members, including external experts, as an advisory body to the The annual basic policies for FY2019 will follow the annual basic policies for FY2018. Based on the results described above, we are Board of Directors or the Presi-dent and Representative Director, with the aim of establishing more effective safety and working to prevent accidents by adding the following items to our priority issues. safety assurance measures. * Safety Management System: To promote safety management activities, safety management policies and objectives and targets are established. To Annual Basic Policies on HSSE in FY2019 achieve these objectives, a safety management plan is formulated, implemented, reviewed, and continuously improved ■ Standardization to create and keep safety cultures for Strict adherence to livesaving rules including partner companies ■ Promotion of countermeasures through exhaustive identifi-cation of potential risks and implementation of appropriate risk assessment Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 40 Ensuring Safety Safety and Health Initiatives Safety Activities at Our Refineries and Complexes At the Group 's refineries and complexes, the Safety & Environmental Protection Section of each site plays a central role Efforts to Prevent Accidents in promoting safety assurance of refineries and complexes and environmental conservation. Moreover, in collaboration In 2018, a serious accident (dust explosion fire accident) occurred at an affiliated company of Idemitsu Kosan, resulting in with business partners of refineries and complexes, we conduct thorough daily safety inspections and take all possible a fatality in the partner company. This was due to insufficient identification of poten-tial risks. As a member of the accident measures to prevent accidents, while forming a self-protection and disaster prevention teams in the event of an accident investigation committee, we worked to identify the cause of the accident and supported to make preventive measures. and carrying out periodic disaster prevention training. Urgent investigations were conducted at domestic and overseas business sites to confirm that there were no similar risks. Specifically, in order to promptly implement emergency responses in the event of natural disasters and other disasWe will continue to strengthen our efforts to prevent serious accidents in all executive departments. ters as well as disaster prevention activities, we prepare disaster scenarios based on past disasters and carry our periThe number of work-related accidents (lost-time injuries and medical treatment cases) in our group in 2018 was lower odic disaster prevention training with business partners. We also conduct evacuation drills in consideration of the occurthan in 2017. This is the result of our efforts to thoroughly implement Strict adherence to livesaving rules such as the use rence of tsunami caused by a large-scale earthquake. of fall prevention devices, in order to prevent the recurrence of accidents that might lead to fatalities by falling from a high place occurred in 2016 and 2017. In FY2019, with the aim of achieving Challenge of zero acci-dents, each department is promoting the PDCA cycle for safety and environmental management on its own initiative, and is working to continue safe Safety Education and stable operations by identifying potential risks, including processes and equipment, and implementing appropriate risk assessment measures. Companywide Education As part of the company-wide education for new employees in April, we will use videos of past serious accidents at Safety and Safety Assuance Advisory Committee Idemitsu to raise awareness of safety and ensure that employees are always aware that safety is the foundation of manIn the FY2018 Safety and Safety Assurance Advisory Committee, we consulted on the Efforts to achieve advanced safety agement. In seminar for newly appointed managers conducted at each time of personnel changes, we ensure that they assurance equivalent to Super-certification* and received the reply that Upgrading of risk assessment and strengthening learn their legal roles in safety and environmental management. of facility manage-ment and operation management by utilizing advanced technologies are important points. Based on this, the Tokuyama Plant obtained Super-certification in FY2019. The Chiba Plant also underwent an on-site inspection and Training Seminar Organized by the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters applied. Safety, Environment (HSSE) & Quality Assurance Department as the secretariat of the Safety & Environmental Protection In FY2019, we consulted the Committee as Efforts to deal with increasingly severe natural disasters and received the Headquarters provides key personnel such as managers in charge of safety and environmental management at each reply. We will consider and respond to it in the future. executive department and business site with training seminars on their roles based on internal rules and the basics of safe* Super-certification: A system in which the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry certifies accredited manufactures that are engaged in advanced safety assurance, such ty and environment management in order to foster their leadership to autonomously promote the PDCA cycle for safety and as IoT, the use of big data, advanced risk assessment, and third-party evaluation of safety capabilities, as Super-cetification Manufactures (Specified Accredited Manuenvironment management at their own executive department and business site. (Seminars are scheduled to be held 10 factures) in response to diversifying disasters, aging of plants, and a decrease in the number of skilled employees. times in FY2019) Training Organized by the Manufacturing & Technology Department’s Technical Training Center Reinforcement of earthquake resistance of existing facilities ■ Reinforcement of LPG tank support structures ● Training for operators of manufacturing facilities (Tokuyama Complex) The Group 's refineries and complexes have worked to strengths its The Technical Training Center provides training for all operators based on the mid-term training plan in order to foster measures for natural disasters. As for earthquakes, we have conthem as production engineers (PE) The PE is an operating engineer who can logically understand processes, facilities stantly assessed the earthquake resistance of our equipment based and systems, and their interrelationships, and make comprehensive decisions to ensure the optimal operation of refineries, on the standards required by laws against the expected earthquake complexes, and plants in a safe and efficient manner. The PE is responsible for ensuring the safety of the Group's magnitudes, and strengthen them, if necessary. In addition, having refineries, complexes, and plants. learned lessons from the Tokachi-oki Earthquake in 2003 and others, we have assessed and enhanced the earthquake resistance of our ● Reinforcement of safety training facilities against expected earthquake magnitudes that exceed the The Technical Training Center is working to strengthen safety training. For example, it provides the foreman or delegate standards required by laws. (assistant to the foreman) with foreman-level training to enhance their abilities to make decisions on emergency measures Following the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, ■ Reinforcement of marine jetty with a view to as the conductor. This is the only advanced training in Japan we have developed in-house. Participants form an operation strengthening disaster response capabilities (Yokkailaws concerning high-pressure gas equipment were tightened and the chi Refinery of Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd.) team to operate a training plant modified from the desulfurization unit that was actually in operation at Tokuyama Complex. standards of earthquake resistance were reviewed. In response to Participants conduct practical training in the event of an abnormality at night or on a holiday by reporting and conducting these changes, we have been systematically reinforcing the spherical initial activities, emergency shutdown, and disaster prevention activities while the incident is progressing. In addition, tanks that store LPG at the Group’s refineries and complexes in order safety management training is provided to newly-appointed technical managers at refineries and complexes. This training to improve the earthquake resistance of their support structures. In is divided into two parts. Each participant reconfirms the points of safety management in the basic training, and recognizes addition, Yokkaichi Refinery of Showa Yokkaichi Oil Co., Ltd. reinthe issues and clarifies the action plan to strengthening safety in the follow-up training. In addition, we hold experiential forced its marine jetty with a view to strengthening disaster response training for governments and organizations, and as part of cooperative human resource development for local communities, capabilities. Going forward, we will consider further enhancing the we hold seminars to raise safety awareness utilizing our risk sensing equipment and VR in cooperation with outside training earthquake resistance of the the Group’s refineries and complexes. centers. These training and seminars have received high reputation from outside the Company. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 41 Ensuring Safety Practical Fire Fighting Training ● Training of personnel for fire fighting at refineries and complexes In case of a fire or explosion, it is extremely important to implement initial fire extinguishing activities and measures to prevent expansion to minimize damage inside and outside refineries and complexes. In this regard, recognizing that it is important to accumulate practical training based on the basic theory of fire fighting, we are focusing on training of personnel for fire fighting. For example, they learn the basics of fire fighting activities through classroom lectures, and conduct training on handling actual equipment and extending hoses for fire fighting according to the training plan. Particularly at the Hokkaido Refinery, Chiba Complex and Aichi Refinery, we conduct fire fighting training using actual fire training facilities. ● Actual fire training at Niigata Disaster Prevention Training Center The Safety, Environment (HSSE) & Quality Assurance Department has the Niigata Disaster Prevention Training Center, which receives a large number of trainees every year from within the Company as well as from various companies in the industry. The training assumes that a fire breaks out by facility at a business site. We are strengthening the initial fire extinguishing capability at each business site by learning the initial fire extinguishing method appropriate to the nature of oil fires through theory (classroom lectures) and practice (actual fire training). This Training Center has received high reputation from outside the Company as a facility where they can gain valuable experience and learn firefighting techniques. Use of External Training ● Training for top management In order to prevent serious accidents and disasters, it is extremely important that the top management, i.e. general managers of refineries and complexes have a strong awareness of safety, and exercise strong leadership to promote accident prevention measures. In this regard, associations in the oil and chemical industries and related companies including the Company emphasized to an external training center the importance of developing safety awareness among top management. As a result, the center has regularly held the special lecture entitled Safety from now on and the role of top management since March 2016. Every year, general managers of refineries and complexes and top management of the Manufacturing & Technology Department in the Head Office take part in the lecture to strengthen leadership for safety in industry, together with general managers of refineries and plants of other companies in the vicinity of the Center. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance Basic Approach to Quality Commitment to Quality Management and Quality Assurance Initiatives Our group has defined its basic stance on quality as In order to ensure product safety and minimize the impact on peoInitiatives to Ensure Product Safety ple and the environment, we shall promote quality assurance activities that take into account the entire life cycle of our products and services, from development to consumption or disposal, and strive to improve customer satisfaction and We conduct checks of product safety at each product stage, from research and development through sales based on protect consumers. In addition, the basic quality assurance guidelines which is the highest-level internal regulation on Product Safety Regulations. Regulations of various countries concerning chemical substances have been frequently quality, sets forth the following quality assurance policy as the basic concept of quality. changing, and it is essential to respond swiftly and decisively to these changes. In FY2017, the Idemitsu Group introduced a new tool aimed at better managing information on hazardous properties of chemical substances used in our 1. We provide products and services of appropriate quality from the customer's perspective. products. Having expanded the scope of departments subject to chemical information management, we have successfully responded to domestic and overseas regulations, which are evolving frequently. 2. Develop environmentally conscious production activities and products. 3. Provide safe and secure products. Response to Complaints on Quality 4. We will always ensure compliance and fulfill our social responsibilities. In the unlikely event of serious product safety or quality issues, we follow the Crisis Response Rules to minimize damage and any impact on society at large. The Customer Relations Center receives quality-related complaints and inquiries, and depending on the content, works with relevant departments to provide a swift response. We had no serious quality Quality Control and Quality Assurance System incidents requiring company-wide response during FY2018. Our group 's quality assurance system consists of 2 components: business units and affiliated companies, and a corpoProviding Appropriate Product Safety Disclosure and Labeling rate-level system for overseeing these. In actual quality activities, these two systems work together to ensure that the Group as a whole implements its quality assurance policy. The Idemitsu Group issues safety data sheets (SDS) for the products it manufactured as stipulated under the relevant laws. Each product indicates the hazardous properties and safety-related details of products according to chemical Quality control and quality assurance systems in each business division and affiliated company classification that complies with GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals). IdemitOur group's business divisions and affiliated companies conduct quality management activities at every stage of our su’s website also provides a system for searching for products by name or usage and to view product safety information. operations, from product development to manufacturing and sales, that contribute to the maintenance and improvement Employee Education and Awareness of Quality of the quality of products and services that meet the needs of customers and society. In addition, each business division and affiliated company has introduced a quality assurance management system to ensure the quality of products and The Idemitsu Group conducts education and awareness-raising activities for the purpose of raising the quality awareness services provided to customers. A total of 39 business units and affiliates in our group have acquired ISO 9001 certificaof its employees. In order to promote quality assurance activities in each business division and affiliated company, we tion. (As of July 1, 2019) hold training sessions for managers in charge of quality and highly specialized in-house seminars on responding to laws and regulations concerning chemical substance management, which help promote quality assurance activities for the Quality assurance system at the corporate level entire group. In addition, every November, as part of the Quality Month Activities, we provide lectures on quality, solicThe Quality Assurance Headquarters has been estab■ The idemitsu group's Quality Assurance Management System it campaign slogans on quality, and display posters on quality, all of which provide an opportunity for each employee to lished as a corporate quality assurance organization to (PDCA cycle) think about quality. strengthen governance of quality throughout our group. ■ 2019 Lecture on Quality The Quality Assurance Headquarters is headed by the Corporate Basic policy on quality assurance executive in charge of quality assurance (director) apP pointed by the Board of Directors, and is headed by the heads of quality-related business divisions and the presImprovement Business A idents of affiliated companies. The Quality Assurance divisions Department of the Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) serves as its secretariat. The Quality AssurManagement Management Basic policy Policy development ance Headquarters formulates policies for compaReview Review plan for business divisions A C P D ny-wide quality assurance activities and promotes the important issues such as maintenance, review and imQuality assurance activities provement of the quality assurance management sysD tem. Each business division follows its own PDCA cycle (Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 p.42) in accorAudit by the Quality Assurance Headquarters dance with these policies. As a general rule, the Quality C Assurance Headquarters meets once a year to monitor progress and determine our group's basic policies for the next fiscal year. We also conduct regular quality audits to improve the activities of each division. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 43 Collaboration with Partners Sustainable Procurement Collaboration with Dealers and Distributors Idemitsu operates its businesses through a powerful network of 1,217 dealers and distributors and 6,395 SS (service Concept of Sustainable Procurement stations) nationwide. Branches serve as contact points to provide fine-tuned support for the business management and Idemitsu aims for the sustainable development of society and the company by conducting fair and equitable procureSS management of dealers and distributors. In May and June 2019, Owners' Meetings were held at 10 locations across ment based on proper procurement ethics, contributing to the improvement of business competitiveness, and conductthe country for the first time, bringing together dealers and distributors to interact to promote and practice their sales ing honest management for all stakeholders. To this end, we have established internal rules General rules concerning strategies with customers as our top priority. procurement activities. In cooperation with Idemitsu Association an organization of dealers, and National Showa Shell Association an We aim to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society throughout the supply chain by establishing a policy organization of distributors, we are also working together in the field of social contribution by contributing to the commufor selecting suppliers when purchasing or borrowing the materials, construction, and services necessary for our comnity and revitalizing the community. We have also established our own certification and training systems to enhance the pany's business operations, and by having suppliers understand the policy on our procurement activities. knowledge and skills of its staff in order to increase customer trust in its technologies and services, as well as to continue generating new added value by sensitively identifying customer needs. About Guidelines In order to provide a stable supply of energy, service stations, which are strong in times of disaster, are expected to The business environment is diversifying, and in order to achieve sustainable development, it is expected that each play a role as disaster prevention centers. We are demonstrating a system that combines solar panels and power storage company will make active efforts to fulfill its social responsibility not only for one company but also for the entire supply functions at four service stations in the Tokyo metropolitan area. chain. In order to fulfill this responsibility, we are formulating our own sustainable procurement guidelines based on ISO In addition to providing a constant refueling function in the event of a power failure, it can also be used as a power 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) issued in November 2010, ISO 20400 (Guide to Sustainable Procurement) issupply point for charging mobile phones and smartphones and for Wi-Fi connections, enhancing the durability and versued subsequently, SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) adopted at the United Nations Summit in September 2015, satility of an emergency power supply. and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. * The figures in this section refer to the number of dealers and distributors as of the end of June 2019 and the number of service stations as of the end of September 2019. Conduct Self-Assessment of Sustainable Procurement for Suppliers ■ Joint owners' meeting of dealers and distributors (2019) In order to promote sustainable procurement throughout the entire supply chain, in 2019 we began an independent survey of the degree to which our major suppliers are adopting sustainable procurement. Specifically, the Corporate Sustainability Department, the Procurement Department, and some other departments collaborated to send a Sustainable Procurement Self-Evaluation Sheet consisting of 35 items in 7 fields, including organizational governance, human rights, labor practice, environment, fair business practices, consumer issues, and social contribution to approximately 300 major suppliers and asked them to perform self-evaluations. In addition to providing feedback on the results of these assessments, if there are any concerns, we work with suppliers to improve and solve these issues together through dialogue, thereby reducing risk throughout the entire supply chain. This survey will be repeated once every three years to ensure continuous improvement. Our sustainable procurement initiatives have only just begun, but society, suppliers, and we are working to achieve a triple win. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 44 Collaboration with Partners Major independent certification programs Exchanges and Dialogues with Oil-Producing Countries Idemitsu has established a representative office to promote exchanges and dialogue with oil-producing countries in the ■ Idemitsu Technical Master Program Middle East and other regions in order to build strong relationships of trust. In recent years, we have strengthened our A qualification program for the purpose of developing human resources who can make comprehensive energy proposals that relationship of trust with oil-producing countries through joint ventures with capital participation. In addition, Japan supmeet customer needs in the field of industrial petroleum and lubricants sales. ports the development of human resources and technical support in oil-producing countries by dispatching experts to (Number of certified persons in the petroleum division Grade1: 21, Grade2: 76, Grade3: 224 *Number of certified persons in FY2018) (Number of certified persons in the lubricants division Grade1: 48, Grade2: 155, Grade3: 240 *Number of certified persons in FY2018) these countries with the support of the JCCP (Japan Cooperation Center Petroleum) and by accepting senior officials and engineers in Japan. We also participate in the Joint Project for Infrastructure Development in Oil-producing Countries ■ Zepromeister Program (FY2018), which is implemented by the JCCP. A certification program to train service station oil leaders through acquisition of basic knowledge and product knowledge of Saudi Aramco, the national oil company of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, one of the world's largest oil-producing oil, as well as exchange techniques that will become increasingly complex in the future. countries, has also deepened cooperation in crude oil procurement, and is flexibly selecting and procuring crude oil (Number of certified person Grade1: 411, Grade2: 2,357, and Grade3: 3,923 *The number of incumbents as of the end of March 2019) whose refinery performance is optimal in light of market trends. Because it is possible to supply a wide variety of crude ■ Showa Shell Royal Manager (SRM) Program oil, multiple types of oil that we want are loaded into tankers and transported at one port of call. A qualification program launched in 1979 to further develop the human resources of active store managers, with the aim of improving service station management capabilities that match the times and management capabilities that overcome changes. (Number of certified persons Grade1: 276, Grade2: 2,014, and Grade3: 7,280 *The number of incumbents as of April 2019) Accepting 48 trainees from the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman, Mexico, Myanmar, Receiving Training Performance (FY2018) and Vietnam ■ Showa Shell Oil Meister Program A qualification program for training service station lubricants sales leaders who have a high level of both technique and sales ■ Acceptance of executive candidates (Number of certified person 1,342 *The number of incumbents as of April 2019) ■ Showa Shell Car Life Advisor Program A qualification program to train service station personnel who have advanced knowledge of vehicles in general and who are capable of giving appropriate advice to customers (Number of certified persons 442 *The number of incumbents as of April 2019) ■ Shell Lubricants Japan Lubricants Expert Program A qualification program started in 1970 to develop human resources capable of responding to the diverse needs of customers concerning lubricants and grease (Number of certified persons Grade1: 335, Grade2: 1,761 *Cumulative number of person since 1970 as of April 2019, excluding those who passed in 2019) Collaboration with Subcontractors Refineries and plants outsource plant maintenance, overland shipping, and marine transport to subcontractors. At all of our business sites, we have organized three cooperative associations, one for construction and maintenance, one for land transportation, and the other for maritime transportation. We are promoting safe and stable operations and environmental conservation at its refineries and plants in cooperation with these associations. Collaboration with Transport Companies and Maritime Shipping Companies Idemitsu outsources the transportation of petroleum products to transport companies and maritime shipping companies. The consigned company has organized a council to promote safety and strengthen cooperation among companies. We are a special member of the council. The council of land transport companies holds safety campaigns, training sessions for operation managers, and awards for crew members with no accidents and no violations. The council of maritime shipping companies carries out safety campaigns, thorough implementation of safety activity policies and specific measures, and horizontal development of good and dangerous examples. In addition to calling attention to the Safety, environment and quality aspect through the two councils, we are also working to build a high-quality, competitive logistics system, while emphasizing safety activities rooted in the workplace, through direct dialogues with crews of land lorries, the masters of coastal tankers, and the crew. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 45 Social Contribution Activities Concept of Social Contribution Activities ●“Daimei no Nai Ongaku-kai” (Untitled Concert) ■ “Daimei no Nai Ongaku-kai” (Untitled Concert) Idemitsu Group continues to work on social contribution activities focusing on the development of young people and We have been the sole sponsor of the music television program “Daimei no children who will lead future generations. Through these activities, we interact closely with the people of all regions. Nai Ongaku-kai” (Untitled Concert) for over 50 years since 1964. The program features live performances of orchestras with the aim of delivering quality music straight to people’s living rooms, with its principal focus on classical music. Social Contribution Expenses In April 2017, Kanji Ishimaru, who is active on television and stage, became the sixth host of the show, helping the audience appreciate the appeal of the Trends in Social Contribution Expenses* (Unit: 1 million yen) music from a new viewpoint and contributing to the history of the program. Idemitsu Showa Shell FY2016 215 63 © TV Asahi FY2017 209 65 ●Mirai wo Kanaderu Ongakukai (Music events hosted by Idemitsu Kosan) FY2018 219 68 We have held concerts since 2006, mainly in regions where ■ Joint concert with ■ Music workshop at an we have established refineries and complexes. In FY2017, elementary school students elementary school * The following events have been compiled. and professional musicians Idemitsu: Idemitsu Music Award, Mirai wo Kanaderu Ongakukai, FURUSATO PROJECT, KidZania, IDEMITSU IHATOVE TRIAL, Community Promotion by Sales Department, the concert program was reimagined as Portraying the FuShowa Shell: Shell Art Award, Environmental Photo Contest Watashi no Machi no 〇 to × , Energy Education Program for Children, TABLE FOR TWO, and office ture in Music, with the aim of supporting musical experiencprovision to Refuges International Japan (RIJ). es for the future generations in part by providing opportunities for young musicians to showcase their talents and for local students to perform with professional musicians. Examples of Social Contribution Activities We also hold music workshops at local elementary and middle schools around the time of the concerts. Contribution Through Cultural Activities ●Idemitsu Music Award In 1990, we established the Idemitsu Music Awards to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the music television pro●Shell Art Award gram “Daimei no Nai Ongaku-kai” (Untitled Concert). The awards support the activities of promising young and up-andcoming musicians as a way to help elevate music culture in Japan. Over the course of the 29 awards ceremonies held This art award was established in 1956 to support young future leading artists, ■ 2018 Grand Prix Self Portrait I by Taro Kondo thus far (as of FY2018), 103 individuals and one group have been honored. Every honoree continues to shine in their and is open to all artists aged 40 or younger. This art award is highly evaluated respective field. Among the many talented musicians, the selection criteria seek for something beyond mere mastery, as a “gate to success for young artists” with a long history since its establishrather, with an eye to nurturing new talent, they focus on drive, intrinsic ability, and future potential. To qualify, a candidate ment as a prize in the completely open competition at that time when there must be a musician no older than 30 and living and working in Japan. Each award recipient is given 3 million yen in prize were few independent art awards. In 2018, the 62nd anniversary of the estabmoney to encourage them to continue perfecting their self-improvement. lishment, we had 593 applicants and 839 entries of works, from which we seEvery year, a concert is held commemorating the awards, and the musicians give wonderful performances in front lected the Grand Prix, Judges' Award, and Special Student Award. At the of a large audience. The concert is broadcast on “Daimei no Nai Ongaku-kai”(Untitled Concert) and garners a lot of Shell Art Award 2018 held at the National Art Center in Roppongi, Tokyo, in public attention. In FY2018, the recipients were Tomoharu Ushida (Piano), Sunao Goko (violin) and LEO [Leo Konno] December 2018, 54 award-winning and other winning works were exhibited, (koto). and 6,123 people visited during the 12-day exhibition. At the exhibition hall, we held the Shell Art Award – Artist Selection (SAS) 2018 at the same time, ■ Mr. Tomoharu Ushida ■ Mr. Sunao Goko ■ Mr. Leo Konno [LEO] which showcased four young artists’ recent and new works selected by the judges in the previous year. In this way, we continue to work on supporting ■ Grand Prix winner Mr. Taro Kondo young artists. Audience Award, which is selected by the votes of visitors, was held for the fifth time. Since 2018, we held the Shell Art Award Residence Support Program for the past award-winning artists and artists of other winning works. This program is designed to help artists develop themselves by gaining new inspiration and awareness through overseas stays and interactions with authors from other countries. We provide award-winning artists and artists of other winning works with the opportunity to stay overseas and support their two-month art activities at Cité internationale des Arts, residence facility in Paris, France. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 46 Social Contribution Activities ● Environmental Photo Contest Watashi no Machi no ○ to × (Things to Preserve and Correct around Our Town) ● FURUSATO PROJECT We hold a photo contest for children and students across the country for photos of the scenery of × that they want to Since 2018, we have been holding the FURUSATO PROJECT at elementary schools across the country, where children preserve in their local community, and photos of the scenery of ○ that they want to improve immediately, with comcan learn hands-on lesson of traditional musical instruments and conduct commemorative cherry-tree planting. We ments attached. We held the 14th contest in 2018 supported by the Ministry of the Environment. started these activities with the aim to provide children of future generations with opportunities to experience the real The individual category consists of the elementary school, junior high school, and high school/technical college dimusic. We hope these memorable experiences will help children expand their interest in Japanese traditional culture and visions. In 2018, there were a record high of 7,416 entries (675 photos in the elementary school division, 4,912 in the remember hometown even when growing up so that they will pass on the good old hometown to future generations. junior high school division, and 1,829 in the high school and technical college division), and the number of entries has As of the end of December 2019, we held the event at 13 elementary schools nationwide, participated by 3,454 elemenbeen increasing year by year. Photos are used as teaching materials for environmental education at school and hometary school children from Hokkaido in the north to Okinawa in the south. work during summer vacation. In the school division, we had 244 school applicants from all over Japan. ■ ■ Hands-on lesson of Japanese drums Commemorative cherry tree planting Elementary School Gold Award I want to protect the most beautiful beach in Japan” Comments on the photo Mr. Ichiro Motohida (Okinawa Prefecture) ■ Photo ○ ■ Photo × Hateruma Island where I live has Nishihama Beach that was selected as the most beautiful beach in Japan. Various marine species such as sea turtles, clownfish and coral live around the beach. On the other hand, we see litter on the beach such as plastics and glass bottles, and sometimes drums. We conduct beach cleaning activities. I’m very disap● KidZania ■ Idemitsu Service Station (gas station) pointed to see the beach with litter after we worked Pavilion At KidZania, an inspiring, interactive indoor theme park located in Toyosu, to clean the beach. So, I want to say to all people in Tokyo, and Koshi-en, Hyogo Prefecture where children experience various the world, Please don’t litter. occupations and social activities, we have been operating a service station pavilion (called “gas station” at KidZania) since 2006, allowing children to learn how society works in a fun way. Community Contribution Activities ●Visiting Class and Energy Education Program for Children We provide mainly elementary school students in the vicinity of refineries, complexes and plants with lectures at school to deepen their understanding of climate change and other issues caused by global warming. With the aim of encourag●IDEMITSU IHATOVE TRIAL ing children to know that the issues are not problems in the distant future but immediate problems to them, we provide them with classes of experiments, handicrafts, and quizzes for hints and tips on energy-saving, so that they can find We also contribute to local community development through the promotion of motorsports by serving as the main sponsor opportunities to practice global warming countermeasures in their daily lives. of the Idemitsu Ihatove Trial, a motorcycle trial held in the northern part of Iwate Prefecture since 1989. The theme since ■ ■ the 2017 Trial has been “giving the trial spirit to future generations.” We have been striving to nurture genuine trial riders Visiting class Energy Education Program for Children and to support children to broaden the horizons for riders. As part of our environmental initiatives, we offset CO2 emissions from motorcycles used in this event by using the J-VER offset credit scheme in maintaining forests owned by Iwate Prefecture. We aim to further develop the event by demonstrating the allure of motorcycle trials to future generations. ■ Children's motorcycle experience ■ Group photo of riders ©tvi ©tvi Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 47 Social Contribution Activities ● Introduction of Photovoltaic Power Generation and Storage System to Local Communities Contributing to the International Community ● TABLE FOR TWO In collaboration with Kunitomi-cho, Miyazaki Prefecture, where its manufacturing plant is located, Solar Frontier Co., Ltd. of the Idemitsu Group launched a project to introduce a photovoltaic power generation and energy storage system, When a person purchases a TFT branded meal at the cafeteria of the Daiba ■ Children in developing countries supported by Idemitsu which is useful for securing power supply in the event of an emergency such as a typhoon or earthquake, into a total Frontier Building or the Kunitomi Plant of Solar Frontier Co., Ltd., a portion of of four elementary and junior high schools that are major evacuation centers in the town, and conducted a crowdfunding the proceeds will be donated to provide a school lunch for a student in need in campaign for the project. The system manufactured by the company combines a foldable CIS solar battery that is easy to developing countries through the NPO TABLE FOR TWO International. This store and carry and a storage battery. The systems were used to support areas affected by the typhoon in September 2019. is a social contribution activity in which anyone can participate by purchasing one of the TFT branded healthy meals so as to provide a school lunch to one ■ Disaster support system ■ Using the system ■ Children at a school using the system student in developing countries. In addition, a participant can stay healthy by taking a nutritionally balanced meal. Donation at the Daiba Frontier Building started in December 2013 and at the Kunitomi Plant it started in April 2016. As of March 31, 2019, we donated Photo by TABLE FOR TWO International school lunches for 19,683 students. ● Providing office to Refugees International Japan (RIJ) ■ Vocational training in Nairobi We have been providing office for free to the non-profit organization Refugees International Japan (RIJ)” since its foundation in 1979, which works to support refugees. RIJ raises funds through donation campaigns and sales of greeting cards ● Hokkaido Idemitsu Children's Art Contest and crafts, and provide supplies to refugees in Myanmar, Lebanon, Nairobi The Hokkaido Idemitsu Children's Art Contest held by Hokkaido Idemitsu-kai* marked its tenth anniversary in FY2018. and other countries. In addition to providing supplies, setting a long-term goal The contest has received acclaim from both visitors to the exhibitions of the winning works and the participating educaof refugees’ economic independence, IRIJ works to provide them with stable tional institutions, including schools and childcare centers. The total number of entries increased significantly from 1,451 and continuous support through language education and vocational training in the first year to 8,564 in FY2018. After the works have been judged, a poster is made featuring the top selections and within their communities. Photo by RIJ displayed at Idemitsu service stations within Hokkaido and an exhibition tour is held around Hokkaido. In FY2018, we simultaneously held an exhibition of the 86 winning works and special exhibitions displaying some works selected from Activities at Overseas Bases entries in the exhibition area, in seven locations starting in Obihiro, then going on to Asahikawa, Kushiro, Hakodate, ● Supporting the Munch Museum in Norway Muroran, Sapporo, and Kitami. * Idemitsu-kai: Organization of owners of retail outlets In Norway, which is one base for our petroleum upstream business, Idemitsu Petroleum Norge (based in Oslo) has been a sponsor of the Munch Museum, ■ Munch Museum ■ At the exhibition ■ The owner of a retail outlet holds the award ceremony which is owned by the municipality of Oslo. The support efforts began in 1991 with a donation to help fund the expansion of the museum. In the 2000s, the company supported restoration work being carried out on the famous artworks, The Scream and Madonna, which were stolen and then recovered with damage. The works of Edvard Munch are among Norway’s national treasures, and Idemitsu's support for the Munch Museum is well-known as being among the longest-standing corporate sponsorship of the arts in the country. The Munch Museum is scheduled to move from Toyen, Oslo to the waterfront area of the ©Munchmuseet city in 2020 to be open as a new museum while we have decided to continue its sponsorship. In addition, as part of the activities of the Japan-Norway Society (Oslo), a private friendship organization between the peoples of Japan and Norway, Idemitsu actively contributes to the friendship and goodwill of the peoples of both countries. For example, Idemitsu regularly guides tours of the Munch Museum. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 48 Social Contribution Activities ● Support for Japanese Language Learning in Vietnam ● Forest Restoration Activities in Indonesia Our Hanoi Office in Vietnam has supported Japanese language classes ■ Japanese language contest In 2004, P.T. Idemitsu Lube Techno Indonesia was founded to produce and market lubricants in Indonesia. On the island at Tohoan Junior High School in Hanoi since 2015. About 550 students of Sumatra, the company is working with a local NGO (Orangutan Information Centre) to rejuvenate forests that are at risk of all the 1,000 students in the school study Japanese as a second of destruction. foreign language. On April 22, 2019. the school held a ceremony for the The Leuser Ecosystem, which is a world heritage site centered on Leuser, North Sumatra Province, is one of South completion of studying Japanese language. The Hanoi Office gave a Asia’s most precious forests, spanning over 2.6 million ha and providing a habitat for tigers, Sumatran rhinos, elephants, commemorative gift to the 50 top students with good results. After the and other wildlife. However, due to its mineral reserves, the forest is in crisis of forest destruction from roadworks, largeceremony they toured the Idemitsu Q8 Petroleum SS that opened in scale mining operations, palm oil plantation, and other development. Thus, with a portion of profit from the sale of fuel-ef2017. They saw the staff’s Japanese style customer services at the ficient motor oil 0W-20 for gasoline engines as funds for planting, we have been planting trees in a 7 ha area of forest to clean service station, including car window cleaning service, with which return the area to its original forested state over about five years from May 2017. The tree planting area will steadily exdrivers at the station looked satisfied. Some students commented by pand in line with sales of the fuel efficient motor oil 0W-20 for gasoline engines. saying “I felt the staff’s hospitality through their hard work. and I like Through this initiative, the company contributes to reducing the environmental impact while supporting activities that the way Japanese people work. directly protect the natural environment. The support for learning Japanese language received high acclaim from the Japanese Language Center of Hanoi's ■ Tree planting activities Bureau of Education and Training. In 2019, a joint Japanese language contest was organized by 11 schools, including Tohoan Junior High School. ● Initiatives to Address Community Issues in Australia Idemitsu Australia Resources Pty Ltd. (based in Brisbane), which is one of the coal business bases, is working to promote initiatives that could contribute to solving social problems in the community from a long-term perspective under the following four policies by the management level. • Environmental Management Policy • Energy Management Policy • Cultural Heritage Policy • Stakeholder Engagement Policy 2018 Initiatives Girls' Academy To lower the high unemployment rate among Aboriginal women and ■ Girls' Academy help realize quality of life improvements for the community over the long-term, IAR sponsors a youth training program that offers guidance to local female students through the cultural exchange. Investment in the West Pack Rescue Helicopters and Community Hospitals IAR helps support improvements in emergency medical care in rural areas as well as better community hospitals. Hands-on Agricultural Learning Program To support local high schools, IAR has opened a portion of its landholdings scheduled for future development for use in hands-on agricultural programs that teach livestock grazing, growing crops, and land management (such as maintaining fences). Through these initiatives, IAR is striving to promote better communication with the community. Over the long-term going forward, IAR will continue to support initiatives that could contribute to maintaining local population levels and creating richer communities. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 49 Message from Outside Directors Increasing diversity within “I would like to provide support employees and the board of for development of next-generadirectors to stronger and more tion leaders and success of agile global company. female leaders.” Outside Director Outside Director Mackenzie Clugston Yuko Yasuda How do you recognize your expected role as an and Compensations.Advisory Committee reorganization. How do you recognize your expected role as an What are the characteristics of outside director? Please tell us what role you In addition, outside directors are provided with outside director? Please tell us what role you Idemitsu's governance? currently play? detailed prior explanations of the Board of Directors meetcurrently play? I’ve observed that the new integrated company aims for a The role expected as an outside director is to provide diverings and given opportunities to visit business sites in I believe that the most important role of outside directors highly effective corporate governance structure that takes sity to the Board of Directors when considering corporate Japan and overseas. Through these efforts, we gains a is to supervise and support executive management which advantage of the strengths of both companies. The board strategies, monitoring executive departments and making better understanding of the company’s business operaformulates strategy and translates it into action. By consists of diverse background including management, decisions on important management issues, in other tions and enhances the effectiveness of its governance to engaging in such activities in an objective manner, I hope foreign nationals, academics and women which encourwords, to give opinions from a perspective different from support board discussions. to contribute to the company to attain sustainable growth. ages very active and robust discussions to enhance the that of internal directors. At the Board of Directors, I actively Although I lack actual management experience at large quality of the board. express constructive opinions from the perspective of a What are your expectations for the listed companies or knowledge of the oil industry, I believe In order to deepen the knowledge and the understandforeign national and former diplomat. I hope to continue Idemitsu Group? I am expected to contribute with knowledge of corporate ing of business, there are a number of training programs or contributing to the enhancement of our company's corpoI believe that the business integration is proceeding very governance, leadership development and succession in onsite visiting options available to outside directors, and they rate value. smoothly. I think this is because employees at any level of terms of global standards as well as diversity. In particular, provide well-considered explanations of each agenda item the two companies are actively working toward the intefor the new integrated company, I hope to contribute to just before the actual board meetings. The board spends relWhat are the characteristics of Idemitsu gration. I expect to see significant synergies, both the company to implement a transparent leadership sucatively enough time discussing forward-looking topics such Kosan's governance? financially and non-financial. cession and development program. as medium-term management plan and actual action plans After the business integration, the number of independent Since its founding, our company has been unique I strongly believe the female talent at this company to to implement the strategy, which I believe to be the most outsidedirectors increased to five, and several experiamong Japanese companies, demonstrating boldness be a very important asset for our energy industry in Japan important mission of the board. For example, the board disenced corporate managersjoined the board, creating a and distinctive corporate culture. I hope Idemitsu Group and want to see their further success in this market. As cussed how they could become a resilient energy company diverse and powerful structure. I believe that a broad will make the most of both companies’ legacies and use the Chair of the Compensation Advisory Committee of the to supply energy infrastructure to society, under such high approach from business perspective has revitalized the its excellent knowledge in business expansion overseas new integrated company, my mission will be to supervise pressure needs as balancing ESG and SDGs issues. deliberations of the Board of Directors. The chairman as well as cutting-edge research as leverage to become the development of transparent, performance-based In my observation, one of the challenges of most of oversees the deliberations of the Board of Directors and one of theworld’s top energy companies. I believe that by compensation system. Japanese company boards is less active internal directors, leads discussions from a broad perspective even on diffiimproving the diversity of our workforce, our company compared to the active participation of outside directors. cult issues. can become a stronger and more agile global company. However, at our company, internal directors actively Other notable changes following the business integraAlso, I expect that we will anticipate the changes express their opinions to participate in board discussions, tion include internal rules enhancement and Nomination caused by global climate change and take appropriate which I believe to be a gift of the history and culture of measures, which at the same time will lead to the resoluIdemitsu’ s DNA. tion of various social issues. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 50 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (June 29, 2109) Numbers of Name Position Experience shares held April 1975 Joined Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. ( Idemitsu Kosan ) June 2007 Executive Officer and General Manager of Supply & Logistics Department, Idemitsu Kosan June 2008 Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of Supply & Logistics Department, Idemitsu Kosan June 2009 Director and General Manager of Supply & Logistics Department, Idemitsu Kosan Chairman and June 2010 Managing Director and Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of Corporate Planning A Takashi Representative 44,535 Department, Idemitsu Kosan Tsukioka Director April 2011 Managing Director, Idemitsu Kosan June 2012 Executive Vice President and RepresentativeDirector, Idemitsu Kosan June 2013 Representative Director & Chief Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan April 2018 Chairman and Representative Director, Idemitsu Kosan (to date) May 2018 President, Petroleum Association of Japan (to date) April 1979 Joined Shell Sekiyu K.K. March 2006 Executive Officer, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ( Showa Shell ) Vice Chairman and March 2009 Corporate Executive Officer, Showa Shell Representative March 2013 Executive Officer Vice President, Oil Business COO, Showa Shell B Tsuyoshi March 2014 Executive Officer, Oil Business COO, Showa Shell Director, 11,080 March 2015 President & Representative Director, Group CEO, Energy Solution Business COO, Showa Shell Kameoka Vice Chairman and March 2016 President & Representative Director, Group CEO, Showa Shell Executive Officer March 2018 Representative Director, President, Executive Officer, CEO, Showa Shell April 2019 Vice Chairman and Representative Director, and Vice Chairman and Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) April 1980 Joined Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. ( Idemitsu Kosan ) President and June 2011 Executive Officer and General Manager of Treasury Department, Idemitsu Kosan Representative June 2013 Director, Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of Treasury Department, C Shunichi Idemitsu Kosan Director, 18,408 June 2014 Managing Director, Idemitsu Kosan Kito Chief Executive June 2017 Executive Vice President and Director, Idemitsu Kosan Officer April 2018 Representative Director & Chief Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan April 2019 President and Representative Director, and Chief Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan (to date) April 1980 Joined Showa Sekiyu K.K. March 2011 Corporate Executive Officer, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ( Showa Shell ) Representative March 2013 Senior Corporate Executive Officer, Showa Shell Director, June 2014 Director & Vice President, Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. (“Seibu Oil”) D Tomonori Executive Vice 9,036 June 2015 Representative Director & President, Seibu Oil Okada President and March 2016 Representative Director, Vice President, Showa Shell Executive Officer March 2018 Representative Director, Vice President, Executive Officer and Oil Business COO, Showa Shell April 2019 Representative Director, Executive Vice President and Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) April 1979 Joined Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. ( Idemitsu Kosan ) April 2010 Executive Officer and General Manager of Tokuyama Refinery and General Manager of Tokuyama Plant, Idemitsu Kosan Director, April 2013 Executive Officer and General Manager of Manufacturing & Technology Department, Idemitsu Kosan June 2013 Director, Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of Manufacturing & Technology DepartE Takashi Executive Vice 17,502 ment, Idemitsu Kosan Matsushita President and June 2014 Managing Director, Idemitsu Kosan Executive Officer June 2017 Executive Vice President and Director, Idemitsu Kosan April 2018 Executive Vice President and Representative Director, Idemitsu Kosan April 2019 Director, and Executive Vice President and Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan (to date) Director, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (to date) April 1980 Joined Shell Sekiyu K.K. Director, March 2009 Executive Officer, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ( Showa Shell ) F Katsuaki Senior Managing 3,429 March 2013 Corporate Executive Officer, Showa Shell Shindome Executive Officer April 2019 Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) President & Representative Director, Showa Shell (to date) April 2010 Councilor, Public Interest Incorporated Foundation Idemitsu Museum of Arts G Masakazu Councilor, Public Interest Incorporated Foundation Idemitsu Culture and Welfare Foundation Director 2,422,030 Dec. 2015 Director and Vice President, Nissho Kosan Co., Ltd. (“Nissho Kosan”) J L F E Idemitsu April 2016 Representative Director and President, Nissho Kosan (to date) K N O Q April 2019 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) G M Dec. 2008 Registered as an attorney, established Kyuhodo Law Firm April 2010 Committee Member, Tokyo Local Third-Party Committee to Check Pension Records, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications April 2011 Delegate, Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association Sep. 2015 Auditor, General Incorporated Association for Realizing H Kazunari Prescription of Adequate Amount of Anti-Dementia Drugs (to date) H I Director ― June 2016 OutsideStatutory Auditor, Class Technology Co., Ltd. (to date) P B C A D Kubohara July 2017 Auditor, Medical Corporation Hakueikai Miyake Dental Clinic (to date) March 2018 Delegate, Japan Federation of Bar Associations (to date) April 2018 Vice Chairperson of the Legal Services Obstruction Countermeasures Committee, Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association (to date) April 2019 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) April 1984 Joined Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. ( Idemitsu Kosan ) I Toshiyuki Audit & Supervisory July 2013 Executive Officer and General Manager of Logistics Department, Idemitsu Kosan 5,364 June 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Idemitsu Kosan (to date) Tanida Board Member April 2019 Auditor, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (to date) April 1984 Joined Shell Sekiyu K.K. J Kenji Audit & Supervisory March 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ( Showa Shell ) 1,639 April 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) Takahashi Board Member Auditor, Showa Shell (to date) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 51 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (June 29, 2109) Committee Attendance at Board Attendance at Audit & Numbers of Name Position Experience Reason for appointment Nominating Compensation of Directors Meetings Supervisory Board shares held Advisory Advisory in FY2018 in FY2018 Committee Committee April 1987 Assistant Professor, Aoyama Gakuin University School of Business Mr. Takeo Kikkawa has not engaged in corporate management in any manner other April 1996 Professor, Institute of Social Science, University of Tokyo than serving as an outside officer. However, management has judged that he will be April 2007 Professor, Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Commerce and Management able to perform his duties as an Outside Director properly as he has long experience K Takeo Jan. 2013 President, Business History Society of Japan 15 of 15 Outside Director ― June 2013 Outside Director, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and wide knowledge as a university professor, has full knowledge about corporate Chairman ― Kikkawa (100%) April 2015 Professor, Graduate School of Innovation Studies, Tokyo University of Science (currently, Gradumanagement as an expert in business administration studies and especially in energy ate School of Management, Tokyo University of Science) (to date) industry theory, and satisfies the “Requirements for Independence of Outside Officers” June 2017 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) of the Company. June 1982 Joined Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of the Canadian Government Mr. Mackenzie Clugston has not engaged in corporate management in any manner Nov. 2012 Ambassador of Canada to Japan other than serving as an outside officer. However, management has judged that he will June 2016 Outside Director, Kameda Seika Co., Ltd. (to date) L Mackenzie be able to perform his duties as an Outside Director properly as he is familiar with 15 of 15 Outside Director ― Sep. 2016 Advisor, Sapporo Holdings Limited Professor, Kwansei Gakuin University (to date) 〇 ― Clugston June 2017 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) business, administration, and international affairs as a former diplomat and a university (100%) March 2018 Outside Director, Sapporo Holdings Limited (to date) professor, has full knowledge about corporate management, and satisfies the “RequireJune 2019 Outside Director, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD.(to date) ments for Independence of Outside Officers” of the Company. April 1973 Joined NSK Ltd. (“NSK”) June 2009 President and Chief Executive Officer, Chairperson of the Nomination Committee, NSK Management has judged that Mr. Norio Otsuka will be able to perform his duties as an June 2015 Director, Chairman, NSK June 2016 Chairman, the Japan Bearing Industry Association Outside Director properly as he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, and March 2017 Outside Director, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Director, Chairman of NSK, has promoted its global growth strategy, enhanced its corAppointed in M Norio Otsuka Outside Director 664 〇 ― June 2017 Honorary Chairman, NSK porate governance, and accumulated wide experience and advanced insight regarding April 2019 June 2018 Outside Director, Sojitz Corporation (to date) corporate management, and satisfies the “Requirements for Independence of Outside Advisor, NSK (to date) April 2019 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) Officers” of the Company. June 2019 Outside Director, Taisei Corporation (to date) April 1985 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. Sep 1991 Joined Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. Sep 1993 Joined Russell Reynolds Associates Japan Inc. (“Russell Reynolds Associates Japan”) Management has judged that Ms. Yuko Yasuda will be able to perform her duties as an June 1996 Managing Director, Russell Reynolds Associates Japan (to date) Outside Director properly as she served as Representative in Japan of Russell ReynApril 2003 Representative in Japan, Russell Reynolds Associates Japan olds Association Japan, and engaged in the executive assessment of a corporation and Appointed in N Yuko Yasuda Outside Director 199 Member of Executive Committee, Russell Reynolds Associates Inc. (resigned in March 2006) Chairman ― April 2013 Member of Executive Committee, Russell Reynolds Associates Inc. (reappointed, until March 2016) in the training of CEO successors, has accumulated wide experience as a business June 2019 June 2015 Outside Director, SCSK Corporation manager and broad knowledge about the training of global leaders, and satisfies the March 2017 Outside Director, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. “Requirements for Independence of Outside Officers” of the Company. June 2018 Outside Director, Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(to date) April 2019 Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) Oct. 1981 Joined Japan Synthetic Rubber Co., Ltd. (currently, JSR Corporation) June 2002 Officer and General Manager of Electronic Materials Department I, Electronic Materials Division, JSR Corporation (“JSR”) June 2003 Officer, General Manager of Electronic Materials Division, and General Manager of ElectronicMaMr. Mitsunobu Koshiba has long been engaged in research and electronic materials terials Department, JSR business at JSR, served as the General Manager of Electronic Materials Division, and June 2004 Director, General Manager of Electronic Materials Division, JSR has been serving as the Representative Director and President of JSR since 2009. O Mitsunobu June 2005 Senior Officer, General Manager of Electronic Materials Division and Assistant in charge of Appointed in Outside Director ― Fine Chemicals Business, JSR Management has judged that Mr. Mitsunobu Koshiba will be able to perform his duties ― Koshiba June 2019 June 2006 Managing Director, General Manager of Electronic Materials Division, JSR as an Outside Director properly as he has expertise in the technology area as well as June 2007 Managing Director, JSR long experience and wide knowledge as a business manager, and satisfies the June 2008 Senior Managing Director, JSR “Requirements for Independence of Outside Officers” of the Company. April 2009 Representative Director and President, JSR June 2019 Representative Director and Chairman,JSR (to date) Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) May 1973 Registered as Certified Public Accountant (Registration No.5095) July 2004 Deputy Chairman, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants Mr. Taigi Ito has not engaged in corporate management in any manner other than servJan. 2012 Chairman of the Disciplinary Committee, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants ing as an outside officer. However, management has judged that he will be able to Outside Audit & June 2012 Outside Audit & Supervisory BoardMember, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) perform his duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members properly as he is 14 of 15 16 of 16 P Taigi Ito Supervisory Board 4,656 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, IT Holdings Corporation (currently, TIS INC.) (to date) 〇 June 2014 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation familiar with corporate accounting as a certified public accountant and a university (93%) (100%) Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation professor, has full knowledge about corporate management, and satisfies the “RequireJune 2015 Outside Director, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (to date) ments for Independence of Outside Officers” of the Company. Sep. 2018 Outside Director, Koa Shoji Holdings Co., Ltd (to date) April 1973 Registered as an attorney April 1997 Vice President, Tokyo Bar Association Mr. Kenji Yamagishi has not engaged in corporate management in any manner other April 2004 Secretary General, Japan Federation of Bar Associations July 2007 Committee Member, Central Third-Party Committee to Check Pension Records, Ministry of than serving as an outside officer. However, management has judged that he will be Outside Audit & Q Kenji Internal Affairs and Communications able to perform his duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members properly Appointed in Appointed in Supervisory Board ― March 2008 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. 〇 Yamagishi Member as he is familiar with corporate legal affairs as an attorney, has full knowledge about April 2019 April 2019 April 2009 President, Tokyo Bar Association corporate management, and satisfies the “Requirements for Independence of Outside Vice President, the Japan Federation of Bar Associations May 2012 President, the Japan Federation of Bar Associations Officers” of the Company. April 2019 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. (to date) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 52 Corporate Governance Basic Concept of Corporate Governance With regard to matters other than those mentioned above, the Company shall delegate authority for business exeThe Company, a company originating in Japan which co-creates energy, will continue to strive to create new values cution to the Representative Director and CEO, Management Meeting, Directors who also serve as Executive Officers, together with its customers and stakeholders, while aiming to harmonize with the environment and society in the spirit Executive Officers and General Managers, with a view to facilitating decision making on the execution of business. The of diversity and inclusiveness. Management Meeting, which has the Representative Director and some Executive Officers as its members, decides on With this aim in mind, the Company recognizes the importance of constructing positive relationships with all stakeholders, business execution based on the Authority Rules. including customers, shareholders, business partners, local communities and employees, by fulfilling its social responsibility as a good corporate citizen, improving management transparency and promoting sound and sustainable growth. Japan’s Corporate Governance Code is aimed at achieving sustainable corporate growth and increasing medium Each Committee to long-term corporate value through Dialogue with Shareholders. The Company which strives to become a socially respected and highly trusted company believes that it must comply with the code in principle. Management Advisory Committee and Safety and Security Advisory Committee The Company attaches great importance to be self-governing, thinking by ourselves and judge ourselves in accorTo maintain management transparency and soundness, our company has established two committees as advisory dance with the Company’s vision. In addition, the Company openly discusses its business status and management bodies to the Board of Directors, the Management Advisory Committee and the Safety and Security Advisory Comcircumstances with Independent Outside Directors and Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member with a mittee. Both committees receive frank opinions on our company from a third-party perspective and reflect them in wide range of knowledge and backgrounds and sincerely absorbs their unrestricted views, thereby endeavoring to conmanagement improvements. tinue operating in a transparent and fair manner. The Management Advisory Committee is positioned as a body that advises on issues related to overall management reform. In principle, it meets once every six months and receives recommendations from 2 outside advisors. The Safety and Security Advisory Committee has consulted on security issues, particularly technical issues, to Outline of Corporate Governance System prevent large-scale disasters at refineries and plants. Recent changes in the business environment have increased the While the Board of Directors of the Company shall make important business decisions and supervise the execution of importance of ensuring safety in business deployment, new businesses, and overseas expansion. Therefore, we have set business, the Company, as a company with Audit & Supervisory Board, shall ensure that Audit & Supervisory Board up a working group within the Safety & Environmental Protection Headquarters to select themes appropriate to the busiMembers and the Audit & Supervisory Board that are independent of the Board of Directors shall audit the execution of ness development and receive recommendations from outside experts each time. duties by officers and employees. The Board of Directors shall, in accordance with laws, regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and other rules set Nominating Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee down by the Company, make decisions on business strategy, business planning and other key business matters for the To enhance the transparency and objectivity of its nomination and compensation functions, as advisory bodies to the Company and supervise the execution of business. Board of Directors, our company has established the Nominating Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory In order to increase the objectivity of the Board of Directors, the Company has made it possible to separate the roles Committee which are comprised of Independent Outside Directors and independent outside auditors, and chaired by of the chairperson and the CEO by revising a clause in the Articles of Incorporation stipulating that the CEO will serve as Independent Outside Directors. the chairperson of the Board of Directors to read that the chairperson will be determined by the Board of Directors. The Nominating Advisory Committee reports on the president's proposal submitted to a general meeting of shareholders, for the election of candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, as well as the election of ■ Corporate Governance Structure the President and Representative Director and Executive Officers. Compensation Advisory Committee also reports on General Meeting of Shareholders matters related to the remuneration of Directors and Executive Officers. Appointment/ Appointment/ Appointment/ Dismissal Nomination Advisory Committee Dismissal Committee Dismissal Committee Committee Management Committee, Enterprise Risk Management Committee, and Other Committees Compensation Advisory Committee Inquiry Board of Audit Audit & Supervisiry Collaboration Financial Auditor Management Advisory Committee Directors Board/Audit & Supervisory (Auditing Firm) In addition to examining management issues such as the Group's strategy and governance, the Management CommitBoard Members Safety & Security Advisory Committee Report tee has been established to deliberate on important business execution issues. In addition, the Enterprise Risk Report Supervision and AppointAudit Collaboration Audit ment/Dismissal Committee Collaboration Management Committee has been established as an organization to discuss and decide matters related to the Group's Business Execusion Direction risk management and to monitor them as necessary. President & Representative Director Internal Audit Report At the bottom of the Management Committee are 5 specialized committees to discuss specialized risks in busiDepartment ness execution: Investment and Finance Committee, Derivatives Committee, Procurement Committee, Credit Enterprise Risk Management Committee Management Committee/Management Meeting Committee for the Evaluation of International Controls over Committee, and Research & Development Committee. In addition, we have established the Risk Management ComReport Supervision/Direction Report Financial Reporting mittee and the Compliance Committee under the Enterprise Risk Management Committee in order to strengthen our Report Compliance Committee Risk Management Committee response to business risk cases and develop a framework for reviewing and drafting risk management policies. In addiReport Safety & Environmental Information Disclosure Committee Procurement Committee Supervision/ Protection Headquarters tion, we have established the Committee for the Evaluation of International Controls over Financial Reporting to Compliance/ Direction strengthen J-SOX compliance and the Information Disclosure Committee to provide timely and appropriate information Investment & Finance Committee Credit Committee Quality Assurance Harassment Hotline Supervision/ Headquarters Derivatives Committee Research & Development Committee Direction disclosure based on the Group's information disclosure policy. Report Supervision/Direction For an overview of each committee, please refer to page 53 of the Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019. Department/Affiliated Companies Audit Notice Employees Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 53 Corporate Governance Committee Name Chair Members Meeting frequency Roles Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & Committee members In principle, three To discuss and consider management strategies and Supervisory Board Members by Board of Directors Management Committee President issues for the entire group and for each division. To appointed by chair times a month deliberate the execution of business. Nomination of Candidates for Directors Enterprise Risk Committee members In principle, twice a To decide on and monitor risk management policies for President Management Committee appointed by chair year group management Our company has adopted human resource standards for Directors that take into account the composition of the Board Investment and Finance Director in charge General managers of To deliberate and report on investment-related matters of Directors. (determined by As needed Committee relevant departments and to establish investment standards management meeting) Our company believes that it is important for the Board of Directors to have a certain number of people who are Director in charge General managers of In principle, once a To perform derivative audits and to confirm and report on familiar with our company's business and its issues as a member of the Board of Directors, to ensure the independence Derivatives Committee (determined by relevant departments month the status of risk management for the entire group management meeting) and objectivity of the Board of Directors, and to ensure diversity in the knowledge, experience, and capabilities of the Director in charge General managers of In principle, once a To deliberate on and consider matters regarding the Directors, in order for the Board to fulfill its roles and responsibilities and to strategically direct our group, and has preProcurement Committee (determined by placement of orders for services, raw materials, and relevant departments month management meeting) other items pared a Skill Matrix as one of the criteria for selection. Director in charge General managers of In principle, once a To formulate basic policies related to debt management and Based on this, the Board of Directors receives recommendations from the Nominating Advisory Committee and Credit Committee (determined by relevant departments month measures for collecting non-performing loans or bad debts management meeting) appoints a certain number of candidates who are familiar with our company's business and its issues, and who are Research & Development Director in charge General managers of In principle, four times To consider matters related to the direction, strategies, capable of carrying out our company's management appropriately, fairly and efficiently. (determined by and issues pertaining to Company-wide research and Committee relevant departments a year management meeting) development In the election of Director candidates, after discussions among representative directors, the CEO shall submit a draft Director in charge General managers of In principle, four times To deliberate and prepare important policies to promote to the Nomination Advisory Committee on full assessment of the abilities, knowledge and performance of individual Risk Management Committee (determined by relevant departments a year business risk management management meeting) candidates, regardless of whether they are from inside or outside of the Company. The Board of Directors shall make a Director in charge General managers of In principle, twice a To make appropriate response to compliance concerns decision based on a report submitted by the Nomination Advisory Committee. Compliance Committee (determined by relevant departments year and to promote compliance activities management meeting) The Nomination Advisory Committee, when it deems it necessary, deliberates on the dismissal of directors and Committee for the Evaluation Director in charge of Relevant directors or In principle, twice a To assess and consider matters related to internal reports the results to the Board of Directors. of Internal Controls over accounting executive officers year controls regarding financial reporting Financial Reporting Relevant directors, Nomination of Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Information Disclosure Director in charge of executive officers, As needed To decide on disclosure of information Committee accounting and general managers Our company determines the standards for the personnel of Audit & Supervisory Board Members based on the structure of the Audit & Supervisory Board, after obtaining the prior consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board. Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are selected based on the prior consent of the Audit & SuperChanges in Corporate Governance Structure visory Board, provided that they have appropriate experience and abilities as well as the necessary knowledge of finance, There are 13 Directors, 5 of whom are Independent Outside Directors with diverse backgrounds, including women and accounting or legal affairs. Candidates for internal Audit & Supervisory Board Members are selected based on their full non-Japanese nationals. The term of Directors shall continue until the conclusion of the annual shareholders meeting for knowledge of our company's business and its issues, and are able to conduct audits and supervision of our company the last business year which ends within one year from the time of their election pursuant to the provisions of the Articles appropriately, fairly and efficiently. of Incorporation. In the selection of candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the President and Representative Director In FY2018, the Board of Directors met 15 times. discusses this with all representative directors and, based on the recommendations of the Nominating Advisory CommitThere are four Audit & Supervisory Board Members, two of whom are Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory tee, submits to the Board of Directors a draft which sufficiently evaluates the abilities, knowledge and performance of Board Members, and we have established a system that allows them to fully perform management oversight functions each candidate, as for both inside and outside the company, with the consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board. from outside. The Audit & Supervisory Board works to improve the level of auditing by sharing issues and information among Audit & Supervisory Board Members and, when necessary, requesting information from the Directors and departIndependence Requirements for Outside Officers ments. In FY2018, the Audit & Supervisory Board met 16 times. In order for the Board of Directors to fulfill its supervisory functions, our company's basic policy is to appoint more than 1/3 of its Directors and half of its Audit & Supervisory Board Members as Independent Outside Directors and auditors, of Which, Number of Number of of Which, Number of respectively, who have the knowledge and experience to provide useful advice for the management of our company, from Number of Audit & SuperFiscal Year Form of Organization Directors Independent Outside visory Board Independent Outside Audit among persons who satisfy the Independence Requirements for Outside Officers by taking into consideration a variety Directors & Supervisory Board Members of knowledge and backgrounds. Company with Audit & FY2015 10 people 2 (One woman) 5 people 3 people Supervisory Board 1. A person who has become an executive officer of the Company or its subsidiaries in the present or in the past. Company with Audit & FY2016 Supervisory Board 10 people 2 (One woman) 5 people 3 people 2. A person who is a major shareholder or currently affiliated with an organization that is a major shareholder with a 10% Company with Audit & 4 (One woman and one or higher share ratio in the Company’s latest shareholder list. FY2017 12 people 4 people 2 people Supervisory Board foreigner) 3. A person who is currently affiliated with the Company’s business partners or their consolidated subsidiaries with a FY2018 Company with Audit & 11 people 4 (One woman and one 4 people 2 people total annual transaction amount of 2% or more of consolidated net sales in the three most recent business years. Supervisory Board foreigner) Company with Audit & 5 (One woman and one FY2019 13 people 4 people 2 people Supervisory Board foreigner) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 54 Corporate Governance 4. A person who is a consultant, accounting professional, legal expert, accounting auditor, or contractor (if they are monetary compensation (periodic equal pay) to performance-based bonuses for the purpose of clarifying the incentive corporations, associations, or other organizations, those who actually belong to those organizations) who receives structure), and (3) performance-linked stock compensation. money or other properties of ¥10 million or more per annum from the Company other than remuneration for a Director The ratios of fixed compensation, performance-based bonuses, and performance-linked stock compensation at the or 4 Audit & Supervisory Board Member in the three most recent fiscal years. time of standard payment are set at approximately 70%, 15%, and 15%. Compensation for Outside Directors consists 5. A person who is currently affiliated with non-profit organizations that have received 2% or more of their gross or ordisolely of fixed compensation from the perspective of objectively assessing the appropriateness of business execution nary income from the Company in the three most recent fiscal years. and ensuring appropriate supervisory functions. 6. In the case where a person has belonged to any of the organizations or business partners described in 2. to 5. above, five years have not elapsed since (s)he left the organization or business partner. 1. Fixed compensation 7. A person who is the spouse or relative within the third degree of kinship of an officer (excluding those that are not Fixed compensation shall be paid on a monthly basis in an amount determined according to the role. important) of the Company or a specified associated company of the Company. 2. Performance-based bonus Performance-based bonuses are designed to fluctuate within a range of 0 200% according to achievement levels (such as roles and company performance (hereinafter “net income”) and consolidated operating income attributable Training to shareholders of the parent company). Our company provides training to its Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members on the roles, responsibilities, and 3. Performance-linked stock compensation compliance that are expected of them when they become Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board Members of listed From the perspective of sharing value with shareholders, performance-linked stock compensation is designed to companies. fluctuate within the range of 0 200% in accordance with the achievement of corporate performance (net income and In addition, we explain our company's business, finance, and organization to newly appointed Independent Outside consolidated operating income) for all executives. This is a mediumto long-term incentive in which the value of Directors and auditors of our company, so that they can fulfill their roles and responsibilities. assets fluctuates due to stock price fluctuations during the term of office as stock is given to Directors, etc., after their In addition, our company encourages Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to improve their skills and resignation. provides them with training opportunities tailored to their needs, while at the same time providing a broad range of support for necessary expenses. Our company uses net income and consolidated operating income as indicators to share value with shareholders and investors, and believes that they are appropriate indicators to strengthen profitability and increase our corporate value. The weight of each indicator is determined in accordance with the duties of each director. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors At least once a year, all the directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members assess the effectiveness of the Board of The Date of Resolution at the Shareholders General Meeting Concerning remuneration, etc. Directors, and the Company disclose an overview of the results. The first effectiveness evaluation of the integrated new for Executives and the Details of Such Resolution company, which was established in April 2019, will be conducted in the second half of FY2019. At the 91th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2006, the amount of compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members was set at 1.2 billion yen or less per year for Directors and 120 million yen or less per year for Audit & Supervisory Board Members. At the time of the resolution, there were 12 Directors and 5 Audit Compensation for Executives & Supervisory Board Members. At the 104th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2019, it was resolved that in addition to the Basic Policy on Executive Compensation above compensation limits, our company would contribute up to 1.9 billion yen (provided, however, that in the case of a Our company's basic policies regarding remuneration for its Directors and Executive Officers (Directors, etc.) are twofold: trust that has already commenced in FY2018, the total amount of 2.3 billion yen shall be calculated for the four business 1) to increase corporate performance and corporate value over the medium to long term to realize its management vision; years from FY2018 to FY2021.) in total to a trust that would be covered by the performance-linked stock compensation 2) to establish a remuneration system and decision-making process that is transparent, rational and fair so that the comsystem for Directors and others during the 3 consecutive fiscal years. At the time of resolution, the number of Directors pany can fulfill its accountability to customers, society, the environment, shareholders, business partners, employees, (excluding Outside Directors) covered by this system is 6 and the number of Executive Officers who do not concurrently and other stakeholders. Based on this policy, our company's executive compensation system is as follows. serve as Directors is 31. Individual compensation for Directors is determined by the Board of Directors based on the recommendations of the Compensation Standard Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, which is composed of Independent Outside Directors and IndepenCompensation levels for Directors and others shall be reviewed as appropriate in light of changes in the business envident Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Individual compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is ronment and external survey data. determined through discussions between Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee met a total of 11 times in FY2018, including deliberation on executive compensation. Compensation Structure Our company and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. merged on April 1, 2019. Starting in FY2019, the compensation structures for the Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and Executive Officers will be based on new arrangements, with the emphasis being placed on contributing to the maximization of synergy creation, business portfolio rearrangement, and enhancement of initiatives for the environment, society and governance, which in turn will lead to further improvement of corporate value, and will consist of (1) fixed compensation, (2) performance-based bonuses (shift from performance-linked Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 55 Corporate Governance Total Amount of Compensation, etc. by Executive Category Strategically-held Listed Shares In FY2018, Directors' and Audit & Supervisory Board Members' salaries totaled 1.19 billion yen and 100 million yen, respectively. Policy on strategic holdings of listed shares The Company strategically holds listed shares which are found to be necessary to maintain and expand relationships Performance-linked compensation (1 million yen) Other Compensation with business partners over the medium to long term. And yet, the Company shall validate the appropriateness of such Fixed Total People Compen(Response to the compensaholdings annually in the following way, and has been reducing those share holdings. Category Cash transition to the new (number) sation Compensation Stock tion More specifically, the Company shall scrutinize those share holdings in terms of both quantitative evaluation, which company system) (1 million yen) (periodic compensation (1 million yen) (1 million yen) analyzes whether the benefits and risks of holding such shares are commensurate with the relevant cost of capital, and equal pay) qualitative evaluation, which analyzes the degree of contribution to improving business stability, etc., and the appropriDirectors (excluding Outside Directors) 7 393 136 132 472 1,135 ateness of selling shares shall be decided after the deliberation of the Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excluding Independent Outside Audit 3 59 4 12 77 As for shares which are decided to be sold, the Company shall have sufficient dialogues with the relevant business & Supervisory Board Members ) partners to get their understanding, and then proceeds with the stock sales while considering the impact on share prices. Outside Directors and Independent In FY2018, we sold a total of six stocks worth 887 million yen. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 6 69 9 78 Members Standards for exercising voting rights of strategically-held listed shares Total 16 522 141 132 494 1,290 The Company shall exercise voting rights of strategically-held listed shares only when it finds that such exercise will * Our company's current executive compensation plan consists of fixed compensation as well as performance-linked cash compensation (periodic equal payment) and improve on a sustainable basis the corporate values of both the Company and the company whose shares it strategically performance-linked stock compensation. In FY2019, to clarify the composition of incentives, we shifted from performance-linked cash compensation (periodic equal payment) to bonus payments. Other Compensation refers to the extraordinary payment of the portion corresponding to the transition to bonus payments and the adholds. justment of executive compensation accompanying the management integration. The Company shall examine whether or not the exercise of voting rights improves on a sustainable basis the corporate value of the company whose shares it strategically holds, based on management strategies, business results, etc. of the said company. Depending on the agenda, the Company shall ask the said company for an explanation before Management Monitoring System exercising voting rights. Our company's internal control system is based on the supervision by the Board of Directors, audits by Outside Directors In cases where the agenda of the company whose shares the Company strategically holds may be in conflict with and Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and accounting audits, as well as the effective functionthe interests of the Company and if the need arises, the Company shall exercise voting rights based on Independent ing of the 3 defense lines under the direction of execution (under President and Representative Director). (1) Each Outside Directors’ and outside experts’ opinions. department controls risks by incorporating self-management into daily operations, and ensures the legality of operations. (2) The management division supports the division in each specialized field and monitors the status of self-management. (3) We have established an Internal Audit Department under the direct control of the President and Representative Director, and its staff implement Internal Audits and Assessment of Internal Control over Financial Reporting (J-SOX) from an independent and objective standpoint. The Internal Audit Department conducts internal audits of domestic and overseas offices and affiliated companies. In this way, the effectiveness of internal controls in each division is evaluated, and the results are reported to the President and Representative Director, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, division heads, and relevant executives. The departments that receive advice and proposals for improvement systematically make improvements, and the Internal Audit Department conducts follow-up audits as necessary. Audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members (4 people) attend meetings of the Board of Directors and audit business reports, financial statements, and consolidated financial statements that are submitted to the annual general meeting of shareholders. They also audit the execution of business operations by Directors on a daily basis. Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members attend important internal meetings, such as those of the Management Committee, and meet with department heads, overseas store managers, and the presidents of subsidiaries. Part-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members strive to enhance auditing by visiting key departments. As a general rule, we hold quarterly meetings with the representative director to discuss issues. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 56 Compliance Concept of to Compliance Establishment of Consultation Center The Compliance Code of Conduct was established for all employees working around the world, both overseas and in Japan, to disseminate the compliance mindset that each employee should have and to practice actions based on this. Domestic Consultation Center We will act with a compliance-first attitude based on the common concept of Compliance Code of Conduct. We have established the Compliance Consultation Center (cp-sodan) (Reception of Internal Control Promotion Department) to receive compliance-related consultations and internal reports. We have also established Harassment Consultation Center (Reception of Human Resources Department) as contact points for all forms of harassment, including sexual and Compliance Code of Conduct power harassment. The consultation center have been set up on the company-wide internal In accordance with the high integrity set forth in the Action Mindset, we have established the following items as specific information portal and are also displayed on posters so that anyone can recognize its existence. compliance codes of conduct. ● The counters are for employees (including part-time employees, temporary employees, 1. Compliance with Laws, Regulations, and Morals employees on loan, and contract employees) of our company, our company subsidiaries and We will comply with domestic and international laws and regulations, social ethics, internal regulations, and conothers. tracts, and act with integrity as good corporate citizens. ● Each of these consultation center has an External third party contact (reception of a lawyer's Poster of office). In order to ensure anonymity, a lawyer in charge acts as a liaison with the in-house consultation center 2. Respect for Human Rights consultant staff. In addition to ensuring the confidentiality of the content of consultations, we We will not tolerate any infringement of human rights. have also established a ban on disadvantageous treatment of those who report or consult We accept diversity in all forms (e.g. race, nationality, gender, etc.), and strive to create healthy and comfortable with us. workplaces free of harassment. 3. Safety, Quality, and Environmental Preservation Consultation center for cases of compliance and harassment concerns We will ensure the appropriate quality of our products and services; We will do our utmost to prevent accidents and Compliance Contacts (fraud, misconduct, and other compliance issues) Internal Contacts minimize losses due to disasters, and will act with due consideration to the preservation of the global environment. (real name consultation in principle) Harassment Contacts 4. Fair and Free Competition (sexual harassment, power harassment, and other forms of harassment) We will conduct business transactions based on fair and free competition. External Contacts Common External Contact for Compliance and Harassment Consultation (anonymous consultation available) 5. Anti-Corruption We will maintain sound and transparent relationships with civil servants, government authorities, etc., both in Japan and abroad when conducting our business activities. Overseas Consultation Hotline 6. Information Disclosure and Information Management We will manage information held by the Company appropriately with transparency and soundness of manageIn order to respond to reports from overseas offices, we established the Idemitsu Global Hotline (IGHL) in FY2018 and ment. We will disclose information appropriately to the general public when necessary. operating. (Applicable to all languages of local subsidiaries) Number of consultations received in FY2018 *1 (Unit: cases) Number of Compliance Consultation received 11 Idemitsu Group Number of Harassment Consultation received 5 Compliance Promotion Structure Number of VOP *2 received 22 Compliance Committee Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Number of Harassment Consultation received 1 Our group has established the Compliance Committee under the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, and is *1 Both companies disclose their results in accordance with their respective regulations. working to ensure thorough compliance by responding to cases of compliance concern, implementing compliance pro*2 VOP (Voice of People): Showa Shell Sekiyu Group’s employee consultation center motion activity plans, and monitoring the status of compliance activities. Chaired by an Executive Officer in charge of internal control appointed by the Management Meeting, the committee consists of each head of General Affairs Department, Legal Department, Human Resources Department 1, Human Resources Department 2, Internal Audit Department, and Internal Control Promotion Department. The committee meets once every six months. Assignment of Compliance Promotion Officers in Departments and Subsidiaries The heads of our group's divisions and the presidents of its subsidiaries appoint officers in charge of compliance promotion and are responsible for promoting compliance at each division. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 57 Compliance Risk Management Compliance Promotion Activities Policy of Risk Management Our group strives to stabilize its management by proactively recognizing and evaluating various risks associated with its Raising Employee Awareness business activities and taking appropriate measures in accordance with those risks. ● Compliance Room In July 2019, we established the Compliance Room on our internal information portal to raise compliance awareness. We post violation cases, four-frame comics, and blogs, and update the latest internal and external cases and dissemRisk Management Promotion Structure inate them throughout the Group. At our group, we classify risks associated with our business activities into two categories: Operational Risk and Busi● Compliance Web Learning ness Strategy Risk and promote countermeasures against them. Operational Risk is a risk of impeding business In November 2019, the Compliance Web Learning was held for our group employees to help them acquire knowlexecution and causing only losses, as typified by accidents, disasters, non-compliance, business errors, product edge about compliance and to identify problems in the workplace. More than 10,000 employees in the Group took the defects, claims, environmental pollution, system failures, terrorism, and labor problems. The term Business Strategy course. Risk refers to risks associated with business activities that exclude business risk and cause profit or loss. In addition to ● Compliance Book risks associated with current business strategies such as investments and finance, this category includes risks associIn accordance with the Compliance Code of Conduct newly established in November 2019, we published the latest ated with the future business environment. The Risk Management Committee is responsible for responding to version of our Compliance Book at the end of January 2020, which describes specific compliance standards. Operational Risk. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee is responsible not only for Operational Risk but for “Business Strategy Risk. Bribery and Corruption Prevention Our group's Compliance Code of Conduct stipulates that all forms of corruption must be prevented in Japan and overManaging Operational Risk seas. Furthermore, we have established basic rules and systems to be observed in the prevention of bribery, and in Our group has established the Risk Management Committee and is promoting company-wide risk management related FY2019 we established the Rules for the Prevention of Bribery with the aim of preventing violations of laws and reguto operational risks by taking necessary measures in a timely and prompt manner. Chaired by a Director or Executive lations in each country that prohibit bribery, such as the OECD convention and the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). Officer appointed by the Management Committee, the committee selects major risks common to the Group, discusses We regard anticorruption as a particularly important issue for compliance at overseas sites, and are raising awareness of countermeasures, and manages the progress of these risks at quarterly meetings. the importance of specific preventive measures. Group’s Risk Management Tax Compliance Initiatives The Enterprise Risk Management Committee supervised by the Board of Directors determines risk management poliOur group fulfills its corporate social responsibility by paying taxes in a proper manner and complying with all applicable tax cies related to Group management and monitors the status of management. Please refer to page 52 for details on the laws of each country and international rules, as stipulated in the Group Tax Regulations Group Tax Practices Guide. Enterprise Risk Management Committee. Major Compliance Violations in FY2018 (Unit: cases) Significant compliance violations at Idemitsu Group* 0 Initiatives for Risk Management Significant compliance violations at the Showa Shell Sekiyu Group* 0 Further Reinforcing Crisis Management The Idemitsu Group has formulated Crisis Response Rules as the topmost of its regulations concerning crisis readiness, * Violations disclosed as having a serious impact on our group's management stipulating response policy and crisis-level definitions, the system for emergency communication and cooperation, and methods for establishing emergency task forces. Based on the Rules, from the initial stage of risk, the Group’s risk-related information is swiftly shared with the department in charge of the business site where the risk has occurred and the General Affairs Department risk management section, as well as with the Risk Management Committee members as appropriate. According to the level of crisis, relevant departments, including the Corporate Departments, support the business site facing the risk or take the initiative in responding to the risk to minimize any potential social impact or damage. In FY2006, we formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for the eventuality of an earthquake with an epicenter in the Tokyo metropolitan area, in FY2009, formulated a BCP for the eventuality of an outbreak of avian influenza, and in FY2012, formulated a BCP for the a Nankai megathrust earthquake. In FY2015, as Idemitsu was appointed as a designated public institution by the Cabinet Office ,we announced the Disaster Prevention Action Plan. We have hold annual comprehensive disaster drills based on those BCPs and confirm problems in actual action to take and coordination with each business base to strengthen our practical response capabilities and to reflect revisions to the BCP. At our refineries, complexes, plants, and other business sites, we implement periodic disaster prevention drills in the whole site based on applicable crisis response regulations. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 58 Risk Management ■ Comprehensive disaster drill ● Information Management System In line with the Information Security Basic Policies, the Idemitsu Group is endeavoring to ensure the secrecy of its information assets and secure the availability and security of information systems and networks. Utilizing information technologies, Idemistu thus striving to maintain and enhance the level of customer services. In addition, Idemitsu has established the Customer Information Management Standards to appropriately collect and use customer information, and store it safely and at the latest status. The standards also mandate the proper disposal of such information. We also implement periodic staff education on Security standards for the Use of IT Systems for all employees as part of our thoroughgoing information management measures. At the same time, autonomous inspection of information management is implemented by each division while data security audits are implemented through periodic business operation audits by the Internal Audit Office. When information leakage occurs, the incident is handled in accordance with the Guidelines on How to Deal with a Crisis, and the Information Control Guidelines. Information Security Basic Policies TOPICS Acquiring Highest BCM Rating from the Development Bank of Japan 1. The Idemitsu Group shall endeavor to ensure the secrecy of its information assets, secure the availability and security of its information systems and networks, and enhance the level of customer services by employing inforIdemitsu became the first oil refiner and primary oil distributor to receive the highest “Rank A from the Developmation technologies. ment Bank of Japan (DBJ) in the DBJ BCM Rated Loan Program. 2. The Idemitsu Group shall put in place appropriate protective measures to prevent the leakage, falsification or The DBJ BCM Rated Loan Program is the world’s first loan menu to incorporate the BCM (Business Continuity destruction of customer information. Management) ratings. Using a proprietary screening system, DBJ assesses a company’s disaster measures and 3. The Idemitsu Group shall strive to secure the availability and security of its information systems and networks and business continuity plans and offers loan conditions based on the assessment results. The rating is classified into protect their secrecy, in an effort to prevent information-related incidents that may cause troubles to customers, three grades from the highest “Rank A to Rank C. business partners and other stakeholders. We received Rank A: company with excellent advanced initiatives to disaster measures and BCP as the follow4. The Idemitsu Group shall ensure that all employees, temporally staff and vendors are aware of the importance of ing three aspects were highly evaluated: information security and property educated about the use of information and information systems by providing them with training and otherwise raising their awareness. 1. Under the commitment of the top management, we have established a risk management system that covers 5. The Idemitsu Group shall conduct periodic audits aimed at inspecting and evaluating the status of security policy all-risk hazards, including geopolitics and cyber risks. Employees work together with management to strengthen compliance, thereby ensuring robust information security. its resilience to risks, including risk control through prior investment, and preparation of various risk financing methods based on the analysis of financial impact at the time of risk occurrence. 2. Considering it as a social mission to continue supply of oil for people’s life, we have thoroughly implemented adFY2018 Results (Unit: %) vanced quake-resistance measures in the industry by introducing an overseas risk engineer survey to ensure safety, disaster prevention inspection and preventive measures in the global standards. In addition, we have established Idemitsu Group e-learning enrollment rate 100 a system to continue oil supply across Japan based on the Showa Shell Group IT security web learning enrollment rate 100 Plan for Joint-Operations of Oil Supply in Disasters, which is industrial cooperative framework for emergency supply. 3. We work to constantly improve the business continuity plans through implementing various BC drills involving outside stakeholders, including Self-Defense Forces. We also improve the effectiveness of emergency response, including the enhancement a human resource development system to support sophisticated risk management. We continue to review its BC plans through active use of exterCooperative Joint drill for fuel supply in a disaster by nal evaluations and implementation of practical drills aimed at the JGSDF Northern Army and the Hokkaido Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (February 2018) strengthening response capabilities. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 59 Intellectual Property Utilization of intellectual property Trends in the number of registered patent held Our group has established the Intellectual Property Department to supervise intellectual property. The Intellectual Property Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Idemitsu Showa Shell Department supports our group's business development and activities to increase the brand value of its products by (Cases) 3,026 (Cases) collaborating with its business divisions and R&D divisions to apply for, secure, maintain and utilize intellectual property 2,995 2,964 2,905 2,938 196 200 3,000 200 187 188 rights, such as patents and trademarks. 174 2,500 2,006 1,998 2,092 2,088 1,983 150 2,000 Initiatives to Utilize Intellectual Property 1,500 100 1,000 59 53 48 50 Promotion of intellectual property activity plans 50 36 500 Our company uses the PDCA cycle to formulate IP Activity Plans based on the Intellectual Property Strategy Council 0 0 headed by the general managers of each division. The divisions, research laboratories, and the Intellectual Property 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) (Fiscal Year) Department work together to promote to solve priority issues. We have also introduced the Unit Structure which efficiently solves problems in a wide range of business fields, from fuel oil to high-functionality materials, in accordance with the characteristics and strategies of each business. By doing so, each unit can smoothly carry out intellectual property activities such as research and analysis of patent information, patent application entitlements, public relations, planning, Working with Patent Firms and Government Agencies and management. Through cooperative efforts with patent firms in Japan and major overseas countries, we are focusing our energy on In the fuel oil field, we have entered into a cross-licensing agreement and are working to strengthen our competitiveness securing the intellectual property rights necessary for business development. We are strengthening cooperation with by reducing costs by making available patents from both parties. In the lubricating oil field, we have a large share of the overseas patent firms through direct communication with patent attorneys and the dispatch of trainees. We are working global market for refrigerating machine oil, which is one of our strengths, and we have established a global patent network. to secure patent rights everywhere we do business through direct interviews, negotiations, and technology presentations Because market growth is expected in the organic EL business, the core field of the electronic materials business, with each country’s examiners. In addition, with the support of the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO), we we have entered into alliance agreements with companies in Japan and overseas that hold useful patents related to address pressing issues besetting emerging nations, such as counterfeit products, while lobbying governmental organiorganic EL materials, enabling the mutual use of patents in specific fields. Through these and other measures, we are zations. In these ways, we remain apprised of the patent-related problems and implement robust countermeasures. working to create and expand businesses while expanding the areas in which development is possible. Responding to the Patent Laws of Each Country Exercising Intellectual Property Rights Patent laws are set independently by each country, and the application for as well as the receipt and maintenance of Intellectual property rights are being exercised with increasing frequency in response to the diversification of business patents requires adherence to said laws. With a rising number of corporations pursuing global expansion, there has activities, from licensing to the pursuit of alliances and mergers and acquisitions. Idemitsu established a specialized recently been a global trend toward patent law revision aimed at facilitating swift patent acquisition and the international negotiations team within the Intellectual Property Department to support its various business segments by handling the harmonization, including by ironing out differences between laws, rules, and examination processes. Because of this, in negotiation and signing of technology contracts with partners as well as performing due diligence. the countries in which they operate or their products are sold, businesses have to pay close attention to every law revision and new piece of legislation. In line with the globalization of business, the Intellectual Property Department stays informed of changes in relevant laws and examination processes used by individual countries and regions, from the Trends in the number of patent publication United States to Europe, China, South Kore, Taiwan and others, and takes these changes into account during daily intelIdemitsu lectual property activities. Japan Overseas Showa Shell Japan Overseas (Cases) (Cases) Providing Staff Education 500 50 Idemitsu is striving to help its employees to be mindful of Intellectual property by, for example, providing staff education. 400 379 40 * This means we strive to ensure employees’ awareness of fair competition and respect for the intellectual property rights of other companies while promoting business 293 30 development by leveraging competitive advantages afforded by acquiring and exercising our own intellectual property rights. 300 268 30 26 26 223 200 19 154 20 Data Analysis 133 147 143 123 111 12 10 100 10 7 5 5 6 To beat global competition, it is imperative that the Idemitsu Group understands the strengths and weaknesses of its 0 0 intellectual properties within the industry while comparing and analyzing the competitiveness of rival companies. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) (Fiscal Year) Because it is important to examine and analyze large numbers of patent abstracts around the world to create our own strategies leveraging our strengths, we have established a specialized patent information group. * The number of patent publication is counted based on the international publication date. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 60 Intellectual Property External Recognitions ● Award from the Commissioner of Japan Patent Office under the Intellectual Property Achievement Awards Program (April 11, 2018) Idemitsu was chosen to receive an Award from the Commissioner of the Japan Patent Office, as one of recipients of Awards for Excellent Corporation Utilizing the Intellectual Property Rights System under the FY2018 Intellectual Property Achievement Awards program. The Intellectual Property Achievement Awards program, sponsored jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Japan patent Office, is intended to commend individuals and corporations that contributed to the development of the country’s intellectual property right system. Idemitsu was highly commended for its track record in promoting its plans associated with intellectual property rights. ● 2018 Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation’s Excellent Invention Award (May 17, 2018) Idemitsu was selected as a winner of both an Excellent Invention Award and an Award for Outstanding Practice of Innovation by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation under its FY2018 National Commendation for Invention program. This selection was attributable to an OLED element and an organic light emitting medium both developed by Idemitsu (patent No. 4221050). The Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation has been sponsoring this award program to commend Japan’s leading researchers and scientists who contributed to the enhancement of the country’s scientific technologies and the development of its industrial sector. This award program is widely recognized as the most prestigious among intellectual property-related award programs in Japan. In the development of a blue light-emitting element, which had been said to be difficult to put into practical use, Idemitsu achieved a blue color light-emitting element with much higher color purity than the previous blue one, contributing to prolonged life of displays. Idemitsu was highly evaluated by the institute for the significant contribution to the practical use of OLED full color displays. Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 61 ESG Data Environment ● Environmental data covers Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. and its group companies indicated with ●. However, the scope of reporting of each data point differs. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Environmental data for FY2018 indicated with has been assured by the Independent Practitioner. ● Idemitsu's FY2018 is from April 2018 to March 2019 (12 months). However, the reporting period of each data point differs. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Totals may not be exact due to rounding. ● In addition, some numerical data in the previous fiscal years has been revised. Idemitsu Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Extraction Energy PJ 32 32 33 31 30 Crude oil ● Idemitsu Petroleum Norge AS Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 830 830 841 800 780 Coal ● ENSHAM COAL SALES PTY. LTD. Crude oil purchase (including below production) thousand kl 29,141 28,762 29,421 28,007 26,964 ● MUSWELLBROOK COAL COMPANY LTD ● BOGGABRI COAL OPERATIONS PTY LTD Crude oil production (from January to December 2018) thousand kl 1,684 2,089 2,500 2,145 1,557 ● TARRAWONGA COAL SALES PTY LTD ● PT MITRABARA ADIPERDANA Tbk Gas purchase thousand t 2,347 2,659 3,201 1,612 1,578 Coal purchase (including below production) thousand t 14,523 16,212 16,741 16,759 16,357 [Calculation method] CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols Coal production (from January to December 2018) thousand t 11,274 12,405 13,100 13,438 12,543 CO2 emissions, SOx, NOx: Calculated by multiplying volume of crude oil production and coal exCO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 329 334 315 285 traction by the CO2 emission intensity CO2 emission intensity uses figures from ''Energy consumption and environmental impact of the entire CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 75 84 68 73 life cycle of crude oil and coal'' reported by JPEC(Japan Petroleum Energy Center) Environmental impact related to gas extraction is not calculated CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 1,475 1,486 1,424 1,410 [Scope 3 category] Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 1,872 1,879 1,904 1,807 1,769 Category1: Purchased products and services SOx emissions t 21,917 21,742 22,164 21,155 20,450 CO2 emissions from crude oil and coal extracted from oil fields and mines owned by other companies Category3: Fuel and energy-related activities (Ones not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2) NOx emissions t 5,894 6,143 6,296 6,137 5,959 CO2 emissions from coal collected from mines owned by other companies Crude oil procurement Energy PJ 11 13 14 13 13 ● Idemitsu Tanker Co., Ltd. and import ● Astomos Energy Corporation Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 287 347 361 340 336 [Calculation method] Crude oil import thousand kl 27,457 26,673 26,921 25,862 25,406 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying energy consumption (raw material transportation) by the LPG import thousand t 2,347 2,659 3,201 1,612 1,578 CO2 emission coefficient Coal import thousand t 7,773 11,789 12,706 12,721 12,771 CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 196 241 209 190 SOx, NOx: Calculated by multiplying volume of crude oil production and coal mining by the CO2 emission intensity CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 CO2 emission intensity uses figures from ''Energy consumption and environmental impact of the entire CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 766 760 733 740 life cycle of crude oil and coal'' reported by JPEC (Japan Petroleum Energy Center) Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 795 962 1,002 943 931 [Scope 3 category] Category4: Upstream transportation and distribution (raw material) SOx emissions t 14,784 18,171 18,984 17,919 17,711 CO2 emissions attributable to transportation using ships chartered from other companies NOx emissions t 22,182 26,963 28,098 26,482 26,156 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 62 Idemitsu Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Domestic manufacturEnergy PJ 136 139 142 140 139 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ing Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 3,512 3,596 3,661 3,605 3,584 ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works Seawater thousand t 1,199,226 1,205,868 1,231,103 1,257,447 1,288,375 ● BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. ● Omaezaki Factory Water thousand t 60,415 61,032 58,555 58,314 60,130 ● Keihin Lube Center ● Moji Lube Center Crude oil throughput thousand kl 27,066 26,761 27,195 25,604 25,571 ● Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd. ● SDS Biotech K.K. ● Union Oil Industry Co., Ltd. Lubricants production thousand kl 673 695 735 726 744 Petrochemical product manufacturing (ethylene equivalent) thousand t 3,402 3,777 3,710 3,825 3,870 [Calculation method] CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 6,958 7,004 6,941 6,862 Energy: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (not including fuel coming under CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 338 325 324 363 sales of electricity and steam) CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 Seawater, Water: All amount of water intake used at production sites (Water include industrial water, tap water and underground water) Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 7,121 7,296 7,329 7,264 7,225 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols SOx emissions t 7,967 7,105 7,058 5,994 6,066 CO2 emissions: Calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures NOx emissions t 6,392 6,453 6,565 6,457 6,640 However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) Soot/dust t 232 245 285 230 231 SOx, NOx, Soot/dust: Calculated by multiplying exhaust gases' actual measured value by Wastewater thousand t 1,257,684 1,265,015 1,287,635 1,313,998 1,345,984 actual measured value of exhaust gases' concentration levels (excluding Omaezaki Factory, Union Oil Industry Co., Ltd.) COD t 86 94 96 104 97 Wastewater: Total amount of wastewater from sites Total nitrogen (TN) t 100 82 91 93 104 COD, Total nitrogen (TN), Total phosphorus (TP): Figures regularly reported to government offices Total phosphorus (TP) t 1.6 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.5 based on actual measured value ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery Total waste t 233,861 243,841 213,550 215,354 209,828 ● Tokuyama Complex ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works [Calculation method] Final disposal (landfill) t 76 84 137 945 1,383 Total waste: Total amount of industrial waste Energy usage (crude oil ● Hokkaido Refinery equivalent) (l) ● Chiba Complex Unit energy consumption (refinery) /Atmospheric distillation 8.36 8.37 8.49 8.79 8.87 ● Aichi Refinery equipment converted [Calculation method] throughput (kl) Unit energy consumption: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy ● Chiba Complex ● Tokuyama Complex ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works Unit energy consumption kl/t 0.408 0.399 0.404 0.406 0.396 [Calculation method] (petrochemical plant) Unit energy consumption: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Domestic transportaEnergy PJ 3.8 3.8 3.9 3.6 3.6 [Calculation method] tion Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 98.2 97.6 100.7 93.3 92.5 Energy: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Scope: Petroleum+Lubricants+Petrochemical products+Coal+LPG) Water thousand t 12.3 6.5 6.5 8.4 12.6 Water: Amout of water used at coal depot Oil product transportation (ship, truck) thousand t·km 8,966,342 9,097,901 9,201,165 8,910,000 8,728,000 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols Petrochemical product transportation (truck, ship, railway) thousand t·km 445,043 528,081 612,677 622,642 607,623 CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying energy consumption (product transportation) by the CO2 Lubricant transportation (truck, ship, railway) thousand t·km 548,598 574,685 619,185 609,646 589,499 emission coefficient thousand t 2,017 2,122 1,996 1,009 CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures LPG transportation (truck, etc.) However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) thousand t·km 149,673 SOx: Calculated by multiplying fuel consumption by sulphur concentration levels Coal transportation (truck) thousand t·km 154,586 152,282 153,585 143,156 162,312 NOx: Calculated in consideration of NOx emission coefficient intensity table by vehicle type of the CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 0 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, mileage, vehicle weight and transport volume, CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 0 etc. Wastewater: Wastewater discharged from coal depots CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 268 266 275 255 253 Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 268 266 275 255 253 [Scope 3 category] SOx emissions t 3,062 3,032 2,828 3,155 3,122 Category9: Downstream transportation and distribution (product transportation) NOx emissions t 3,625 3,611 3,394 3,747 3,274 CO2 emissions attributable to transportation by contracted transport companies and maritime shipWastewater thousand t 2.8 2.9 3.0 3.5 6.0 ping companies Of the datas mentioned Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 89.7 88.3 91.6 88,9 88.5 [Calculation method] above, excludes LPG Transportation volume million t·km 10,115 10,353 10,587 10,285 10,087 Unit energy consumption: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Scope: Petroleum+Lubricants+Petrochemical products+Coal) Unit energy consumption kl/million t·km 8.87 8.53 8.65 8.65 8.77 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Society Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 63 Idemitsu Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Domestic sales ● O  il depots (Kushiro, Hakodate, Hachinohe, Akita, Shiogama, Hitachi, Tokyo, Hachijojima, Oigawa, Energy PJ 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7 Niigata, Fushiki, Kishiwada, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Kochi, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kagoshima) ● Advanced Technology Research Laboratories Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 19.7 19.7 19.2 19.5 18.7 ● Lubricants Research Laboratory ● Coal & Environment Research Laboratory CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 10 ● Offices (Head Office, Branches, Idemitsu Retail Marketing Co., Ltd., Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd., SDS  Biotech K.K., etc.) CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 44 43 39 32 24 [Calculation method] Energy: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 0 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2 emissions: Calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 44 43 39 32 34 However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) Consumption Gasoline sales thousand kl 8,199 8,478 8,109 7,876 7,691 [Calculation method] Jet fuel sales thousand kl 1,655 1,604 1,678 1,856 1,973 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols Calculated by multiplying domestic product sales (fuel, coal) by the CO2 emission coefficient Kerosene sales thousand kl 2,950 2,606 2,570 2,579 2,280 CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Diesel oil sales thousand kl 6,153 6,041 6,107 6,163 6,041 However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) Heavy fuel oil A sales thousand kl 2,863 2,553 2,421 2,320 2,099 * The sales volumes of LPG (propane) and LPG (butane) are those of Astomos Energy Corporation. Heavy fuel oil C sales thousand kl 2,720 2,585 2,433 2,386 2,143 CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the investment ratio in Astomos Energy Corporation LPG (propane) sales thousand t 2,710 2,808 2,688 2,778 2,577 (51%). LPG (butane) sales thousand t 827 845 719 701 641 Coal thousand t 5,666 7,850 7,116 6,955 6,868 [Scope 3 category] Category11: Product use by customers Lubricants thousand kl 557 563 570 595 601 Domestic sales volumes Bacsic chemicals thousand t 3,096 3,273 3,316 3,403 3,493 * Lubricants and petrochemical products that are not used as fuel are not included in the calculation. Performance chemicals thousand t 47 46 47 47 50 CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 0 0 0 0 CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 91,626 87,715 82,224 79,318 Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 87,820 91,626 87,715 82,224 79,318 SOx emissions t 87,588 86,688 85,402 86,960 91,223 CO2 Emissions by Scope Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Scope 1 thousand tCO2 7,483 7,579 7,465 7,347 Extraction+Crude oil procurement and import+Domestic manufacturing+Domestic transportation+ Domestic sales+Consumption Scope 2 thousand tCO2 456 448 424 460 Extraction+Crude oil procurement and import+Domestic transportation+Domestic sales+ Scope 3 thousand tCO2 94,133 90,236 84,637 81,723 Consumption+Business travel and Employee commuting * Excluding business travel and employee commuting until FY2017 [Calculation method] CO2 emissions related to business travel: Calculated by multiplying the number of employees by emission intensity CO2 emissions related to employee commuting: Calculated by multiplying employee commuting costs by emission intensity (CO2 emissions related to business travel and employee commuting) thousand tCO2 1.4 CO2 emission intensity uses figures from the Emissions Unit Values Database on Accounting for * This data is included in Scope 3. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain [Scope 3 category] Category6: Business travel (Scope: Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd.) Category7: Employee commuting (Scope: Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd.) Totals (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 97,920 102,072 98,263 92,526 89,530 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 64 Idemitsu Waste Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Total waste t 233,861 243,841 213,550 215,354 209,828 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex  Reduced by intermediate treatment t 95,023 98,319 86,998 91,227 107,605 ● Aichi Refinery  ● Tokuyama Complex Recycled t 138,762 145,438 126,415 123,182 100,840  ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation  Final disposal (landfill) t 76 84 137 945 1,383 ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works  Final disposal rate % 0.032 0.034 0.064 0.439 0.659 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Seawater thousand t 1,199,226 1,205,868 1,231,103 1,257,447 1,288,375 ● Domestic manufacturing+Domestic transportation Water thousand t 60,427 61,039 58,562 58,322 60,143 Wastewater thousand t 1,257,687 1,265,018 1,287,638 1,314,002 1,345,990 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex Water recycling rate % 90.2 ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works * Water recycling rate = Volume of recycled / (Volume of recycled + Volume of water intake for industrial water) Air Pollutant Emissions Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex VOC emissions t 3,778 3,892 3,751 3,707 3,658 ● Oil depots (Kushiro, Hakodate, Hachinohe, Akita, Shiogama, Hitachi, Tokyo, Hachijojima, Oigawa,  Niigata, Fushiki, Kishiwada, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Kochi, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kagoshima) ● Okinawa Idemitsu Co., Ltd. High-Concentration PCB Waste Processing Results Unit Storage Volume or Volume Reduced Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Storage volume of previoius fiscal year (as of the end of March 2018) t 41 ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works ● BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. ● Advanced Technology Research Laboratories Volume reduced through treating and sorting in FY2018 t 8 ● Lubricants Research Laboratory ● Keihin Lube Center ● Oil depots (Kushiro, Hakodate, Hachinohe, Akita, Shiogama, Hitachi, Tokyo, Hachijojima, Oigawa, Niigata, Fushiki, Kishiwada,  Hiroshima, Takamatsu, Kochi, Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kagoshima) Storage volume as of the end of March 2019 t 33 ● Okinawa Idemitsu Co., Ltd. ● Astomos Energy Corporation ● Kanazawa Gas Terminal ● Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd., R&D Center for Plastic Products Amount of CFCs and HCFCs Used by Large-Scale Processing Equipment Unit March 2018 March 2019 March 2026 (Planned) Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method CFC t 0.0 0.0 0.0 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works HCFC t 42.9 42.9 0.0 ● BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. Chloroflorocarbons Leakage Results Unit FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Large-scale equipments t-CO2 383.7 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex ● Cray Valley Idemitsu Corporation ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works Air conditioners t-CO2 1471.2 ● BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. ● Advanced Technology Research Laboratories ● Performance Materials Laboratories ● Idemitsu Unitech Co., Ltd. Others t-CO2 2.5 Totals t-CO2 1857.4 Number of Environmental Accidents FY2018 0 case Acquisition Status of ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) * As of July 1, 2019 Domestic business sites 19 sites Overseas business sites 8 sites Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 65 Environment ● Environmental data covers Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. and its group companies indicated with ●. However, the scope of reporting of each data point differs. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Environmental data for FY2018 indicated with has been assured by the Independent Practitioner. ● Showa Shell's FY2018 is from January 2018 to March 2019 (15 months). However, the reporting period of each data point differs. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Totals may not be exact due to rounding. ● In addition, some numerical data in the previous fiscal years has been revised. Showa Shell Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Crude oil procurement [Calculation method] Energy PJ 7.1 7.6 9.0 9.5 12 Energy: Calculated by multiplying fuel consumption during crude oil transportation by unit of heat and import release Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 183 195 233 246 315 In regard to a part of transportation data whose direct fuel consumption cannot be measured, estimates are based on average fuel consumption CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 Unit of heat release uses figures from the Act on the Rational Use of Energy CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 0 CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying energy consumption by CO2 emission coefficient CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 873 [Scope 3 category] Category4: Upstream transportation and distribution (raw material) Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 506 540 647 681 873 CO2 emissions attributable to transportation using ships chartered from other companies Domestic manufacturEnergy PJ 69 72 67 67 88 ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ing ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 1,784 1,857 1,732 1,727 2,282 ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Oil refining Seawater thousand t 135,472 138,733 137,039 133,554 170,600 Industrial water thousand t 32,718 32,866 31,433 30,627 40,316 [Calculation method] Tap water thousand t 184 173 196 170 194 Energy: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Water consumption: All amount of water intake used at production sites Crude oil throughput thousand kl 22,182 23,639 22,051 22,622 30,294 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 6,982 CO2 emissions: Calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 434 However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 SOx: Calculated by multiplying fuel consumption by sulphur concentration levels NOx, Soot/dust: Calculated by multiplying exhaust gases' actual measured value by Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 4,820 5,068 4,750 4,852 7,416 actual measured value of exhaust gases' concentration levels SOx emissions t 2,902 3,018 2,694 2,250 2,972 Wastewater: Total amount of wastewater from sites NOx emissions t 2,125 2,262 2,189 1,942 2,769 Total waste: Total amount of industrial waste discharged excluding special controlled industrial waste Unit energy consumption: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Soot/dust t 80 135 91 72 95 Wastewater thousand t 168,374 171,772 151,698 147,257 196,122 COD t 255 Total waste t 46,009 42,607 42,886 37,994 51,296 Final disposal (landfill) t 24 32 16 3 0 Energy usage(crude oil equivalent)(l) Unit energy consumption /Atmospheric distillation 7.63 7.45 7.55 7.47 7.28 equipment converted throughput(kl) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 66 Showa Shell Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Domestic manufacturing Energy PJ 3.2 3.0 3.2 2.8 2.9 ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Other manufacturing ● Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 83 77 81 72 75 ● Keihin Biomass Power Co., Ltd. (lubricants, asphalt, ● Solar Frontier K.K. solar modules, etc.) Seawater thousand t 2,248 ● Nippon Grease Co., Ltd. Industrial water thousand t 2,053 1,800 1,790 1,170 1,479 ● Shoseki Kako Co., Ltd. (excluding Sunamachi Plant) ● Rekisei Kagaku K.K. Tap water thousand t 197 116 110 79 110 Underground water thousand t 0 1,990 1,734 2,009 2,102 [Calculation method] CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 32 Energy: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Water consumption: All amount of water intake used at production sites CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 108 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 CO2 emissions: Calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures However, only CO2 emissions are disclosed (excluding CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3) Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 201 178 176 139 139 Wastewater: Total amount of wastewater from sites Wastewater thousand t 4,497 3,906 3,634 3,258 3,691 Total waste: Total amount of industrial waste discharged excluding special controlled industrial waste Total waste t 10,716 11,164 18,102 19,664 23,009 Domestic transportation Storage and storage Energy PJ 2.5 2.5 2.2 2.4 2.9 ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ● Wakamatsu Gas K.K. ● Japan Oil Network Co., Ltd. Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 65 63 56 61 75 [Calculation method] Energy during product transportation: Calculated for shippers based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 1.0 Energy at storage locations: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 4.3 CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying energy consumption by the CO2 emission coefficient CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 193 [Scope 3 category] Category9: Downstream transportation and distribution (product transportation) CO2 emissions attributable to transportation by contracted transport companies and maritime Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 175 170 149 162 198 shipping companies Of the datas mentioned Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 72 [Calculation method] above, excludes storage Unit energy consumption: Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Transportation volume million t·km 7,172 Unit energy consumption kl/million t·km 10.1 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 67 Showa Shell Overview of Environmental Impacts Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Domestic sales Showa Shell Contract Service Stations (approx. 3,000 locations) Energy PJ 1.7 1.6 2.0 1.9 2.3 [Calculation method] Energy: Calculated by multiplying actual energy consumption per marketing service station by the Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 43 41 51 50 61 number of sales sites CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 CO2 emissions: Calculated by multiplying energy consumption by the CO2 emission coefficient CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 9.9 [Scope 3 category] Category14: Service stations sales Service Stations not included in Scope 1 and 2 CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 102 [Calculation method] Calculated by multiplying energy consumption of service stations not included in Scope 1 and 2 by Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 55 53 95 93 112 CO2 emission coefficient Consumption Gasoline sales thousand kl 8,694 8,699 8,678 8,663 9,555 [Calculation method] Oil product sales: Domestic sales of oil products are aggregated by the oil product category. Export Jet fuel sales thousand kl 1,791 1,794 1,919 2,179 2,501 sales and product supply to other companies with volume business alliances are included in others of Kerosene sales thousand kl 2,681 2,625 2,670 2,790 3,248 FY2018. Diesel oil sales thousand kl 5,395 5,366 5,337 5,655 6,622 CO2 emissions by Scope: Calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocols Heavy fuel oil A sales thousand kl 2,255 CO2 emissions (during burning of domestic oil products): Calculated by multiplying domestic product 3,009 3,081 3,176 3,206 sales by the CO2 emission coefficient Heavy fuel oil C sales thousand kl 1,070 CO2 emission coefficient uses figures form the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures LPG (propane) sales thousand kl 80 253 LPG (butane) sales thousand kl 160 [Scope 3 category] *Included in *Included in Category11: Product use by customers Lubricants thousand kl *Included in 344 others others others Domestic sales volumes Bacsic chemicals thousand kl *Included in others 1,448 * Lubricants and petrochemical products that are not used as fuel are not included in the calculation. Others thousand kl 6,085 6,588 4,760 4,509 8,980 CO2-Scope 1 thousand tCO2 0 CO2-Scope 2 thousand tCO2 0 CO2-Scope 3 thousand tCO2 63,331 Total CO2 (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 69,390 70,446 66,278 56,526 63,331 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 68 Showa Shell CO2 Emissions by Scope Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Scope1 thousand tCO2 5,137 7,015 Domestic manufacturing (oil refining, other manufacturing)+Domestic transportation and storage Domestic manufacturing (oil refining, other manufacturing)+Domestic transportation and storage+ Scope2 thousand tCO2 530 556 Domestic sales Crude oil procurement and import+Domestic transportation and storage+Domestic sales+ Scope3 thousand tCO2 57,448 64,500 Consumption+Business travel and Employee commuting [Calculation method] CO2 emissions related to business travel: Calculated by multiplying the number of employees by emission intensity CO2 emissions related to employee commuting: Calculated by multiplying employee commuting costs by emission intensity (CO2 emissions related to business travel and employee commuting) thousand tCO2 0.4 0.6 CO2 emission intensity uses figures from the Emissions Unit Values Database on Accounting for * This data is included in Scope 3. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain [Scope 3 category] Category6: Business travel (Scope: Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.) Category7: Employee commuting (Scope: Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.) Totals (Scope 1~3) thousand tCO2 75,148 76,454 72,095 63,115 72,070 Waste Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Total waste t 46,009 42,607 42,886 37,994 40,188 ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. Reduced by intermediate treatment t 26,087 ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Recycled t 14,102 FY2014~2017: Calculated from January to December of each year FY2018: Calculated from April 2018 to March 2019 Final disposal (landfill) t 24 32 16 3 0 Final disposal rate % 0.052 0.075 0.036 0.008 0.000 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 69 Showa Shell Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. Seawater thousand t 137,719 138,733 137,039 133,554 170,600 ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Industrial water thousand t 34,770 34,666 33,223 31,797 41,795 ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ● Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. ● Keihin Biomass Power Co., Ltd. Tap water thousand t 381 289 306 248 304 ● Solar Frontier K.K. ● Nippon Grease Co., Ltd. Underground water thousand t 0 1,990 1,734 2,009 2,102 ● Shoseki Kako Co., Ltd.(excluding Sunamachi Plant) ● Rekisei Kagaku K.K. Wastewater thousand t 172,871 175,678 155,332 150,515 199,812 ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. Water recycling rate % 96.8 96.6 ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. * Water recycling rate = Volume of recycled / (Volume of recycled + Volume of water intake for industrial water) * Some data for Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. uses estimates Air Pollutant Emissions Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. VOC emissions t 4,873 4,639 ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. ● Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. ● Japan Oil Network Co., Ltd. Chloroflorocarbons Leakage Results Unit FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Large-scale equipments ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Reporting peropd: From April 2018 to March 2019 Air conditioners t-CO2 165.5 Others Totals t-CO2 165.5 Number of Environmental Accidents FY2018 0 case * As of July 1, 2019 Acquisition Status of ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) Domestic business sites 11 sites Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 70 Social ● Social data covers Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. on non-consolidated basis. Its group companies are included in the scope of data for some data points. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Results reported are as of 2019, but some data reported may be from a different period. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Social data for FY2019 indicated with has been assured by the Independent Practitioner. Idemitsu Status of Employees * As of July 1, 2019 Unit FY2019 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Number of employees people 4,825 Idemitsu hiring (employees, seniors, full-time contract employees, and advisors) Men people 4,254 Including employees seconded from Showa Shell, but excluding employees seconded to other companies Women people 571 Percentage of women % 11.8 Number of employees people 971 in managerial positions Men people 949 Women people 22 Percentage of women % 2.3 Average age years old 43.0 Men years old 43.3 Women years old 41.0 Average years employed years 19.3 Men years 19.6 Women years 16.9 Idemitsu hiring (employees, seniors, full-time contract employees, and advisors) Percentage of employees % 2.11 Including employees seconded from Showa Shell and seconded to other companies with disabilities It is based on the calculation method of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Number of employees Idemitsu and 59 consolidated subsidiaries people 13,756 (Consolidated) Status of Recruitment * Hired in April 2019 Unit FY2019 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Recruitment of people 178 Results are from Idemitsu's and Showa Shell's direct hiring new graduates Men people 142 Women people 36 Percentage of women % 20.2 Foreign nationality people 5 Percentage of foreign nationality % 2.8 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 71 Social ● Social data covers Idemitsu Kosan Co.,Ltd. on non-consolidated basis. Its group companies are included in the scope of data for some data points. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Results reported are as of the end of FY2018, but some data reported may be from a different period. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Social data for FY2018 indicated with has been assured by the Independent Practitioner. ● In addition, some numerical data in the previous fiscal years has been revised. Idemitsu Joined in Joined in Joined in Joined in Status of Employees Unit Joined in FY2016 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 New graduate retention rate Results are from Idemitsu's direct hiring % 91.5 Retention rate: Average rate of three-year retention of new graduates in the relevant fiscal (Average for newly hired employees between 2014 and 2016) years Turnover rate of new graduates % 7.3 5.8 4.0 10.6 13.8 Turnover rate: Turnover rate of new graduates within three years after employment in the relevant fiscal year Status of Recruitment Unit FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Career recruitment people 67 Results are from Idemitsu's direct hiring Work-Life Balance Support Systems and Usage Numbers Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Maternity leave Women people 16 22 25 26 28 Systems are available for direct and temporary employees, but not for workers from other Childcare leave people 24 42 51 47 47 temp-staff companies. Men people 3 Women people 44 Nursing care leave people 0 0 1 4 3 Men people 3 Women people 0 Reduced working hours people 22 21 34 51 42 for parenting Men people 1 Women people 41 Leave to care for sick/ people 113 injured child Men people 51 Women people 62 Family care leave people 43 Men people 34 Women people 9 Overtime Work and Annual Paid Leave Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Average overtime work hours per employee hours/month 8.0 8.8 9.9 12.3 15.3 Results for Idemitsu non-consolidated, excluding employees on leave, and seconded employees Results of overtime work is excluding employees in managerial positions. Average annual paid leave taken by an employee days 9.5 10.5 11.2 11.7 12.7 Average usage rate of annual paid leave per employee % 68.4 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 72 Idemitsu Training Results Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Training hours Total hours hours 101,920 70,880 Results are from training organized by the Human Resources Department (non-consolidated Per person hours 26.0 17.8 basis) Amount of investment Total hours thousand yen 142,612 226,769 in training Per person thousand yen 51 57 Occupational Accidents Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method From January to December 2018 ● Hokkaido Refinery ● Chiba Complex Frequency rate 0.22 0.00 0.00 0.51 0.28 ● Aichi Refinery ● Tokuyama Complex ● Prime Polymer Co., Ltd., Anesaki Works ● BASF Idemitsu Co., Ltd. Excluding employees of partner companies [Calculation method] Severity rate 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.03 Frequency rate= (Number of fatalities and injuries due to work-related accidents/hours of actual work) ×1,000,000 Severity rate= (Number of lost working days / hours of actual work) ×1,000 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Number of accidents Fatalites 1 case From January to December 2018 related to safety Lost time injuries 16 cases Environmental anormalies 0 case Acquisition Status of ISO 9001 (Quality Management Systems) * As of July 1, 2019 Domestic and overseas business sites 39 sites * Including Showa Shell Group's sites Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 73 Social ● Social data covers Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. on non-consolidated basis. Its group companies are included in the scope of data for some data points. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Results reported are as of the end of FY2018, but some data reported may be from a different period. For details, please refer to the notes for each data point. ● Social data for FY2018 indicated with has been assured by the Independent Practitioner. ● In addition, some numerical data in the previous fiscal years has been revised. Showa Shell Joined in Joined in Joined in Joined in Status of Employees Unit Joined in FY2016 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 New graduate retention rate Results are from Showa Shell's direct hiring % 91.5 89.4 95.5 Retention rate: Average rate of three-year retention of new graduates in the relevant fiscal years (Average for newly hired employees between 2014 and 2016) Turnover rate: Turnover rate of new graduates within three years after employment in the relevant fiscal year Turnover rate of new graduates % 0.0 23.8 4.0 5.0 4.8 Status of Recruitment Unit FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Results are from Idemitsu's direct hiring Career recruitment people 42 * Including contract employees Work-Life Balance Support Systems and Usage Numbers Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Maternity leave Women people 26 Systems are available for only direct and contract employees (re-employed only) Childcare leave people 30 40 52 43 37 Men people 3 2 2 4 3 Women people 27 38 50 39 34 Nursing care leave people 0 1 0 1 2 Men people 0 1 0 1 2 Women people 0 0 0 0 0 Reduced working hours people 14 19 27 32 38 for parenting Men people 1 1 1 0 0 Women people 13 18 26 32 38 Leave to care for sick/ people 45 35 61 82 113 injured child Men people 23 16 26 32 56 Women people 22 19 35 50 57 Family care leave people 20 13 9 16 17 Men people 13 8 6 10 11 Women people 7 5 3 6 6 Telecommuting people 4 5 15 24 191 Men people 0 0 1 1 111 Women people 4 5 14 23 80 Self-development leave people 2 4 3 2 3 of absence Men people 0 1 1 0 1 Women people 2 3 2 2 2 Volunteer leave of absence people 0 1 Men people 0 1 Women people 0 0 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 74 Showa Shell Overtime Work and Annual Paid Leave Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Average overtime work hours per employee hours/month 12.0 12.0 14.8 From January to December 2018 Results for Showa Shell non-consolidated, excluding employees on leave, and seconded Average annual paid leave taken by an employee days 13.9 13.3 14.9 employees 68.3 Results of overtime work is excluding employees in managerial positions. * Excluding Average usage rate of annual paid leave per employee % employees in 65.7 74.6 managerial positions Training Results Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Training hours Total hours hours 14,633 Results are from training organized by the Human Resources Department (non-consolidated Per person hours 21 basis) Amount of investment in Total hours thousand yen 133,961 117,030 133,853 198,733 299,611 training Per person thousand yen 155 145 170 275 430 Occupational Accidents Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Frequency rate 0.39 0.40 0.00 0.39 0.00 From January to December 2018 ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. Excluding employees of partner companies Severity rate 0.03 0.12 0.00 0.01 0.00 [Calculation method] Frequency rate= (Number of fatalities and injuries due to work-related accidents/hours of actual work) ×1,000,000 Severity rate= (Number of lost working days /hours of actual work) ×1,000 ● Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. ● Showa Shell Sempaku K.K. ● Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. ● TOA Oil Co., Ltd. ● Seibu Oil Co., Ltd. ● Shell Lubricants Japan K.K. ● Keihin Biomass Power Co., Ltd. ● Solar Frontier K.K. overall ● Nippon Grease Co., Ltd. ● Shoseki Kako Co., Ltd. occupational ● Rekisei Kagaku K.K. ● Wakamatsu Gas K.K. Total recordable case frequency for occupational accidents accidents / 1 0.8 1.2 1.0 1.5 ● Japan Oil Network Co., Ltd. million hours of ● Niigata Joint Oil Stockpiling Co., Ltd. actual work [Calculation method] Overall occupational accidents = Accidents resulting in lost work days + Accidents not resulting in lost work day FY2018 Scope of Reporting and Calculation Method Number of accidents Fatalites 1 cases From January to December 2018 related to safety Lost time injuries 7 cases Environmental anormalies 0 cases Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 75 Governance Idemitsu Composition of Executive Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Directors people 10 10 12 11 13 Of the numbers mentioned above, Outside Directors 2 2 4 4 5 people (Woman: 1) (Woman: 1) (Woman: 1, Foreigner: 1) (Woman: 1, Foreigner: 1) (Woman: 1, Foreigner: 1) Audit & Supervisory Board Members people 5 5 4 4 4 O  f the numbers mentioned above, Outside Audit & Supervisory people 3 3 2 2 2 Board Members Number of Convened Meetings of the Board of Directors, etc. Unit FY2018 Note Board of Directors Number of meetings Times 15 Calculated attendance rates for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Average rate of attendance % 98.8 Supervisory Board Members for FY2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Number of meetings Times 16 Calculated attendance rates for Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Average rate of attendance % 100 for FY2018 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 76 Environmental Data of Refineries and Complexes Hokkaido Refinery Chiba Complex (Only oil refining until FY2017) Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Crude oil throughput thousand kl 7,305 8,183 7,450 8,235 6,750 Crude oil throughput thousand kl 10,936 9,678 11,310 10,321 11,122 Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 530 572 549 608 522 Petrochemical product thousand t 2,056 Energy manufacturing (ethylene equivalent) usage(crude oil equivalent)(l) Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 873 791 904 833 1,555 /Atmospheric Energy Unit energy consumption distillation 8.08 7.90 8.21 8.46 8.73 usage(crude oil equipment equivalent)(l) converted /Atmospheric throughput(kl) distillation 8.64 8.79 8.53 8.65 8.42 Unit energy consumption equipment Seawater thousand t 121,982 116,731 116,515 138,293 121,659 converted Water throughput(kl) thousand t 10,033 10,872 10,234 11,114 12,693 CO2 emissions kl/t 0.317 thousand tCO2 888 959 891 990 894 Seawater thousand t 327,124 297,475 355,018 349,977 503,972 SOx t 3,735 3,312 2,809 2,086 1,877 Water thousand t 19,034 18,494 18,311 18,131 22,513 NOx t 1,203 1,338 1,202 1,231 1,037 CO2 emissions thousand tCO2 1,825 1,687 1,380 1,727 3,148 Soot/dust t 8.7 6.1 2.0 5.3 15.3 SOx t 2,151 1,975 2,460 2,205 2,579 Wastewater thousand t 132,015 127,603 126,749 149,407 134,352 NOx t 1,480 1,158 1,634 1,440 2,752 COD t 27.3 33.2 29.8 36.26 31 Soot/dust t 155 149 206 150 160 Total nitrogen (TN) t Wastewater thousand t 346,158 315,969 373,329 368,108 524,140 Total phosphorus (TP) t COD t 27 28 32 30 40 Total waste t 11,969 9,612 12,372 12,003 9,155 Total nitrogen (TN) t 71 54 60 57 80 Reduced by intermediate treatment t 1,419 900 1,526 1,026 1,800 Total phosphorus (TP) t 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.6 Recycled t 10,536 8,709 10,842 10,973 7,351 Total waste t 89,574 94,097 83,181 78,087 66,850 Final disposal (landfill) t 14 3 4 4 4 Reduced by intermediate treatment t 25,965 23,012 19,138 20,149 21,213 Recycled t 63,597 71,077 64,038 57,916 45,630 Final disposal (landfill) t 12 8 5 22 7 Chiba Complex (Petrochemicals) Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Petrochemical product Aggregate in thousand t 1,938 1,876 2,054 1,838 manufacturing (ethylene equivalent) Chiba Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 628 598 662 611 Complex Unit energy consumption kl/t 0.324 0.319 0.322 0.332 Seawater thousand t 127,202 113,898 127,806 109,444 Water thousand t 3,462 3,300 3,447 3,303 CO2 emissions thousand tCO2 1,317 1,252 1,379 1,274 SOx t 16 14 17 16 NOx t 955 843 913 804 Soot/dust t 8 18 6 8 Wastewater thousand t 128,709 115,315 129,233 110,987 COD t 8 8 8 9 Total nitrogen (TN) t 10 11 11 12 Total phosphorus (TP) t 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total waste t 11,679 13,518 8,842 8,730 Reduced by intermediate treatment t 716 770 2,219 3,200 Recycled t 10,960 12,726 6,613 5,524 Final disposal (landfill) t 3 22 10 6 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 77 Aichi Refinery Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Crude oil throughput thousand kl 8,825 8,899 8,435 7,049 7,699 Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 681 685 676 586 608 Energy usage(crude oil equivalent)(l) /Atmospheric Unit energy consumption distillation 8.24 8.31 8.70 9.40 9.76 equipment converted throughput(kl) Seawater thousand t 233,581 228,914 233,974 207,469 242,389 Water thousand t 12,474 12,339 12,379 12,438 12,375 CO2 emissions thousand tCO2 1,301 1,299 1,291 1,146 1,187 SOx t 955 867 845 851 789 NOx t 1,302 1,308 1,257 1,270 1,267 Soot/dust t 48 54 53 52 38 Wastewater thousand t 246,055 241,253 246,353 219,907 254,764 COD t 9 8 8 6 8 Total nitrogen (TN) t 7 6 6 6 11 Total phosphorus (TP) t 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.4 Total waste t 95,850 95,850 80,904 81,988 99,762 Reduced by intermediate treatment t 52,364 53,997 46,398 47,787 64,417 Recycled t 43,464 41,835 34,493 34,149 35,321 Final disposal (landfill) t 22 18 13 52 24 Tokuyama Complex Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Petrochemical product thousand t 1,464 1,901 1,656 1,986 1,814 manufacturing (ethylene equivalent) Equivalent in crude oil thousand kl 759 909 835 958 898 Unit energy consumption kl/t 0.518 0.478 0.504 0.474 0.486 Seawater thousand t 389,337 448,850 397,790 452,264 420,355 Water thousand t 14,918 15,521 13,741 13,069 11,962 CO2 emissions thousand tCO2 1,680 1,981 1,816 2,051 1,928 SOx t 1,109 936 927 835 821 NOx t 1,446 1,800 1,557 1,712 1,583 Soot/dust t 12 16 17 15 18 Wastewater thousand t 404,255 464,371 411,531 465,332 432,508 COD t 15 17 19 23 18 Total nitrogen (TN) t 12 11 15 19 14 Total phosphorus (TP) t 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 Total waste t 27,181 30,791 28,278 34,573 34,061 Reduced by intermediate treatment t 14,586 19,666 17,743 19,091 20,175 Recycled t 12,570 11,092 10,430 14,621 12,537 Final disposal (landfill) t 25 33 105 861 1,348 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 78 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI102: General Disclosures 1. Organizational profile P.2 Editorial Policy 102-1 Name of the organization P.3 Editorial Policy P.66 Corporate Profile P.10 Review of Operations P.5~6 Value Creation Process 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our P.19~20 Review of Operations Business Activities 102-3 Location of headquarters P.1 Cover P.64 Corporate Profile 102-4 Location of operations P.66 Corporate Profile 102-5 Ownership and legal form P.3 Editorial Policy P.2 Editorial Policy P.7~9 Medium-term Management Plan P.11~14 Medium-term Management Plan 102-6 Markets served P.10 Review of Operations P.19~20 Review of Operations P.5~6 Value Creation Process P.10 Review of Operations P.19~20 Review of Operations Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our 102-7 Scale of the organization P.35 Organization and Human Capital P.17 Business Activities • Employment Situation P.33, 70 Employment Situation and Status of Employees P.59~66 Data Section Organization and Human Capital 102-8 Information on employees and other workers P.70~74 Social P.35 • Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources P.19~20 Review of Operations 102-9 Supply chain P.10 Review of Operations P.21~32 Value Creation Initiatives 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain P.3 Editorial Policy P.2 Editorial Policy P.7 Medium-term Management Plan P.11~12 Medium-term Management Plan 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach • Long-term Energy Business Environment Scenario • Long-term Energy Business Environment Scenario P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Signing of the United Nations Global Compact P.23 Response to Circular Economy P.26 Conservation of Biodiversity • Collaboration With Eexternal Institutions and Organizations P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-12 External initiatives P.29 Pollution Prevention • Signing of the United Nations Global Compact • Measures to Prevent Water and Marine Pollution P.34 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources • Promotion of Activities by All Employees (Promotion of D&I) P.12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Signing of the United Nations Global Compact P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-13 Membership of associations P.23 Response to Circular Economy • Signing of the United Nations Global Compact P.29 Pollution Prevention • Measures to Prevent Water and Marine Pollution Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 79 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI102: General Disclosures 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker P.4~6 Message from President P.7~10 Message from President P.11 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities P.18 Response to Climate Change P.15~16 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Risks and Opportunities 3. Ethics and integrity P.1 Management Vision, Action Mindset P.2 Management Vision, Action Mindset 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior P.33 Organization and Human Capital P.30 Human Resources Policy • Human Resources Policy 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics P.56~57 Compliance P.55~56 Compliance 4. Governance P.52~53 Corporate Governance P.51~52 Corporate Governance 102-18 Governance structure • Outline of Corporate Governance System • Outline of Corporate Governance System • Each Committee • Each Committee P.15 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy • Environmental Management System P.57 Ensuring Safety 102-19 Delegating authority P.39 Ensuring Safety • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives P.15 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy • Environmental Management System P.39 Ensuring Safety P.52 Corporate Governance • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives • Each Committee P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance P.55 Compliance • Quality Control and Quality Assurance System • Compliance Promotion Structure 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics P.52~53 Corporate Governance P.56 Risk Management • Each Committee • Risk Management Promotion Structure P.56 Compliance P.57 Ensuring Safety • Compliance Promotion Structure • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives P.57 Risk Management • Risk Management Promotion Structure Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, P.13~14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-21 and social topics • Dialogue with Stakeholders • Dialogue with Stakeholders Corporate Governance Corporate Governance P.53 • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure P.52~53 • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members P.52~53 Corporate Governance P.52 Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body • Each Committee • Each Committee Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 80 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI102: General Disclosures 4. Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance P.53 • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & P.53 • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members Corporate Governance Corporate Governance P.52~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System P.51~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System • Each Committee • Each Committee 102-25 Conflicts of interest • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members Corporate Governance Corporate Governance P.52~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System P.51~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System • Each Committee • Each Committee 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members Corporate Governance Corporate Governance P.52~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System P.51~53 • Outline of Corporate Governance System • Each Committee • Each Committee 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & • Policy for Nominating Candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervisory Board Members P.54 Corporate Governance P.53 Corporate Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance • Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors • Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors P.57 Risk Management P.56 Risk Management 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes • Risk Management Promotion Structure • Risk Management Promotion Structure P.15 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy • Environmental Management System P.52 Corporate Governance P.39 Ensuring Safety • Each Committee • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives P.55 Compliance P.52~53 Corporate Governance • Compliance Promotion Structure 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics • Each Committee P.56 Risk Management P.56 Compliance • Risk Management Promotion Structure • Compliance Promotion Structure P.57 Ensuring Safety P.57 Risk Management • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives • Risk Management Promotion Structure P.57 Risk Management P.56 Risk Management 102-33 Communicating critical concerns • Risk Management Promotion Structure • Risk Management Promotion Structure P.57~58 Risk Management 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns • Initiatives for Risk Management P.54 Corporate Governance P.53~54 Corporate Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies • Compensation for Executives • Compensation for Executives P.54 Corporate Governance P.53~54 Corporate Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration • Compensation for Executives • Compensation for Executives P.54 Corporate Governance P.53~54 Corporate Governance 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration • Compensation for Executives • Compensation for Executives Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 81 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI102: General Disclosures 5. Stakeholder engagement P.13~14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-40 List of stakeholder groups • Dialogue with Stakeholders • Dialogue with Stakeholders P.13~14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement • Dialogue with Stakeholders • Dialogue with Stakeholders 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries P.3 Scope of the Reporting P.2 Scope of the Reporting P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.18 Response to Climate Change 102-47 List of material topics • Scenario Analysis P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Risks and Opportunities 102-49 Changes in reporting P.3 Editorial Policy P.2 Editorial Policy 102-50 Reporting period P.3 Reporting period P.2 Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report P.3 Publication Information P.2 Publication Information 102-52 Reporting cycle P.3 Publication Information P.2 Publication Information 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report P.3 Contact point for inquiries about Idemitsu Sustainability Report P.2 Contact point for inquiries about Idemitsu Integrated Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards P.3 Reference Guidelines P.2 Reference Guidelines P.78~87 Comparative Table with GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index P.88~89 Comparative Table with ISO26000 102-56 External assurance P.90 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report GRI103: Management Approach P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.18 Response to Climate Change 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary • Scenario Analysis P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Risks and Opportunities P.7~9 Medium-term Management Plan P.11~14 Medium-term Management Plan 103-2 The management approach and its components P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.7~9 Medium-term Management Plan P.11~14 Medium-term Management Plan 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 82 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Economic Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI201: Economic Performance P.11 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability • Relationship Between Priority Topics (Materialities) and SDGs Financial implications and other risks and opportunities P.15~16 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 201-2 P.18 Response to Climate Change due to climate change • Scenario Analysis • Relationship Between Priority Topics (Materialities) and SDGs • Risks and Opportunities GRI203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported P.45~48 Social Contribution Activities GRI205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures P.56~57 Compliance P.55~56 Compliance P.57 Compliance P.56 Compliance 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken • Compliance Promotion Activities • Compliance Promotion Activities Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 83 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Environmental Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used P.23~24 Response to Circular Economy GRI302: Energy Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business P.17 Activities 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Idemitsu) P.65~67 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Showa Shell) Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business P.17 Activities 302-3 Energy intensity P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Idemitsu) P.65~67 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Showa Shell) GRI303: Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource P.25 Water Management P.29 Pollution Prevention 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts • Measures to Prevent Water and Marine Pollution P.64 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Idemitsu) 303-3 Water withdrawal P.69 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Showa Shell) P.64 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Idemitsu) 303-4 Water discharge P.69 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Showa Shell) P.64 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Idemitsu) 303-5 Water consumption P.69 Amount of Water Resources Used, Water Recycling Rate (Showa Shell) GRI304: Biodiversity P.26 Conservation of Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 304-1 P.27 Land Use Change and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas P.48 Social Contribution Activities P.26 Conservation of Biodiversity Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 304-2 P.27 Land Use Change on biodiversity P.48 Social Contribution Activities P.26 Conservation of Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored P.27 Land Use Change P.48 Social Contribution Activities IUCN Red List species and national conservation list P.26 Conservation of Biodiversity 304-4 species with habitats in areas affected by operations P.48 Social Contribution Activities Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 84 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Environmental Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI305: Emissions P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities P.19 Response to Climate Change 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions • Concept of Climate Change Mitigation P.43~44 Natural Capital P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Idemitsu) P.65~68 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Showa Shell) P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities P.19 Response to Climate Change 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions • Concept of Climate Change Mitigation P.43~44 Natural Capital P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Idemitsu) P.65~68 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Showa Shell) P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities P.19 Response to Climate Change 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • Concept of Climate Change Mitigation P.43~44 Natural Capital P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Idemitsu) P.65~68 Overview of Environmental Impacts, CO2 Emissions by Scope (Showa Shell) P.19 Response to Climate Change 305-4 GHG emissions intensity • CO Reduction Targets and Monitoring Indicators P.43~44 Natural Capital 2 P.19 Response to Climate Change 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions • Concept of Climate Change Mitigation Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) P.28 Hazardous Substances P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities P.29 Pollution Prevention Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other • Measures to Prevent Air Pollution 305-7 significant air emissions P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Idemitsu) P.65~67 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Showa Shell) GRI306: Effluents and Waste P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination P.61~63 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Idemitsu) P.65~67 Overview of Environmental Impacts (Showa Shell) P.24 Waste Reduction 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method P.64 Waste (Idemitsu) P.68 Waste (Showa Shell) P.64 Number of Environmental Accidents (Idemitsu) 306-3 Significant spills P.69 Number of Environmental Accidents (Showa Shell) Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste P.28 Hazardous Substances 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff P.25 Water Management GRI307: Environmental Compliance P.64 Number of Environmental Accidents (Idemitsu) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations P.69 Number of Environmental Accidents (Showa Shell) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 85 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Social Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI401: Employment Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create P.33 Together and Hiring Human Resources • Status of Recruitment P.35 Organization and Human Capital 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover P.70 Status of Recruitment • Status of Recruitment P.71 Status of Employees and Recruitment (Idemitsu) P.73 Status of Employees and Recruitment (Showa Shell) P.32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 401-2 P.72 Training Results (Idemitsu) part-time employees P.74 Training Results (Showa Shell) Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That P.37 Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind 401-3 Parental leave • Expansion of systems to promote D&I P.71 Work-Life Balance Support Systems and Usage Numbers (Idemitsu) P.73 Work-Life Balance Support Systems and Usage Numbers (Showa Shell) GRI403: Occupational Health and Safety P.39 Ensuring Safety P.57 Ensuring Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 403-2 P.39~41 Ensuring Safety P.57~58 Ensuring Safety investigation 403-3 Occupational health services P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health 403-4 P.39~41 Ensuring Safety P.57~58 Ensuring Safety and safety P.40~41 Ensuring Safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety • Safety Education 403-6 Promotion of worker health P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 403-7 P.39~41 Ensuring Safety linked by business relationships Workers covered by an occupational health and safety P.39 Ensuring Safety P.57 Ensuring Safety 403-8 • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives • System for Promoting HSSE Initiatives management system Ensuring Safety P.39 • Activities and Results Based on the Annual Basic Policies on Ensuring Safety P.57~58 403-9 Work-related injuries HSSE • Activities and Results Based on the Annual Basic Policies on P.72 Work-Related Accidents (Idemitsu) HSSE P.74 Work-Related Accidents (Showa Shell) Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 86 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Social Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That P.36 Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind • Promotion of Diverse and Flexible Working Styles 403-10 Work-related ill health P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health P.71 Overtime Work and Annual Paid Leave (Idemitsu) P.74 Overtime Work and Annual Paid Leave (Showa Shell) GRI404: Training and Education P.32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee P.72 Training Results (Idemitsu) P.74 Training Results (Showa Shell) P.31 Human Resources Policy Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition • Basic Concept of Personnel Strategy P.34 Organization and Human Capital 404-2 • Basic Concept of Personnel Strategy assistance programs P.32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developP.36 404-3 Enable Employees to Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind ment reviews • Fair Evaluation and Compensation GRI405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity P.33, 70 Employment Situation and Status of Employees P.53 Corporate Governance P.52 Corporate Governance 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure • Changes in Corporate Governance Structure P.75 Composition of Executive GRI406: Non-discrimination P.56 Compliance P.55 Compliance 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken • Establishment of Consultation Center • Establishment of Consultation Center GRI410: Security Practices P.40~41 Ensuring Safety 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures • Safety Education GRI412: Human Rights Assessment Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create P.34 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Together and Hiring Human Resources • Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Training and Other Activities Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 87 Comparative Table with GRI Standards Social Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integration Report 2019 Page Listing GRI413: Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 P.45~48 Social Contribution Activities assessments, and development programs GRI416: Customer Health and Safety P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories • Quality Control and Quality Assurance System Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 416-2 • Response to Complaints on Quality products and services GRI417: Marketing and Labeling P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling • Providing Appropriate Product Safety Disclosure and Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 417-2 • Response to Complaints on Quality labeling GRI419: Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social P.57 Compliance P.56 Compliance 419-1 and economic area • Compliance Promotion Activities • Compliance Promotion Activities Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 88 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integrated Report 2019 Page Listing P.7~10 Message from the President P.4~6 Message from the President P.15~18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.11~12 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.40 Intellectual Capital P.50~51 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members • Utilization of Intellectual Property Organizational governance P.52~55 Corporate Governance 1: Organizational governance P.47~50 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members P.56~57 Compliance P.51~54 Corporate Governance P.57~58 Risk Management P.55~56 Compliance P.59~60 Intellectual Property P.56 Risk Management Human rights P.30 Human Resources Policy 1: Due diligence P.34 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources P.33, 35 Organization and Human Capital 2: Human rights risk situations • Promotion of Activities by All Employees (Promotion of D&I) • Human Resources Policy 3: Avoidance of complicity • Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Training and Other Activities • Promotion of Activities by All Employees (Promotion of D&I) 4: Resolving grievances P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health P.55~56 Compliance 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups P.39~41 Ensuring Safety P.56 Risk Management 6: Civil and political rights P.45~48 Social Contribution Activities P.57~58 Ensuring Safety 7: Economic, social and cultural rights P.56~57 Compliance 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work P.57~58 Risk Management P.13~14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Dialogue with Stakeholders P.30~31 Human Resources Policy Labour practices P.32 Stimulating Self-Growth Motivation and Providing Growth Opportunities P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 1: Employment and employment relationships P.33~34 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources • Dialogue with Stakeholders 2: Conditions of work and social protection P.35 Efforts to Improve Workplace Culture and Motivation P.33~36 Organization and Human Capital 3: Social dialogue P.36~37 Establishment of Personnel Systems That are Rewarding and That Enable Employees to P.55~56 Compliance 4: Health and safety at work Focus on Their Work with Peace of Mind P.57~58 Ensuring Safety 5: Human development and training in the workplace P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health P.39~41 Ensuring Safety P.56~57 Compliance P.15~16 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy P.17 Overview of Environmental Impacts Through Our Business Activities The environment P.18~23 Response to Climate Change 1: Prevention of pollution P.23~24 Response to Circular Economy 2: Sustainable resource use P.24 Waste Reduction P.21~32 Value Creation Initiatives 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation P.25 Water Management P.43~44 Natural Capital 4: P  rotection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural P.26~27 Conservation of Biodiversity habitats P.27 Land Use Change P.28 Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of Hazardous Substances P.29 Pollution Prevention Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 89 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects and Issues Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Page Listing Idemitsu Integrated Report 2019 Page Listing Fair operating practices P.37~38 Social and Relationship Capital P.43~44 Collaboration with Partners 1: Anti-corruption P.39~40 Intellectual Capital P.52~55 Corporate Governance 2: Responsible political involvement P.51~54 Corporate Governance P.56~57 Compliance 3: Fair competition P.55~56 Compliance P.57~58 Risk Management 4: Promoting social responsibility in the value chain P.56 Risk Management P.59~60 Intellectual Property 5: Respect for property rights P.58 Quality Control and Quality Assurance P.13~14 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability Consumer issues • Dialogue with Stakeholders P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability 1: Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair P.15~16 Environmental Management / Environmental Policy • Dialogue with Stakeholders contractual practices P.18~23 Response to Climate Change P.39~40 Intellectual Capital 2: Protecting consumers' health and safety P.23~24 Response to Circular Economy P.43~44 Natural Capital 3: Sustainable consumption P.28 Management of Chemical Substances and Reduction of Hazardous Substances P.51~54 Corporate Governance 4: Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution P.42 Quality Control and Quality Assurance P.55~56 Compliance 5: Consumer data protection and privacy P.52~55 Corporate Governance P.56 Risk Management 6: Access to essential services P.56~57 Compliance P.58 Quality Control and Quality Assurance 7: Education and awareness P.57~58 Risk Management Community involvement and development P.22 Idemitsu Group's Technologies Underpinning Innovation 1: Community involvement P.18 Idemitsu Group’s Sustainability P.33~34 Creating a Workplace Where Diverse Employees Can Create Together and Hiring Human Resources 2: Education and culture • Dialogue with Stakeholders P.35 Efforts to Improve Workplace Culture and Motivation 3: Employment creation and skills development P.33~36 Organization and Human Capital P.38 Promotion of Employees’ Health 4: Technology development and access P.39~40 Intellectual Capital P.45~48 Social Contribution Activities 5: Wealth and income creation P.55 Compliance P.56 Compliance 6: Health • Establishment of Consultation Center • Establishment of Consultation Center 7: Social investment Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Sustainability Environment Social Governance ESG Data Comparative Table Assurance Report 90 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report （TRANSLATION） Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report February 7, 2020 Mr. Shunichi Kito, President and Representative Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. Masahiko Sugiyama Representative Director Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. 3-2-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the ESG data indicated with  for both the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 (the “Sustainability Information”) included in the “Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019” (the “Report”) of Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company (as described on ESG Data Collection and indicated with the Sustainability Information of the Report). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”), ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: ・ Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. ・ Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Japanese language. Member of㻌 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited㻌 Idemitsu Sustainability Report 2019
