Keeping people and society safe Annual and sustainability report 2019 Partnerships for greater security Vision: It is a human right to feel safe. Mission: To make people safe by pushing intellectual and technological boundaries. It is a basic human need and a human right to feel safe. Safety is subjected to many different types of threats. This includes military threats, terrorism, accidents or natural disasters. Saab develops innovative, high-tech and cost-efficient systems to increase security for societies and individuals. At the same time, there is a realisation throughout the business that some of the systems and solutions that contribute to greater security can also be used in conflicts. This entails a major responsibility. By acting responsibly in everything we do, we earn the confidence of customers, employees and society and contribute to a safer world. Value creation Strategy Saab as an investment Saab is an international company that Saab’s strategic direction means workSaab is on a growth journey. Recent years have seen contributes to increased security and ing closely with customers, continustrong international growth through strategic collabdefence capabilities in Sweden and ously developing our portfolio, focusorations and research and development. This has other countries. By working toward our ing on operating efficiency and laid the foundation for a unique position as Saab 8 14 34 strategic priorities, we create longembracing innovation as a business-­ enters an execution phase and focus is on cash flow. term value. critical imperative. → → → S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 Contents 2019 in brief 2 Chairman's statement 4 CEO comment 6 How we create value 8 Market and trends 10 Strategy and goals 14 Market 16 Innovation 18 Portfolio 20 Effiiciency 22 Sustainability 24 People 32 Saab as an investment 34 Saab's share 36 Administration report 38 Financial review 2019 39 Business areas 40 Other significant events 46 Risks and uncertainties 48 Statutory sustainability report 54 Corporate governance report 72 Board of Directors 78 Group Management 80 Other information 82 Financial statements and notes 86 Dividend motivation 138 Proposed disposition of 139 earnings 2019 Auditor's report 140 Information to shareholders 145 Multi-year overview 146 Glossary 147 Saab in the world 148 Sustainability report Sustainability is an integral part of Saab’s strategy. The sustainability report provides an About this report overview of Saab’s sustainability work with Sustainability priorities are integrated throughout the annual report. Pages 54–70 describe Saab’s sustainagoals and results. bility work in greater detail. The formal annual report 54 comprises pages 38-139. Certain figures have been rounded off, so tables and calculations do not always add up exactly. A printed copy of the annual report can be ordered from annual.report@saabgroup.com. → S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 1 2 019 I N B R I E F A year of good progress • Organic growth of 6% driven by a strong order backlog, increased deliveries and successful project execution. • Operating income increased 15% and the margin improved to 8.3% (7.7). Profitability strengthened in four business areas during the year. • The improved results was driven by a high activity level and continued focus on cost efficiency. • Strategic investments in the U.S. with a new proORGANIC duction facility as well as in innovation and develGROWTH 6% opment. • Cash flow strengthened and was positive in the fourth quarter due to key milestone payments. • Healthy balance sheet that supports further growth. 35,433 SALES MSEK 2 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 2 019 I N B R I E F OPERATING MARGIN EQUITY/ASSETS (EBIT) RATIO 8.3% 34.8% Share of business areas operating income Aeronautics D ynamics Surveillance Support & Services I ndustrial Products and Services Kockums DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO 32% S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 3 C H A I R M A N ’ S S TAT E M E N T A strong Swedish base and growing global presence Saab has seen substantial international growth in recent years with an increased presence in key countries and with international partners. This has been possible thanks to the company’s strong Swedish base and a competitive product portfolio. Saab is now taking further steps in its growth journey, while maintaining a focus on sustainability and creating greater value – for society and all of the company’s stakeholders. In a global and highly competitive defence market, a clear and focused strategy is vital. For Saab, this means a focus on selected markets, an attractive portfolio, continuous technological development, securing talent and sustainability. This is key to becoming even more competitive. In 2019, Saab’s operations continued to develop positively, while progress was made in executing the strategy. Several of Saab’s business areas reported growth and strengthened their market position. Management and employees successfully drove the business forward during the year as Saab is progressing toward its long-term goals. AN INNOVATIVE GLOBAL COMPANY Staying on the forefront of technological development, with a modern and advanced portfolio of defence and security products, requires continuous investment in research and development as well as in human resources. Saab has made significant investments in the last decade, which, combined with strategic partnerships, have facilitated the company’s growth and resulted in a strong position in the global defence market. WITH STRONG EXPORT POTENTIAL Through a strong product portfolio, Saab can offer modern and cost-efficient solutions to both current and new customers. Thanks to the major investments made in the last decade, the company has an offering on the absolute cutting edge of technology. The Gripen E/F, the new advanced trainer T-7A, the A26 submarine, a radar portfolio including Global Eye and the new generation of the Carl-Gustaf ground combat weapon are just a few, but important, examples. With several contracts for these systems being delivered, Saab has a strong and clear position in the export market. To build on this, the company will continue to invest in its core technologies going forward. Giraffe 4A 4 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 C H A I R M A N ’ S S TAT E M E N T A VISION THAT AFFECTS EVERY ASPECT OF THE OPERATIONS Saab began its journey just before World War II with the aim of developing and supplying fighter aircraft to Sweden. It was a way for the country to increase its defence capabilities and guarantee access to materiel. Sweden is Saab’s strongest base, but Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman sales are increasingly coming from abroad and development and production capabilities are being added in a growing number of countries. Today we find ourselves in a situation where political structures are changing and geopolitical developments have deteriorated. This affects what countries are doing to improve their defence capabilities. Saab’s vision to keep people safe is just as important today as it was when the company was founded. With As a company in the defence industry, it is of great a growing export business, Saab also has a responsibility to importance to work actively to live up to laws and regulations on support more countries in this effort. This is something Saab’s anti-corruption, information security and exports. Saab’s compBoard of Directors attaches great importance to. liance programmes in these areas should be world-class in the industry. The business also has to continue to operate responTHE JOURNEY CONTINUES sibly for people and the environment throughout the entire value During the year, Håkan Buskhe decided to step down as Presichain. We have zero tolerance for corruption in the company, dent and CEO of Saab after having been with the company for and it is my firm belief that Saab can only be profitable in the long nearly ten years. I want to thank Håkan for his contribution in term if we operate in a socially and environmentally sustainable transforming Saab into a growing and even more international way. company. The Board of Directors has appointed Micael JohansFinally, Saab’s employees are very important to our ability to son as his successor as CEO. I am convinced that Micael, with achieve the long-term goals. I want to thank all our employees his experience and expertise, is the right person to lead Saab for their passion and contributions to the Group during the year. forward. Now we look forward to taking further steps toward Saab’s goals and to create sustainable long-term value for both society and FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY AND VALUE CREATION all of the company’s stakeholders A commitment to sustainability sets the foundation for a company’s long-term development and growth. Saab creates Stockholm, February 2020 value by providing security and defence capabilities to Sweden and other countries. This is the basis of our sustainability comMarcus Wallenberg mitment. Chairman S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 5 CEO COMMENT A unique position for continued growth In October, Micael Johansson took over as the new President and CEO of Saab. Micael has worked at Saab since 1985 and in the last three years served as Deputy CEO and thereby played an important role in Saab’s development. M icael Johansson, President & CEO WHAT POSITION DOES SAAB HAVE TODAY? For several years, Saab has been making investments to guarantee world-leading products to the market. In doing so, we have strengthened our market position by establishing a broad international base with development and production in a number of countries. These investments have helped Saab to greatly increase the order backlog and facilitated ongoing growth. This has included contracts for major systems as well as what we describe as small and medium-sized orders. With a strong product portfolio, established markets and cutting edge technological expertise, Saab is uniquely positioned for further growth. With a clear focus, we are taking new steps forward every day. WHAT HAPPENED DURING THE YEAR ON THE BUSINESS SIDE? Saab has continued to win business. Finland’s choice of Saab as combat system provider and integrator for the Squadron 2020 programme, the United Arab Emirates’ decision to purchase two additional GlobalEye aircraft and the contract to support the German Army’s combat training centre (GÜZ) are three good examples of this. Order bookings during the year amounted to SEK 27.2 billion and at the end of 2019 the order backlog was SEK 93.3 billion, of which 69 per cent are orders outside Sweden. Our order backlog is now 2.6 times larger than our sales. INNOVATION IS IMPORTANT TO SAAB. TELL US MORE? One important thing we decided during the year is to make the portfolio, which is strongly tied to innovation, a focus area in the strategy. This is not a change in our strategy, but rather a sharpening. It means focusing our R&D investments on the parts of the portfolio with the greatest potential. Our portfolio contained over 600 products at the start of the year and we realised that fewer products would free up resources that can be invested in core areas that generate volume today and in the future. We have decided to eliminate products that have reached the end of their lifecycle and do not have synergies, such as technologies or expertise that fall outside our core areas. 6 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 CEO COMMENT ”We are convinced that high ethical standards and responsibility in our operations are also critical to long-term profitability.” In a changing world distinguished by rapid technological develters to 22 defence contractors from 11 countries and Saab was opment and tough competition, Saab has to constantly stay a one of eight companies that chose to respond since we welcome step ahead. We do so through continued investments in R&D. In a dialog on these complex issues. We are continuously develop2019, we invested 21 per cent of sales in R&D and we have been ing in the area of sustainability and the UN Global Compact’s prinsuccessful at further developing and improving our products and ciples for human rights, working conditions, the environment and converting new technology into products and systems. anti-corruption are an important base. COST EFFICIENCY IS A COMPETITIVE FACTOR. WHAT IS YOUR FOCUS GOING FORWARD? HOW DOES SAAB WORK WITH THIS? Saab is growing and we will continue with that. Growth is good for During the year, we reached several milestones in our major Saab, but it also benefits our customers, not least Sweden and its development programmes. Examples include the launch of the defence capabilities. During the year, sales increased 7 per cent second Gotland-class submarine, the maiden flight of Brazil’s to SEK 35.4 billion. Operating income rose to SEK 2,937 billion. Gripen E and that GlobalEye flew for the first time to Dubai. Saab This represents an improvement in the operating margin, which continued during the year to improve efficiency, which was initiamounted to 8.3 per cent. Our aim, as already announced, is to ated in October 2018. Part of this has been working with the portcontinue to improve the operating margin – the 10% target will be folio, but we have also digitised internal processes, increased reached. We will also continue invest in R&D and marketing to efficiency in the marketing organisation and re-evaluated the secure Saab’s long-term position. number of consultants and personnel needs. Saab is an innovative and cost-efficient company, but we conANYTHING TO ADD IN CONCLUSION? tinue to work internally to ensure that we remain an attractive Saab was founded to support Sweden’s defence capabilities and supplier and partner. that remains our core mission. Being able to contribute as CEO to this work, together with my very talented colleagues, is a great HOW DO YOU MAKE SURE THAT SUSTAINABILITY IS responsibility but also stimulating. I want to especially thank all of INTEGRATED IN THE BUSINESS? Saab’s employees, who with their talents, engagement and ambiWe at Saab think and act long-term in all our decisions. Our tion contributed to our success during the year. In addition, I agreements stretch for 10, 20 and even 30 years. It is important would like to conclude by saying that sustainable long-term therefore that every part of the company rests on a principled improvements are key for Saab. We are now entering the delivery foundation. This is essential if we are going to maintain long-term stage of several major programmes, where the working capital relationships with the governments that buy defence equipment Saab has built up will be put to use and contribute to cash flows, from us. We are convinced therefore that high ethical standards capital efficiencies and improved returns. I feel that Saab has a and responsibility in our operations are also critical to long-term unique position for continued growth, and that we will use well. profitability. All employees contribute to Saab’s development by acting responsibly and in accordance with Saab’s values and Code of Conduct. Three particular areas of importance are the Stockholm, February 2020 rules and internal processes on anti-corruption, information security and defence exports. During the year, Amnesty International published a report on the defence industry’s responsibility for human rights in connection with exports. Amnesty sent letS AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 7 H O W W E C R E AT E VA L U E Saab’s business model Saab is an international company that contributes to increased security and defence capabilities in Sweden and other countries. A large part of the sales is from exports and Saab has extensive international partnerships. Saab was founded over 80 years ago after the Swedish government asked the manufacturing industry, including the co-founding Wallenberg family, for help in expanding the defence industry’s capabilities. It was a turbulent time and as a small, non-aligned country, Sweden had to ensure access to materiel. Sweden invested in its defence and during the Cold War the military had equipment specially designed for its needs. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the threatening landscape changed and the Swedish defence budget decreased. To survive, preserve its capabilities and remain part of Sweden’s defence, the industry had to increase exports and as modern defence systems became more complex and costly, Sweden and other nations also saw a greater need for international cooperation. Mission Saab’s mission is to develop innovative, high-tech and cost-efficient military systems to keep society and people safe. Market and strategy Market factors such as geopolitical uncer• Market tainty, growing information security needs and • Innovation rapid technological development in areas such Hållbarhet • Portfolio as AI, machine learning and automation are the • Performance basis for Saab’s strategy. To fulfil our mission, • Sustainability Saab has chosen to work with the following • Employees strategic focus areas: R&D in five core areas Saab is continuously developing new innova• Aeronautics tions and invests about a fifth of its sales in • Advanced weapons research and development. We have close colsystems laboration in development with suppliers and • Command and customers and participate in broad-based innocontrol systems vation partnerships between industry, academia • Sensors and the public sector. The strategy is to concen• Underwater systems trate investments in five core areas: 8 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 H O W W E C R E AT E VA L U E Values Saab’s core values and sustainability commitments are the foundation of the entire business. By acting ethically and taking responsibility for Vision people and the environment, we earn the trust of our stakeholders. Core values It is a human right • Expertise to feel safe. • Trust • Drive Sustainability commitments • Security and defence capabilities • Leading compliance programme • Responsibility for people and the environment Created value Global footprint 601 SEK MILLION Dividend to shareholders 3.3 Saab today has a global footprint with customers around the world. Income model SEK BILLION Saab’s revenues comes from long-term Taxes paid to society customer contracts in the form of 7.6 development and manufacture of complex systems, but also from products that Saab manufactures and stocks, service assignments and maintenance. SEK BILLION Research and development 17,420 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Gripen E S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 9 MARKET AND TRENDS Well positioned in a complex world The global geopolitical landscape has gone through a shift in recent years. Increased tensions are leading to higher demand for security, which means that countries and alliances are investing more in their defence capabilities. A growing global defence market supports the demand for Saab’s products, services and solutions. SAAB’S MARKETS NEW TECHNOLOGY IMPROVES CAPABILITIES Saab is active in the defence market and in commercial aeroIn the defence market, the same types of platforms for sea, land nautics, infrastructure security and traffic management. The and air as a decade ago are still in demand. The difference is that company delivers solutions, services and products both as a the rapid development of new technologies and new innovations main supplier directly to end customers and as a subcontractor is steadily improving the capabilities of these products. Progress of subsystems and components. is speeding up, range is increasing, sensors are becoming better, systems are becoming more interconnected and it is becoming THE GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET harder to avoid detection. Cyber capabilities are becoming While the U.S. has long been the world’s leading military power, increasingly important and at the same time are creating new its share of total global defence investment is decreasing. At the security needs. same time, China is investing heavily in its military capabilities. China and Russia are not markets for Saab’s defence-related products, however. With respect to Europe, countries are feeling 85% pressure today from outside, and to some extent within the continent, to take greater responsibility for their military defence. SAAB’S STRENGTHS IN TODAY’S MARKET • Reliable, high-performance products. • Development of products and platforms in a timely and cost efficient way. • Emphasis on development of modular and flexible products with long lifecycles. • Investment in R&D and talent to stay on the technological forefront. 15% • Strong local presence and collaborations in strategic markets. SAAB IN THE WORLD Saab’s products are used in over 100 countries and the comT-7 pany has operations on every continent. Saab’s international operations and expansion are concentrated in Europe, the U.S., Australia and Brazil. An important part of Saab’s innovative capabilities are cooperations with universities and academies. Saab works with several universities around the world and during the year started a partnership with Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, in the U.S. Remote Tower 85% of Saab’s sales comes from defencerelated products and services. The remaining 15% is from the commercial market. 10 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 MARKET AND TRENDS Giraffe 1X A GROWING GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET +2% -1% UPPER FIGURE: EUROPE RUSSIA AND CIS* Projected average annual growth of defence spending 2019–2024. Source: IHS Janes LOWER FIGURE: 16% 3% Share of the global defence spending 2019. Source: IHS Janes 0% +1% +6% NORTH AMERICA MIDDLE EAST & NORTH AFRICA CHINA 41% 10% 12% -4% +1% +4% LATIN AMERICA SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA ASIA & PACIFIC 3% <1% 15% * Commonwealth of Independent States S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 11 MARKNAD OCH TRENDER Trends that create opportunities Saab is active in a global market and works strategically to analyse and adapt to global trends that affect the company’s operations. These include security policy, technology and other factors. Listed here are the world’s six most important drivers right now and how Saab is responding to them. Global Saab’s drivers response 1 GEOPOLITICAL TENSIONS ORGANISATION FOR CLOSE Global turmoil has forced sevRELATIONSHIPS eral countries to reassess their Customers are seeking integrated defence capabilities, both solutions for their defence needs nationally and multilaterally. from suppliers that understand global interdependencies as well as their specific situation. Saab’s organisation has been built with local hubs to facilitate close and lasting relationships with customers on site. 2 INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION AND COLLABORATIONS SYSTEMS INTEGRATION Alliances and multinational Since the start, Saab has collabopeacekeeping forces bring rated with customers and partners various countries together. in the development of its solutions This means that defence sysand products. It is a core competems must be designed to eastence and success factor for the ily interact. company that we can develop cost-efficient and intelligent systems designed for coordination and integration with other systems. 3 INCREASED COST EFFICIENT PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY DEMANDS REDUCES COSTS Due to limited defence spendSaab has always had to integrate sysing, coupled with increased tems from different suppliers in its demand for defence systems, products and solutions. Collaboration the market wants products and and cost efficiency are critical factors solutions that are cost-effiin both development and production. Saab’s work with MBD and additive cient for their entire lifecycle. manufacturing are examples of this. By continuously monitoring manufacturing costs, Saab ensures that its systems and solutions have a low lifecycle cost. 12 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 MARKNAD OCH TRENDER Global Saab’s drivers response 4 INCREASED FOCUS ON R&D IN CLOSE DIALOGUE Investment in 7.6 CYBERSECURITY Saab reinvests a large share of its R&D in 2019 The digitisation of society is sales in research and developmaking us more vulnerable and ment. A close, continuous diamaking cybersecurity more logue with customers, partners important. Rapid developand universities keeps us a techments in AI, machine learning nological leader. To meet new cusSEK and automation are paving the tomer needs, Saab has for examway for new systems and ple created a business unit for higher efficiency. cybersecurity. New technology is billion also utilised to improve delivery efficiency. 5 IMPORTANT WITH SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Reduction of greenhouse gas RESPONSIBLE ACTORS Saab’s sustainability work involves emissions by 2030 compared 33% The UN’s Global Sustainability concrete commitments and tarto 2017. Goals map out a path for gets that are evaluated and nations, companies and other reported annually. The company actors to take responsibility in develops solutions that combine a world with challenges such better energy performance with as inequality and poverty, limlower cost and less environmental ited energy resources,polluimpact. Saab also contributes to tion and climate threats. technological and economic development in the markets where it is active. 6 INDUSTRIAL LOCAL PRESENCE COLLABORATIONS AND Saab’s systems and solutions are TECHNOLOGY TRANSFERS known for interoperability and sysMore and more countries tems integration. A strong local today demand extensive presence in selected markets also industrial cooperations in congives Saab a better understanding nection with defence purof local needs, capabilities and prochases. This can mean transcurement processes. This creates fers of technology and knowla good ground for collaboration edge as well as other help. and technology transfers. A26 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 13 S T R AT E G Y A N D G O A L S A strategy that support our goals Saab’s strategy is based on four priority areas: working closely with customers, focusing on operational efficiency, innovation as a business-critical effort, and continuously sharpening our portfolio. To emphasise this, “portfolio” was made a separate focus area in the strategy during the year. Sustainability affects everything we do and is the core of our strategy. Engaged employees who develop their skills through continuous learning makes all parts of the strategy work together and supports Saab to reach its goals. Hållbarhet Mobile Camouflage System (MCS) Our priority areas The core of our strategy MARKET SUSTAINABILITY Further increase local presence and partnerships in strategic Sustainability is integrated in all aspects of our strategy and markets while maintaining position in Sweden. Focus export focuses on three strategic commitments: defence and security sales efforts to established markets. For more information see capability, leading compliance programs and sustainability page 16. throughout the value chain. For more information see page 24. INNOVATION The key to our strategy and goals Explore and enable scaling of new opportunities through managing innovation as business critical, supporting our PEOPLE innovation performance and promoting an innovation friendly Fully implemented workforce planning and aligned competence culture. For more information see page 18. development in place. For more information see page 32. PORTFOLIO Improve R&D efficiency by concentrating product development and industrialization to core areas. Explore opportunities for investments in product development and innovation in strategic markets. For more information see page 20. PERFORMANCE Deliver on-going contracts according to plan and focus on continuous efficiency improvements and sustainable business.Consolidate product portfolio in order to strengthen future offerings. For more information see page 22. 14 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY A N D G O A L S 9LV Combat Management System FINANCIAL GOALS ACHIEVED 2019 Organic sales growth will average 5 per cent per year Organic sales growth was 6 per cent in 2019. over a business cycle. The operating margin (EBIT) will average at least 10 per The operating margin (EBIT) was 8.3 per cent in 2019. cent per year over a business cycle. The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per cent. The equity/assets ratio was 34.8 per cent at the end of 2019. SUSTAINABILITY GOALS ACHIEVED 2019 Audit at least five marketing consultants per year from During 2019, five marketing consultants were audited. a corruption perspective. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 33 per cent by Increase in greenhouse gas emissions of 4.8 per cent in 2030 (base year 2017). 2019 (due to temporarily increased test flight activities) At least 25 per cent of employees and 30 per cent of 23 per cent of employees and 25 per cent of managers managers will be women by 2025. were women in 2019. University collaborations is an importand part of Saab’s Saab had 45 PhD candidates during 2019. innovation capacity. Saab shall have at least 30 employees per year working as PhD candidates. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 15 S T R AT E G Y – M A R K E T Focus on targeted growth Saab is active in a constantly changing market and has to react quickly to stay a step ahead. The focus is on a number of selected markets and areas where the company already has a strong position to build on for future growth. STARTING POINT IN SWEDEN FOCUS MARKETS Saab’s sales and marketing are focused on KEY EVENTS IN 2019 Sweden is and will remain the hub of Saab’s operations and the company’s home market. established countries where the company • In June 2019, a new ten-year frameThe Swedish armed forces are Saab’s main already has a strong position and in areas with work agreement was signed with reference customer. It is our highest priority opportunities for growth. The goal is to secure the Swedish Defence Materiel that Sweden maintains trust in Saab and that a steady inflow of small to large orders in comAdministration (FMV) to supply the the company retains a strong position in the bination with carefully selected platform Swedish Armed Forces with the Swedish market. orders. In this way, Saab has the best chances Carl-Gustaf M4 system. of profitable growth going forward. • A new production facility will be INTERNATIONAL GROWTH located in West Lafayette, Indiana, It is outside Sweden that Saab has the biggest EXPORT COMPLIANCE in the U.S. Initially, it will handle proopportunities to grow. The company has interIn every contract, Saab ensures that reguladuction and final assembly of nationalised in recent years by strengthening tions on defence exports are followed. The Saab’s parts for the Boeing T-7 its position in a number of strategic markets large share of Saab’s exports is from Sweden, advanced trainer for the U.S. Air with the greatest potential. The broadening of where the Swedish Agency for Non-ProliferaForce. our global footprint has been achieved tion and Export Controls (ISP) determines on through an increased local presence as well as behalf of the government which defence • A major order was received in 2019 partnerships and industrial collaborations. In products Swedish industry may sell to which to provide and integrate the com2019, Saab defined three strategic markets: countries. bat system for the Finnish Navy’s Australia, the UK and the U.S., where its local new Pohjanmaa-class corvettes as presence will be further strengthened. Saab’s ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION part of the Squadron 2020 promarketing organisation has been reorganised Corruption has serious consequences for gramme. to more clearly focus on marketing and sales society and business. Saab has zero tolerance • During the year, Saab continued its in key markets and strengthen international for corruption. The company is guided by its successful collaboration with Raygrowth. fundamental values, code of conduct, current theon. The aim is to develop the laws, industry codes of conduct and clearly next-generation Carl-Gustaf sysdefined internal processes to prevent corruptem with guided functionalities. tion risks. 71% Share of orders from 6% Organic sales growth outside Sweden 16 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – M A R K E T We have a very good position thanks to our world-leading technologies in a number of niches. Gotland mid-life upgrade, Kockums Karlskrona Case MARKET In 2019, Saab implemented a new central marketing Dean Rosenfield, CMO and member of Group Management. organisation. It is led by Dean Rosenfield, who took over as Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) in early 2020. AS THE NEW CMO AT SAAB, WHAT ARE WHERE DOES SAAB FIT IN THE GLOBAL WHAT ARE THE BIGGEST DIFFERENCES YOUR PRIORITIES IN THE COMING YEAR? DEFENCE MARKET? BETWEEN THE DEFENCE MARKET AND If we are going to stay on the forefront and We have a very good position thanks to our THE COMMERCIAL MARKET? have an attractive offer that the market world-leading technologies in a number of The defence market is more complex than wants, we have to better understanding our niches. One success factor is that we are the commercial market. In the defence marcustomers’ needs at any early stage. This is also a relatively small and agile company, ket, political decisions in the customer’s where the new marketing organisation plays which allows us to bring solutions to the country often lay the foundation for major a key role. We will also focus and intensify our market faster than the competition. We also procurements, and in many cases the marketing and sales in Saab’s key markets. see today that it is a big advantage to have a choice between systems depends on the Another priority is to establish and deepen fully transparent business. relationship between the countries. This our collaborations with existing and potenmeans that a close cooperation between the tial strategic partners. nations and with the national defence industry is critical. In the defence market, it is also very important to have reference customers. Saab has good relationships with our customers and the nations we trade with and are seen as a reliable partner in both the defence and commercial markets. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 17 S T R AT E G Y – I N N O VAT I O N Strong focus on innovation Only by constantly challenging, questioning and refining new innovations can Saab stay on the forefront and remain a leader in the development of cost-efficient systems and products. For this, Saab needs skilled and engaged employees with a diversity of perspectives. BUSINESS-CRITICAL INNOVATION SAAB VENTURES KEY EVENTS IN 2019 For Saab, innovation is business-critical. The Occasionally, Saab’s development projects company invests strategically to identify new result in product ideas that fall outside the • In 2019, long-term innovation goals opportunities that can be scaled up. A significore business. These projects are managed were set. Saab has begun to implecant share of annual sales is devoted to by Saab Ventures, which further develops ment ISO 56002, the new standard research and development (R&D) in product them and if possible together with outside for innovation management. A numareas where Saab is, or can become, a techinvestors. In this way, technologies developed ber of innovation managers have nology leader. The company also works in by Saab can create long-term value even outbeen appointed in the organisation. many ways to promote an innovative corposide the company’s core markets. Saab Ven• At Imperial College London, Saab rate culture. tures also collaborates with start-ups and has opened an innovation hub to other small and medium-size companies. tap British expertise in various NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND BUSINESS areas. Initially, the focus is on radar MODELS DIVERSITY DRIVES INNOVATION technology. An important part of Saab’s strategy is to We at Saab have a firm belief, supported by • In an AI research project connected invest and seek out opportunities in new and research, that diversity is a source of innovawith the Wallenberg Artificial Intellidisruptive areas such as automation, cyber, tion in an organisation by introducing different gence, Autonomous Systems and cloud computing and space technology. The perspectives. Diversity among employees is Software Program, Saab together company also considers new business modencouraged and is an important parameter in with three Swedish universities, els that make it possible to capitalise on techSaab’s global recruiting process and leaderEricsson and Axis demonstrated a nologies and data that belong to Saab or othship training. Gender equality is a high priority cloud-based system for autonoers. In addition, Saab sees potential in partnerand Saab’s goal by 2025 is to increase the mous sea rescue operations. The ships and carefully monitors what is happenshare of female managers to 30 per cent globaim is to develop the ability to carry ing outside the company to broaden access ally and 35 per cent in Sweden. out complex tasks using both to new innovations. manned and autonomous systems. • One of Saab’s research projects investigated whether a damaged fighter aircraft could be repaired in the field using spare parts manufactured with 3-D printers. The possibilities are practically endless, not least with respect to future business models. 21% Share of sales devoted to 28% Female managers in Sweden self-funded research and development 18 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – I N N O VAT I O N Scanning the space Case INNOVATION Saab is often on the absolute cutting edge of technology, Christer Fuglesang, astronaut, PhD and space advisor but at the same time always tries to find solutions that are cost efficient for its customers. One example of this is the digital radar technology that has caught the interest of Christer Fuglesang, Saab’s space advisor and Sweden’s first astronaut. L-band Rocket Artillery Mortar (LRAM) is the militarily to keep an eye on everything flying in entzon. “The next development step would be name of a technology demonstrator Saab has low orbit around the earth, i.e. up to 2 000 km a test where the technology demonstrator is developed in partnership with FMV. It applies a above the surface. Commercially, this means actually used in space radar surveillance.” completely new type of technology that transamong other things helping satellites to avoid “If such a system becomes necessary, lates radar information from analogue to digital crashing with space debris. Militarily, it is interSweden is in good position geographically to form at a very early stage, making it possible to esting to know exactly when an enemy’s satelmonitor satellites, since many of them pass in design a powerful radar more cost-efficiently. lites are tracking what is happening on the a polar orbit over the North Pole. In addition, “The work we are doing is truly basic ground. Then you can adapt your operations we have an existing space infrastructure with research, an area where Saab is highly accordingly,” he explains. Esrange, for example,” says Christer Fugleadvanced. By utilising digital technology, the Being able to aim a powerful radar into sang. number of microwave components in the space would generate widespread interest. Could the technology be important to radar system can be reduced, which lowers FMV financed a feasibility study during the space travel and the astronauts who follow in costs at the same time that it improves perforyear that Saab presented in November. It his footsteps? mance,” says Torild Lorentzon, coordinator for looked at possible design options and the limi“Yes, perhaps indirectly, since the space space operations at Saab. tations that a space radar system based on radar could help in preventing collisions by The potential for the technology stretches LRAM would have. It is conceivable to build a keeping an eye on things up there. Then, of all the way out to space. So says former astrosystem that would be able to detect objects course, we could speculate as to whether the naut Christer Fuglesang, now a professor of as small as 5 cm in size. technology could be used in satellites themparticle and astroparticle physics at the Royal “There is a big international interest in the selves. The problem there is that radar Institute of Technology and part-time technology. One idea is that it could be Swerequires a lot of energy, which is difficult to employee at Saab. He is helping the company den’s ticket to EUSST (European Space Suraccess up in space,” concludes Christer to identify business concepts related to space veillance and Tracking), a consortium where Fuglesang. and bring them to the space market. the participating countries contribute various “There is a big need both commercially and assets to space projects,” says Torild LorSAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 19 S T R AT E G Y – P O R T F O L I O Optimized portfolio for increased competitiveness Saab has broad expertise in military systems and can also offer competitive systems in civil security. To ensure future profitability, the company works strategically and long-term to further sharpen its portfolio. The goal is to concentrate development in product areas that give customers the most value. STRATEGIC MARKETS JOINT INITIATIVES KEY EVENTS IN 2019 To further develop its portfolio, Saab wants to Saab is a member of a number of cross-indushave important reference customers as well as try initiatives on industrial transformation and • In November 2019, Saab carried out research and development in selected strateinnovation such as Combient and AMEXCI. An the first Gripen flight tests with the gic markets. In this way, the company can build important part of product efficiency is particinew Electronic Attack Jammer Pod up local intellectual property and fully benefit pating in and utilising the results of these part(EAJP), which can be used to jam an from industrial partnerships, collaborations nerships. AMEXCI is Saab’s R&D partner in opponent’s radar. with universities, mergers and acquisitions. additive manufacturing. During the year, • In September 2019, a successful Saab’s engineers received training, and many test firing was conducted of the FIVE CORE AREAS components for various products were Ground-Launched Small Diameter Saab’s strategy is to concentrate product printed with efficiency improvements. Bomb (GLSDB), which Saab has development in five core areas, within which developed in collaboration with the company will build a deeper understanding OPTIMIZED PORTFOLIO Boeing. of customers’ long-term needs: In 2019, Saab will work intensely to consolidate its portfolio as part of the Re-shaping ini• In October 2019, Sabertooth func• Aeronautics tiative. The work will continue in 2020 and in tionality was demonstrated in Nor• Advanced weapons systems the long term the aim is to significantly way. The ability to remain stationary • Command and control systems increase R&D efficiency by reducing the numunderwater was demonstrated in • Sensors ber of unique or special-order platforms and both land-guided and fully autono• Underwater systems increase the number of shared components. mous operations. This reduces the need for surface vessels in connecNEW TECHNOLOGICAL OPPORTUNITIES RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS tion with underwater repairs for the Saab has made major investments in digitisaSaab’s products are designed for a long operoil and gas industry. The ability to tion, software defined systems and virtualisating life. By using resources efficiently measure an object by laser was also ation. The company will strategically capitalise through the entire lifecycle, we create prodsuccessfully demonstrated. on the opportunities this generates to further ucts with less environmental impact and low develop its portfolio in a way that creates value lifecycle costs, which distinguishes Saab’s for the customer. The opportunities that are products. One of Gripen’s competitive advanidentified will be scaled up from demonstratages, aside from an optimised design with tions in the innovation lab, through developlight materials for low fuel consumption, is a ment and industrial adaptation, and ultimately unique maintenance concept that extends its to final delivery. lifecycle. For more information on how Saab’s products help to reduce environmental impacts, see page 30. 20% Reduction of products in portfolio 20 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – P O R T F O L I O It will be even more fun to be an engineer at Saab GlobalEye Case PORTFOLIO Petter Bedoire took over during the year as Chief Technology Petter Bedoire, Chief Technolgy Officer. Officer at Saab. His job is to ensure that the company uses development resources in the best way to maintain a modern and competitive product portfolio. The job means among other things making up and running in especially prioritized techthose with less experience. They will at the sure that Saab keeps up with future technolonology areas. For example, we recently same time have to adopt methods and techgies such as artificial intelligence and quanopened a lab in England. nologies that are new to them. This is why we tum technology, including close collaboraare going to have to work even more in tions with institutes of technology, universities WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE BIGGEST cross-functional teams, where new engineers and other partners in these areas. CHALLENGE ON THE TECHNOLOGY collaborate with those with more experience. “We have to understand the benefits that FRONT? This creates an interesting and innovative new technologies offer and how we can adapt We have seen how new technology such as dynamic. Curiosity and experience in harmony. them to our systems with special requirements cloud services has revolutionised industries It will make it even more fun to be an engineer in terms of security and reliability. Here I believe and paved the way for totally new types of at Saab. that we at Saab can be faster than our competibusiness models. The challenge is to undertion. We are relatively small from an internastand how we can utilise this technology in our WHAT DISTINGUISHES SAAB? tional perspective, are experts at technology products, since we are strict when it comes to What makes Saab a fantastic company is our and know how to create effective collaborasecurity. innovation climate. We have good partnertions and solutions,” says Petter Bedoire. ships with customers, public authorities, uniWHAT DO THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES versities and other industries. This is why we ARE THERE ANY AREAS YOU ARE MEAN FOR SAAB’S EMPLOYEES? can compete internationally. ESPECIALLY FOCUSED ON? I believe that those of our engineers who have To further improve the innovation climate at experience in developing complete systems Saab, we will focus on getting innovation labs develop are needed to structure and guide SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 21 S T R AT E G Y – P E R F O R M A N C E Increased effiency for sustainable profitability High efficiency and short lead times are essential for Saab to meet its customers’ needs and to compete in the market. The focus is on fulfilling current commitments and continuously work to increase efficiency, not least with the help of digitisation. also allows Saab to identify products that have RELIABILITY IS FUNDAMENTAL The review and work to optimize the product to be changed or eventually divested. Reaching its long-term financial goals is portfolio is continuing and Saab sees great Saab’s highest priority. In order to achieve this, potential for efficiencies through this iniative. the company has a strategic focus on meeting To improve marketing efficiency, it was CLEAR ROLES AND MARKET FLEXIBILITY contractual obligations with its counterpardecided to launch a new marketing organisaFor Saab to reach its business objectives, the ties. Saab is investing to improve project exetion as of 1 January 2020. The new organisacompany has to clearly define roles and cution at every level, and follow-ups are made tion will work to improve Saab’s market posiresponsibilities within the organisation. This to address any deviations early on. This tion. applies to business development as well as includes systematically ensuring that all supWithin the framework of Re-shaping, a winning business and implementation. Saab’s pliers act responsibly. number of processes have been digitised and marketing organisation is also being adapted automated, mainly to improve administrative so that it will can quickly and flexibly add EFFICIENCY THROUGHOUT efficiency in areas such as HR and finance. resources where needed at the moment. Saab is working continuously on efficiency Saab sees additional efficiency potential in Profit responsibility is delegated within the improvements, cost-cutting and improving further digitisation and automation. organisation. Saab’s Group Management has processes at every level. In addition to its authorised that responsibility be given to each ongoing productivity work, Saab has two overINCREASED DIGITISATION AND business area manager, but encourages it to arching initiatives, Re-sizing and Re-shaping, FURTHER DEVELOPMENT be further broken down. Profit responsibility to achieve better profitability in every business Rapid technological development offers great within Saab is critical and profit targets have to unit. potential to raise operating efficiency. be met, which is why those with profit responThe purpose of Re-sizing is to reduce the Increased digitisation, automation and artifisibility within Saab have been given the number of consultants and number of cial intelligence can not only improve many of authority to do their job. employees mainly in administration and Saab’s products, but also help the company to thereby raise the company’s efficiency in work smarter and more efficiently. Saab also REDUCED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS terms of sales per employee. These measures works innovatively in ways other than digitally Saab’s environmental strategy includes the have to a large part been completed. This to further improve its routines and achieve goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by does not mean, however, that Saab stops its higher efficiency. at least 33 per cent by 2030 compared to focus on costs and continued efficiencies. 2017. The goal will contribute to the impleA PORTFOLIO FOR THE FUTURE mentation of the Paris Agreement. For more Re-shaping has three parts: Saab continuously adapts its portfolio of information, see page 60. • Review of Saab’s product portfolio products and solutions to stay competitive • Market efficiency and profitable in the long term. By reviewing • Digitisation and automation the portfolio, synergies can be identified between product areas, which can lead to new solutions or combinations of product areas. It 15% Improvement in operating 3% Increase in sales per income employee 22 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – P E R F O R M A N C E T-7 Efficiency that breaks the norm Case PERFORMANCE “Breaking the norm” is the phrase you see when entering Annika Meijer, chief engineer. the project area for Saab and Boeing’s new T-7A pilot training system in Linköping. The motto is well suited to a project that Aviation Week named a 2019 Game Changer. Thanks to efficiencies at every level, the aircraft went from initial drawing to maiden flight in just three years. When Aviation Week presented its prestigious speeds up system and software development Today the project is in the delivery stage, Program Excellence Awards to the aviation by producing designs that are closer to comwhen our customer, U.S. Air Force, will get its industry, the T-7 project was recognised for pletion before series production and lets funcnew pilot training system on site. the innovative and efficient processes that tions be simulated before software is imple“The biggest challenge is to get to know Boeing and Saab used in design, developmented. The time saved in design and develand understand the customer's needs, at the ment, production and work with the supply opment meant that production-relevant jets same time that we have to deliver the project. chain. were ready in 36 months. At the same time, the It is a tough job, but also a fun and exciting The development of the new trainer used system has the flexibility to accommodate journey,” says chief engineer Annika Meijer. model-based systems engineering. This future changes. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 23 S T R AT E GY – S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Saab’s sustainability Hållbarhet commitment Saab will deliver sustainable value for customers, partners, employees, owners and society as a whole. Saab’s sustainability commitment serves as the basis for our long-term development and growth. SAAB’S SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Saab’s products create security and defence capabilities in Sweden and other countries. The portfolio also includes products that contribute to decrease climate impacts. To continue to create value in the long term, it is imperative that we operate in an environmentally and socially sustainable way. A long-term approach is extremely important to Saab, not least because several of our projects extend over very long periods. We continuously measure and monitor key sustainability aspects and integrate them in our processes. In Saab’s sustainability report (pages 54-70), we show our goals and performance in each area. Saab’s priorities can be summed up in three main commitments (see illustration below). SAAB CONTRIBUTES TO THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) have set the global agenda for achieving sustainable economic growth, social integration and protection of the environment. Saab contributes through its operations to most of the SDGs. The goals that Saab has the greatest ability Gripen D to influence and that are tied to the business strategy are 4, 5, 9, 13 and 16. For more information on how Saab contributes to the SDGs, see pages 56-57. Defence and Industrial cooperation security capability Product safety Research & Development Leading Anti-corruption Saab’s compliance programs Sustainability Export compliance Commitment Information security Responsibility for Diversity people and environment Environment Health and safety 24 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y ”All employees conSaab’s fundamental values tribute to Saab's • Expertise – We combine a strong knowldevelopment by actedge tradition with continuous learning. ing responsibly and • Trust – We are honest and reliable and we keep our promises. in accordance with • Drive – We have a passion for innovation, Saab’s values and are open to change and are committed to code of conduct.” being fast and flexible. Micael Johansson, CEO Saab SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Security and Hållbarhet defence capabilities When Saab was founded 80 years ago, it was a turbulent time in the world and Sweden needed to better protect its borders. Since then, Saab has developed into an international partner that contributes to security and defence capabilities in Sweden and other countries. FOCUS ON THE CUSTOMER’S NEEDS leader in entrepreneurship and innovative tied to the Gripen programme in Brazil. To date, To maintain technological leadership, Saab thinking. Saab brings the way research and 251 Brazilian engineers have come to Sweden continuously develops new innovations and development is done in Sweden to new marto work together with Saab’s employees for invests a large share of sales in research and kets by building relationships with academia, one year. In total, nearly 400 will receive traindevelopment. Saab also has close developbusinesses and the public sector. For examing at Saab. ment partnerships with suppliers and cusple, Saab is one of the founders of the Swedtomers and contributes to broad-based colish-Brazilian Research and Innovation Centre SAFE TO USE laborations between industry, academia and CISB in Brazil. The organisation has 17 memWith a product portfolio containing everything the public sector. All with an eye on developbers and over 100 partners. from advanced aviation systems to submaing products that are safe to use and adapted rines, it is vital that Saab’s products are safe to to the customer’s needs. INDUSTRIAL COOPERATIONS use. System safety engineers in Saab’s organWhen Saab does business with other counisation handle analysis work in the projects UNIVERSITY PARTNERSHIPS tries, the customer often demands industrial and share product safety knowledge through An important part of Saab’s innovative capacollaborations, many times with technology information and training. bilities is how we collaborate outside the transfers as an important element. This type company to gain access to new knowledge. of demand is common in large defence conThe partnerships with universities are an tracts and is often a way for the customer’s example, where employees from Saab have country to encourage innovation domestically the opportunity to research for a PhD, while while securing access to defence materiel. researchers and students from the schools Through customised offers, Saab and its partcan be involved in Saab’s work. Saab also ners have contributed to several successful helps to fund a number of adjunct professors. projects that are helping national economies. One example is the industrial collaboration INNOVATION CENTRES Sweden is seen by many countries as a 251 Number of Brazilian engineers 45 Number of PhD candidates READ MORE... who have come to Sweden to in 2019. about how Saab works with research and development, industrial cooperdate to work at Saab for one ations and product security in susyear. tainability report on pages 54–70. 26 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Our radar system plays an extremely important role Case SUSTAINABILITY Fredrik Sämfors, project manager Saab’s Arthur radar system is used on the closely guarded border between South and North Korea to help keep the conflict from erupting and spreading beyond the Korean Peninsula. Despite the cease-fire between North and an object no bigger than a coin from a diswere working optimally. We also flew project South since 1953, the conflict on the Korean tance of 60 km.” management and the head of security from peninsula lives on. A 4 km wide no man’s land Sweden to show that we stand behind the cusconstitutes the demilitarised zone. From there SAAB PERSONNEL ON THE BORDER tomer the whole way,” says Fredrik Sämfors. it is just 56 km to South Korea’s capital, Seoul. Saab guarantees service and spare parts and The efforts were appreciated by the South “The main purpose of the Arthur radar sysworks closely with the South Korean Army to Korean Army, which presented Saab with a tem is to localise artillery with extremely high continuously refine the radar system. plaque as a thank you. accuracy as soon as a projectile is in the air. Saab’s presence in South Korea so that it “I couldn’t hold back the tears when we This makes it pointless to launch artillery, can be on location when needed became received this award. It’s in situations like this that since you reveal your location,” says Saab’s especially important in 2015, when tensions you realise our radar system plays an extremely Project Manager Fredrik Sämfors. “Within 90 between North and South flared up. important role for a country like South Korea to seconds, Arthur can warn Seoul if an enemy is “Instead of travelling away from the conmaintain its national security against outside attacking the capital. The system can scan 90° flict, our support personnel went right to the threats.” of the horizon in 32 nanoseconds and localise border to make sure that all the radar systems SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Leading Hållbarhet compliance programme One of Saab’s fundamental values is trust. We are honest, reliable and keep our promises. By following the guidelines and principles in Saab’s Code of Conduct, our employees show what this value means in practice. The areas of anticorruption, export control and information security are critical to Saab. The company therefore works continuously to develop better routines and processes. The goal is to have an industry-leading compliance programme. ANTI-CORRUPTION STRICT EXPORT REGULATIONS Saab is a long-term, reliable business partner For Saab, it is essential to the company comEXPORTS ARE IMPORTANT FOR and promotes an open and transparent marplies with regulations on defence exports. The DEFENCE CAPABILITIES ket. Our contracts run for 10, 20 or even 30 majority of Saab’s exports are from Sweden, To stay competitive and cost-effiyears. It is important therefore that every part where the Inspectorate of Strategic Products cient, Saab is dependent on exports of the company has a sound and ethical busi(ISP) determines on behalf of the government and partnerships with other ness culture. Corruption has negative consewhich defence products Swedish industry countries. Multinational collaboraquences for society and the business commay sell to which countries. The export of tions help to strengthen the Swedish munity and is something that Saab can never defence materiel requires a permit from the defence industry, which is critical for accept. designated authority. Such permits can be Sweden to meet new security chalissued if there are security and defence policy lenges. The UN Charter establishes INFORMATION SECURITY reasons for the export and it is consistent with that every country has the right – and Saab manages information that is vitally Swedish foreign policy interests. Decisions on obligation – to protect its citizens important to the security of Sweden and other export permits are made on a case-by-case against acts of aggression. A military nations. In an increasingly uncertain world with basis where ISP weighs a number of criteria in defence is the ultimate expression of growing cybersecurity challenges, continuous a comprehensive assessment. ISP also takes this. and systematic security is critical. To take into account the type of product involved. At the same time that defence advantage of the opportunities that new techmateriel contributes to upholding nologies offer, Saab must improve security human rights, it can, if used incorrectly management within the company, a key eleand contrary to international law, also ment of which is risk management. Every lead to human rights violations. The employee and manager has to understand export of defence materiel therefore their role in the security work and it has to be represents a great responsibility and is fully integrated with business and technologisubject to strict regulations. cal development. The goal is to make security an integral part of all central business processes. 5 Number of marketing READ MORE... about how Saab works with anticorruption, information security and consultants Saab export control in the sustainability audited in 2019 report on pages 54–70. 28 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Giraffe 1X Zero tolerance for corruption Case SUSTAINABILITY Saab has zero tolerance for corruption. Chief Compliance Petter Törnquist, Chief Compliance Officer. Officer Petter Törnquist explains the reason for this position and what it means in practice. IN WHAT WAYS DOES CORRUPTION We have to constantly keep these issues full-time employees who conduct extensive AFFECT SOCIETY? high up on the agenda, since the consebackground checks of companies and individuFrom a strictly business perspective, it comquences of failed anti-corruption work could als, including personal interviews. The compapromises competition and market forces, so be devastating. A loss of trust in Saab would nies contractually commit to comply with our that customers end up paying dearly for sublock us out of future procurements. We would values and we train them in what this means. par quality. From a broader perspective, corlose partners and export licenses and find it Their work is continuously reported and we have ruption hurts economic development as well difficult to obtain financing from banks. extensive access to their operations. Saab perias prosperity and quality of life. Widespread odically audits randomly selected third party corruption upends the social contract when WHERE ARE THE LARGEST CORRUPTION providers. citizens lose faith in the system and instituRISKS WITHIN SAAB’S OPERATIONS? There are markets and opportunities where tions. In general, the effects are most severely We have good control over our own operawe consider the risks to be so high that we are felt by those who are most deprived. tions. The biggest risk is that a company which not prepared to work with third-party providers provides services for us commits an error that and instead handle sales and marketing ourWHY IS ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPORTANT Saab can be held responsible for. This is espeselves. Then there are markets that we are comTO SAAB? cially true of the marketing consultants that pletely shut out from. All businesses that are financed with taxpayhelp us to win deals or market our products to ers’ money have to have the public’s trust. potential end customers. Financially, it makes WHAT ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT ASPECTS High ethical standards are vital. Saab’s operasense to use some form of commission sysOF SAAB’S ANTI-CORRUPTION WORK? tions must have legitimacy, particularly since tem to incentivise third parties, but at the Without a doubt, the most important thing is our products and systems are often expensive same time it entails a risk of corruption. strong leadership where we are clear about our and are sold in long sales cycles. This exposes values. If we create a strong corporate culture us to greater corruption risks than many othWHAT IS SAAB DOING TO MITIGATE distinguished by high ethical standards, we avoid ers. For this reason, our business is also THE RISKS? a breeding ground for errors. Then other aspects closely watched by the media and authorities. We try to do everything we can to ensure that such as policies, guidelines, systems and proWe welcome this, since increased transparthe companies we work with share our values cesses become less important in comparison. ency contributes in the long run to trust in our when it comes to ethical issues. This work has operations. been consolidated in a central unit with nine SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Responsibility for Hållbarhet people and the environment No company can live in isolation. We are all dependent on a well-functioning society in order to survive. For Saab, it is a given that we will take responsibility for people and the environment throughout the value chain. RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER included in all new contracts and in contracts goals are to reduce greenhouse gas emisSaab is an inclusive, safe and healthy workthat are renegotiated. In the code we stipulate sions from its operations by 33 per cent by place. Diversity gives the organisation access that we expect our suppliers to place similar 2030. to different perspectives and stimulates innodemands on their subcontractors. Saab is also working strategically to phase vation. Equal treatment and non-discriminaout hazardous substances in products and tion are also aligned with human rights. EveryLOWER IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT contribute to a non-toxic environment. one who works with recruiting at Saab To remain competitive in the future, Saab is Environmental aspects and requirements receives training in diversity issues, and diverworking actively to reduce its impact on the are reflected in Saab’s global management sity is a parameter in leadership training and environment and climate. Saab’s environmensystem and are integrated at every level of the the recruiting process. The company has a tal strategy focuses on reducing greenhouse lifecycle, from product development to disnumber of networks for women and for divergas emissions, resource efficiency and phasposal. sity in a broader sense. ing out hazardous substances. Saab’s climate By working actively with occupational health and safety, Saab reduces the risk of ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE nology, the associated company accidents, illnesses and on-the-job injuries in INNOVATIONS Robowaste is developing a sorting machine the short and long term. Read more about how Saab’s broad product portfolio contains for construction waste. Today, 90 per cent Saab takes responsibility as an employer on products and services with less environof Sweden’s construction waste is incinerpage 62. mental impact. The company also particiated. The new machine will provide both pates in several research and developfinancial and environmental benefits. SUPPLIERS ARE AN EXTENSION OF OUR ment partnerships to create sustainable • CleanSky: Saab is one of the main suppliOWN OPERATIONS solutions for the future. Here are a few ers to Clean Sky, Europe’s largest research We see our suppliers as an extension of our examples. programme dedicated to reducing aircraft own operations and expect them to take the emissions. same social and environmental responsibility • Hull cleaning: With its unmanned under• Sustainable mining: Saab’s wholly owned we do. Systemic measures to ensure that water vehicles as a model, Saab has develtechnical consulting company Combitech responsibility is being taken in the supply oped a remotely operated underwater is participating in a project with LKAB, chain not only minimise risks, but also lead to vehicle to clean the hulls of ships without among others, to establish a new global higher quality in the products we buy. Our damaging their paint. This reduces the standard for sustainable mining at great code of conduct for suppliers, which is based ship’s environmental impact by drastically depth. on the UN Global Compact’s principles, is reducing fuel consumption, but also by • Electrified cement production: Through 25% reducing the spread of microorganisms Combitech, Saab is part of CemZero, a between different marine environments. pilot study on electrified cement produc• Solar Shading: Based on the technology tion. One of the electrically based heating used in its camouflage netting, Saab has technologies being studied is microwave developed a heat-reducing netting that heating, where Combitech is contributing can be used, for example, to cover portaits expertise. ble offices, container barracks and field • Carbon-free asphalt manufacture: Also Share of female hospitals. The netting reflects up to 90 per through Combitech, Saab is part of a promanagers globally cent of solar loading, creating the potential ject called SMMART (Swedish Magnetite to save up to 25 per cent of the energy Microwave Asphalt Road Technology). used for cooling. Along with ten others, including LKAB, • Air traffic control systems: Systems that Skanska and the Swedish Transport READ MORE... increase efficiency at airports and imports, Administration, Combitech will develop a about how Saab works with diversity, thereby reducing fuel consumption and microwave based technology to heat reducing environmental impacts, and climate impacts. asphalt with magnetite. A technology that health and security in the sustainabil• Sorting machine for construction waste: can reduce Sweden’s carbon emissions ity report on pages 54–70. With the help of Saab’s stereo camera techby one per cent. 30 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y – C O M M I T M E N T Case SUSTAINABILITY Gotland class STATE-OF-THE-ART SURFACE TREATMENT Saab’s new surface treatment facility for submarines and surface vessels in Karlskrona is among the world’s most modern. For employees, the new facility means a better work environment and better opportunities to work ergonomically. It also means improvements for the environment. The closed-loop system does not release any water, which instead is treated and reused to a large extent, leaving just a small percentage of hazardous waste. DIFFERENCES ARE AN ASSET HBTQ for beginners was the theme when Alexandra Larsson visited Saab’s diversity network Minerva. She spoke about her journey as a trans person in the military. Today she works as a digitisation advisor at Saab’s wholly owned technical consulting company Combitech. Minerva was started by employees in Göteborg and has now spread to more locations. The goal of the network is to make SAAB’S CLIMATE FUND every employee feel During the year, Saab established a climate fund to further included and appreciencourage the development of environmentally sustainable ated by seeing differinnovations and thereby help to reduce climate impacts. For ences as an asset. every flight booked, a sum is donated to the fund. The idea is to use the money to develop environmentally sustainable innovations. This could range from improving an existing product to completely new product ideas. The money can also be used to contribute to the development of fossil-free alternatives. SMART AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEM AT JFK IS SAVING THE ENVIRONMENT The air traffic control system that Saab delivered to JFK AirBRIGHTER FUTURE FOR CHILDREN IN SLUMS port in New York is increasing efficiency while reducing fuel Saab began working during the year with the Hummingbird culcosts and carbon emissions. The figure below refers to the tural network in São Paulo, Brazil. The operation serves children emission reduction over one year, according to an independliving in slums with the goal of preventing them from falling into ent study conducted by MIT. Saab’s air traffic control systems poverty and criminality. The leaders have managed to lift themare used at 19 of the world’s 20 busiest airports. selves out of similar situations and now serve as a role model. 43,000 The children, who are between the ages of 5 and 18, have the opportunity to participate in a number of activities from the arts and culture to education and sports. Saab supports similar initiatives in slum areas in Cape Town and Centurion, South Africa. tonnes of carbon emissions per year SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 31 S T R AT E GY – P E O P L E Landscape for continuous learning Engaged and healthy employees with the right skills and opportunities to develop are essential for Saab to reach its goals and continue to grow. To achieve this, the company plans its HR development at a strategic level. INCLUSIVE AND PERFORMANCE DRIVEN ees to develop. Every employee, together with Saab is creating a truly inclusive and perfortheir manager, sets personal development KEY EVENTS IN 2019 mance-driven culture that encourages innogoals that are tied to Saab’s overarching busivation. Saab stresses the importance of its ness objectives. • Reverse mentoring program During values to every employee. For a culture of colthe year, Saab had a mentoring prolaboration and understanding between peoHEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT gramme where younger employees ple of different backgrounds to spread within To improve performance, we have to offer a served as mentors to the managethe company, employees are offered several safe, secure and healthy place of work. Saab ment team. Digitisation, recruitment, forms of skills and leadership training. has a global process to proactively address leadership and a sustainable work-life occupational health and safety and is now balance were some of the topics that STRATEGIC HR PLANNING developing a health strategy to support a suswere discussed. Saab has introduced a process for strategic tainable work environment for employees. • Saab’s award for “Female Role Model HR planning to track and predict what types of of the Year” in 2019 was shared by measures will be needed for the company’s ATTRACTING TALENT Saira Alladin, Director of Asset Operaoverarching strategy. In this way, Saab continSaab’s success is dependent on its ability to tion and Maintenance at Vattenfall, uously knows which future needs will be critiattract, retain and reward the right employees. and Emma Dahlin, a student at Chalcal and can focus on the long-term developThe company works actively therefore to mers University of Technology. The ment of employees and the organisation. encourage interest in technology among motivation for Saira was: “With an youths and to position itself as an attractive inner fervour, passion and great FOCUS ON LEARNING employer to both entry-level and experienced patience, she is unafraid to address Saab invests in continuous learning for its professionals alike. gender equality issues no matter employees. The company offers them skills what the situation, from the board and leadership training in various forms and A BETTER WORK DAY room to the lunchroom. With her promotes learning through networks, mentorSaab is trying to tap the great potential offered openness and credibility, she inspires ships and by encouraging employees to take by digitisation to simplify working life and and motivates other women. For her, on new challenges. Working together on a make every day better for employees. This gender equality is an obvious sucdaily basis, collaborating and sharing knowlincludes administrative efficiencies within the cess factor! The motivation for edge is the most important way for employcompany with the help of standardisation and Emma was: “She wants to smash prejautomation. udices. With her drive and inspiration, she wants to show that you don’t have to be a nerd to like technology and it does not have to be hard, that in fact it is actually cool and impacts our future. She will not give up! . 232 Number of Master’s thesis 78% Share of employees who say at Saab in Sweden they are engaged in their work 32 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S T R AT E GY – P E O P L E Looking into the future 9LV Combat Management System Case PEOPLE Talent and Development specialist Pernilla Fischione Pernilla Fischione, Talent & Development specialist. explains why and how Saab works with strategic workforce and resource planning. WHAT DOES STRATEGIC WORKFORCE WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO WORK HOW DOES SAAB WORK WITH THIS? AND RESOURCE PLANNING MEAN? WITH THIS? First, we identify competence and resource It means that we have to plan for and create The pace of change in society and at work is gaps based on current and future needs opportunities to achieve the company’s longincreasing and it will become even more diffiaccording to the business plan. Then, most term strategy and business plan. We have to cult to predict what skills will be needed in the importantly, we try to cover those gaps. An ensure that we have employees with the right future. Estimates show that around 65 per important part of the work is to encourage skills, now and for the future. If NASA discovers cent of current primary school students will continuous learning. Because if we, as both a that they need five astronauts next month, have a job that doesn’t exist today. To stay company and employees, are going to stay they would have had to recruit and train them competitive, we have to be able to handle the competitive, we have to stay on the forefront long ago. Strategic workforce and resource increased rate of change and stay ahead of of change. We have to learn faster than the planning is about avoiding this type of suprise. the competition. competitors. Even the fact that we will be older when we retire makes continuous learning an important focus. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 33 SA AB AS AN INVESTMENT Saab as an investment Saab’s strong growth in recent years has been supported by conscious choices in focus markets, international partnerships, and research and development. This has laid the foundation for a unique position, as Saab is entering a production and delivery phase and focus is on cash flow. Key focus areas for profitable growth • Strong focus on international expansion, local presence, long-term industrial partnerships and customer relations to continue to drive growth • Faster innovation through investments in technology and development of core competence areas 2 • Continuous cost efficiency in every part of the business, optimisation of the product portfolio and increased automation and digitisation to maximise customer value • Long-term cash flow generation and a strong balance sheet to support continued growth This has resulted in new orders and strengthened the order backlog • Gripen Sweden, 2013 • Gripen Brazil, 2015 • B lekinge-class (A26) and Gotland-class (MLU) submarines, 2015 • Anti-ship missile RBS15, 2017 • Global Eye, 2015 and 2018 • Trainer aircraft T-7A, 2018 1 • Finland Squadron, 2019 Since 2014, Saab has converted the order backlog into strong sales growth. Our proactive efforts to sharpen the product portfolio have led to • New generation of the Gripen • New generation of the GlobalEye Airborne Early Warning & Control system • New ground-based and naval radar systems • New generation of Carl-Gustaf • New submarines I n 2019, a new marketing organisation was set up with a greater focus on Saab’s key markets. At the same time, Saab continues to grow through collaborations. GlobalEye 34 S AA SA B A BA N A NNUA N U A L LAANND U SSTA D SSU TA I N I NA A BBI ILLIITTYY RREEPORT P O R T 2 01 0199 SA AB AS AN INVESTMENT 3 Saab has a strong position and is ready for the next step • Win new orders for our updated platforms • Continue to grow through small and mediumsized orders as well as recurring business • Optimise the product portfolio • Further efficiency improvements • Generate positive cash flow Saab’s aim is to grow profitably and has a long-term annual growth target of 5 per cent. Gotland class SAA B A N N UA L A N D SU S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 35 SA AB'S SHARE Saab's share SHARE CAPITAL AND NUMBER OF SHARES Distribution of shareholders, December 31 2019 The share capital in Saab amounted to SEK 2,173,533,552 on 31 Number of % of Number of % of share December 2019, comprised of 2,383,903 unlisted Series A shares and Number of shares shareholders shareholders shares capital 133,461,944 listed Series B shares. The Series A shares have ten 1– 500 44,430 85.9 4,626,185 3.4 votes each, while Series B shares have one vote each. The quota value 501– 1,000 3,582 6.9 2,671,330 2.0 per share is SEK 16. The Series B share is listed on Nasdaq Stock1,001– 5,000 3,201 6.2 6,382,649 4.7 holm’s Large Cap list. All Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. 5,001– 10,000 225 0.4 1,593,779 1.2 Shares and votes, 31 december 2019 10,001– 20,000 108 0.2 1,503,441 1.1 Number of % of Number of % of 20,001– 50,000 62 0.1 1,961,205 1.4 Share class shares shares votes1) votes 50,001– 91 0.2 105,512,644 77.7 Series A 2,383,903 1,8 23,839,030 15.4 Anonymous Series B 133,461,944 98.2 130 ,542,460 84.6 shareholders 11,594,614 8.5 Total 135,845,847 100 154,381,490 100 Summa 51,699 100 135,845,847 100 1) N umber of votes excludes 2,919,484 Series B shares repurchased to secure the Group’s Share Matching Source: Modular Finance Plan and Performance Share Plan. The repurchased shares are held as treasury shares. Source: Modular Finance TRADING VOLUME AND STATISTICS OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE A total of 88,061,946 (88,022,032) of Saab’s Series B shares were Saab had 51,699 shareholders at 31 December 2019, compared to traded on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2019, or about 49.2 per cent of the 50,174 at 31 January 2019. Swedish investors accounted for 77.8 per total turnover in the Series B share. On other platforms, about 40.13 cent (80.2) of the capital and 80.4 per cent (82.6) of the votes. per cent Saab’s Series B shares were traded on Cboe, 3.75 per cent on the London Stock Exchange and about 1.63 per cent on Turquoise. Saab’s largest shareholders, December 31 2019 The Series B share traded at a 52-week high on Nasdaq Stockholm Number of % of % of Owner shares capital votes1) of SEK 348.90 on 18 February and a low of SEK 258.00 on 3 October. Investor 40,972,622 30.2 40.4 Saab B, Share price performance in the last five years Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 11,988,914 8.8 7.8 Första AP-fonden (AP1) 8,692,325 6.4 5.6 SEK Volume Swedbank Robur funds 5,073,991 3.7 3.3 600 600,000 AFA Försäkring 4,220,096 3.1 2.7 500,000 500 Vanguard 2,733,484 2.0 1.8 400,000 Nordea Fonder 2,140,377 1.6 1.4 400 Unionen 1,670,970 1.2 1.1 300,000 BlackRock 1,261,010 0.9 0.8 300 200,000 Amundi 1,130,158 0.8 0.7 200 Skandia Fonder 1,029,033 0.8 0.7 100,000 AllianceBernstein 1,027,631 0.8 0.7 100 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Ugglasset HB 982,500 0.7 0.6 Saab B SIX General Index Average daily turnover per Fidelity Investments (FMR) 961,683 0.7 0.6 month Keel Capital 776,423 0.6 0.5 Source: SIX Subtotal, 15 largest shareholders 84,661,217 62.3 68.7 Other Swedish shareholders 25,006,238 18.4 16.2 Saab B, Share price in 2019 Other international shareholders 11,664,294 8.6 7.6 SEK Volume Anonymous shareholders 11,594,614 8.5 7.5 600 900,000 Repurchased shares 2,919,484 2.1 Total Summa 135,845,847 100 100 500 750,000 1) % of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at December 31 2019. 400 600,000 Source: Modular Finance 300 450,000 200 300,000 100 150,000 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Saab B SIX General Index Average daily turnover per week Source: SIX 36 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 SA AB'S SHARE SAAB’S LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAMME Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary Share Matching Plan. Purchases are made through deductions of 1–5 per cent of the In June 2019, the Board resolved to utilise its authorisation to repurchase Saab Series B shares. Repurchases were made in July and August 2018 for an amount of MSEK 203. DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY 6,974 of Saab's employees have employee’s monthly salary, after which Series B Saab’s long-term policy is to pay a dividend enrolled in Saab's Share Matchshares in Saab are purchased on Nasdaq corresponding to 20–40 per cent of net Stockholm during a twelve-month period. If the income over a business cycle. For the financial ing Plan 2019. Some particiemployee retains the purchased shares for year 2019, the Board of Directors is proposing pants are enrolled in several three years after the investment date and is still a dividend of SEK 4.70 per share (4.50), correplans. The corresponding numemployed by the Saab Group, they will be allotsponding to an increase of 4.4 per cent comted a corresponding number of Series B shares pared to the previous year. The proposed diviber last year was 6,608, which free of charge. The Performance Share Plan dend corresponds to 32 per cent (46) of net means an increase of 5.5%. has been offered since 2008 to senior execuincome. tives and other key persons. The Annual General Meeting in 2019 resolved to adopt LongFIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Term Incentive plan 2020 (LTI 2020), consisting For information on data per share, see of Share Matching Plan 2020, Performance www.saabgroup.com Share Plan 2020 and Special Projects Incentive 2020. For more information on the incentive ANALYSTS WHO COVER SAAB plan, see the Administration Report on pages For information on analysts who cover Saab, 84–85 and note 8. see www.saabgroup.com. AUTHORISATION The Annual General Meeting 2019 resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to decide to acquire not more than 1,465,000 Saab Series B shares to secure delivery of shares to participants in Saab’s long-term Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special Projects Incentive and for subsequent transfers through the market to cover certain costs Investor relations associated with LTI 2020, mainly social secuMerton Kaplan rity costs. The Annual General Meeting 2019 Head of Investor Relations also resolved to authorise the Board of Direcmerton.kaplan@saabgroup.com tors to decide to repurchase Saab Series B +46 734 18 20 71 shares up to a maximum of 10 per cent of all the shares in the company. Dividend per share Equity per share Earnings per share Yield at year-end after dilution SEK SEK SEK % 6.00 150 15 2.5 5.25 120 12 2.0 4.50 3.75 90 9 1.5 3.00 60 6 1.0 2.25 1.50 30 3 0.5 0.75 0.00 0 0 0.0 15 16 17 18 19 1) 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 1) See dividend and dividend policy. SAA B A N N UA L A N D SU STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 37 Administration report and financial statements Contents Financial review 2019 39 Business areas 40 Other significant events 46 Risks and uncertainties 48 Sustainability report 54 Corporate governance report 72 Other information 82 Financial statements and notes 86 Dividend motivation 138 Proposed disposition of earnings 2019 139 Auditor's report 140 Information to shareholders 145 Multi-year overview 146 Glossary 147 Saab in the world 148 Gripen NG/Demo 38 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Financial review 2019 – Group FINANCIAL REVIEW 2019 Saab was organised in six business areas Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number in 2019: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, 556036-0793, has its registered address in Support and Services, Industrial Products and Linköping, Sweden. The head office's visiting Services, and Kockums. address is Olof Palmes gata 17, 5tr, 111 22 Stockholm. The telephone number to the CORPORATE head office of Saab AB is +46 8-463 00 00. In addition to the business areas, Corporate Saab has been listed on Nasdaq Stockcomprises Group staff and departments holm since 1998 and on the Large Cap list as well as other operations outside the since 2006. The largest shareholder is core business. ­Investor, with 30.2 per cent of the shares, Corporate reported operating income of ­corresponding to 40.3 per cent of the votes. SEK -377 million (-640) in 2019. The voting percentage is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding treasury LONG-TERM FINANCIAL GOALS ­shares, at year-end. At year-end, there were a The long-term financial goals as of 2011 total of 135,845, 847, shares in the company, consist of goals for organic sales growth, distributed between 2,383,903 Series A operating margin (EBIT) and the equity/­ ­shares with ten votes each and 133,461,944 asset ratio. Series B shares with one vote each. Organic sales growth will average 5 per At year-end, a total of 2,919,484 Series B cent per year over a business cycle. In 2019, shares had been repurchased to guarantee organic sales growth was 6 per cent (4). the Group’s share matching plans. The The operating margin (EBIT) will average at repurchased shares are held as treasury shares. least 10 per cent per year over a business cycle. In 2019, the operating margin was 8.3 Corporate Governance Report per cent (6.8). The operating margin excluding In accordance with the Swedish Annual non-recurring items was 8.3 per cent (7.7). Accounts Act, Saab has prepared a corporate The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per governance report. The corporate govercent. At year-end 2019, the equity/assets ratio nance report, found here on pages 68–77, was 34.8 per cent (35.0). contains the Board of Directors' report on internal control of financial reporting, which DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY includes disclosures on both the Parent Saab’s long-term policy is to pay a dividend ­Company and the Group. corresponding to 20–40 per cent of net income over a business cycle. For the financial Sustainability Report year 2019 the Board of Directors is proposing In accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, a dividend of SEK 4.70 per share (4.50), Saab has prepared a sustainability report, ­corresponding to an increase of 4.4 per cent which can be found in this document on pages compared to the previous year. The proposed 54–70. dividend corresponds to 32 per cent (46) of net income. OPERATIONS As one of the world’s leading high technology OUTLOOK 2020 companies, Saab offers products, solutions For 2020, Saab estimates that organic sales and services for military defence and civil growth will be in line with the long-term finansecurity. In 2019, the Group had customers in cial goal of 5 per cent. over 100 countries, while research and deveThe operating margin for 2020 is expected lopment is concentrated in Sweden. The to improve compared to 2019. Group has employees mainly in Europe, South Africa, the U.S. and Australia, with local offices in more than 30 countries around the world. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 39 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Gripen E Business area Aeronautics Aeronautics is an innovative supplier of world-class aircraft 22% systems and is engaged in research, development and ­production of military aircraft systems. It also conducts studies as preparation for future manned and unmanned aircraft Share of sales 2019 ­systems as well as further development of existing products. Collaborations with other world-leading entities, both large and small, is a success factor. SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS ORDERS campaigns and tender work compared to the • Gripen is the world's most adaptable and Order bookings for the full-year 2019 full year 2018. flexible combat aircraft system. With its decreased compared to the previous year as modular design, it can be upgraded and no major contracts were signed. Smaller CASH FLOW adapted to customers' requirements. orders increased in 2019 compared to 2018. Cash flow for the full year was negative as a • Future manned and unmanned result of the high working capital attributable aircraft ­systems. SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN to the Gripen programmes. In the fourth • Saab and Boeing have jointly developed Sales for the full year increased due to a ­quarter, key milestone payments were the next generation trainer aircraft for the ­continued high activity level within the Gripen ­received, which resulted in strong cash flow U.S. Air Force. In 2019, the aircraft was given programmes. The T-7A Red Hawk project, in the quarter. the designation T-7A. ­previously called T-X, contributed as well. The business area’s operating income and Aeronautics includes the business units margin were in line with the previous year. ­Gripen E/F, Gripen C/D, Gripen Brazil, Sales had a positive effect but was offset ­Advanced Pilot Training Systems (T-7). by higher marketing costs associated with Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2019 2018 SEK billion SEK billion % 6 10 10 Order bookings 2,979 5,261 Order backlog 42,120 47,359 5 8 8 Sales 8,218 8,056 EBITDA 737 736 4 6 6 EBITDA margin, % 9.0 9.1 3 Operating income (EBIT) 677 680 4 4 Operating margin, % 8.2 8.4 2 Operational cash flow -1,591 -1,096 2 2 1 No. of FTE's 3,421 3,212 0 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 40 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T RBS15 Business area Dynamics Dynamics offers a market-leading product portfolio comprising 17% ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles, training systems and advanced camouflage systems for armed forces. The product portfolio Share of sales 2019 also consists of niche products for the civil and defence ­markets such as underwater vehicles for the offshore industry. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS Products and solutions have been sold to area’s order backlog was at a historically high • Ground combat weapons, including more than 60 countries around the world. level. ­Carl-Gustaf, AT4 and NLAW. Dynamics includes the business units Ground • Land-based air defence systems, including Combat, Missile Systems, Underwater SysSALES, INCOME AND MARGIN RBS 70, RBS 70 NG and BAMSE. tems, Training & Simulation, and Barracuda. Sales for the full year 2019 grew strongly, • RBS 15 air-to-surface missile and internatioincreasing 15%. This was due to increased nal missile programmes such as Meteor, ORDERS deliveries compared to 2018. Taurus, IRIS-T and GLSDB. Several key orders were secured during the The sales increase contributed to a higher • Underwater systems, including remotely year. This included continued success for the operating margin for the full year. operated and autonomous vehicles as well Carl-Gustaf and AT4 weapon systems with a as torpedoes and underwater sensors. number of orders and framework agreements. CASH FLOW • Training systems for ground combat In the fourth quarter, Saab signed a contract to Operational cash flow for the full year was based on laser and radio as well as virtual support the German Army’s combat training positive, largely due to the income improvetraining solutions. centre GÜZ with an order value of SEK 870 ment. At the same time, the business area’s • Advanced camouflage systems, including ­million for the years 2020-2026. The order growth and order intake are generating an the products Barracuda MCS, ULCAS strengthens Saab’s position in the German increased need for working capital. and SOTACS. market. At the end of the year, the business Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2019 2018 SEK billion SEK billion % 10 6 15 Order bookings 6,706 7,308 Order backlog 14,264 13,645 5 8 12 Sales 6,140 5,319 EBITDA 792 610 4 6 9 EBITDA margin, % 12.9 11.5 3 Operating income (EBIT) 716 535 4 6 Operating margin, % 11.7 10.1 2 Operational cash flow 158 -120 2 3 No. of FTE's 2,353 2,252 1 0 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 41 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T GlobalEye Business area Surveillance Business area Surveillance provides efficient solutions for 21% safety and security, for surveillance and decision support, and for threat detection, localization, and protection. Surveillance has world-leading microwave and antenna technology based Share of sales 2019 on effective long-term product development that utilises synergies between the various product areas. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS • Nose radar for fighter aircraft, data links and the purchase of two additional GlobalEye Airborne • The airborne surveillance systems GlobalEye laser rangefinders.. Early Warning & Control aircraft. A contract has and Saab Erieye AEW&C (Airborne Early Warnot yet been signed with the customer. ning & Control) for defence and civil security. Surveillance includes the business units • The surface radar family Giraffe, Sea Giraffe ­Combat Systems and C41 Solutions, Cyber SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN and Arthur for air and maritime surveillance Security, Electronic Warfare Systems and Sales increased in 2019 compared to the previous and weapon locating. Radar Solutions. year. Higher activity within Combat Systems and • Combat management systems based on 9LV C4I Solutions contributed positively. Operating for navies air forces and armies. ORDERS income improved as a result of the increased • Signals intelligence (SIGINT) systems that In 2019, Surveillance strengthened its order ­activity level and focus on costs. ­provide real-time situational awareness to backlog, primarily through a contract to provide ­localise and identify threats, for both tactical and integrate the combat system and sensors CASH FLOW and strategic applications. for Finland’s new corvettes. Contracts were Operational cash flow strongly improved for the full • Self-protection systems that warn of threats also signed during the year for the Arthur and year 2019 compared to 2018. The positive cash and protect aircraft, helicopters, vehicles Sea Giraffe radar systems in the UK and the flow was a result of decreased working capital as and vessels. U.S., respectively. In the fourth quarter, the Unikey payments from customers were received in the • Cybersecurity solutions such as Egira, ted Arab Emirates announced its intention to fourth quarter. a ­Swedish-based secure cloud solution. conclude a contract amendment with Saab for Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2019 2018 SEK billion SEK billion % 10 8 12 Order bookings 9,390 7,370 Order backlog 16,465 14,731 8 Sales 7,699 7,397 6 9 EBITDA 1,151 904 6 EBITDA margin, % 14.9 12.2 4 6 Operating income (EBIT) 853 631 4 Operating margin, % 11.1 8.5 Operational cash flow 1,156 -1,085 2 2 3 No. of FTE's 3,808 3,770 0 17 18 19 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 42 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Hkp 16 Blackhawk Business area Support and Services Support and Services offers reliable and cost-efficient 16 % service and support for all of Saab's markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and logistics as well as products, solutions and services for Share of sales 2019 military and civil missions. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS ORDERS completion in a few larger projects. Operating • Customised support solutions in all areas – Order bookings increased in 2019 compared income increased for the full year and corover the product's entire lifecycle. to 2018, which was largely attributed to two responded to a margin of 12.8% (12.5%). • From individual spare parts to availabilitysupport contracts signed for airborne surveilIncome for the third quarter of 2018 was based commitments. lance systems as well as Support and Serviaffected by a non-recurring expense of SEK • Technical services, maintenance and repairs. ces’ share of the finish contract for delivery 50 million. • Products and integration for airborne surand integration of combat system and senveillance systems, communication systems, sors for Finland’s new corvettes. An order from CASH FLOW military electronics, field solutions and CBRN the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration Operational cash flow for 2019 was positive (chemical, biological, radiological and (FMV) for Gripen support and maintenance but decreased compared to the previous year. nuclear) defence solutions. also contributed to the increase in orders. Strong cash flow in the fourth quarter, with larger milestone payments from key contracts, Support and Services includes the business SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN was offset by a higher build-up of working units Aviation Services, Airborne ISR, Gripen Sales improved for the full year 2019 compacapital in previous quarters mainly associated Support, Communication and Tactical Solutions. red to the previous year, as a result of higher with major projects. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2019 2018 SEK billion SEK billion % 8 6 14 Order bookings 4,099 3,635 Order backlog 8,986 10,690 5 12 Sales 5,821 5,470 6 10 EBITDA 762 754.4894311 4 EBITDA margin, % 13.1 13.8 8 4 3 Operating income (EBIT) 742 685 6 Operating margin, % 12.8 12.5 2 4 Operational cash flow 11 369 2 No. of FTE's 1,912 1,851 1 2 0 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 43 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Business area Industrial Products and Services The business units within Industrial Products and Services (IPS) are mainly focused on commercial B2B business with world14 % leading customers in various safety critical sectors. The market demands secure and sustainable solutions. IPS can be found in the intersection between them and works with a number of uniShare of sales 2019 que development projects with a focus on a more sustainable and digitised society. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS nents such as computers, displays and SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN • Technical consulting services for customers ­actuators for demanding environments for Sales for 2019 increased and several busiin industry, defence and the public sector aircraft and helicopters. ness units contributed. The operating margin through the independent subsidiary Combiincreased slightly due to improved volumes and tech. The company offers a broad range of The business area Industrial Products and Serefficiency measures. The focus is on further services, with cutting-edge expertise in vices includes the business units Aerostructustrengthening the business area’s ­profitability. cybersecurity and digitisation. res, Avionics Systems, Traffic Management and • Leading technology for air traffic managethe independent consulting firm Combitech. CASH FLOW ment, marine traffic management and Operational cash flow was negative during the public safety. ORDERS year due to increased working capital, mainly • Development and production for the aviation In 2019, order bookings slightly increased within the business unit Traffic Management industry with a focus on wings, flaps and compared to the previous year, which was a as well as currency-hedging transactions doors for commercial aircraft manufacturers result of higher demand in several of the busi­related to projects within the business unit such as Boeing and Airbus. ness area’s units. Aerostructures received Aerostructures. • Safety critical avionics systems and compomajor orders from Boeing during the year for work packages for the Boeing 787. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin SEK billion SEK billion % MSEK 2019 2018 6 7 8 Order bookings 5,515 5,344 6 5 Order backlog 9,035 11,004 6 5 Sales 6,556 6,107 4 EBITDA 324 290 4 3 4 EBITDA margin, % 4.9 4.7 3 Operating income (EBIT) 238 202 2 2 Operating margin, % 3.6 3.3 2 Operational cash flow -302 -351 1 1 No. of FTE's 3,635 3,566 0 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 44 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Gotland class Business area Kockums Kockums is a world leader in its segment in the development, production and in-service support of submarines, surface vessels 8% and naval systems. The product portfolio includes submarines with air-independent propulsion, warships with stealth technology, minesweeping systems, and high-speed patrol and pilot boats. Share of sales 2019 Kockums also supplies subsystems and components for integration in naval solutions for customers in and outside Sweden. PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS undergone major modernisation since Saab's SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN • Design, construction and in-service support acquisition. Through investments in methodoThe business area’s sales for 2019 decreased for submarines and surface vessels. logical improvements, industrial robots and compared to 2018. The decrease is largely • Design, construction and in-service support digitisation, Saab Kockums ranks as one of the due to the ongoing transition from deve­ for high-speed patrol and pilot boats. world’s most modern shipyards for production lopment to production. The lower sales and in-service support of submarines. Kock­negatively affected operating income. The The business area's unique expertise is in steums has two business units: Submarines and focus is on strengthening the business alth technology, shock resistance, modularity Surface Ships. area’s ­profitability. and systems integration. Kockums’ products are designed for availability, simplified mainteORDER BACKLOG CASH FLOW nance and a long operating life. One example Order bookings for the full year 2019 Operational cash flow was negative in the full is the Gotland-class submarines built in the increased compared to 2018. Saab signed a year 2019 due to a higher level of order com’90s, which after a mid-life upgrade are equipcontract with the Finish Navy within the pletion. In the fourth quarter, cash flow was ped with modern technology that makes them Squadron 2020 programme, increasing the positive as a result of customer payments. state-of-the-art in conventional submarines. order intake for Kockums, which is supplying Kockums’ production facility in Karlskrona has part of the contract. Key figures Order bookings Sales Operating margin MSEK 2019 2018 SEK billion SEK billion % 4 4 8 Order bookings 1,216 1,123 Order backlog 4,852 6,646 Sales 3,007 3,291 3 3 6 EBITDA 124 202,946 EBITDA margin, % 4.1 6.2 2 2 4 Operating income (EBIT) 88 173 Operating margin, % 2.9 5.3 Operational cash flow -70 251 1 1 2 No. of FTE's 1,197 1,205 0 0 0 17 18 19 17 18 19 17 18 19 SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 45 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Other significant events OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING which allows the U.S. Army, U.S. Marines • On September 4, Saab’s Board of Directors THE PERIOD JANUARY–DECEMBER 2019 and U.S. Special Forces to place orders for appointed Micael Johansson as the new • On 3 January 2019, Saab completed a the AT4 disposable weapon system and President and CEO of Saab. ­successful first flight with the second ammunition to the Carl-Gustaf M4 recoil• In September, Saab presented a new type ­G lobalEye Airborne Early Warning & less rifle during a five-year period. of camouflage called ARCASe (Advanced ­Control (AEW&C). • In June, the Swiss defence procurement Reversible Camouflage Screen emissive) • Supported by the Swedish government, agency, armasuisse, recommended that at the DSEI in London. Saab in January submitted a proposal for Saab not participate with Gripen E in their • On September 10, an important step were the Finnish HX fighter procurement to the planned fighter evaluation process in Swittaken in the delivery of the first Gripen E Finnish defence procurement agency, the zerland. Therefore, Saab decided not to to Brazil. Logistics Command of the Finnish attend the Swiss flight tests planned in • In accordance with the resolution by Defence Forces. June. Saab’s Annual General Meeting 2019, the • Saab’s Annual General Meeting in Linkö• On July 19, the governments of Sweden members of the Nomination Committee for ping on 11 April decided on a dividend of and the United Kingdom signed a Memo2020 were appointed based on the shareSEK 4.50 per share to the shareholders randum of Understanding (MoU) regarding holder structure on 31 August 2019. with Monday, 15 April 2019 as the record cooperation on the development of a future • In September, the Finnish government date. Payment was made by Euroclear combat air system. Saab views the agreeannounced that it had selected Saab as a Sweden AB on Thursday, 18 April 2019. ment as a starting point for a long-term colprovider of the combat system for the Fin• In May, Saab announced a new U.S. prolaboration to promote development of exisnish Navy’s Squadron 2020 programme. duction site for its parts of the T-7A jet ting platforms, including Gripen. The contract is valued at EUR 412 million. ­t rainer in West Lafayette, Indiana. Saab • On August 11, Saab announced that • In October, Håkan Buskhe notified the intends to invest USD 37 million in the ­President and CEO Håkan Buskhe is Board of Directors that his assignment as ­facility from 2020. ­stepping down from his position. member of the Board of Saab AB will end in • In June, Saab’s Board of Directors decided • In August, Saab announced that it had conjunction with him resigning from his to repurchase own shares. The decision received an order from the Australian Army position as President and CEO. was based on an authorisation from Saab’s to extend the support of their Ground • The United Arab Emirates announced in Annual General Meeting 2019. Based Air Defence and Counter Rocket, November that it intends to conclude a • In June, the HMS Uppland was re-launched Artillery and Mortar systems. contract amendment with Saab for the after comprehensive mid-life upgrades • On August 26, Saab announced that it had purchase of two additional GlobalEye Air(MLU) in Karlskrona. As a result, two Gotlandsuccessfully completed the first flight with borne Early Warning & Control aircraft. class submarines have concluded MLU. the Brazilian Gripen E. • In December, Saab announced that it had • In June, Saab signed a framework agree• In August, Saab announced that it had signed a contract to support the Germany ment with FMV to provide the Swedish appointed Dean Rosenfield as Chief Army with the Gefechtsübungszentrum Armed Forces with the Carl-Gustaf M4 ­Marketing Officer. Heer (GÜZ) combat training centre in weapon system. • In September, Saab appointed Merton ­2020-2026. • In June, Saab signed a multi-year frameKaplan as the new Head of Investor • The Dutch cabinet announced in Decemwork agreement with the U.S. government, ­Relations. ber that Saab and Damen, together with two other contenders, will continue to the next phase for the replacement of the ­Walrus-class submarines. • On 21 December, Sweden inaugurated its first new airport in 20 years, in Sälen. Saab is providing the on-site camera tower and the digital air traffic control services from Saab’s remote tower centre in Sundsvall. FOR SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE CONCLUSION OF THE PERIOD, SEE NOTE 47. Gripen E 46 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T ”In June, the HMS Uppland was ­re-launched after comprehensive mid-life upgrades (MLU) in Karlskrona.” ”In September, Saab presented a new type of camouflage called ARCASe.” Desert ULCAS SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 47 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risks and uncertainties All businesses entail risk. Risks that are manacompany’s risk tolerance, and decisions are The main purpose of damage prevention is ged well can lead to opportunities and add made on the appropriate measures to avoid, to prevent incidents, property damage and value, while risks that are not managed proreduce, spread or accept risks. A number of disruptions. A Group-wide programme called perly can cause damages and losses. Saab these risks can potentially also affect the Saab Blue sets the requirements for physical takes a structured and proactive approach to entire Group. protection, preventive work and action plans if managing risks. ERM work is part of the strategic work and incidents occur. To ensure that the requireSaab develops, manufactures and supplies involves the managements of the business ments are met and to support the business technologically advanced systems and areas as well as Group Management and operations in the preventive work, risk inspec­products to military and civil customers Group functions. tions are conducted on an annual basis. around the world. Operations largely consist The ERM function works actively with of major projects carried out over long periods overarching risk management. The most presEXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND of time, usually several years, in close coopesing risks and uncertainties and how they are CLIMATE RISKS ration with customers, suppliers, partners managed are regularly reported to Group Climate aspects are also important to Saab’s and ­institutions. Management, the Audit Committee and the long-term strategy work, since future climate Saab is affected by geopolitical factors and Board of Directors. change can impact operations. industryand business-related events that In addition, Saab’s internal audit unit is Natural disasters can disrupt operations can give rise to uncertainties and risks. The responsible for independently reviewing the and/or affect the supply chain, and rules and ability to identify, evaluate and manage risks is effectiveness of a sample of internal control requirements for industrial processes are contherefore essential to strategy implementation processes each year. tinously tightened or sharpened. and in governance and control. The aim, by Saab mitigates these risks and invests in understanding risks and their impact, is to betINSURANCE AND DAMAGE PREVENTION sustainable innovations that reduce environter support decision-making and meet Saab’s The Saab Group’s global insurance promental impacts. See examples on page 30. long-term goals through balanced risk-taking gramme contains all the usual types of In 2019, Saab also launched an internal within an established framework. ­business insurance, including product liability. analysis of financial risks and opportunities Insurance is procured in the Swedish and associated with climate change. The work is RISK MANAGEMENT international markets. Insurance policies based on the guidelines of the Taskforce on Within Saab, each business area, market area ­comply with local laws where applicable. Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Group function is responsible within its and will continue in 2020. respective organisation for identifying and managing risks in accordance with the Group's risk process and current policies, guidelines and instructions. IDENTIFYING When combined with Enterprise Risk RISK Management (ERM), which focuses on the overarching risks and uncertainties the Group STRATEGIC is exposed to, we get both a top-down and RISKS bottom-up view to support Saab’s strategy and long-term goals. CONT K RO RIS The purpose of ERM is to provide a Group ACTIV L COMPL T AND SIS ITIE IA RKE ALY RISK NCE MA ICAL RISKS AN overview of the risks and uncertainties Saab is S exposed to and to support value creation, S LIT LONG-TERM PO ensure risk awareness and balance risk TARGETS ­versus return. Most of the operating risks that are identified are managed at a local level. Among these L N FI NA risks, Saab identifies a number through the A RI N C TI O S K IA L R A KS ERM process that individually or in combinaS O PE RI S tion can have a large impact at the business R NA IS K SK M area level. These risks are weighed against the NT RI M E A GE ME SS NT SE AS 48 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risk Description Management STRATEGIC The strategy to grow globally by strengthening its presence in key Strategic risks are managed through strategies and plans established RISKS markets, developing innovative solutions and acquiring compaby the Board of Directors, Group Management and the managements nies in priority areas exposes Saab to various risks that can affect of the business areas. its ability to create value and reach the goals. Development and Saab’s success is dependent on its ability to develop and • Investments in new products are made after analysis and assessintroduction of new manufacture innovative products and launch them on the ment of future business opportunities. high-tech systems ­m arket at the right time and at competitive prices. Due to long • To reduce the development risk inherent in major systems multiand products development cycles, market changes can mean that demand national partnerships are imperative and for internally developed has changed when products are ready to bring to market. products, such as for example radar, command and control, and The risk is that the products do not generate the previously electronic warfare systems as well as tactical weapons it is expected return. important to early identify a launch customer. • Saab expects Sweden to account for the largest share of its Historically, a large share of Saab’s product renewal has been development expenditures in the fighter aircraft, missile and achieved collaboratively with the Swedish Armed Forces and underwater areas. FMV and together with other nations . • Develop certain technology in partnership with other companies, There is also a risk that competitors develop new products e.g. the T-7 trainer aircraft together with Boeing. or disruptive technologies that can make Saab’s products • Product development through modularisation which enables new appear obsolete. models to be developed continuously, cost-effectively and faster. • Saab is active in AI, machine learning and automation. International Acquisitions and collaborations are an integral part of Saab’s • Joint ventures with other companies. expansion and international growth strategy to further strengthen its • Research collaborations with universities. collaborations ­presence in selected key markets. • A central organisation that is responsible for the acquisition ­process and supports the business. • Thorough analysis in connection with acquisitions and expansion. Attract and retain Saab’s future competitiveness depends on its ability to globally • Strategic talent mapping and planning ensures access to key employees attract and retain employees and leaders with the right skills in employees with the right skills at the right time. e.g. multiple technologies, production, IT security, business • Apply a structured process to develop employees and identify development and project management. Saab is also depentalents. Job rotation. dent on the professional development of its employees. • Work long-term to position Saab as an attractive employer A detailed description of Saab’s sustainability work and key among students and young professionals. performance indicators for employees can be found on pages • Offer PhD services, trainee programmes, master’s thesis 62–63. ­opportunities and summer jobs. • Promote education and an interest in technology among younger students to broaden the future recruiting base. Information Saab manages information that is vital to its customers and in • Continuous and systematic information and IT security work and management and many cases to their national security. The information security periodic audits of IT security. cyber-related risks risk for Saab is that information will fall into the wrong hands if • Clearly defined rules, processes, routines and technical solutions handled incorrectly or in the event of an IT breach or manipulafor information, IT and communication security. tion of communication channels. • Standardised processes to implement new systems, upgrades and daily operations. Cyberthreats are a category of risk that has increased for • All employees receive training in information management Saab’s products, which contain a large amount of software and and security. defence secrets, since it has become more common for these • Different levels of physical and digital security classifications to products to be linked to civil networks. reduce the risk of information leaks. Saab also relies on IT systems in its daily operations. Disrup• Established the business unit Cyber Security, which works with tions to or errors in critical systems can have a direct impact on solutions to increase cybersecurity in Saab’s products. operations. Mismanagement of financial systems can impact • Routines to ensure that the new GDPR regulation has been the company’s financial reporting. ­i mplemented. Risk Description Management MARKET AND About 85 per cent of Saab’s sales consists of defence materiel, Saab works proactively to manage market and political risks and POLITICAL which is regulated by national laws and regulations as well as uncertainties, including through strategic impact assessments and ­international conventions, and more than half of total sales are alternative strategies. It is impossible, however, to completely avoid RISKS international. Saab is therefore dependent on stable political and losing business opportunities or incurring damage if political or other multinational relationships around the world and national priorities. market risks are realised. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 49 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risk Description Management Geopolitical and Demand for the defence materiel is dependent on the political • Market intelligence. macroeconomic mandate and willingness of national governments as well as • Dialog with authorities and the political establishment. risks and ­fiscal flexibility. The defence industry is therefore affected by a • Proactive measures to assess and manage risks and opportunities. uncertainties number of macroeconomic factors, e.g. global economic growth, • Major investments are mainly in a small number of focus countries. trade barriers and changes in exchange rates. It is also exposed • International partnerships. to geopolitical risks. • Terms and conditions. • Export guarantees, insurance solutions and other instruments. The large share of Saab’s order backlog consists of contracts with an order value over SEK 1 billion which will be delivered over many years. Consequently, the impact on Saab could be significant if a major contract is broken or amended and renegotiated because the customer is adversely affected by market factors. Regulatory The large share of Saab’s exports is from Sweden, where the • Continuously monitor laws, regulations and ordinances to adapt changes Swedish Inspectorate of Strategic Products (ISP) determines the business as needed. which defence products Saab may manufacture, market, sell • Dialogue with authorities in the political establishment and export to which countries. ISP does an overall assessment • Terms and conditions. that weighs several factors. Since 2018, the democratic status • Central and local export control functions. of the recipient country is also playing an important role. Saab may also be dependent on export control laws in other countries where it has operations or suppliers. Some of Saab’s civil products are governed by export controls on dual-use products. The risk for Saab arises from changes to laws, regulations and permits. Risk Description Management OPERATIONAL Operational risks can affect Saab’s ability to deliver on its Operational risks are managed in tactical and operational deciRISKS ­commitments and are important to day-to-day operations. sions as well as at an operating level throughout the organisation. The risks include risks relating to order bookings, contract Information about Saab’s work with product liability and with envimanagement, project implementation, suppliers, product liabironmental and occupational health and safety risks can be found in lity, the environment, and occupational health and safety. the sustainability report on pages 54–70. Risks related to Saab’s operations involve complex, long-term development • Before contract is signed, a thorough analysis is made of the implementation projects on the leading edge of technology that in some cases terms and risks. of long-term also include industrial cooperations with the customer’s coun• An established quality assurance process – the Win Business ­customer projects try. When a contract is signed, the product may not be fully ­process – includes a comprehensive analysis of risks and what is developed in some instances. Contracts also often include a required to manage them. fixed-price component, which can entail a risk of incorrect • During project implementation – the Execute Business process – ­pricing if the costs cannot be adequately estimated. various types of reviews with clear toll-gates are conducted continuously to identify and assess these risks and the measures taken The risk in long-term customer projects is therefore that Saab to mitigate them. does not succeed in delivering cost-efficient high-tech solu• Effective management of both delivery projects and industrial tions as per the terms of the contract or in implementing the cooperations. required industrial cooperation. Consequently, the commit• High demands are placed on project planning and control as well ment may not be fulfilled and the costs may run significantly as monitoring to ensure at any given time that assumptions and ­higher with a negative impact on financial position and cash flow. assessments provide a satisfactory basis for reporting revenue The Group applies the percentage of completion method to and results. recognise revenue from the majority of long-term customer • Saab’s largest projects are also regularly monitored by Group projects. An estimation of total costs, including assessments Management and reported to the Board of Directors. of technical and commercial risks, is critical to revenue recog• Other projects with high impact are regularly monitored by each nition and provisions for project losses as well as inventory business area management and reported to Group Management. valuations. Revised estimates of total project costs have a retroactive impact on results. Dependence on A large share of Saab’s revenue comes from a limited number of • The marketing organisation has been reorganised to more clearly new contracts customers and relatively few contracts. Saab is therefore focus marketing and sales on key markets with the potential for and increased dependent on winning new contracts in a market with limited new business. ­competition access, since there are only a certain number of governments • In 2019, three strategic markets were also identified: Australia, and defence contractors to sell to. the UK and the US, where the local presence will be further strengthened. Competition in the military market as well as the commercial • Product portfolio optimisation. aircraft and security market is fierce. US and European • Focus on quality, innovation, security, development times, ­companies are especially strong players, with competition also ­delivery precision and price. increasing from companies in other parts of the world. Many • Reference customers, partnerships and industrial collaborations. competitors are also strong in their home markets. • Increased local presence in selected markets with own operations, sales offices and own personnel. 50 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risk Description Management Supply chain risks Saab is dependent on deliveries from subcontractors of e.g. sub• Select, evaluate and document suppliers and business partners systems, components and equipment. For certain subsystems, based on objective criteria such as quality, the environment, Saab is dependent on deliveries from one or a few suppliers. ­delivery, price and reliability. • Close cooperations with suppliers for high quality. The suppliers must share the same values as expressed in • Systematic measures to ensure that suppliers take ethical, Saab’s supplier Code of Conduct and have sustainable social and environmental responsibility and work proactively to production to avoid negatively impacting Saab. prevent damages. • Saab’s supplier Code of Conduct and compliance monitoring. Risk Description Management FINANCIAL Financial risks can affect the ability to protect Saab’s financial Financial risks are governed by the Group’s financial policy, which is RISKS position. The risk consists of potentially negative effects on adopted by Saab’s Board of Directors, as well as detailed directives Saab’s financial assets and liabilities as well as contractual and processes. Management of these risks is centralised in Group commitments. For more information, see note 36. Treasury and largely involves the use of financial instruments. The goal is to actively manage financial risks in order to reduce any negative impacts on the Group’s results, competitive strength and financial flexibility. Group Treasury also supports the business areas in implementing financial policies and guidelines, and with training. Interest rate risk The risk that Saab’s net financial items will be negatively affec• Interest rate futures and swaps to achieve the desired interest ted by changes in interest rate levels. Saab is exposed when the rate duration. market value of certain items in the statement of financial • Interest rate and foreign currency risk from foreign currency ­position is affected by changes in underlying interest rates. The ­f unding is managed with currency swaps (internal) or cross item with the largest exposure is pension obligations. Saab has ­currency basis swaps (external). both interest-bearing assets and liabilities. Currency risk The risk that unfavourable exchange rates will negatively affect • Currency exposure in the order backlog (transaction exposure) is results or equity, e.g. when revenue and expenses are in hedged through netting and with currency derivatives (mainly ­currencies other than the functional currency (transaction ­forward exchange contracts), which means that changes in exposure), when translating foreign subsidiaries to SEK exchange rates do not affect the order backlog’s future results. ­(translation ­exposure) and when submitting fixed-price tenders • Foreign currency risk due to translation exposure is not hedged. in foreign currency. • Fixed-price tenders in foreign currency are managed in a ­tender portfolio. Refinancing risk The risk that Saab cannot replace maturing loans with either • Debt is managed by Group Treasury and loans are primarily raised new loans or its own funds, or that it becomes significantly by the Parent Company to ensure efficiency and risk control. more expensive. For more information, see note 30. • A revolving credit facility with eight banks (RCF). • A diversified loan maturity structure. Financial debt mainly consists of bonds issued under a Medium • Capital is tied up in the loan portfolio for an average of 24-60 Term Note programme. months. Counterparty risk Saab is exposed in its day-to-day operations to credit risks, • Accounts receivable are hedged to a limited extent through mainly in transactions with customers and financial ­letters of credit and in certain specific contracts through export ­i nstitutions. credit institutions. • All financial counterparties must have a long-term credit rating of Credit risk in accounts receivable is considered low, since no lower than Afrom Standard and Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s. the receivables are primarily from governments and public • ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties ­a uthorities. Financial credit risk consists of exposure to financial institutions through e.g. deposits, investments and outstanding derivatives. Reporting risk and The risk related to communication the financial information to • Saab’s units regularly report their financial position in accordance tax risk the capital market is that the reports do not provide a fair prewith the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). sentation of Saab’s actual financial position and results. Saab’s consolidated accounts, based on these reports, are ­prepared in accordance with IFRS and relevant parts of the Risks associated with transfer prices, but also new tax rules Annual Accounts Act. See more information in note 1. and guidelines and local tax laws in the countries where • Saab’s result is analysed by business area and group functions Saab operates. before publication. • Saab has routines to ensure legal compliance, e.g. internal ­control, internal audit and external auditors. • The central unit Group Tax is responsible for policies, instructions and guidelines in the tax area, and monitors compliance with local tax laws and transfer price policies. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 51 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Risk Description Management Pension Post-employment benefits refer to defined-contribution and • For its defined-contribution pensions Saab pays fees to a sepa­obligations defined-benefit pensions. rate legal entity that assumes the obligations. • Defined-benefit pension obligations remain in the Group and are See more information in note 32. secured through Saab's pension foundation or insurance. • Obligations are compared annually to the foundation’s assets, and in the event of a deficit Saab reports this as a debt in the statement of financial position. Risk Description Management COMPLIANCE In its operations Saab is obligated to follow laws and regulaCompliance issues are integrated in the business strategy and RISKS tions and make conscious decisions about which global affect Saab’s strategic priorities. This work is guided by Saab’s ­standards Saab will live up to. Code of Conduct, which is adopted by the Board of Directors. • Policy of zero tolerance for bribes and corruption. Saab does business around the world and has relationships • Training in Saab’s Code of Conduct. with customers and other stakeholders on every continent. • Strict scrutiny of marketing consultants and business partners. Ethical values, transparent relationships and compliance are • Whistleblower system. critical for Saab. The trust of the public and the political system, • Supplier Code of Conduct. together with employee pride, is critical to Saab’s long-term • Information and IT security strategy and security classification. profitability and survival. • Internal training on information management for all employees. Saab’s operations are also affected by approvals, licenses, • Systematic environmental work to reduce environmental impacts. patents and other intellectual property. • Occupational health and safety policy. • Participation in the UN’s Global Compact. Learn more about Saab’s sustainability work and key perfor• ISO 9001 and 14001 certified. mance indicators on pages 54–70. • Saab’s internal ethics and compliance function. • Internal Control and Internal Audit. Ultra-Lightweight Camouflage Barracuda Signature Protection 52 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Gripen E SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 53 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Sustainability report Saab was founded 80 years ago at a turbulent time in the world when Sweden had to better protect its borders. Since then, Saab has developed into an international partner that contributes to increased security and defence capabilities in Sweden and other countries. This is the foundation of our sustainability commitment. Gotland class ABOUT SAAB’S SUSTAINABILITY prises all of the Group's operations for the Since 2006, Saab reports carbon emisREPORT financial year 2019, unless indicated othsions to the Carbon Disclosure Project Saab’s sustainability report contains erwise. Saab also reports sustainability (CDP). For more information on CDP and information on the company’s developdata in accordance with the Global Saab’s complete report, ment and impact in the areas of anti-corReporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN Global see www.cdp.net. ruption, the environment, employees, Compact. The GRI Index with cross referhuman rights and society. The report ences to the UN Global Compact can be describes work practices, goals, results, found at www.saabgroup.com/responsiperformance indicators and material susbility. The information about Saab’s cartainability risks for each area. The sustainbon dioxide emissions has been subject ability report is prepared in accordance to a limited assurance and the assurance with the Annual Accounts Act and comstatement can be found on page 144. 54 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Priority sustainability aspects Saab serves governments, public authorities and companies around the world with solutions for military defence, aerospace and civil security. We continuously develop, adapt and improve new technology to meet changing customer needs and create value in line with our vision to keep society and people safe. Sustainability is integrated in every part of Saab’s strategy and lays the foundation for the company’s long-term development and growth. Saab’s priority sustainability aspects can be summarised in three commitments: security and defence capability, leading compliance programs, and responsibility for people and the environment across the value chain (see illustration below). Defence and Industrial cooperation security capability Product safety Research & Development Leading compliance Anti-corruption Saab’s programs sustainability Export compliance commitment Information security Responsibility for people Diversity and environment Environment Health and safety Saab contributes through its operations to most of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The goals that Saab has the biggest opportunity to influence and which have a connection to the business strategy are Goals 4, 5, 9, 13 and 16. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 55 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Goals and results Saab’s sustainability priorities can be sumreport Saab reports its priority sustainability of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development marised with three main commitments: aspects based on the Annual Accounts Goals, but has chosen to prioritise five of security and defence capability, leading Act’s five areas for sustainability. The issues them that are closely tied to Saab’s business compliance programs and responsibility for are integrated in the business strategy and strategy. people and the environment (see illustration business plan and contribute to Saab’s straon previous page). In this sustainability tegic priorities. Saab contributes to several ANTI-CORRUPTION Priority Long-term goal Results 2019 Connection to Connection to sustainability issue strategic priority the UN’s SDGs1) Zero tolerance for Saab’s anti-corruption proSee pages 58-59. Market Target 16.5: Reduce corcorruption gram will be among the ruption and bribery. best in the industry. All employees will understand the importance of and promote openness and integrity. ENVIRONMENT Priority Long-term goal Results 2019 Connection to Connection to sustainability issue strategic priority the UN’s SDGs1) Reduce climate impact Reduce Saab’s GHG emis4.8% increase (due to temPerformance Goal 13: Climate action. sions by 33% by 2030 (relaporarily increased test ted to 2017). flight activities). Phase out hazardous subHexavalent chromium will See page 60. Portfolio stances not be used in new designs after 2025. Resource efficiency Reduce the number of cheAnalysis of current status Portfolio mical products in the areas and establishment of meaof adhesives and paints by surement method. Measu20% by 2025 (related to red as of 2020. 2018). EMPLOYEES Priority Long-term goal Results 2019 Connection to Connection to sustainability issue strategic priority the UN’s SDGs1) Health and safety Higher propensity to report 3.2 reported incidents per Performance incidents with the goal of workplace injury. 10 reported incidents per workplace injury. (Increased incidence reporting leads to fewer accidents.) Gender equality and At least 25% of employees 23% of employees and 25% Innovation Goal 5: Gender equality diversity and 30% of managers will of managers were women. be women by 2025. Personal development 100% of employees will Measured as of 2020 due to Performance meet annually with their new process and system manager to discuss goals, replacement. personal development and performance. HUMAN RIGHTS Priority Long-term goal Results 2019 Connection to Connection to sustainability issue strategic priority the UN’s SDGs1) Export compliance Saab will continuously See page 64. Market Target 16.4: Reduce illicit develop rules and procesarms flows. ses to remain a leader in export control. Responsible supplier relaSaab will continuously colSee page 64. Performance tionships laborate with suppliers on social and environmental responsibility. 56 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T SOCIETY Priority Long-term goal Results 2019 Connection to Connection to sustainability issue strategic priority the UN’s SDGs1) Information security Integrate information secu35% Performance rity in all central processes. Product safety The safety level in Saab’s See page 66 Performance systems and products will meet relevant laws, regulations, international standards and best practices. Innovation and spreading Saab will annually have at 45 PhD candidates Innovation Target 9.5: Encourage innoknowledge least 30 PhD candidates. vation and substantially increase the number of research and development workers. Promote education and an Increase partnerships with See page 66 Innovation Target 4.4: Increase the interest in technology primary and secondary number of youth and adults schools in communities with relevant skills incluwhere Saab is active. ding technical and vocational skills, for employment. 1) Saab contributes to several of the UN’s SDG’s. Shown here are only the connections to the five goals Saab has prioritised. Goal 4. Quality education Saab focuses in particular on target 4.4, to increase the number of youth and adults with relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment. Saab contributes to the goal through its commitment to promote education and an interest in technology. Goal 5. Gender equality Saab focuses in particular on target 5.5 to ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making. Saab contributes to the goal by working Based on its priority sustainabiactively to increase the number of female leaders at Saab. lity issues and opportunities to make a difference, Saab has Goal 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure chosen to focus on five of the Saab focuses in particular on target 9.5 to encourage innovation and UN’s Sustainable Development substantially increase the number of research and development workGoals. They are also connected ers. Saab contributes to the goal through university partnerships, to Saab’s strategic priorities as industrial and innovation collaborations, and technology transfers. indicated in the sustainability strategy above. Goal 13. Climate action Saab contributes to the goal by developing sustainable innovations and systematically reducing carbon emissions from its own operations. Goal 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions Saab focuses in particular on target 16.4 to fight illicit arms flows and target 16.5 to fight corruption and bribery. Saab contributes by complying with export controls that apply to its products and working systematically to prevent corruption. Saab is also of the opinion that democracy and social welfare cannot be achieved without security, which Saab’s products contribute to. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 57 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Anti-corruption Corruption has negative consequences for GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY The system is administered by an external society and business and is something Saab’s rules on gifts and hospitality provide party and allows for anonymous reporting Saab will never accept. clear guidance and set requirements of online and by phone. approval depending on the value of the beneWe are guided by our fundamental values, the fit. A tool is in place to document and identify EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES IN 2019 Code of Conduct, laws, industry codes of conred flags. Saab also has rules on sponsorships • Updated the training strategy. duct and clearly defined internal processes to that require all commitments with government • Improved Saab’s website with respect to prevent corruption risks. Prior to each deal, agencies to be approved according to special anti-corruption work. Saab requires a corruption risk analysis. procedures. • Established annual certification of Code of Conduct and complementary rules for the SCRUTINY OF BUSINESS PARTNERS TRAINING Group’s senior managers. Hiring external parties in the selling process is In addition to Code of Conduct training for all • Completed three policy audits in Australia, sometimes important to better understand employees, Saab has separate web-based India and Czech Republic. how a market works, but can also mean anti-corruption training. Employees in high• Updated rules on gifts and hospitality. greater exposure to corruption risks. Saab risk areas, such as marketing and sales, industherefore applies a process in which cooperatrial cooperations and project management, PLANNED ACTIVITIES IN 2020 tions with marketing consultants are managed also receive in-depth classroom training cov• Digitise the third party process. by a central function that evaluates the conering among other things general risk aware• Launch a corruption risk tool for Enterprise sultant, estimates compensation and negotiness, internal processes and the company’s Risk Management. ates the contract. Saab’s marketing consulttools for corruption risk management. Every • Initiate an update of training for positions with ants also have to undergo special training and three years, the Board of Directors receives a high exposure to corruption. pledge to abide by ethical values and guidemore extensive anti-corruption training. In • Perform policy audits in at least four counlines. In addition, Saab has a process for other 2019, Saab updated its strategy for anti-cortries. business relationships associated with a high ruption training to accommodate future corruption risk, e.g. industrial cooperations updates of digital HR and training systems. and joint ventures. Saab’s internal auditors conduct reviews WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM each year of a number of randomly selected Employees who become aware of or suspect contractual relations to verify compliance with non-compliance with laws or Saab’s Code of the process and ensure that the counterparty Conduct are expected to report it through is acting in line with Saab’s values and conSaab’s whistleblower system, which completractual terms. ments traditional line reporting. Performance indicators 2018 2019 Goal Number of extended anti116 125 corruption training sessions since 2011 Number of marketing con5 5 5 sultants audited during the year PRIMARY RISKS: PRIMARY POLICY DOCUMENTS: • Non-compliance can have a negative • Code of Conduct impact on social development in the • Supplier Code of Conduct countries where Saab is active and • Managing Business Partners result in loss of confidence in Saab and • Gifts and hospitality the values the company stands for. • Sponsorships and social engagement 58 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T 2006 Process introduced to recruit and manage marketing consultants 2019 Annual certification of 2008 Code of Conduct for Consolidated senior executives introduced Code of Conduct 2018 2009 Internal Ethics and CompliIntroduction of ance portal created whistleblower system Corruption risk management process for business partners established 2010 Establishment of a central function to manage the recruitment process for 2017 External reconciliation of remuneramarketing consultants tion model for marketing consultants Formation of Guidelines for whistleblower Ethics and Compliance Board investigations introduced 2011 2016 Instruction for corruption risk Update of management established Code of Conduct Update of Code of Conduct 2015 Supplier Code of Conduct introduced 2012 Chief Compliance Officer appointed 2014 Reporting structure for External whistleblower system Audit Committee launched established 2013 Audit programme for marketing Customised web-based consultants started anti-corruption training launched Giraffe AMB S AA B Å R S O C H H Å L L B A R H E T S R E D O V I S N I N G 2 019 59 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Environment To stay competitive in the future and contriSaab reports carbon dioxide emissions to EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES IN 2019 bute to a sustainable society, Saab is worthe global reporting framework CDP. We are • Launched new environmental strategy. king actively to reduce its environmental proud that in 2019 we received the rating A• More than doubled the number of solar panimpact, both from its own operations and for our work. For information on CDP and els on Saab’s facility in Göteborg. its products. Saab’s complete report, see www.cdp.net. • Saab’s solar power facility in South Africa , together with other energy improvements, Saab’s environmental strategy is focused on PHASE OUT HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES contributed to a 20% reduction in carbon reducing its climate impact, phasing out hazSaab works strategically to phase out hazdioxide emissions (corresponding to 1,140 ardous substances and using the resources ardous substances that affect health and tonnes). more efficiently. Environmental aspects and the environment. Extensive requirements • Conducted travel habit surveys and anarequirements are reflected in Saab’s global are imposed by law and demanded by cuslysed possible targeted measures to reduce management system and integrated in every tomers. Saab actively participates in global emissions from business and commuter level of the product lifecycle, from product collaborations such as the International Aertravel. development to disposal. ospace Environmental Group (IAEG) to iden• Completed a thesis on water consumption tify alternatives to chemical products, mateefficiencies. REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACT rials and surface treatment processes. • Actively participated in international In 2017, Saab set a goal to reduce greenOne example of progress during the year research projects to develop alternatives to house gas emissions by at least 33 per cent was that Saab qualified and introduced paint hazardous substances. by 2030. The goal was set to contribute to systems that do not contain hexavalent chro• Implemented IT support for monitoring the Paris Agreement. In 2019, Saab saw a mium for painting commercial aircraft parts goals, climate statistics and travel analysis. temporary increase in emissions, which was and missile applications. In addition, we con• Launched internal climate fund. due to increased test flight activities, primartinued to implement chromium-free surface • Took measures to optimise operations at the ily for the Airborne Early Warning & Control treatment systems. treatment and ventilation facilities in aircraft. Due to the high safety and technical perLinköping as well as lighting, resulting in Climate aspects are an important considformance standards in the aviation and energy savings of approximately 3,520 eration in Saab’s long-term business strategy, defence fields, not all hazardous substances MWh/year. since future climate change and requirements and materials can be replaced at present. • Conducted nightly surveillance of a number could affect our operations. During the year, of Saab’s offices and production facilities to Saab therefore launched an internal analysis RESOURCE EFFICIENCY identify energy thieves. of financial risks and opportunities associated Saab’s products are designed for long operat• Began work on moving the runway at with climate change. The work is based on the ing lives. By utilising resources efficiently in Linköping Airport to reduce noise levels over guidelines of the Taskforce on Climate-related the entire lifecycle, we create products with the city. Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and will continue less environmental impact and lower lifecy• Opened another treatment plant at Saab in in 2020. cle costs, which is typical for Saab’s prodKarlskrona for process wastewater from To reduce emissions from its own operaucts. One example is Gripen, which besides rinsing and hydroblasting ship parts. tions, Saab is also improving energy efficiency an optimised design with light materials and • Contributed to an update of the European in its properties, in addition to installing solar low fuel consumption, has a unique mainteSustainable Aviation Roadmap for the Europanels where possible. nance concept that extends its operating pean aerospace industry. The large share of Saab’s carbon emislife. sions comes from business travel. Because of Saab conducted a study during the year on PLANNED ACTIVITIES IN 2020 this, we try in various ways to travel more effiwater consumption in its operations. This • Continue to implement the new environmental ciently and encourage the use of web conferresulted in suggestions to reduce consumpstrategy globally. encing. To identify measures with the best tion, save energy and cut costs. • Continue to analyse financial risks and opporeffect in terms of emissions and cost savings, Saab’s broad product portfolio contains tunities associated with climate change based Saab conducted travel habit surveys in a large products and services that contribute to a on TCFD’s guidelines. part of its Swedish operations, partly with the lower environmental impact, e.g. its traffic • Promote the climate fund. help of the so-called CERO model. management system, which increases effi• Work with energy efficiency with a focus on the In Sweden, train travel increased 12 per ciency, thereby reducing fuel consumption. facilities where the potential for improvement is cent at the same time that air travel decreased The company also participates in several highest. slightly during the year. research and development collaborations to • Continue to identify and substitute hazardous During the year, Saab started a climate create sustainable solutions for the future. For substances in products, production and mainfund to contribute to reduced climate impact. example, Saab is one of the main suppliers to tenance. For each airline trip booked, Saab donates to Clean Sky, Europe’s largest research program • Conduct studies on resource efficiency in the fund. The idea is that the money will be dedicated to reducing aircraft emissions. For areas such as materials and waste. used to develop sustainable innovations. This more examples, see page 30 and www.saab• Ramp up a new treatment plant at Saab in Karlcould range from improving an existing prodgroup.com. skrona for spillwater from the docks and for the uct to completely new product ideas. The water used to clean the docks before towing. money can also be used to contribute to the development of fossil-free alternatives. 60 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T GHG emissions by source GHG emissions relative to Saab's climate target 2030 Tonnes CO2e 80,000 Forecast between 2020–2030 O  wn furnaces, turbines and chemical 70,000 processes (scope 1.1) 69,928 60,000 C  ompany owned or controlled vehicles tonnes CO2 and airplanes (scope 1.2) 50,000 O  ccasional emissions, e.g. through 40,000 accidents (scope 1.3) Heat, steam and cold (scope 2.1) 30,000 Electricity (scope 2.2) 20,000 Goods transportation (scope 3.1) Own furnaces, turbines and chemical processes Business trips (scope 3.2) (scope 1.1), 2.8% 10,000 Business trips Car, train (scope 3.2)  ompany owned or controlled vehicles and airplanes C 0 Climate target * (scope 1.2), 20.9% 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 O ccasional emissions, e.g. through accidents (scope 1.3), 0.5% * The values for GHG emissions for 2017 and 2018 were adjusted during Heat, steam and cold (scope 2.1), 12.4% the year. This was because more detailed data were collected and the Electricity (scope 2.2), 15.4% analysis methods were improved. Goods transportation (scope 3.1), 6.9% Business trips Air (scope 3.2), 35.8% Business trips Car, train (scope 3.2), 5.2% Major changes in emissions in 2019 compared to 2018 Tonnes COe District heating Tannefors PwC has provided limited assurance on Saab's emissions of greenhouse gases Electricity South Africa as presented in the diagrams on page 61. The assurance statement is on page 144. Goods transports Gripen flight tests Special Flight Operations Corporate Shuttle AEW flight tests* -1500 -1000 -500 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 * Saab had during the year a period with increased test flights for the Airborn Early Warning (AEW) aircraft. The test flight activities are cyclical and will decrease during the coming years. PRIMARY RISKS: • That Saab fails to reduce greenhouse gas emissions • That Saab fails to develop acceptable alternatives to existing hazardous substances • Extreme weather conditions that affect the supply chain, our own operations PRIMARY POLICY DOCUMENTS: and customers • Environmental policy • Unknown, historical contamination of • Code of Conduct land and water • Supplier Code of Conduct S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 61 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Employees To be even more competitive in the future, An annual trainee program, offers of summer share of female managers in ten years, Saab has to stay on the forefront of technojobs and master’s programmes, school visits, between 2007 and 2017. Saab has remained logy. Employees are the driving force that study visits and career fairs are a few examfocused on gender equality and has now will take this work forward. ples. raised the target. Each business area’s manSaab is also working long-term to promote agement team has an ambassador for gender For every employee to have a chance of maxeducation and an interest in technology equality, diversity and inclusion, who moves imising their potential requires competent and among young students in order to broaden its the work forward and is responsible for develengaged leaders. The ambition is to continue future recruiting base and at the same time oping business area’s action plan. The ambasto develop even more business-oriented and take social responsibility. Learn more about sadors, together with representatives from performance-driven leadership, where innoSaab’s social engagement on page 66. HR, form a work group for gender equality, vation, internationalisation and diversity are diversity and inclusion. Their work is overseen important elements. HEALTH AND SAFETY by Group Management. A prerequisite for high performance is that Saab in South Africa has started several DEVELOP AND RETAIN Saab offers a safe, secure and healthy workprojects aimed at people who are having diffiEvery employee should clearly understand the place from a physical, organisational and culty entering the job market due to apartheid. expectations placed on them. A perforsocial perspective. Saab has an occupational As part of a skills programme, Saab has hired mance-driven culture contributes to engagehealth and safety policy that has been transdisabled youth, who receive training and menment and opportunities for every employee to lated to several languages. During the year, torship so that they can fully contribute to the reach their potential. It is important therefore Saab implemented a global process to supbusiness. The company also provides annual that employees and their managers have port proactive occupational health and safety training for a number of unemployed youth on ongoing, meaningful discussions about management. the so-called ICP standards, a sought-after expectations and the goals that have to be The purpose of the updated process is to skill in the manufacturing sector. The projects met, and that feedback is given on a regular involve employees in risk analyses as well as align with the South African government’s basis. reporting and investigating workplace injuries action plan to overcome social and economic Saab measures employee engagement and incidents. Managers and employees both imbalances created by apartheid, Broad through pulse surveys, the results of which have to understand the factors that affect Based Black Economic Empowerment serve as a basis for dialog and development occupational health and safety. Training and (BBBEE). between leaders and their employees. communication material are continuously Saab offers various forms of skills and updated to increase awareness. leadership development. This includes trainOccupational health and safety is built into ing, some of which is mandatory for all the business processes early on to address employees, and elearning, which is flexible the risks that can be associated with assignand cost-efficient. We also promote learning ments in high-risk environments. An important in the form of networks and mentorships and obligation as an employer is to ensure that by encouraging employees to take on new employees are prepared and well-equipped challenges. for travel and foreign assignments. Saab To identify young talents, Saab uses a therefore has extensive routines and training well-established talent process where individprior to travel. uals receive training before rising to a leadership position. Employees identified as top talDIVERSITY ents are given special development plans to Saab is an inclusive workplace where diversity PRIMARY RISKS: gain a more in-depth understanding of the and gender equality are a given. We at Saab • That Saab fails to attract and retain the company. The Saab Graduate Leadership Prohave a firm belief, which is supported by right talents gramme is available for recent graduates and research, that the different perspectives diver• That Saab fails to promote diversity those starting out in their careers. sity brings to an organisation are a source of and inclusiveness, affecting an imporSaab has long-term collaborations with a innovation. Having equal treatment and tant source of innovation number of institutes of technology and univernon-discrimination as a principle is also in line • That employees do not maintain a sities, mainly in Sweden but also abroad, to with human rights. All those who work with work-life balance jointly ensure that they are teaching the right recruitment receive training in diversity issues, • That employee health is affected by skills for the future. We encourage our employand diversity is a parameter in leadership trainorganisational, social and physical risks ees to research and work toward a PhD by ing and the global recruitment process. The in the workspace doing basic research. Saab’s specialists and company has a number of networks for adjunct professors guest lecture at schools to women and a network for diversity in a broader share their knowledge. sense. An overwhelming majority of Saab’s PRIMARY POLICY DOCUMENTS: ATTRACT EMPLOYEES employees are men. Saab has therefore • Code of Conduct To remain competitive, Saab has to continue focused for several years on increasing the • Occupational health and safety policy to attract the right talent. The company is share of women in management positions. • Travel security policy working to position itself as an attractive Through systematic and consistent efforts, • Diversity policy employer among students and professionals. the company has succeeded in doubling the 62 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Performance indicators – Develop 2018 2019 Goal EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES IN 2019 Number of training sessions completed by employ60,287 75,825 • Launched new HR strategy ees during the year (only training booked through • Implemented new uniform system support Saab’s internal training portal) with standardised HR processes for recruitShare of employees who respond in the employee 76% 78,1% 80% ing, performance reviews, talent identification, survey they are engaged in their work skills training and handling personal data. Share of employees who have discussed their persoMeasured Measured 100% • Launched a new approach to performance nal goals, development and performance with their globally globally reviews in the form of purposeful dialog, partly manager from 2019 from 2020 to give employees a better understanding of Employee turnover (Sweden) 7,5% 10% what is expected and partly to improve the feedback culture. Performance indicators – Attract • Improved the introduction for new employees 2018 2019 Goal through a more digitised flow. • Implemented a way to work with strategic talNumber of master’s degree candidates (Sweden) 227 232 At least 150 ent and resource planning. • Implemented a new strategy to attract the Number of summer jobs (Sweden) 423 380 right future talents. Rank in Universum’s survey of Swedish engineering 6 9 • Began certification of the ISO 45001 occupastudents’ favourite places to work (Sweden) tional health and safety system. • Continued the implementation of the global Performance indicators – Health and safety occupational health and safety process.. 2018 2019 Goal Number of reported incidents per workplace injury (a 5 3.2* 10 PLANNED ACTIVITIES IN 2020 higher propensity to report incidents reduces the • Implement a new learning platform. risk of workplace injuries) • Implement new digital support for employees, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (Sweden) 1.72 1.09 including shared support for all HR issues. Number of reported workplace injuries 183 325* • Continue the work with strategic talent and resource planning. Health index (percentage of employees who have 73.4% 74.5% taken less than 40 hours of sick leave in a year) • Create opportunities for Saab’s managers to (Sweden) receive more time to develop and exercise Sick leave (Sweden) 3.15% 3.09% their leadership. • Continue the implementation of a new stratSick leave, women (Sweden) 4.75% 4.59% egy to attract the right future talents. Sick leave, men (Sweden) 2.68% 2.64% • Continue the implementation of the ISO Number of employees who completed Saab’s travel Step 1: 472 Step 1: 693 45001 occupational health and safety mansecurity training steps 1 and 2 as well as first aid Step 2: 146 Step 2: 221 agement system. training (L-ABC) since 2016 L-ABC: 167 L-ABC: 701 • Continue the implementation of the global *Saab’s global reporting process is being implemented. The change is largely due to an improved reporting occupational health and safety process. routine globally. Performance indicators – Diversity 25% 2018 2019 Goal Share of women in Group Management 31% 33% Share of women on the Board of Directors (AGM 44 % 40% elected) Share of female summer workers (Sweden) 38% 40% Share of female Share of female master’s degree candidates (Sweden) 27% 35% managers globally Share of women in the Saab skills programme (South 43% 40% 23% Africa) Share of employees outside Sweden 18% 17% Average age of Saab’s employees 45 years 45 years Saab’s grade in B-BBEE (Broad Based Black Econo4 4 mic Empowerment), a South African programme to assist the previously disadvantaged groups Share of female Share of female managers globally 25% 25% 30% employees globally Share of female employees globally 23% 23% 25% Share of female managers in Sweden 28% 28% 35% Share of female employees in Sweden 23% 23% 30% S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 63 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Human rights As a responsible company in a global marthings human rights to evaluate new business so-called conflict minerals. The Supplier Code ket, it is clear that Saab must respect basic opportunities. Saab makes a comprehensive of Conduct includes a special section on conhuman rights and not cause or contribute assessment in which several factors are conflict minerals and Saab also has a policy and to adverse impacts on human rights. sidered. rules on them. The company’s stance is that international Saab has pledged to apply the UN Global trade can be a way to promote countries’ EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES IN 2019 Compact’s ten principles and integrated them development. • Held a seminar for employees in procurein its Code of Conduct. Through procurement Saab has Group-wide policies and tools to ment to improve awareness and underprocesses and in contacts with partners, we facilitate compliance with the export controls standing of how responsibility in the supply spread awareness of the UN Global Compact that apply to its products and operations. The chain creates sustainable communities and and in this way promote the values Saab Head of Export Control is responsible for the is good business for Saab. stands for. Saab has an impact on human company’s overarching policy, directives and • Began third party audits of suppliers’ work rights through its work in a number of areas, governing documents as well as for providing from a sustainability perspective. ranging from diversity and occupational health advice on operational issues and monitoring • Formed internal business area and and safety to anti-corruption and export concompliance. In addition, each business area cross-functional teams on sustainability in trol. The work with human rights is a continuhas its own export control organisation to the supply chain. ous process that develops over time. manage the work at an operational level. To • Launched an e-learning on modern slavery In accordance with UN's guiding principles encourage collaboration and prioritise needs, and updated the Supplier Code of Conduct for business and human rights Saab has idenSaab has an export control council with reprewith a section on modern slavery. tified the most important human rights issues sentatives from the business areas. • Joined the Swedish Network for Business connected to the company’s operations: Saab regularly updates its processes to and Human Rights. compliance with export regulations (right to improve the work. Continuous internal training • Participated in Amnesty International’s surlife, freedom and personal safety) and responon export controls is provided to employees vey on human rights and exports in the sible supplier relationships (right to fair workwho come into contact with controlled proddefence industry. ing conditions). ucts or technologies. A new web-based introductory training is scheduled to be available PLANNED ACTIVITIES IN 2020 COMPLIANCE WITH EXPORT for Saab’s employees in the first quarter 2020. • Conduct third party audits of suppliers to REGULATIONS For export control officers and other key evaluate compliance with Saab’s Supplier At the same time that defence materiel conemployees, a biennial conference is held to Code of Conduct. tributes to upholding human rights, it can, if review various export controls and related • Create e-learning on sustainability in the supused incorrectly and contrary to international legal matters. We also work with other indusply chain for the procurement organisation. law, also lead to human rights violations. The tries through trade associations in Sweden, • Improve risk analyses of suppliers. export of defence materiel therefore repreEU and U.S. • Continue to integrate human rights in the sents a great responsibility and is subject to company’s processes. strict regulations. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS • Launch new introductory training on export The UN Charter establishes that every Saab’s view is that actively addressing social control. country has the right – and obligation – to proand environmental sustainability in the supply tect its citizens against acts of aggression. A chain is not only positive for people and the military defence is the ultimate expression of environment, but also promotes other values this. A domestic defence industry is an imporsuch as quality, a long-term outlook and profittant component in a country’s defence capaability. bilities, but requires sales and technological The large share of Saab’s purchases is collaborations with other countries for its from Sweden and involves components and long-term development. technologies connected with its systems, and The large part of Saab’s exports is from to a lesser extent operational and other serSweden, where the Inspectorate of strategic vices. The majority of suppliers are in Europe. products (ISP) determines on behalf of the This means that deliveries are usually from government which defence products Saab suppliers that operate in regions with stringent THE TYPE OF PRODUCT BEING may sell to which countries. Defence exports requirements and principles for social and EXPORTED IS FACTORED INTO require authorisation, which can be given if environmental sustainability. Regardless of EXPORT AUTHORISATION DECISIONS there are security and defence policy reasons where our suppliers operate, we have to be The licensing authority in Sweden for the export and if it is consistent with Swedobservant and have the competence to have divides the products into the following ish foreign policy interests. Export authorisaa constructive dialogue with a supplier if we categories: tions are granted on a case-by-case basis, feel that they are not living up to our require• Military equipment for combat, e.g. where ISP weighs a number of criteria in a ments and values. An important part of the weapons comprehensive assessment. ISP also takes work is to ensure that our suppliers place simi• Other military equipment, e.g. radar surinto account the type of product involved; see lar demands on their subcontractors. This veillance systems below. applies not least to Saab’s ambition to have • Dual use products, e.g. electronics and Saab also has its own internal processes to products free from minerals that are extracted computers weigh the risks associated with among other in a way that is not socially sustainable, 64 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Remote Tower PRIMARY RISKS: • Non-compliance with Saab’s Supplier Code of Conduct • That minerals and other raw materials Saab and its subcontractors use in their products are obtained from conflict zones First flight with Gripen E PRIMARY POLICY DOCUMENTS: • Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct • Conflict minerals policy • Occupational health and safety policy • Export control policy S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 65 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Society Saab’s sustainability commitment is rooted nates Swedish innovation activities in a sonal development tied to the equestrian in its mission to make people and society number of countries, such as Canada, Brazil environment. safe by contributing to security and defence and India, to increase collaboration between capabilities. With its high-tech businesses, Sweden and the partner countries. Activities INFORMATION SECURITY Saab also creates additional value for during the year included “innovation weeks” Saab manages information that is vitally imporsociety. on how to improve the effectiveness of tant to its customers and in many cases to countries’ innovation ecosystems, matchSweden’s and other nations’ security. In an Saab’s operations play an important role in making with start-ups, initiation of bilateral increasingly uncertain world with growing driving innovation and technological developproject alliances and benchmarking in varicybersecurity challenges, continuous and sysment in society. With employees in a large ous technological areas. tematic information and IT security is critical. number of locations, Saab creates jobs and Many potential customers want access We work continuously to improve global opportunities for collaboration and spreads to the technology and capabilities Saab can security management within the company, knowledge. Considering the products it sells, offer. At the same time, this gives Saab an a key element of which is risk management. Saab naturally takes responsibility for informaopportunity to participate early on in cusEvery employee and manager has to undertion and product security. tomer projects. For example, Saab is one of stand their role in the security work. the founders of the Swedish-Brazilian Saab continuously trains employees in INNOVATION AND SPREADING Research and Innovation Centre CISB in Brainformation security and has policies and KNOWLEDGE zil. The organisation has 17 members and processes in place for the work. To go from Saab’s advanced product development generover 100 partners. demand-driven to process-integrated secuates know-how, technological solutions and Some of Saab’s development projects rity, Saab established a goal in 2019 to introinnovations for the future. An important part of result in product ideas that fall outside the duce control points for information security in Saab’s innovative capabilities is how we collabcore business. These projects are managed all central processes. orate outside the company to gain access to by Saab Ventures, which together with outnew knowledge. Partnerships with universities side investors further develops the ideas PRODUCT SAFETY are one example that we have had for many and finds a natural home for them. See With a product portfolio containing everything years. Among other things, this gives Saab examples at www.saabgroup.com. from advanced aircraft systems to submaemployees the opportunity to research for a rines, it is imperative that Saab’s products are PhD, while researchers and students from the PROMOTE EDUCATION AND AN INTEREST safe to use and do not cause harm to people, schools can get involved in Saab’s work. In colIN TECHNOLOGY property or the environment. The safety level laboration with the universities, a number of Saab’s ambition is to contribute to social of Saab’s systems and products must meet adjunct professors have been appointed as development in the markets where we operate applicable laws, regulations, international well. with a focus on promoting education and an standards and best practices. Another initiative is designed to simplify interest in technology. This creates confiThe methodical safety analysis conpartnerships with start-ups. During the year, dence in Saab’s business and helps to ducted during product development is Saab completed a cross-functional internal develop skills that are beneficial to society as described in the System Safety Handbook project to clarify how such an initiative works well as to Saab. Social initiatives are mainly and included in Saab’s global enterprise and how processes and templates can be done with the help of the company’s employmanagement system. simplified to facilitate partnerships. Saab ees, since this provides valuable experience System safety engineers in Saab’s organalso completed five proof of concepts with for those who get involved. isation perform the analysis work in the provarious start-ups. To promote an interest in technology, jects and share knowledge on product When Saab signs large defence conSaab offers a number of activities for chilsafety through information and training. tracts, they usually contain more than just a dren and young adults from preschool product sale. Many countries also want upward. Everything from technology classes UNIVERSITIES SAAB MAINLY technology and skills transfers as well as for kids, technology contests, study visits PARTNERS WITH: various forms of industrial cooperation. and summer engineering school to a high • KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Through customised offerings, Saab has school program where students have close Stockholm contributed together with partners to sevcontact with Saab’s businesses. See more • The Institute of Technology at Linköping eral successful projects that affect the examples at www.saabgroup.com. University country's economy in a positive direction. Saab has taken this ability to think inno• Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden is seen by many countries as a vatively and create change and applied it to Göteborg leader in entrepreneurship and innovative equestrian sports by sponsoring a concept • The Swedish Defence University, thinking. Saab brings the way research and called Equestrian Innovations. With innovaStockholm development is done in Sweden to new martive thinking, Saab wants to play a part in • Lund University kets by building relationships with academia, helping the sport to develop. A number of • Aalto University, Finland businesses and the public sector. Together exciting collaborative projects create new • Nanyang Technology University, with several other large Swedish companies, knowledge and lead to greater innovation, at Singapore universities and Sweden’s Innovation the same time that they spark interest in an • Purdue University, West Lafayette agency, Vinnova, Saab has pushed to create engineering education among young eques• Imperial College, London innovation platforms in customer countries. trians. Saab gets young people involved • Cranfield University The initiative is led by Vinnova and coordithrough seminars on innovation and per66 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Collaboration in this area is important and Performance indicators affects not only the system safety engi2018 2019 Mål neers, but many others such as designers, Number of PhD candidates 54 PhD candidates 45 PhD candidates Saab will annually systems engineers, buyers and project (university collaborations have at least 30 leaders. and PhD candidates contriPhD candidates To guarantee the continued airworthibute to innovation capabilities) ness of its military and commercial aircraft, Saab has special processes for aviation and Number of participants in 570 600 youth seminars on innovasystem safety. As part of the processes, tion and personal developSaab monitors how the aircraft are used and ment in equestrian sports. analyses all reported incidents. Another area Participants in “Saab skills 106 71 with high product safety demands is the programme” (to promote submarine and surface vessels business. engineering skills and assist those who have previously been locked out of the job EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES IN 2019 market due to apart-heid) • Created process for collaborating with start(South Africa). ups and implemented five proof of concepts. Information security will be 35% Information secu• Launched innovation platform in customer integrated in all central prority will be integracountries. cesses. ted in all central processes. • Provided summer technology school, study visits, technology competitions, mentorship programmes for children and young people from primary to secondary school. • Introduced ISO 27001 information security management system in all Group functions. • Made the decision to introduce ISO 27001 information security management systems throughout the Group. Giraffe AMB PLANNED ACTIVITIES IN 2020 • Create a Group-level innovation lab in disruptive technologies to integrate them in our products. • Start an incubator to develop good ideas and create opportunities for them to become a reality. • Introduce ISO 27001 information security management system in all business areas. • Develop a Group-wide concept for social engagement. PRIMARY RISKS: • That information falls into the wrong hands due to mishandling or a break-in in Saab’s IT systems • Future shortage of engineers PRIMARY POLICY DOCUMENTS: • Product safety policy • Information security policy • Policy on sponsorships and social engagement • Code of Conduct S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 67 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Governance of sustainability work The Board of Directors is responsible for overworking group for gender equality and diversity. Decisions on social engagements and seeing the company’s strategic direction, The work is monitored by Group Management. sponsorships are made by the head of commuainwhich sustainability is an important part, Within the business areas occupational nications in the initiating unit. If the sponsorship to ensure long-term profitability. The Board health and safety work is led by the head of the entails a public or political organisation, the adopts the Group’s Code of Conduct and susbusiness area, who has ultimate responsibility. decision must be approved by the Ethics and tainability reports. The Strategy Board, which The head of the business area then delegates Compliance Board, which is comprised of is comprised of representatives from Saab’s duties within the business area. The HR funcmembers of Group Management. Group Management and is led by the Chief tion supports the work through a specially Strategy Officer, proposes priorities to Group appointed occupational health and safety POLICIES Management. Saab’s Corporate Responsicoordinator. A group function for occupational Saab’s sustainability work is managed through bility function coordinates sustainability work health and safety coordinates and develops established policy documents such as the within the Group. For each sustainability priority, the work by providing common processes and Code of Conduct, HR policy, environmental pola person is appointed to drive the process and support tools. icy, occupational health and safety policy, proreport each year on the goals and results. curement policy, diversity policy, business HUMAN RIGHTS travel policy and security policy. The Code of ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION Saab has identified compliance with export Conduct contains sections on business ethics, The Board of Directors is responsible, through regulations (right to life, freedom and personal information security, social responsibility, the the Audit Committee, for overseeing the Code safety) and responsible supplier relationships workplace, the environment etc. The Code is of Conduct and has ultimate responsibility for (right to fair working conditions) as its most available in Swedish, English, Portuguese, monitoring and evaluating business ethics. The important human rights risks. The company Spanish, German, Arabic and Czech. Saab also Ethics and Compliance Board leads and draws has Group-wide policies and tools to facilitate has a Supplier Code of Conduct based on the up guidelines for this work, makes decisions on compliance with the export controls that apply UN Global Compact’s ten principles and the ethical issues and follows up whistleblower to its products and operations. The Head of International Labour Organization’s core concases. It meets at least eight times a year and is Export Control is responsible for the compaventions. Saab does not have a separate policy led by Saab’s General Counsel, who reports to ny’s overarching policy, directives and governfor human rights, since these issues are covthe Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Other ing policy documents as well as for providing ered in the other policies. Group policies are important functions include Ethics and Compliadvice to the businesses on operational issues available to all employees on Saab’s global ance, which are responsible for monitoring, and monitoring compliance within the comenterprise system. Saab is certified according coordinating and developing corruption prepany. In addition, each business area has its to the ISO 14001 environmental management ventions and sharing expertise in this area, and own export control organisation to manage the system. Market Network Management, which oversees work at an operational level. To encourage colthe process of hiring marketing consultants laboration and prioritise needs, Saab also has COLLABORATIONS, INITIATIVES and other third parties. an Export Control Council with representatives AND MEMBERSHIPS from business areas. Saab has participated since 2011 in the REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Saab works continuously to find better ways UN Global Compact and has pledged to The business areas perform the environmental to minimise social risks in the supply chain. The follow its ten principles on human rights, work, which is ultimately the responsibility of Procurement Council, which is comprised of labour, the environment and anti-corrupthe head of the business area. Goals set at the Saab’s procurement managers, has overarchtion. As guidance in its sustainability Group level are broken down for each business ing responsibility. Strategies are developed by a work. Saab has chosen to participate in a area. Group Function Environmental ManageGroup procurement unit. The work at an operanumber of sustainability initiatives and ment develops strategies and targets in the tional level is coordinated and developed organisations. Examples include: area and coordinates environmental work through a work group made up of procurement • The business ethics committee of the within the Group to satisfy the requirements of representatives from each business area, who Aerospace and Defence Industries Saab’s stakeholders. The Group Environmental are led by the central procurement function. A Association of Europe (ASD) Council ensures that external and internal envicross-functional reference group is also availa• The steering committee of the Internaronmental requirements are embraced and met ble as support. tional Forum on Business Ethical Conwithin the business areas. Follow-up and evaluduct (IFBEC) ation of the work takes place once a year CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIETY • Environmental collaborations through through management’s review, and at audits at Saab’s ambition is to contribute to social develthe Swedish Security and Defence different levels within the company. opment in the markets where we operate with a Industry Association (SOFF) focus on promoting education and an interest • Environmental collaborations within EMPLOYEES in technology. This work is guided by Saab’s Europe through the Aerospace and Saab’s Head of Group Human Resources has vision and business idea and should, according Defence Industries Association in overarching responsibility for HR work within to the strategy for social engagement, mainly Europe (ASD) and globally through the the Group. This work is further developed in be done with the help of Saab’s employees and International Aerospace Environmental close collaboration with the HR functions within technologies and focus on encouraging young Group (IAEG) each business area and is led by the HR staff. To people to take an interest in technology and • Global Compact Network Nordic promote diversity, each business area’s maneducation. Countries agement team has a diversity ambassador who Sponsorships are a form of collaboration in • CDP drives the process forward and is responsible which Saab, in return for financial or other types • Global Reporting Initiative for the business area’s activity plan. of support, receives the right to use the collab• Green Chain The ambassadors from the business areas oration as a brand-building activity. together with representatives from HR form a 68 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Stakeholder dialog and materiality analysis Stakeholders’ expectations, together with examples of which are shown in the table tions are zero tolerance for corruption and Saab’s own strategic assessment, serve as below. Saab also participates in several colexport compliance. the basis for selecting priority aspects for laborations and organisations that provide Many also want to know more about how Saab’s sustainability work (see pages 56-57) valuable contributions to the work. The susSaab works with sustainable innovations. and, as a result, the contents of this report. tainability issues most stakeholders point to Each stakeholder group also has expectaSaab receives input from stakeholders as especially important for Saab’s operations on Saab based on their specific area of through a number of channels, several interest. Stakeholder group Primary forms of dialog Owners and investors • Separate meetings with investors on sustainability issues • Annual General Meeting • Sustainability surveys from investors and analysts • Continuous dialog with investors and analysts Employees • Continuous dialog on the job • Personal reviews • Employee surveys Students and potential employees • Labour market days and similar events • University collaborations • External surveys on what students expect from future employers Customers • Personal meetings, trade shows and conferences Society as a whole, including decision-makers • Participation in defence forums and debates, e.g. Almedalen and Folk and Försvar in Sälen and stakeholder organisations • Collaborations with public organisations and authorities, e.g. the EU and FN • Volunteer work and collaborations with non-profits Suppliers and partners • Continuous contact with suppliers and partners Saabs Medical care solutions Barracuda Mobile Camouflage System (MCS) 69 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Operations subject to licensing or notification requirements pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code LICENSED OPERATIONS IN THE PARENT COMPANY LICENSED OPERATIONS IN SUBSIDIARIES Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent The operations carried on by Saab Airport AB are subject to Company, Saab AB, in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municilicensing under the Environment Code and are covered by the pality of Linköping is subject to licensing pursuant to the Swedish permit issued by the Land and Enviromental Court that gained Environment Code due to aeronautics operations, surface treatlegal force early 2019 for Saab’s collective operations in the ment processes, manufacturing of composite materials, hanTannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping. This dling of chemical substances, the firing of large calibre weapons permit also covers the operations of Saab Dynamics AB in the and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental area, despite the fact that they are not subject to licensing and impact of these operations primarily arises from emissions of notification requirements under the Environment Code. volatile organic compounds (VOCS) and aircraft emissions into Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Bofors Test Center AB runs the atmosphere, emissions of metals into waterways, the generoperations in Karlskoga that are subject to licensing under the ation of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundEnvironment Code and Saab Barracuda AB runs licensed operaings. The operations subject to licensing requirements predomitions in Gamleby. In 2019, Saab Dynamics AB in Karlskoga was nantly entail manufacturing. A new permit for the Tannefors opergranted a new environmental license by the county admiistrative ations was issued by the Land and Environmental Court and board in Örebro. gained legal force early 2019. Saab Bofors Test Center AB also runs operations subject to In Järfälla, Saab AB has operations involving the manufacture licensing in the municipalities of Degerfors, Lindesberg, and Härof advanced command and control systems and electronic warjedalen. Applied Composites AB runs operations subject to fare systems, among other things, which are also subject to licensing in the municipalities of Linköping (Malmslätt). In addilicensing under the Environment Code. The licensing requiretion, Saab Kockums AB runs operations subject to licensing in ment is due to surface treatment processes and the size of the Karlskrona and on Muskö island, south of Stockholm. The envimanufacturing facilities. The environmental impact of these ronmental impact from subsidiaries that are subject to licensing operations primarily arises from metals into waterways. The requirements primarily consists of emissions of VOCs from National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted workshops, emissions from aircraft into the atmosphere, emisthe licence in 1990. sions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, of industrial wastes, storing and transfer of explosive goods, and Saab AB did not exceed any of the term of its permits or violate noise disturbing local surroundings. any injunctions in 2019. With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab’s subsidiaries did not exceed any of the term of its permits or violate any injunctions in 2019. OPERATIONS SUBJECT TO NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS Saab AB has operations in Arboga, Huskvarna, Ljungbyhed, Linköping (Malmslätt) and Nyköping which are subject to notification requirements pursuant to the Environment Code. The permit in Arboga was granted in 1993, but will expire and be replaced in 2020. The Group also has operations subject to notification requirements in the subsidiary Saab Dynamics AB in Motala municipality. There the permit is still in effect, however. Two other subsidiaries have operations subject to notification requirements: N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB in Kramfors municipality and Muskövarvet AB on the island of Muskö in Haninge municipality. The environmental impact of these operations is limited. 70 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 71 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Corporate governance report INTRODUCTION Largest shareholders, 31 December 2019 Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company and the Source: Modular Finance % of capital % of votes company’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Investor 30.2 40.4 Saab’s corporate governance is based on the Swedish Companies Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 8.8 7.8 Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm Rules for Första AP-fonden 6.4 5.6 Issuers, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and other relevant Swedbank Robur Fonder 3.7 3.3 Swedish and foreign laws, regulations and guidelines. AFA Insurance 3.1 2.7 Saab has a Code of Conduct containing ethical guidelines in a numVanguard 2.0 1.8 ber of areas on how the company and its employees are expected to Nordea Fonder 1.6 1.4 act in contacts with customers, business partners and in society as well Unionen 1.2 1.1 as their interaction with one another as colleagues. Saab’s Code of BlackRock 0.9 0.8 Conduct is a part of the governance of Saab. Amundi 0.8 0.7 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Since Saab's shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm and it must 2 NOMINATION COMMITTEE follow good practices in the securities market, Saab is also obligated to According to the Nomination Committee process adopted by the comply with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). Annual General Meeting 2011, which applies until further notice, Saab The Code is available at www.bolagsstyrning.se. shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of one representative of This Corporate Governance Report is prepared in accordance with each of the four shareholders or groups of shareholders with the greathe Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and describes how Saab apptest number of votes, along with the Chairman of the Board. The names lied the Code in the financial year 2019. Saab’s website, www. saabof the four shareholder representatives and the shareholders they repregroup.com, has a special section on corporate governance issues, sent shall be announced at least six months prior to the Annual General which is updated continuously in accordance with the Code. Meeting based on known votes as per the last business day of August in The Corporate Governance Report includes the Board of Directors’ the year before the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee report on internal control over financial reporting. process includes procedures, where necessary, to replace a member This Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the who leaves the committee before its work has been completed. company’s auditor. Saab did not deviate from the provisions of the According to the process, the Nomination Committee shall prepare Code in 2019. a proposal on the following issues to be presented to the Annual General Meeting for resolution: a) Chairman of the shareholders’ meeting 1 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING AND OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE b) Board of Directors The shareholders’ meeting is the highest decision-making body in a c) Chairman of the Board company. At the shareholders’ meeting, the shareholders have the oppd) Remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated between the ortunity to exercise their voting rights. Chairman and other members of the Board, and remuneration for The Annual General Meeting shall be held within six months of the committee work end of each financial year. Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting e) Election of auditor, (if applicable), and vote, for example, on resolutions relating to the annual report, dividend, f) Fees paid to the company's auditor. Board election, Board fees, auditor’s fees, adoption of remuneration guidelines for senior executives and, when applicable, election of the Prior to the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019, the Nomination external auditor and other matters stipulated in the Companies Act. Committee issued a proposal for resolution on the Chairman of the shaPreparations for and the execution of the AGM 2019 were carried out in reholders’ meeting, the Board of Directors, Board fees, auditor fee and accordance with the Code, and the AGM 2020 will also comply with the auditor. The Nomination Committee announced that it had applied rule provisions of the Code. The Annual General Meeting of Saab was held 4.1 of the Code as a diversity policy with respect to the Board. The goal on 11 April 2019 in Linköping and was attended by 597 shareholders, of the policy is that the Nomination Committee´s proposal shall lead to representing about 67 per cent of the total number of votes in the comthat Saab will have a board with an appropriate composition and with pany. This year the Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 April 2020 satisfactory diversity and breadth in terms of gender, competence, age, in Stockholm; for more information, see page 145. experience and background. On 31 December 2019, Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK Prior to the Annual General Meeting on 1 April 2020, it was announ2,173,533,552 and consisted of 2,383,903 Series A shares and ced in a press release on 25 September 2019 that, in addition to Chair133,461,944 Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, man of the Board Marcus Wallenberg, the following shareholder reprewhile Series B shares have one vote each. A Series A share may, on sentatives had been appointed to the Nomination Committee demand of the owner, be converted to a Series B share. The Saab sha(shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra Hedengran (Investor AB), res are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The quota value per share Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation), Olof is SEK 16. The Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Large Jonasson (Första AP-fonden) and Jan Andersson (Swedbank Robur Cap list. The Series A shares are not listed. All Series A shares are Fonder. In late November 2019, the composition of the Nomination owned by Investor AB. Committee was changed when Ossian Ekdahl from Första AP-fonden The Board of Directors has an authorisation from the shareholders’ replaced Olof Jonasson from Första AP-fonden. Petra Hedengran is meeting to repurchase shares; see page 85. As of 31 December 2019, Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Saab held 2,919,484 of its own Series B shares, corresponding to 2.15 The Nomination Committee members represent in the aggreper cent of the share capital. For more information on the ownership gate approximately 57 per cent of the votes in Saab based on the structure, see page 36. ownership structure as of 31 August 2019. 72 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING 2 Nomination Committee 1 Shareholders’ meeting 7 External auditor Representatives of each of the four shareholPricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Re-elected ders or groups of shareholders with Eval 2019 for the period 2019 until the Annual the greatest number of votes, along with General Meeting 2021. Auditor in charge ua t io the Chairman of the Board. Bo Hjalmarsson. n 5 Remuneration Committee 3 Board of Directors 4 Audit Committee 6 President and CEO Internal boards Group Management 8 Internal Audit • Functional Board • Strategy Board • Ethics and Compliance Board • Security Board Business Areas Group Functions • Aeronautics • Finance • Dynamics • Human Resources Internal Boards handle and resolve issues within their respective areas that affect the entire Group • Surveillance • Communication and prepare certain issues for decision by the • Support and Services • Legal affairs Group Management. Ethics and Compliance Board • Industrial Products and Services • Strategy also reports to the Audit Committee • Kockums • Market and Sales Reports Appoints All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standardised routine. The proposals of the Nomination Committee for resolution at the Annual stepped down as President and CEO of Saab on 22 October 2019. General Meeting 2020 were announced in connection with the notice of The current composition of the Board is the result of the Nomination the Annual General Meeting 2020. Committee's work prior to the Annual General Meeting 2019 applying the diversity policy. The members of the Board of Directors of Saab Members of the Nomination Committee for Annual General represent a diversity and breadth in terms of gender, competence, age, Meeting 2020 experience and background. In the aggregate, the Board combines the competence and experience that are important to Saab’s operations % of votes, % of votes, Member Representing 31 Aug 2019 31 Aug 2019 and that the Nomination Committee deems are needed to meet Saab’s Petra Hedengran Investor AB 39.69 30.16 future challenges and needs. Of the Board members elected by the Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut and Alice shareholders’ meeting, and not employed by the company, 40 per cent Wallenberg Founare women. dation 7.62 8.83 At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual General Meeting, Sten Jakobsson was elected Deputy Chairman of the Board. During the Ossian Ekdahl Första AP-fonden 5.53 6.40 period 1 January-22 October 2019, only CEO Håkan Buskhe was Jan Andersson Swedbank Robur Fonder 4.54 5.25 employed by the company and at the same time a member of the Marcus Wallenberg Chairman of the Board. Board of Saab AB Information on remuneration to the members of the Board as resolved by the AGM 2019 is set forth in note 8. 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members of the Board elected by the shareholders’ meeting Composition of the Board Regulars According to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall, Marcus Wallenberg Sara Mazur Cecilia Stegö Chilò in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least six and Håkan Buskhe* Johan Menckel Erika Söderberg Johnson Sten Jakobsson Daniel Nodhäll Joakim Westh not more than twelve members. Board members are elected annually by Danica Kragic Jensfelt Bert Nordberg the shareholders’ meeting. According to the resolution of the Annual * resigned on 22 October 2019 General Meeting on 11 April 2019, Saab’s Board of Directors shall consist of eleven members elected by the shareholders’ meeting with no Employee representatives deputies. In addition, employee organisations appoint three Board memRegulars Deputies bers with an equal number of deputies. Stefan Andersson Conny Holm Göran Gustavsson Magnus Gustafsson At the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019, Håkan Buskhe, Nils Lindskog Tina Mikkelsen Sten Jakobsson, Danica Kragic Jensfelt, Sara Mazur, Daniel Nodhäll, Bert Nordberg, Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Erika Söderberg Johnson, Marcus The Board members’ other significant professional commitments, work Wallenberg and Joakim Westh were re-elected. Johan Menckel was experience, shareholdings etc. are set forth in the presentation of the elected as a new Board member. Marcus Wallenberg was elected ChairBoard of Directors on pages 78-79. man of the Board. Håkan Buskhe later resigned from the Board when he SAA B A N N UA L A N D SU STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 73 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Independence requirement issues, management of significant risk areas, and acquisitions and The table below sets forth the Board members elected by the shareholdivestments. The Board’s annual work includes deciding on the ders’ meeting who, according to the provisions of the Code, are consicompany’s business plan and strategy, which in 2019 were addressed dered independent in relation to the company and its management, as in December. The Board meeting in December considers the well as in relation to the company’s major shareholders. company’s budget for the coming year as well as Enterprise Risk Management. The Board then also addressed the performance targets in the Composition and independence of the Board in 2019 company’s two performance related share plans. In 2019, the Board Independent of Independent especially focused on issues relating to major projects such as Gripen company/ of major NG to Brazil, Gripen E to Sweden, A26 to Sweden, GlobalEye to the UniMember Elected management shareholders ted Arab Emirates and the T-7A jet trainer to the U.S. Air Force as well as Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No1) other significant export and marketing issues. The Board also worked Håkan Buskhe5) 2011 No2) Yes during the year on the appointment of a new President and CEO and the Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes Reshaping initiative. Danica Kragic Jensfelt 2017 Yes Yes The work in the committees represent an important part of the Sara Mazur 2013 Yes No3) Board’s work. After each meeting of the Audit and Remuneration ComJohan Menckel 2019 Yes Yes mittees, the respective Chairman submits a report to the Board on the Daniel Nodhäll 2017 Yes No4) issues that were dealt with at the meeting. The Board then adopts resoBert Nordberg 2016 Yes Yes lutions on any matters prepared by the committees. Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes Erika Söderberg Johnson 2017 Yes Yes Joakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEE WORK 4 Audit Committee 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board. 2) President and CEO of Saab through 22 October 2019. In accordance with the principles set out in the Swedish Companies Act 3) Member of Investor AB’s Board. and the Code, the Board of Directors has appointed an Audit Commit4) Employed by Investor AB. tee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit Committee is 5) Resigned on 22 October 2019. mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e. preparing matters for resolution by the Board. The Audit Committee has certain limited decision-making Accordingly, the company fulfils the Code’s requirement that a majority power. For example, it has established guidelines for services other of Board members appointed by the shareholders’ meeting are indethan auditing that the company may procure from the auditor. The Audit pendent of the company and its management, and that at least two are Committee’s members following the Annual General Meeting 2019 are independent of the major shareholders. Joakim Westh (Chairman of the Committee), Daniel Nodhäll and Erika Söderberg Johnson, whereof both Joakim Westh and Erika Söderberg Work of the Board Johnson are independent of the company and its management as well According to the Board’s rules of procedure, seven ordinary meetings as of the major shareholders. Moreover, all members of the committee shell normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. have accounting or auditing competence. The General Counsel, Annika The Board can also meet when circumstances demand. In 2019, the Bäremo, was Secretary to the Audit Committee in 2019. Board held one statutory meeting, seven ordinary meetings and three The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s rules of extra meetings, a total of eleven meetings. The Board meetings in 2019 procedure. The Audit Committee shall, among other things, monitor the were held in Stockholm, with the exception of two held in connection company’s financial reporting and submit proposals to ensure the intewith the Annual General Meeting in April, which was in Linköping. grity of the financial reporting, oversee the performance of the The Board annually adopts rules of procedure, an instruction on the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management in respect division of work between the Board and the CEO, and an instruction on of the financial reporting, keep itself informed of the audit of the annual financial reporting to the Board. report and consolidated accounts, inform the Board of the results of the The rules of procedure contain provisions on the number of Board audit, review and monitor the auditor’s impartiality and independence, meetings, a list of matters to be considered at the meetings, reporting assist the Nomination Committee in preparing the proposal for the sharefrom the auditor, and special decisions to be taken at the statutory holders’ meeting’s election of the auditor and in certain cases procure meeting. The rules of procedure and special instruction for the CEO set auditing services, in addition to establishing guidelines for services other forth the delegation of responsibilities between the Board and its two than auditing that may be provided by the company’s auditor. Moreover, committees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, the Audit Committee shall annually monitor and evaluate the effectiveincluding the Chairman’s role, as well as the division of labour between ness and appropriateness of the company’s business ethics programme, the Board and the CEO. including the Code of Conduct, and keep itself informed of material deviThe instruction for the CEO sets forth the CEO's duties and authoations or non-compliance with the company’s business ethics regularity, including matters which require a Board decision. Policies on investtions, including whistleblower reports, through regular reporting from the ments, financing and reporting are also connected to the instruction. Ethics and Compliance Board. The company’s external auditor normally During the year, the Board was assisted by the Secretary of the participates in the meetings of the Audit Committee. In 2019, the Audit Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, who is not a memCommittee focused especially on current issues relating to the ber of the Board. company’s financial position, the financial reporting, execution of major The Board of Directors’ meetings follow an agenda. Prior to each projects, budget, risk management, internal control, assisted the Nomimeeting, Board members receive documentation and supporting nation Committee with its auditor’s election proposal, and issues relating material for the issues on the agenda. At each Board meeting the CEO to the company’s business ethical rules. presents a Market and Operations Report. A financial report is also preThe Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are distsented at each Board meeting and is addressed in detail prior to the ributed upon request to the other members of the Board. In 2019, the publication of the interim reports and year-end report. The Board reguCommittee held seven meetings. larly considers investments, research and development, organisational 74 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T 5 Remuneration Committee Board members respond to a questionnaire and give their opinions on In accordance with principles set out in the Code, the Board of Directors the Board’s work and performance. The results are then compared with has appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three memprevious years and discussed at the Board meeting in December. bers. The Remuneration Committee’s members following the Annual The questionnaire consists of six parts covering the breadth of the General Meeting 2019 are Sten Jakobsson, Marcus Wallenberg and Board’s competence, how the Board conducts its work, the Chairman, Bert Nordberg. Sten Jakobsson is the Chairman of the Committee. All the Board’s composition, the cooperative atmosphere and possible are independent of the company and its management. The General improvements. The Chairman of the Board does not participate in the Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was Secretary to the committee in 2019. Board's discussion on the results of the Chairman’s evaluation. The Remuneration Committee’s tasks are to prepare the Board’s The Nomination Committee is informed of the results of the evaluaresolutions on remuneration principles, remuneration and other terms tion in connection with preparing its proposal on the composition of the of employment for the Group Management, monitor and evaluate variBoard. able remuneration programmes for the Group Management, both The Board continuously evaluates the CEO's work by monitoring the ongoing and those ended during the year, and monitor and evaluate the company’s performance relative to established goals. The Board annuapplication of the remuneration guidelines for senior executives adopally evaluates the CEO's work through its members' responses to a ted by the Annual General Meeting as well as the current remuneration questionnaire on the CEO in the areas of performance, organisation, structures and levels in the company. The Remuneration Committee people and leadership. The CEO does not participate in this evaluation. also proposes remuneration guidelines for senior executives, which, folIn 2019, there was no CEO evaluation since the Board instead worked lowing resolution by the Board of Directors, are submitted to the Annual on appointing a new President and CEO. General Meeting. Matters concerning the employment terms, remuneration and other benefits for the CEO are prepared by the Remuneration Committee for resolution by the Board. The Remuneration Committee 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER is responsible for interpretation and application of the remuneration The President and CEO of Saab through 22 October 2019 was Håkan guidelines for senior executives. The Remuneration Committee has no Buskhe, who during this period was also a member of the Board. The decision-making powers of its own. In 2019, the Remuneration ComPresident and CEO from 23 October 2019 is Micael Johansson. His mittee focused especially on issues relating to the company’s longsignificant professional commitments outside the company, earlier term incentive programmes, including the proposed performance tarpositions and shareholding in the company are set forth in the pregets in the company’s two performance related share plans, the sentation of the Group Management, see page 81. Micael Johansson appointment of a new President and CEO, and a review of the remuneradoes not own shares nor is he a partner in any company with which tion guidelines due to new regulatory requirements. The Remuneration Saab has material business ties. Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are distributed upon request to the other members of the Board. In 2019, the Committee held four meetings. GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS FOR SENIOR EXECUTIVES EVALUATION The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executiThe Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the ves are explained on page 82 85. Board’s work and possible improvement areas, in order to develop the forms and effectiveness of its work. The evaluation is made by having Attendance and board remuneration in 2019 Audit Remuneration Board Committee Board Committee Committee Total Audit Remuneration meetings meetings remuneration remuneration remuneration remuneration Name Committee Committee attended 1) attended 2) KSEK 3) KSEK KSEK KSEK Marcus Wallenberg x 11 4 1,900 90 1,990 Håkan Buskhe 10 5) Sten Jakobsson x 11 4 700 150 850 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 11 620 620 Danica Kragic Jensfelt 11 620 620 Sara Mazur 11 620 620 Johan Menckel 8 4) 620 620 Daniel Nodhäll x 11 7 620 165 785 Bert Nordberg x 11 4 620 90 710 Erika Söderberg Johnson x 11 7 620 165 785 Joakim Westh x 11 7 620 250 870 1) Of a total of 11 meetings in 2019. 2) Of a total of 7 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2019 and 4 meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2019. 3) Refers to the remuneration resolved by the AGM 2019 for the period until the AGM 2020. CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive remuneration. 4) Elected by the AGM in April 2019; thereafter 8 of a total of 8 Board meetings. 5) Resigned from the Board on 22 October 2019 and participated in all the meetings prior to his departure. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 75 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T 7 THE COMPANY'S AUDITOR THE BOARD’S REPORT ON INTERNAL On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws and CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING regulations, the external auditor examines the financial statements, The Board of Directors is responsible for internal control over financial consolidated accounts, annual report, and administration and managereporting pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish ment of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO, and carCode of Corporate Governance. ries out the statutory audit of the corporate governance report and susThe Board assures the quality of the financial accounting through tainability report. The company’s Q3 interim report has been reviewed the Audit Committee and CEO. The entire Board reviews the interim by the auditor as well. The auditor presents an auditors’ report to the reports before they are published. The Audit Committee follows up the Annual General Meeting. On behalf of the Board, the company's auditor internal control over financial reporting on a regular basis. After each has also reviewed whether the performance targets for the Special Promeeting of the Audit Committee, a report is submitted to the Board. jects Incentive 2019 were met. The Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting issues The shareholders’ meeting elects the auditor. PricewaterhouseCooand the financial reports presented by the company, but also matters of pers AB was re-elected as auditor by the Annual General Meeting 2019, strategic importance, e.g. asset acquisitions and sales and how the for the period 2019–2021. company will obtain financing. It also covers issues such as internal control, regulatory compliance, any significant uncertainty in reported PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) values, post-statement events, changes in estimates and judgements, • Elected by the Annual General Meeting 2019 for the period 2019 and other circumstances that may affect the quality of the financial stathrough the Annual General Meeting 2021. tements. The auditor, elected by the Annual General Meeting, participa• Bo Hjalmarsson, Authorised Public Accountant, auditor in charge. Other ted in 5 of 7 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2019. major audit assignments: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson. The Board of Directors has met with the auditor to discuss their review of the company for the financial year 2019. The Board on the PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network in same occasion met with the auditor while not in the presence of the around 150 countries. PwC has competence and experience in areas CEO or other members of the Group Management. important to Saab: auditing of large and listed companies, accounting issues, industry experience and familiarity with international business. Internal control over financial reporting The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the independence The internal control system applies the principles of the Committee of of the auditor, including by staying updated on ongoing consulting Sponsoring Organizations' (COSO) framework and assists the business assignments. The Audit Committee has also established guidelines on in achieving its financial goals by monitoring risk exposure in a structuwhich services other than auditing the company may procure from the red way. Moreover, internal control aims to provide reasonable assuauditor. Where applicable, the committee will approve such services in rance of the reliability of the internal and external financial reporting and accordance with these guidelines. to ensure that it is prepared in accordance with laws, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. AUDIT FEES 2018–2019 Saab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as resolControl environment ved by the Annual General Meeting. Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating PwC performed limited services on behalf of the company in 2019 responsibilities and powers are delegated to the business areas and in addition to its audit assignments by consulting on accounting and tax support units, which are also supported and monitored by Group funissues. ctions. These Group functions issue guidelines that clarify responsibilities and powers. Saab has a process for monitoring internal control where roles and Auditor’s fees for the Group 2018–2019 responsibilities are defined, control matrixes and key controls included, MSEK 2019 2018 and reporting clarified. Audit assignments: PwC 21 22 Risk assessment Other 3 3 Saab’s operations are characterised by the development, production Other assignments: and supply of technologically advanced hardware and software for military and civil customers around the world. The business largely conPwC 1 5 sists of large projects that stretch over long periods, often several For further information, see note 9. years. Saab identifies and assesses risks with an impact on the financial reporting within a number of processes such as the annual accounts, investments, project implementation and procurement. In addition to the risk of inaccurate financial reporting, internal processes are also assessed on the basis of the risk of exposure to improprieties. Group Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk assessment of the financial reporting. The current risk assessment is reviewed by Internal Audit and taken into account in the preparation of the annual internal audit plan, which is established by the Audit Committee. 76 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Control activities Monitoring and evaluation Key controls are defined within Saab’s internal processes and functions • Each manager of a business area/legal entity and each accounting to monitor the internal control. There are also general IT key controls. organisation is responsible for the financial information from their unit. Key controls are performed according to a predefined schedule. The • The Audit Committee decides on the principles for accounting and control activities are both manual and automated and include authorifinancial reporting and monitors them. sation routines, account reconciliations, process compliance, perfor• A semi-annual self-assessment on completed key controls. The selfmance analyses and authorisations. assessment process also includes assessing whether the material risks in each internal process are managed with existing key controls. Information and communication 8 • Saab’s Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Policies, Group directives and manuals are continuously updated, CFO. Internal Audit follows the internal audit plan adopted by the Audit clearly communicated and available through Saab’s internal enterprise Committee and performs independent and objective reviews in order management system, which is available on the internal web. A webto evaluate and increase the efficiency of the internal control. The funbased tool used to monitor Saab’s key controls clearly shows the status ction also performs an annual review of reporting from the self-assessand results of performed controls. The results of performed controls ment process. are an integral part of Saab’s financial closing process and are reported • The company’s auditor annually reviews the status of Saab’s internal quarterly to the Group Management and the Audit Committee. control over financial reporting. SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 77 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T 5 Board of Directors 8 1 4 7 3 2 6 1. MARCUS WALLENBERG 3. DANICA KRAGIC JENSFELT 4. SARA MAZUR 5. JOHAN MENCKEL Chairman of the Board since 2006 Member of the Board since 2017 Member of the Board since 2013 Member of the Board since 2019 Deputy Chairman of the Board 1993-2006 Professor, School of Electrical Engineering Director of Strategic Research, Knut och President and CEO of Gränges AB and Member of the Board since 1992 and Computer Science, Royal Institute of Alice Wallenbergs Stiftelse Born 1971 Member of Saab’s Remuneration ComTechnology (KTH) Born 1966 M.Sc. Engineering (industrial engineering mittee Director of the Centre for Autonomous Associate Professor Electrical Engineering, and management), Royal Institute of TechBorn 1956 Systems, KTH Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) nology (KTH) B.Sc. of Foreign Service, Georgetown Born 1971 Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, KTH Shares in Saab: 4,000 University Docent, Computer Science, KTH M.Sc. Electrical Engineering, KTH Other board commitments: Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Naval Ph.D. Computer Science, KTH Honorary Doctorate Luleå University of Board member of Nederman Holding AB Academy M.Sc. Mechanical Engineering, Technical Technology and World Materials Forum, France. Shares in Saab: 125,000 University of Rijeka, Croatia Shares in Saab: 2,500 Honorary Doctorate, Lappeenranta, UniverFormer employment and positions: Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Board member of Svenska postkodförenChairman of the Board of SEB and FAM AB. sity of Technology Chair of Wallenberg Autonomous System Shares in Saab: 2,000 ingen. CEO of Sapa Heat Transfer. Business Board member of AstraZeneca PLC, Invesand Software Program (WASP). Board memArea President of Sapa Profiles Asia. MD of tor AB, Temasek Holding Ltd and the Knut Other board commitments: ber of Investor AB, Combient AB and Nobel Sapa Heat Transfer Shanghai. Management and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. Board member of FAM AB, H&M Group, the Media AB. Member of the Royal Swedish consultant at Accenture and founder of Former employment and positions: Scientific Advisory Board, Max Planck Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA), addnature.com. Chairman of the Board of AB Electrolux, Institute for Intelligent Systems. Member of Division Education and Research. LKAB and Svenska ICC Service AB. the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Former employment and positions: 6. DANIEL NODHÄLL President and CEO of Investor AB. Board Sciences (IVA), Division of Electrical EngiVice President and Head of Ericsson Reneering in the Royal Swedish Academy of Member of the Board since 2017 member of, amongst others, Stora Enso search, Ericsson AB. Vice President System Member of Saab's Audit Committee Oyj, EQT Holdings AB and Hi3G Holding AB. Sciences (KVA). Management, Business Unit Networks, Head of Listed Companies, Investor AB Former employment and positions: Ericsson AB. Director Wireless Access Born 1978 2. STEN JAKOBSSON Board member Institute for Future Studies. Networks Research, Ericsson Research, M.Sc. in Economics and Business, StockMember of the Board since 2008 and Deputy Director, School of Computer SciEricsson AB. Board member of Chalmers holm School of Economics Deputy Chairman since 2010 ence and Communication, KTH. Member of University of Technology AB, RISE Research Shares in Saab: 2,500 Chairman of Saab’s Remuneration the Young Academy of Sweden. Chairman Institutes of Sweden AB, RISE SICS North of STINT, Natural Sciences and Technology. Swedish ICT AB and Integrated Transport Other board commitments: Committee Board member of Electrolux Professional Born 1949 Researcher at Columbia University, Brown Research Lab, KTH. Member of SkolstyrelUniversity, Johns Hopkins University and sen, the Strategic Counsel of the school of AB and Husqvarna AB. M.Sc. in Engineering, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) INRIA Rennes. Chairman of IEEE RAS Electrical Engineering, KTH as well as the Former employment and positions: Shares in Saab: 6,875 Technical Committee on Computer and Roboard of Wireless@KTH. Board member of Kunskapsskolan Educabot Vision and Board member of Research tion Sweden AB. Investment Manager, Head Other board commitments: Policy Committee at the KVA. of Capital Goods at Investor AB. Board member of Xylem Inc. and Arla Plast AB. Former employment and positions: Chairman of the Board of Power Wind Partners and LKAB. Board member of Stena Metall AB and FLSmidth A/S. President and CEO of ABB, Sweden. Executive Vice President of Asea Brown Boveri AB, Sweden. Business Area Manager, Business Area Cables. President of ABB Cables AB and for Asea Cylinda. Production Manager for Asea Low Voltage Division, Asea central staff 78 Production trainee. S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T 13 16 10 12 11 9 15 14 7. BERT NORDBERG 9. ERIKA SÖDERBERG JOHNSON Employee representatives Deputies Member of the Board since 2016 Member of the Board since 2017 11. STEFAN ANDERSSON 14. MAGNUS GUSTAFSSON Member of Saab’s Remuneration Member of Saab's Audit Committee Committee Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Biotage AB Member of the Board since 2008 Deputy Board member since 2016 Born 1956 (until end of March 2020) President of the Local Salaried Employees’ President of the Local Swedish AssociaEngineer Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Kinnevik AB union Unionen at Saab Dynamics AB, tion of Graduate Engineers at Saab AB, Shares in Saab: 10,625 (as from April 2020) Linköping Linköping Born 1970 Born 1974 Born 1965 Other board commitments: M.Sc. in Economics and Business, B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering, M.Sc. in Applied Physics and Electrical Chairman of the Board of Vestas Wind Stockholm School of Economics Dalarna University Engineering, Linköping Institute of Systems A/S and TDC Group A/S. Board Shares in Saab: 1,950 Shares in Saab: 2,540 Technology member of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolag Shares in Saab: 809 (SCA), Essity Aktiebolag (publ) and Sigma Other board commitments: 12. GÖRAN GUSTAVSSON Connectivity AB. Board member of Qliro Group AB. Member of the Board since 2017 and 15. CONNY HOLM Former employment and positions: Former employment and positions: deputy Board member 1995-2000 and Deputy Board member since 2017 and Board member of AB Electrolux, SkiStar AB CFO at Karo Bio AB, Affibody AB and Global 2008-2016 1995-2008. Member of the Board 2008and Axis AB. Chairman of the Board of ImaGenomics AB. Investment Banking Advisor President of the local trade union IF Metall 2016 gination Technologies Group Plc. and Sony at Enskilda, SEB. Board member of Sectra at Saab AB, Linköping President of the local trade union IF Metall Mobile Communications AB. Chairman of AB and MedCap AB. Born 1953 at Avionics Systems, Huskvarna the Board and CEO of Sony Ericsson ComEmployed at Saab AB since 1972 Born 1947 munications AB. Various senior positions 10. JOAKIM WESTH Shares in Saab: 3,055 Upper secondary engineering education within the Ericsson-group as well as various Member of the Board since 2010 Shares in Saab: 1,083 positions within Data General Corporation Chairman of Saab’s Audit Committee 13. NILS LINDSKOG and Digital Equipment Corporation. Born 1961 Member of the Board since 2016 and 16. TINA MIKKELSEN M.Sc. in Aeronautics, Royal Institute of 8. CECILIA STEGÖ CHILÒ Technology (KTH) deputy Board Member 2007-2015 Deputy Board member since 2016 Member of the Local Swedish AssociaPresident of the Local Salaried Employees’ Member of the Board since 2010 M.Sc. in Aerospace Engineering, Massachution of Graduate Engineers at Saab AB, union, Unionen at Saab AB, Järfälla Adviser to management of corporations setts Institute of Technology (MIT) Gothenburg Born 1973 and organisations Shares in Saab: 10,000 Born 1955 Electrical Engineering, Stockholms Born 1959 Other board commitments: M.Sc.E.E. Chalmers University of Tekniska Institut (STI) Studies in political science and economics Chairman of the Board of Amexci AB. Technology Shares in Saab: 2,024 Shares in Saab: 1,875 Board member of CGI Group Inc., Absolent Shares in Saab: 1,489 Other board commitments: Group AB and Swedish Match AB. Board member of Spendrups Bryggeri Former employment and positions: AB, Investment AB Spiltan and Centre for Chairman of the Board of EMA Technology Business History. AB and Absolent AB. Board member of Arcam AB, Intrum AB, Rörvik Timber AB, Former employment and positions: Telelogic AB and VKR Holding A/S. Deputy Chairman of the Board of Gotlands Bryggeri board member of Sony Ericsson Mobile AB, Fortum Värme AB (current Stockholm Communications AB. Senior Vice President Exergi Holding AB). Board member of AMF of Group Function Strategy & Operational Fonder AB, Länsförsäkringar Liv, Linköping Excellence and member of the Group University Holding AB and Marginalen Management Team, LM Ericsson AB. Group Group AB. CEO of the Free Enterprise Vice President and member of the ExecuFoundation of Sweden. Head of think tank tive Management Group of Assa Abloy AB Timbro, Cabinet member and Head of the and, Partner at McKinsey & Co. Inc. Ministry of Culture. 79 Group Management Standing from left: ANDERS CARP JESSICA ÖBERG Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head GÖRGEN JOHANSSON of Business Area Surveillance of Industrial Products and Service Senior Vice President and Head Born 1971 Born 1972 of Business Area Dynamics Employed 2001 Employed 1996 Born 1964 Shares in Saab: 6,095 Shares in Saab: 4,726 MBA Employed 2004 ANNIKA BÄREMO Shares in Saab: 13,941 Senior Vice President and Head of Group Legal Affairs, General Counsel, Secretary MAGNUS ÖRNBERG of the Board of Directors Executive Vice President and Born 1964 Chief Financial Officer (CFO) LLB Born 1965 Employed 2012 MBA Shares in Saab: 12,418 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 21,643 JONAS HJELM Senior Vice President and Head of CHRISTIAN HEDELIN Business Area Aeronautics Senior Vice President and Born 1971 Chief Strategy Officer Employed 2006 Born 1969 Shares in Saab: 6,822 MSc Electronic Engineering Employed 2018 Shares in Saab: 488 80 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Changes in the Group Management During fourth quarter 2019 Håkan Buskhe left the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) position, and replaced by Micael Johansson. During first quarter 2020, Dean Rosenfield took over as Chief Marketing Officer and joined the Group Management. During first quarter 2020, Gunnar Wieslander left the position as Head of Business Area Kockums and the Grop Management. He was Seated from left: DEAN ROSENFIELD SEBASTIAN CARLSSON replaced by Lars Tossman. Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President and Head LENA ELIASSON Chief Marketing Officer of Group Communication Senior Vice President and Head Born 1968 Born 1984 of Group Human Resources Master of Management Employed 2012 Born 1967 Employed 2001 Shares in Saab: 1,009 M.Sc. in Engineering Shares in Saab: 1,568 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 13,856 MICAEL JOHANSSON President and Chief Executive ELLEN MOLIN Officer Senior Vice President and Head Born 1960 of Business Area Support and Services B.Sc.+ in Mathematics and Computer Science Born 1973 at University of Uppsala MBA Employed 1985 Employed 2006 Shares in Saab: 15,292 Shares in Saab: 4,435 Other board commitments: Board member of AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD). Former employment and positions: Deputy CEO Saab AB. Senior Vice President and Head of Business Area Surveillance, Saab AB. President of Avitronics and various senior positions within the Saab group. 81 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T Other information GUIDELINES ON REMUNERATION AND around the world. It is important therefore that Other terms OTHER TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT FOR senior executives share a long-term view and All Group Management executives, including SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2019 commitment to the company’s operations the CEO, may terminate their employment with Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the and profits. As a result, long-term incentives a maximum of six months’ notice. If employBoard of Directors shall propose to the Annual are particularly well-suited to Saab and its shament is terminated by Saab the notice period General Meeting remuneration guidelines for reholders, and consist of share based incenis six months, after which severance equal to the company’s senior executives. The Annual tive programmes. one year’s salary is paid. An additional year’s General Meeting 2019 adopted the Board’s The CEO and senior executives are entitled salary may be paid in the event no new proposed guidelines for senior executives as to participate in the long-term share based employment is obtained during the first 18 described below. incentive programmes adopted by the sharemonths from the time notice of termination The senior executives comprise the Chief holders’ meeting. was served. Executive Officer (CEO) and other members of One-off agreements on variable cash With respect to employment agreements the Group Management. The members of this remuneration may be made in extraordinary signed after 1 January 2005 that are terminagroup are presented on the company’s webcircumstances, provided that such agreeted by Saab, a maximum severance pay of 18 site. In special cases these guidelines apply to ments are made solely on an individual basis months may be payable in addition to the norSaab AB Board members, as described below. for recruitment or retention purposes or as mal six-month notice period. The notice Saab shall offer market terms in order to compensation for extraordinary efforts above period and severance pay in total shall not recruit and retain senior executives. To the and beyond the individual’s ordinary duties. exceed 24 months. greatest extent possible, remuneration strucSuch remuneration shall never exceed the Severance pay is normally reduced by tures shall be characterised by predictability fixed annual salary and shall not be paid more income from other employment during the with respect to both the cost for the company than once a year per individual. Resolutions on corresponding time. and the benefit for the employee. They shall be such cash remuneration shall be made by the based on factors such as position, compeBoard based on a proposal from the RemuneConsulting fees to Board member tence, experience and performance. ration Committee. In special cases Saab AB’s shareholderelecBenchmarking against comparable industries Variable cash remuneration shall not be ted Board members may receive a fee for serand markets shall be practiced. paid under any other circumstances. vices rendered within their respective areas of The guidelines are primarily based on agreexpertise, separately from their Board duties ements in effect between Saab AB and indiviOther benefits and for a limited period of time. Compensation dual executives. No board fees are paid to All members of the Group Management may for these services shall be paid at market members of the Group Management for partibe entitled to other benefits in accordance terms. cipation on the boards of the business areas with local practice. The benefits shall help to or Saab’s subsidiaries. facilitate the executive's ability to discharge of INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT The Remuneration Committee is responhis or her duties. These benefits shall not conNOTE 8 sible for developing and reviewing remunerastitute a material part of total compensation Note 8 of the Annual Report includes a destion and other employment terms for the and shall be equivalent to what is considered cription of current remuneration for senior Group Management. reasonable in relation to market practice. executives, including fixed and variable comThe Board is entitled to divert from the guiOther benefits may for example include a pensation, long-term incentive programmes delines if there are reasonable grounds to do company car, travel, overnight accommodaand other benefits. so in specific cases. tion and medical insurance. These guidelines apply as of the Annual INCENTIVE PROGRAMME PROPOSED TO General Meeting 2019. Pension THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 The retirement age is minimum 62 under penThe Board of Directors proposed that the Fixed remuneration sion agreements entered into after 1 January Annual General Meeting 2019 resolve to Cash remuneration shall consist of a fixed sal2005. In addition to the ITP agreement, the adopt long-term incentive programme 2020 ary. The fixed salary shall be reviewed annually pension is premium based and provisions are (LTI 2020), consisting of Share Matching Plan as per 1 January for all members of the Group made annually. For the CEO the provision is 2020, Performance Share Plan 2020 and SpeManagement. Fixed salary shall be set at marlimited to 35 per cent of fixed salary. For other cial Projects Incentive 2020. The Annual ket terms and based on factors such as posisenior executives the percentage is based on General Meeting resolved in accordance with tion, competence, experience and perfor“Saab Plan” regulation. According to this plan, the Board’s proposal. mance. the percentage is dependent on the number of years remaining until retirement age upon Variable remuneration joining the plan. The aggregate insurance Saab’s operations are dominated by the devebalance should cover a targeted pension from lopment of complex products and systems. age 65 of approximately 32.5 per cent of The products are marketed, further develosalary levels between 20 and 30 basic income ped, produced and maintained over long periamounts and approximately 50 per cent of ods – in some cases, three or four decades – segments above 30 basic income amounts. and normally involve significant investments All senior executives may also be entitled and long-term relationships with customers to enhanced disability pension and survivors’ pension. 82 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T THE BOARD’S PROPOSAL FOR GUIDELINES competitive total remuneration on market remuneration may be made, provided that FOR REMUNERATION AND OTHER TERMS terms, adapted to the Company’s developsuch agreements are made solely on an indiviOF EMPLOYMENT FOR SENIOR EXECUTIment and situation, which these guidelines dual basis for recruitment or retention purpoVES TO APPLY FROM THE ANNUAL GENEenable. To the greatest extent possible, remuses only, or as compensation for extraordinary RAL MEETING 2020 neration structures shall be characterised by efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary predictability with respect to both the cost for assignment, and that such remuneration shall Background and reasons the Company and the benefit for the never exceed the amount of the fixed annual The Remuneration Committee has evaluated employee. They shall be based on factors salary and shall not be paid more than once a the application of the guidelines for remunerasuch as position, competence, experience year per individual. Such remuneration shall tion to senior executives of Saab AB that were and performance. Benchmarking shall be not qualify for pension benefits unless otherresolved at the Annual General Meeting 2019 made regularly relative to comparable induwise provided by mandatory collective agreeand the current remuneration structures and stries and markets. ment provisions. Resolutions on such remuremuneration levels in the Company. For information regarding the Company’s neration shall be made by the Board based on The Remuneration Committee has recombusiness strategy, please see the external a proposal from the Remuneration Committee. mended the Board of Directors to propose to website www.saabgroup.com. Variable cash remuneration shall not be the Annual General Meeting 2020 to adopt paid in other cases. guidelines for remuneration that are essentiFixed remuneration ally in line with those that were resolved at the Fixed remuneration shall consist of cash Other benefits Annual General Meeting in 2019. In order to salary. The fixed salary shall be reviewed annuAll members of the Group Management may meet new legal requirements, the proposed ally as per 1 January for all members of the be entitled to other benefits in accordance guidelines for remuneration are more detailed Group Management. The fixed salary shall be with local practice. The benefits shall contrithan the previous guidelines but do not entail at market terms and based on factors such as bute to facilitating the executive’s discharge of any changes in the remuneration structure. position, competence, experience and perforhis or her duties. Other benefits may for In light of the above, the Board of Directors mance. example be a company car, travels, housing proposes that the Annual General Meeting and medical insurance. resolves on the following guidelines for remuVariable remuneration The total value of the benefits shall be equineration and other terms of employment for Saab’s operations are mainly characterised by valent to what is considered reasonable in senior executives. The final remuneration to the development of technically advanced prorelation to market practice. The value for benesenior executives is determined by the Board ducts and systems. The products are markefits such as company car and medical insuof Directors within the framework prescribed ted, further developed, produced and maintairance shall amount to not more than 5 per by the guidelines. ned during long periods of time, in some cases cent of the fixed annual salary. In addition to three to four decades, which generally entails this, senior executives may, on an individual Guidelines substantial investments and long-term custobasis, be entitled to housing and travels The senior executives comprise the President mer relations all over the world. Consequently, amounting to not more than 25 per cent of the and other members of the Group Manageit is important that senior executives have a fixed annual salary. ment. The members of this group are presenlong-term view and a long-term commitment Senior executives who are stationed in a ted on the Company’s website. In certain spein the Company’s operations and profits. Thecountry other than their home country may cific cases, these guidelines may also comrefore, long-term incentive is especially well receive additional remuneration and other prise Board Members of Saab AB, as descrisuited to Saab and its shareholders. Hence, benefits to the extent reasonable in light of the bed below. No board fees are to be paid to Saab does not normally offer any short-term special circumstances associated with the members of the Group Management for partivariable cash remuneration to the President or arrangement, taking into account, to the cipation on the boards of the business areas other members of the Group Management. extent possible, the overall purpose of these or Saab subsidiaries. These guidelines do not Instead, the variable remuneration consists of guidelines. Such benefits shall in total not apply to any remuneration resolved by the long-term share based incentive programs exceed 30 per cent of the fixed annual salary. Shareholders’ Meeting. which are adopted by the Shareholders’ MeeThese guidelines apply from the Annual ting and therefore not subject to these guideliPension General Meeting 2020 and are applicable to nes. The President and other members of the The pension age shall be minimum 62 years. remuneration agreed, and amendments to Group Management are entitled to participate The President shall be entitled to pension remuneration already agreed, after adoption in these programs. The Board of Directors probenefits under the ITP plan as well as an indiviof the guidelines by the Annual General Meeposes that the Annual General Meeting 2020 dual supplementary pension. The annual penting. resolve on a long-term incentive program (LTI sion provision for the supplementary pension 2021). The Board’s intention is to propose to the President shall not exceed 35 per cent The guidelines’ promotion of Saab’s strategy, such long-term incentive programs also to of the fixed annual salary. Other senior execulong-term interests and sustainability. future Annual General Meetings. The terms tives shall be entitled to pension benefits A prerequisite for the successful implementaand estimated costs for the Company’s longunder the ITP plan as well as under the “Saab tion of Saab’s business strategy and safeguarterm incentive programs are presented in the plan”. Pension benefits under the Saab plan ding of the Company’s long-term interests, Board’s complete proposal to each Annual shall be premium based and pension contribuincluding its sustainability, is that the Company General Meeting. tions shall be made monthly. According to the is able to recruit and retain senior executives. In extraordinary circumstances, agreeSaab plan, contributions are made both for To this end, it is necessary that Saab offers a ments of a one-off nature for variable cash early retirement from 62 years of age as well SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 83 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T as for increased old age pension benefits from mally be made against income from other Board’s decisions as regards remuneration the age of 65 on salary levels exceeding 20 employment during the corresponding time. principles, remuneration and other terms of income base amounts per year. Contributions employment for senior executives, monitor made under the Saab plan are individually Consultancy fees to Board Members and evaluate programs for variable remuneraestablished in relation to the number of years Saab AB Board Members, elected by the Shation for the Group Management, the applicaremaining until the age of retirement when joireholders’ Meeting, may in special cases tion of the guidelines for executive remuneraning the plan. Annual provisions for pension receive a fee for services performed within tion as well as the current remuneration strucbenefits for an individual senior executive shall their respective areas of expertise, separately tures and compensation levels in the Comin total not amount to more than 55 per cent of from their Board duties and for a limited period pany. The President and other members of the the fixed annual salary. of time. Compensation for these services Group Management do not participate in the According to the Saab plan, all senior exe(including services performed through a Board of Directors’ processing of and resolucutives, including the President, may also be Board Member’s wholly-owned company) tions regarding remuneration-related matters entitled to enhanced invalidity pension and shall be paid at market terms, provided that in so far as they are affected by such matters. survivors’ pension benefits. Enhanced invalisuch services contribute to the implementaThe Board of Directors may temporarily dity pension is offered in addition to national tion of Saab’s business strategy and safeguarresolve to derogate from the guidelines, in health insurance as well as the health insuding of Saab’s long-term interest, including its whole or in part, if in a specific case there is rance included in the ITP plan and is calculated sustainability. special cause for the derogation and a deroas a percentage of the pensionable salary; gation is necessary to serve the Company’s 10-65 percent in various salary levels. The Additional information in the Annual Report long-term interests, including its sustainability, additional invalidity pension may be received The notes of the Annual Report includes a or to ensure the Company’s financial viability. up to 65 years of age at a maximum. Saab description of remuneration for senior execuAs set out above, the Remuneration maintains contributions for old age pension tives, including fixed and variable compensaCommittee’s tasks include preparing the benefits in case of invalidity pension. Survition, long-term incentive programs, pension Board of Directors’ resolutions in remuneravors’ pension for senior executives, including and other benefits. tion-related matters. This also includes any the President, is based on the highest of either resolutions to derogate from the guidelines. 12 months’ salaries or the accumulated funds Salary and employment conditions for in the insurance. employees INCENTIVE PROGRAMME PROPOSED TO In the preparation of the Board of Directors’ THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020 Adjustments to local regulations proposal for these remuneration guidelines, The Board of Directors proposes that the For employments governed by rules other salary and employment conditions for Annual General Meeting resolve to adopt than Swedish, remuneration may be duly employees of the Company have been taken long-term incentive programme 2021 (LTI adjusted to comply with mandatory rules or into account. This was made by including 2021), which consists of three parts: Share established local practice, taking into account, information on the employees’ total income, Matching Plan 2021, Performance Share Plan to the extent possible, the overall purpose of the components of the remuneration and 2021 and Special Projects Incentive 2021. these guidelines. remuneration development over time, in the The terms and conditions and costs of the Remuneration Committee’s and the Board of above-mentioned programmes are presented Miscellaneous terms Directors’ basis of decision when evaluating in the Board's complete proposal to the All executives in the Group Management, whether the guidelines and the limitations set Annual General Meeting. including the President, may terminate their out herein are reasonable. employment with a maximum of six months’ The remuneration principles for establisSAAB’S LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROnotice. If the employment is terminated by hing salary, long-term incentive programs, GRAMMES AND AUTHORISATION TO Saab, severance pay equal to not more than pension and other benefits are applied in a REPURCHASE SHARES 18 months may be paid, in addition to a notice similar way to both senior executives and The Annual General Meeting of Saab has period of normally six months. Fixed salary other employees within the Saab Group resolved over a number of years to offer a during the period of notice and severance pay long-term incentive programme consisting of may not together exceed an amount equivaThe decision-making process to determine, two parts: Share Matching Plan and a Perforlent to 24 months’ fixed salary. review and implement the guidelines mance Share Plan. The reason is that the Remuneration may be paid for possible The Board of Directors has established a Board considers it important that Saab’s non-compete undertakings. Such remuneraRemuneration Committee. The Committee’s employees share a long-term interest in the tion shall compensate for possible loss of tasks include preparing a proposal for guideliappreciation of the company’s shares. income and shall only be paid in so far as the nes for executive remuneration on behalf of In April 2017, the Annual General Meeting previously employed executive is not entitled the Board, which, after decision by the Board also resolved to introduce a third programme, to severance pay. The remuneration shall be of Directors, is submitted to the Annual GeneSpecial Projects Incentive, as a complement based on the monthly fixed cash salary at the ral Meeting. The Board of Directors shall preto the Performance Share Plan. The protime of notice of termination of employment pare a proposal for new guidelines at least grammes are now named based on the calenand relate to the time the non-compete every fourth year and submit it to the Annual dar year, corresponding to the vesting period. undertaking applies, however not for more General Meeting for adoption. The guidelines The long-term incentive programme comthan 18 months following termination of shall be in force until new guidelines are adopprises not more than 1,465,000 Series B shaemployment. ted by the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Remures in Saab per year. Since 2007, Saab offers A reduction of severance pay shall norneration Committee shall also prepare the permanent employees the opportunity to par84 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R E P O R T ticipate in the Share Matching Plan. Employstock market and other circumstances. If it as to enable a continuous use of acquired ees can withhold up to 5 per cent of their determines that this is not the case, the Board shares in connection with potential acquisigross base salary to purchase Series B shares of Directors will reduce the number of perfortions of companies and for the company’s on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelvemonth mance shares that will be matched to the share-related incentive programmes. Repurperiod. Provided that a participant retains the lower number of shares it considers approprichases may be made on Nasdaq Stockholm. purchased shares for three years after the ate. Performance shares are allotted three In June 2019, the Board of Directors resolinvestment date and is still employed by the years after the investment. Currently, Perforved to utilise its authorisation to repurchase Saab Group, the participant will be allotted a mance Share Plans 2015-2020 are ongoing. not more than 1,000,000 Series B shares in corresponding number of Series B shares free In 2017, the Annual General Meeting resolSaab to secure delivery of shares to particiof charge. Currently, Share Matching Plans ved to introduce a new plan, the Special Propants in Saab’s long-term Share Matching 2015–2020 are ongoing. jects Incentive, as a complement to the PerPlan, Performance Share Plan and Special Since 2008, Saab also has a Performance formance Share Plan. The Special Projects Projects Incentive. Series B shares in Saab Share Plan for senior executives and key Incentive is directed at a maximum of 45 key were repurchased in June and July 2019 for employees. The Performance Share Plan now employees, including the CEO. Participation in MSEK 301. covers a maximum of 175 key employees, the new programme presupposes participaincluding the CEO. Participants can save up to tion in the Performance Share Plan or the 7.5 per cent of their base salary to purchase Share Matching Plan. The programme entitles Series B shares during a twelve-month period, the employee to allotment of performance while participating in the Share Matching Plan shares corresponding to 15-52.5 per cent of as well, but only up to a maximum of 5 per cent the cash base salary for the current financial of base salary. Depending on which category year depending on group affiliation, provided they belong to, participants are entitled to 2–7 that the employment remains for three years performance shares for each purchased and that performance targets are reached share. Performance shares are allotted after three Participants are entitled to performance years based on the achievement during the matching shares, free of consideration, provicurrent financial year of eight equally weighted ded that the performance targets are achieperformance targets related to Saab’s special ved and the participants have retained the projects within selected product areas. For the purchased shares for three years after the CEO and other members of the Group Maninvestment date and remain employed by the agement, the total allotment of shares in the Saab Group. The number of performance shanew programme and the Performance Share res is linked to the performance targets estaPlan together amounts to a maximum of 75 blished by the Board of Directors. The terms per cent of the cash base salary for the CEO for the performance matching are based on and 60 per cent of the cash base salary for the three independent targets for a one-year perother members of the Group Management. formance period: organic sales growth, EBIT According to the resolution of the 2019 margin and free cash flow. The relative apporAnnual General Meeting, the plan covers a tionment between the targets is as follows: 30 maximum of 162,000 shares. per cent of the allotment is attributable to The number of matching and performance organic sales growth, 40 per cent to EBIT marshares has been restated for affected progin and 30 per cent to free cash flow. The pergrammes due to the rights issue. formance targets are established by the Board The Annual General Meeting 2019 also of Directors with a minimum and maximum resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to level for each target. The Board of Directors decide on acquisition of a maximum of will decide on the performance matching after 1,465,000 Series B shares to secure delivery the end of the one-year performance period. of shares to participants in Saab’s long-term According to the resolution of the 2019 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan Annual General Meeting, the Performance and Special Projects Incentive, for subsequent Share Plan comprises a maximum of 310,000 transfers on the stock exchange to cover cershares. tain costs associated with LTI 2020, mainly If the performance outcome falls short of social security costs. Repurchases may be the maximum level but exceeds the minimum made on Nasdaq Stockholm. level, a linear proportionate performance matFurther, the Annual General Meeting 2019 ching will occur. No performance matching will resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to occur if the performance outcome is equal to decide on acquisition of Series B shares up to or below the minimum level. Before the perfora maximum of 10 percent of the total number mance matching is ultimately determined, the of shares in the company. The purpose of the Board of Directors will assess whether it is authorisation is to be able to adjust the comreasonable in relation to the company’s finanpany’s capital structure and thereby contribcial results and position, conditions in the ute to an increased shareholder value as well SAA B A N N UA L A N D S U STAI NA BI L I T Y R E PO RT 2 019 85 financial state m ents Financial statements and notes Financial statements Income Statement, Consolidated 87 Income Statement, Parent Company 93 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 93 Consolidated 88 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 94 Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated 89 Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 91 Parent Company 95 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 92 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 95 Notes 1 Accounting principles 96 18 Biological assets 116 34 Other liabilities 126 2 Assumptions in the application 19 Shares in associated companies 35 Accrued expenses and of the accounting principles 98 and joint ventures 116 deferred income 126 3 Segment reporting 98 20 Parent Company’s shares in associated 36 Financial risk management 4 Sales 100 companies and joint ventures 118 and financial instruments 126 5 Operating expenses 101 21 Receivables from Group companies 118 37 Assets pledged and 22 Financial investments 118 contingent ­liabilities 132 6 Other operating revenue and expenses 102 23 Other long-term securities holdings 38 Transactions with related parties 132 7 Government grants 102 118 39 Group companies 132 8 Employees and staff costs 102 24 Long-term receivables and other receivables 118 40 Untaxed reserves 134 9 Auditors’ fees and compensation 108 25 Inventories 119 41 Statement of cash flows, 10 Depreciation/amortisation supplemental information 134 and write-downs 108 26 Accounts receivable 119 42 Information on Parent Company 135 11 Financial income and expenses 109 27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 120 43 Non-recurring items 135 12 Appropriations 109 28 Liquid assets 120 44 New accounting principles 2019 136 13 Taxes 109 29 Shareholders’ equity 120 45 Exchange rates used in 14 Earnings per share 111 30 Interest-bearing liabilities 121 financial statements 136 15 Intangible fixed assets 112 31 Liabilities to credit institutions 121 46 Definitions of key ratios 137 16 Tangible fixed assets 114 32 Post-employment benefits 122 47 Significant events after 17 Leasing 115 33 Provisions 124 the conclusion of the period 137 86 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial state m ents Consolidated income statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 ORDERS Order bookings amounted to MSEK 27,216 (27,975). Sales 4 35,433 33,156 During the year, Saab received a major order from Cost of goods sold -27,398 -25,392 ­Finland’s Ministry of Defence to provide and integrate Gross income 8,035 7,764 the combat system and sensors for Finland’s new ­corvettes in the Squadron 2020 programme worth Other operating income 6 217 156 SEK 4.2 billions. Bookings of small-sized orders grew Marketing expenses -2,609 -2,644 strongly, up 10 per cent compared to 2018 to MSEK Administrative expenses -1,488 -1,466 13,288 (12,057). Research and development costs -1,137 -1,267 In 2019, index and price changes had a positive effect on order bookings of MSEK 1,378, compared to Other operating expenses 6 -76 -263 MSEK 1,237 in 2018. Share in income of associated companies The order backlog at year-end amounted to and joint ventures 19 -5 -14 MSEK 93,293, compared to MSEK 102,184 at the Operating income 2,937 2,266 beginning of the year. During the year, an adjustment was made to the order backlog related to Saab’s delivFinancial income 190 193 eries to the Airbus A380-programme following the Financial expenses -520 -663 decision of Airbus to terminate the A380-programme Net financial items 11 -330 -470 in 2021. In total, 69 per cent of the order backlog is attributable to markets outside Sweden. Income before taxes 2,607 1,796 Taxes 13 -582 -430 Order backlog duration: Net income for the year 2,025 1,366 2020: SEK 28.9 billion 2021: SEK 22.3 billion Attributable to: 2022: SEK 16.1 billion Parent Company’s shareholders 1,983 1,313 2023: SEK 13.2 billion Non-controlling interest 42 53 After 2023: SEK 12.8 billion Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 14 14,88 11,27 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 14 14,81 11,21 SALES GROWTH Per cent 2019 2018 Organic sales growth 6 4 Acquisitions 1 Currency effects regardSALES PER REGION SALES PER MARKET SEGMENT ing revaluation of foreign subsidiaries 1 MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 Total sales growth 7 5 Sweden 13,188 13,519 Air 16,314 15,776 Rest of Europe 5,677 4,768 Land 6,657 5,590 SALES North America 3,889 3,155 Naval 7,109 6,910 Sales amounted to MSEK 35,433 (33,156). Latin America 4,314 3,821 Civil Security 2,410 2,263 The increase is mainly related to a high level of deliverAsia 6,464 6,148 Commercial ­Aeronautics 1,955 1,689 ies within the business area Dynamics. In addition, Africa 357 361 Other 997 928 Support and Services and Industrial Products and Australia, etc. 1,544 1,384 Total 35,433 33,156 ­Services had a strong growth as a result of increased activity within several business areas. Total 35,433 33,156 Sales from markets outside Sweden amounted to MSEK 22,245 (19,637), corresponding to 63 per cent (59), of total sales. 85 per cent (85) of sales related to the defence market. INCOME, MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY Operating income amounted to MSEK 2,937 (2,266) The gross margin in 2019 was 22.7 per cent (23.4). with an operating margin of 8.3 per cent (6.8). The Total depreciation, amortisation and write-downs majority of the business areas achieved increases in amounted to MSEK 1,368 (916). Depreciation of their operating margins in 2019, partly because of ­tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 1 107 (612), higher sales and partly because contributions from of which MSEK 411 relates to additional depreciation efficiency improvements. The implementation of as of 1 january 2019 in connection with the implemenIFRS 16 positively affected operating income by MSEK tation of IFRS 16 . 47 and the operating margin by 0.1 per cent in 2019. Total R&D expenditures amounted to MSEK 7,643 Adjusted for non-recurring items (see note 43) the (7,562), or about 22 per cent (23) of sales. Internally ­operating income for the comparative year of 2018 funded R&D expenditures amounted to MSEK 2,387 amounted to MSEK 2,564 with an operating margin of (2,223), of which MSEK 1,392 (1,140) was capitalised. 7.7 per cent. Capitalised expenditures are mainly attributable to the Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -582 development of Gripen E/F for future exports. (-430), equivalent to an effective tax rate of 22 per Amortisation and write-downs of intangible fixed cent (24). assets amounted to MSEK 261 (304), of which amortiThe pre-tax return on capital employed was 9.1 per sation and write-downs of capitalised development cent (8.7) and the after-tax return on equity was expenditures amounted to MSEK 142 (184). The share 10.0 per cent (8.1), both measured over a rolling of income in associated companies and joint ventures 12-month period. amounted to MSEK -5 (-14). S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 87 financial state m ents Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MSEK 2019 2018 Revaluation of net pension obligations has had a ­pre-tax effect of MSEK -612 (-1,711) on net Net income for the year 2,025 1,366 ­comprehensive income for the year, see note 32 for Other comprehensive income/loss: more information. The after-tax effect of net gain/­losses of cash flow Items that will not be reversed in the income statement: hedges on net comprehensive income amounted to Revaluation of net pension obligations -612 -1,711 MSEK 158 (-105), see note 36 for more information. Tax attributable to revaluation of net pension obligations 124 308 Total -488 -1,403 Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences 215 173 Net gain/loss on cash flow hedges: Change in value 33 -548 Reversed through profit or loss 168 401 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash flow hedges -43 42 Total 373 68 Other comprehensive income/loss for the year -115 -1,335 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 1,910 31 of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 1,857 -11 of which non-controlling interest 53 42 FINANCIAL NET MSEK 2019 2018 Financial net related to pensions -91 -67 Net interest items -78 -96 Currency gains/losses -32 -226 Lease liability interest -104 -16 Other net financial items -25 -65 Total -330 470 The financial net related to pensions is the financial value of derivatives related to hedged tenders mainly cost for net pension obligations recognised in the in USD. ­balance sheet. See note 32 for more information Interest expenses attributable to lease liabilities regarding defined-benefit pension plans. amounted to MSEK -104, of which MSEK -88 is an Net interest items refer to the return on liquid assets effect of the transition to IFRS 16. and short-term investments as well as interest Other net financial items consist of unrealised expenses on shortand long-term interest-bearing results from the market valuation of short-term ­liabilities and realised interestrate derivative results. ­investments and derivatives as well as other currency Currency gains/losses recognised in the financial effects, e.g. changes in exchange rates for liquid net are mainly related to hedges of the tender port­ assets in currencies other than SEK. Derivatives are folio, which are measured at fair value through profit used to reduce interest rate risk in the investment and loss. In the comparative year of 2018, net income portfolio, which consists of long-term interest-­ was negatively affected by changes in the market bearing securities. 88 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial state m ents Consolidated statement of financial position MSEK Note 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 ASSETS Fixed assets: Intangible fixed assets 15 10,465 9,057 Tangible fixed assets 16 6,223 6,129 Biological assets 18 368 349 Right-of-use assets 17 2,549 Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 19 672 646 Financial investments 22 26 27 Long-term receivables 24 752 554 Deferred tax assets 13 266 382 Total fixed assets 21,321 17,144 Current assets: Inventories 25 10,475 9,276 Derivatives 36 1,444 1,096 Tax receivables 26 67 Accounts receivable 26 5,198 5,199 Contract assets 4,26 12,234 10,466 Other receivables 24 710 507 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 969 919 Short-term investments 22 5,794 9,003 Liquid assets 28 1,687 2,451 Total current assets 38,537 38,984 TOTAL ASSETS 59,858 56,128 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 29 Capital stock 2,174 2,174 Other capital contributions 6,099 6,099 Other reserves 434 72 Retained earnings 11,828 11,067 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 20,535 19,412 Non-controlling interest 274 221 Total equity 20,809 19,633 Liabilities Long-term liabilities: Long-term lease liabilities 17 2,138 Other long-term interest-bearing liabilities 30 6,513 8,196 Other liabilities 34 180 190 Provisions for pensions 32 6,014 5,113 Other provisions 33 1,344 1,081 Deferred tax liabilities 13 40 16 Total long-term liabilities 16,229 14,596 Current liabilities: Short-term lease liabilities 17 434 Other short-term interest-bearing liabilities 30 1,322 1,068 Contract liabilities 4 8,899 8,890 Accounts payable 3,221 4,077 Derivatives 36 1,706 1,234 Tax liabilities 71 147 Other liabilities 34 1,193 770 Accrued expenses and deferred income 35 5,272 5,097 Provisions 33 702 616 Total current liabilities 22,820 21,899 Total liabilities 39,049 36,495 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 59,858 56,128 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 37. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 89 financial state m ents Consolidated statement of financial position STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION calculate the pension obligation to 1.5 per cent from Capitalised development expenditures in the ­balance At the end of December 2019, net debt was MSEK 2.25 per cent during the year, though the effect was sheet increased by MSEK 1,252. The increase is 7,069, an increase of MSEK 5,609 compared to yearpartly offset by a concurrent reduction in the inflation mainly related to investments to develop Gripen E/F for end 2018, when net debt amounted to MSEK 1,460. assumption to 1.75 per cent from 2.00 per cent. For future exports. Of the total investments in intangible The effects of changes in accounting principles further information on Saab’s defined-benefit pension fixed assets, SEK 196 million (198) related to other related to IFRS 16 contributed to the increase with plans, see note 32. intangible fixed assets. MSEK 2,190. Tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 6,223 at As of 31 December 2019, short-term investments Cash flow from operating activities amounted to year-end. Finance leases on aircraft and properties and liquid assets amounted to MSEK 7,481, a MSEK 1,194 (-490). that had previously been classified as tangible fixed decrease of MSEK 3,973 compared to year-end 2018. Due to the level of completion of large projects, assets have been reclassified in connection with the Capital employed increased by MSEK 2,963 during ­contract assets increased by MSEK 1,768, compared transition to IFRS 16 as right-of-use assets in the balthe year to MSEK 35,966. In addition to the effects of to year-end 2018. ance sheet, affecting the opening balance for 2019 by changes in accounting principles related to IFRS 16, Inventories increased by MSEK 1,119 during the MSEK 441. Right-of-use assets of MSEK 2,549 have the increase in capital employed is mainly related to year. The increase mainly relates to future deliveries been added as a result of the transition to IFRS 16. the level of completion within the Gripen programmes. within business areas Surveillance and Dynamics. Net investments during the year amounted to To secure the delivery of shares to participants in Net provisions for pensions, excluding the special MSEK 2,769 (2,796). Investments in tangible fixed Saab’s various share matching plans, the authorisation employer’s contribution, amounted to MSEK 4,722 as assets amounted to MSEK 1,213 (1,481). Investments from the Annual General Meeting to repurchase shares of 31 December 2019, compared to MSEK 4,099 at in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 1,588 (1,338) was utilised. During the year, series B shares were year-end 2018. The change had a negative effect on of which MSEK 1,392 (1,140) related to capitalised repurchased for MSEK 301. In addition, a dividend net debt of MSEK 623. The increase in provisions is R&D expenditures. of MSEK 601 was paid to the parent company’s mainly due to a reduction in the discount rate used to ­shareholders. NET LIQUIDITY/DEBT MSEK Note 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Assets Liquid assets 28 1,687 2,451 Short-term investments 22 5,794 9,033 Total liquid investments 7,481 11,454 Short-term interest-­bearing receivables 24 58 Long-term interest-­bearing receivables 24 521 449 Long-term receivables ­attributable to pensions 24 28 6 Total interest-bearing assets 8,088 11,909 Liabilities Lease liabilities 17 2,572 The average net liquidity/debt during 2019 amounted Liabilities to credit ­institutions 30 7,789 8,759 to MSEK -6,490 (-4,674). Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables, net pension obligations Liabilities to associated companies and joint ­ventures 30 45 43 and lease liabilities amounted to MSEK -354 (2,190) on Other interest-bearing ­liabilities 30 1 462 31 December 2019. Provisions for pensions1) 32 4,750 4,105 Total interest-bearing liabilities 15,157 13,369 Net liquidity (+) / debt (–) -7,069 -1,460 1) Excluding provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ ­contribution. 90 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial state m ents Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Other Total parent Ongoing capital Net result of Translacompany’s NonTotal shareCapital rights contribucash flow tion Revaluation Retained shareholders’ controlling holder’s MSEK stock issue tions hedges reserve reserve earings interest interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 543 -302 270 11 11,829 14,097 188 14,285 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS 9 14 -18 -4 -4 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 543 -288 270 11 11,811 14,093 188 14,281 Net comprehensive income/ loss for the year -98 177 -90 -11 42 31 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 5,578 6,006 6,006 Issue costs -22 -22 -22 Repurchase of shares -203 -203 -203 Share matching plan 143 143 143 Dividend -588 -588 -13 -601 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -6 -6 4 -2 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,746 428 6,099 -386 447 11 11,067 19,412 221 19,633 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 1,746 428 6,099 -386 447 11 11,067 19,412 221 19,633 Net comprehensive income/ loss for the year 158 204 1,495 1,857 53 1,910 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 -428 Repurchase of shares -301 -301 -301 Share matching plan 185 185 185 Dividend -601 -601 -4 -605 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -17 -17 4 -13 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 2,174 6,099 -228 651 11 11,828 20,535 274 20,809 For a definition of other reserves, see note 29. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 91 financial state m ents Consolidated statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2019 2018 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The cash flow effect of capital expenditures in tangible Operating activities: fixed assets amounted to MSEK 1,213 (1,481). Income after financial items 2,607 1,796 Investments in intangible fixed assets amounted Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 41 2,132 1,808 to MSEK 1,588 (1,338), of which MSEK 1,392 (1,140) Dividend from associated companies and joint ventures 20 39 was related to capitalised development costs and MSEK 196 (198) to other intangible fixed assets. Income tax paid -408 -479 Cash flow from operating activities before CASH FLOW changes in working capital 4,351 3,164 Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes Cash flow from changes in working capital: and other financial items, amounted to MSEK 1,469 Contract assets and liabilities -1,649 -3,039 (372), see note 41. Inventories -1,141 -1,057 Operational cash flow amounted to MSEK -1,300 Other current receivables 176 -1,044 (-2,424). It is defined as cash flow from operating activities and acquisitions and divestments of intangible Other current liabilities -218 1,965 and tangible fixed assets. Cash flow from operating Provisions -325 -479 activities excludes taxes and other financial items but Cash flow from operating activities 1,194 -490 includes amortisation of lease liabilities. Investing activities: Cash flow is negative mainly as a result of increased working capital related to contract assets and inventoInvestments in intangible fixed assets -196 -198 ries and also utilisation of previous advances and Capitalised development costs -1,392 -1,140 ­milestone payments. Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,213 -1,481 Free cash flow amounted to MSEK -2,036 (-3,195). Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 32 23 For more detailed information on cash flow, see Investments in and sales of short-term investments 3,219 -4,554 note 41. Saab has an established programme to sell trade Investments in financial assets -171 -48 receivables in order to increase the financial flexibility. Sale of financial assets 35 62 As of 31 December 2019, receivables with a value of Investments in operations 41 15 MSEK 0 (0) had been sold. Sale of subsidiaries 41 33 Cash flow from investing activities 314 -7,288 Financing activities: Repayment of loans -990 -967 Amortisation of lease liabilities -415 Raising of loans 8 3,820 Rights issue 11 5,967 Repurchase of shares -301 -203 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -601 -588 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -24 -24 Transactions with non-controlling interests 8 -14 Cash flow from financing activities -2,304 7,991 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 41 -796 213 Liquid assets at beginning of year 2,451 2,202 Exchange rate difference in liquid assets 32 36 Liquid assets at year-end 41 1,687 2,451 92 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial state m ents Parent company income statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 SALES AND INCOME The Parent Company includes units within the Sales 4 21,960 20,998 ­business areas Aeronautics, Surveillance, Support Cost of goods sold -17,341 -16,287 and Services, and Industrial Products and Services Gross income 4,619 4,711 as well as one unit within Dynamics. Group staff and Marketing expenses -1,587 -1,589 Group support are also included. Administrative expenses -867 -876 Research and development costs -1,944 -1,757 Other operating income 6 26 53 Other operating expenses 6 -65 -263 Operating income 182 279 Result from financial items: 11 Result from shares in Group companies 807 941 Result from shares in associated companies and joint ventures -63 51 Result from other securities and receivables held as fixed assets 55 144 Other interest income and similar items 352 125 Interest expenses and similar items -189 -51 Income after financial items 1,144 1,489 Appropriations 12 -103 -114 Income before taxes 1,041 1,375 Taxes 13 -248 -300 Net income for the year 793 1,075 Parent company comprehensive income MSEK 2019 2018 Net income for the year 793 1,075 Other comprehensive income/loss: Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences Other comprehensive income/loss for the year Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 793 1,075 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 93 financial state m ents Parent company balance sheet MSEK Note 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 LIQUIDITY, FINANCING, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ASSETS The Parent Company’s net debt amounted to MSEK Fixed assets 2,777 at 31 December 2019 compared to MSEK 564 at 31 December 2018. Intangible fixed assets 15 658 617 Investments in tangible fixed assets amounted to Tangible fixed assets 16 3,967 3,709 MSEK 686 (857). Investments in intangible assets Financial fixed assets: amounted to MSEK 156 (187). Shares in Group companies 39 6,178 6,181 At year-end, the Parent Company had 9,885 employReceivables from Group companies 21 78 68 ees, compared to 9,672 at the beginning of the year. Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 20 383 366 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 21 463 391 Other long-term securities holdings 23 24 25 Other long-term receivables 24 18 18 Deferred tax assets 13 131 148 Total financial fixed assets 7,275 7,197 Total fixed assets 11,900 11,523 Current assets Inventories 25 6,996 6,159 Current receivables: Accounts receivable 26 2,125 2,250 Receivables from Group companies 3,797 3,540 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 10 12 Contract assets 10,095 8,548 Other receivables 24 378 409 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 1,961 2,053 Total current receivables 18,366 16,812 Short-term investments 5,783 9,000 Cash and bank balances 1,007 1,623 Total current assets 32,152 33,594 TOTAL ASSETS 44,052 45,117 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 29 Restricted equity: Capital stock 2,174 2,174 Revaluation reserve 663 669 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity: Share premium reserve 5,556 5,556 Retained earnings 4,582 4,218 Net income for the year 793 1,075 Total equity 14,311 14,235 Untaxed reserves 40 2,508 2,405 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 32 238 242 Other provisions 33 1,344 1,085 Total provisions 1,582 1,327 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31 7,788 8,758 Liabilities to Group companies 5,428 6,121 Contract liabilities 4 5,147 5,205 Accounts payable 2,191 2,908 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 45 43 Tax liabilities 29 53 Other liabilities 34 988 607 Accrued expenses and deferred income 35 4,035 3,455 Total liabilities 25,651 27,150 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 44,052 45,117 For information on the Parent Company’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 37. 94 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial state m ents Statement of changes in equity for the parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Net compreCapital Ongoing Revaluation Statutory premium Retained hensive income Total MSEK stock rights issue reserve reserve reserve earings for the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 675 543 4,868 7,832 Effects of change in accounting principles, IFRS 9 -9 -9 Adjusted opening balance, 1 January 2018 1,746 675 543 4,859 7,823 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 1,075 1,075 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 5,578 6,006 Issue costs -22 -22 Repurchase of shares -203 -203 Dividend -588 -588 Share matching plan 143 143 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 1,746 428 669 543 5,556 4,218 1,075 14,235 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 1,746 428 669 543 5,556 5,293 14,235 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income/loss for the year 793 793 Transactions with shareholders: Rights issue 428 -428 Issue costs -301 -301 Dividend -601 -601 Share matching plan 185 185 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 2,174 663 543 5,556 4,582 793 14,311 Parent company statement of cash flows MSEK Note 2019 2018 Operating activities: Income after financial items 1,144 1,489 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 41 387 182 Income tax paid -254 -265 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,277 1,406 Cash flow from changes in working capital: Contract assets and liabilities -1,783 -3,078 Inventories -863 -601 Other current receivables 79 -1,293 Other current liabilities 253 1,801 Provisions -183 -329 Cash flow from operating activities -1,220 -2,084 Investing activities: Shareholders’ contributions paid/repaid -7 -114 Investments in intangible fixed assets -156 -186 Investments in tangible fixed assets -686 -858 Sale of tangible fixed assets 8 2 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 3,227 -4,562 Investments in financial assets -142 -77 Sale of financial assets 6 146 Investments in operations -1 4 Sale of subsidiaries 9 Cash flow from investing activities 2,258 -5,645 Financing activities: Change in receivables/liabilities from Group companies -669 -537 Raising of loans 15 3,820 Repayment of loans -985 -860 Rights issue 11 5,967 Repurchase of shares -301 -203 Dividend paid to shareholders -601 -588 Group contributions and dividends received 876 582 Cash flow from financing activities -1,654 8,181 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -616 442 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,623 1,181 Liquid assets at year-end 41 1,007 1,623 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 95 financial statements NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES OPERATIONS benchmark interest rate, since there is uncertainty as to how long or in which form Saab AB is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in Linköping. current benchmark interest rates such as LIBOR, EURIBOR and STIBOR will The company’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s large cap list. remain. In brief, the amendment specify that the uncertainty regarding benchThe operations of Saab AB with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated mark interest rates will not require discontinuance of hedge accounting. Upon companies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) were divided into six busiapplication, in Saab’s judgment, there is uncertainty regarding STIBOR, which is ness areas in 2019: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Surveillance, Support and Services, the only benchmark interest rate in scope of hedge accounting in the Group. The Industrial Products and Services and Kockums. In addition, Corporate comprises nominal amount of interest rate swaps that hedge the MTNs with 3-month Group staff, Group departments, and secondary operations. The operations in STIBOR as the base rate is MSEK 4,275. each business area are described in note 3. In addition to above there are a number of additional amendments and interOn 21 February 2020, the Board of Directors and the President approved this preations that have entered into force during 2019. None of these have had a annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and it will be presented material effect on the Group. to the Annual General Meeting on 1 April 2020 for adoption. NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS CONFORMITY TO STANDARDS AND LAWS THAT HAVE NOT YET ENTERED INTO FORCE The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the IASB has issued a number of amendments and standards that have not yet ­International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International entered into force. None of these are expected to have a material effect on Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretations of the International the Group. Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the EU. The consolidated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Current assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be Accounting Rules for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure recovered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and requirements for Swedish consolidated accounts prepared in accordance ­liabilities are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. with IFRS. The annual report for Saab AB has been prepared according to the Annual CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Group companies Reporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial Group companies are companies in which Saab AB has a decisive influence. Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied by the Decisive influence exists when Saab has right to and can affect the variable return Parent Company and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to from the company through a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more apply IFRS by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the Act on than 50 per cent of the votes, other than in exceptional circumstances where it Safeguarding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax rules. can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute a decisive ­Significant differences are described below under “Significant differences influence. Decisive influence also exists when the parent owns not more than half between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” of the voting power of an entity but otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting rights or the power to govern the company’s financial and ASSUMPTIONS IN THE PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTS operating policies under a statute or agreement. When determining whether a The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also decisive influence exists, potential voting shares that can be exercised or conthe reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The financial verted without delay are taken into account. reports are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are Subsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recognised rounded off to the nearest million. according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a business comThe preparation of the financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the bination is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions that business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with regard to the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are acquisition of operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the fair value of based on historical experience and knowledge of the industry that Saab operates what of is paid in cash on the acquisition date through the assumption of liabilities in, and under current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of these estior shares issued. Contingent consideration is included in cost and recognised at mates and assumptions is then used to determine the carrying amounts of its fair value on the acquisition date. The subsequent effects of revaluations of assets and liabilities that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates and assumptions. assets and assumed liabilities are initially recognised at their acquisition-date fair Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of changed value. The exceptions to this principle are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee estimates is recognised in profit or loss unless the assesment relates to a item benefits, share-based payment and assets held for sale, which are valued in reported in other comprehensive income. accordance with the principles described in each respective note disclosure. Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying the ­Exceptions are also made for indemnification assets and repurchased rights. accounting principles in compliance with IFRS that may have a significant impact Indemnification assets are valued according to the same principle as the indemon the financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate significant nified item. Repurchased rights are valued based on the remaining contractual adjustments in financial reports in subsequent years are described in more detail period regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities in note 2. for contract extensions in connection with valuations. The accounting principles described below for the Group and the accounting Recognised goodwill consists of the difference between, on the one hand, the principles concerning significant profit /loss and balance sheet items described cost of Group company’s interests, the value of non-controlling interests in the in the respective note disclosure have been applied consistently for all periods acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the presented in the Group’s financial reports, unless otherwise stated. other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the The consolidated accounts have been prepared with acquisition cost as acquisition analysis. Non-controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition valuation basis unless otherwise stated below or in the accounting principles in date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the each note. acquired company’s identified assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are recognised as transactions affecting the owners’ equity. APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING RULES The financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolidated IFRS 16 Leases accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises (acquisition date) The Group has for the financial year 2019 for the first time applied the new standuntil this influence ceases. When decisive influence over the Group company ard for lease recognition, IFRS 16 Leases, which is a new standard that replaces ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are IAS 17 Leases. initially ­recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit See note 17 for accounting principles and disclosures related to the Groups or loss. obligations as a lessee and note 44 for transition effects in connection with the transition of IFRS 16. Associated companies and joint ventures Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform not decisive, influence. Joint ventures are companies that the Group, through a The reform was adopted by the EU in January 2020 and applies as of the financial cooperative agreement with one of more parties, shares a decisive influence year 2020 with the option of early application. The Group has opted to apply the over. Associated company and joint venture are recognised according to the rules early for the financial year 2019. The amendment provides reliefs for comequity method in the consolidated accounts. See note 19 for further information. panies that apply hedge accounting where the hedged risk is, or is linked to, a 96 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial statements Note 1, cont. Eliminated transactions Untaxed reserves Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or losses The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their ­differences. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred entirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. tax liability is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint ventures are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership interest Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions in the company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the Group contributions received and paid are recognised through profit or loss in extent that there is no impairment loss. financial income and expenses. Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participatFOREIGN CURRENCY ing interests of the contributor, to the extent write-down is not required. Functional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environment where units of the Group conduct their operations. Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate then in effect. Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations are recognised in profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect at the time of valuation at fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recognised in the same way as other changes in value of the asset or liability. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to SEK Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than SEK are translated to SEK at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses in ­foreign operations are translated to SEK at the average rate. Translation differences that arise through currency translations are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The amount is recognised separately as a translation reserve in equity. SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GROUP’S AND THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group with the following exceptions. Business combinations Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. Associated companies and joint ventures Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the Parent Company according to the acquisition cost method. Revenue includes only dividends received. Intangible fixed assets All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities The Parent Company do not recognise leases in the balance sheet as right-ofuse assets and lease liabilities. Leasing fees are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term in accordance with the exemption from IFRS 16 in RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less any write-down and financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for write-down has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives not classified as hedging instruments are carried by the Parent ­Company ­according to the lowest value principle. For ­derivatives classified as hedging instruments, recognition is determined by the hedged item. This means that the derivative is treated as an off-balance sheet item until the hedged transaction has occurred. Employee benefits The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 97 financial statements NOTE 2 ASSUMPTIONS IN THE APPLICATION OF THE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the follow­ Recovery of value of development costs ing areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the accounting The Group has invested considerable amounts in research and development. principles may have a significant impact on the accounting of the Group’s results The reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to deveof operations and financial position and may result in significant adjustments lopment projects relating to the airborne early warning and control system, GlobalEye, in subsequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored and an export version of Gripen. Capitalised development costs amount to MSEK 4,580 ­continuously by Group Management and the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. (3,328). The recognition of development expenditures as an asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the product is expected to be technically UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS and commercially usable in the future and that future economic benefits are likely. Long-term customer contracts Amortisation of capitalised development costs is made on a straight-line basis over the A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development period of use, up to a maximum of 10 years. The period of use is reviewed annually, aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed with a customer which may result in necessitate impairment. See note 15 for further information. on delivery of a product or service, a thorough analysis is always made of the pre­ requisites and risks of the delivery through a project management process estabImpairment testing of goodwill lished within Saab. In the execution stage, continuous reviews are made of the work In the calculation of cash-generating units’ recovery value to determine whether in the project according to the same process. there is a need for impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with regard An important aspect is to identify risks and assess them and the measures that to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projections. are taken to mitigate the risks with the help of a risk assessment method. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of goodwill. The Group recognise revenue over time for long-term contracts. An estimation of The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to MSEK 5,355 (5,310). See note 15 for total costs including an estimate of technical and commercial risks is critical in further information. ­revenue recognition. Changed estimates of the projects’ total costs cause retroactive effects that affect sales and revenue recognition. Today some of Saab’s major Pensions projects are still under development phase, which means greater uncertainties in Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In risks to take into consideration in revenue recognition and estimation of total costs. defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage The accounting of long-term customer contracts also affects balance sheet items of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to such as contract assets and contract liabilities, accounts receivables, ­inventories MSEK 12,132 (10,752). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a and project loss provisions. Making delivery according to project plan and milenumber of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly stones are important for the cash flow since ­payments are made upon achievement increase or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Changes in actuarial of milestones or deliveries in projects. See note 4 for more information regarding gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s long-term customer contracts. financial position. See note 32 for further information. NOTE 3 SEGMENT REPORTING OPERATING SEGMENTS Surveillance Saab is a leading high-technology company, with its main operations in defence, Surveillance provides efficient solutions for safety and security, for surveillance and aviation and civil security. Operations are primarily focused on well-defined areas in decision support, and for threat detection, location, and protection. The portfolio defence electronics, advanced weapons system and command and control systems covers airborne, ground-based and naval radar, electronic warfare, combat systems as well as military and commercial aviation. Saab is also active in technical services and and C4I solutions. maintenance. Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the main part of sales is generated in Europe. In addition, Saab has a local presence in South Africa, Australia, the US Support and Services and other selected countries globally. Support and Services offers reliable, cost-efficient service and support for all of Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operating Saab’s markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s chief ­logistics as well as products, solutions and services for military and civil missions. ­operating decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive Officer as its chief operating decision maker, while the internal reports used by the CEO to oversee Industrial Products and Services operations and make decisions on allocating resources serve as the basis of the The business units within Industrial Products and Services are focused on mainly information presented. The segments are monitored at the operating income level. civilian customers. The wholly owned, independent subsidiary Combitech are In the segment’s reporting, all leasing agreements are recognised as operational included in the business area. leasing commitments. In addition to IFRS 16, the accounting principles for reportable segments conform to the principles applied by the Group as a whole. Sales of Kockums goods and services between segments are made on market terms. Saab’s operaKockums develops, delivers, and maintains world-class solutions for naval environtions are divided into six business areas, which are also operating segments: ments. Its portfolio includes submarines with the Stirling system for air independent • Aeronautics propulsion, surface combatants, mine hunting systems and autonomous ­vessels. • Dynamics Kockums’ unique competence is in signature management, impact strength and • Surveillance advanced stealth technology. • Support and Services • Industrial Products and Services Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow • Kockums During 2019, no significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow were ­recognised. The business areas are described below. Complementing the six segments is Information on large customers ­Corporate, which comprises Group staffs and departments as well as other In 2019, Saab had two customers that accounted for 10 per cent or more of the ­non-core operations. Group’s sales: the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV). FMV is a ­customer of all business areas and total sales amounted to MSEK 9,152 (10,521) . The Brasilian Aeronautics state is mainly a customer to the business area of Aeronautics with sales in 2019 of Aeronautics is a world-leading manufacturer of innovative aerial systems and is MSEK 3,921 (3,514). engaged in development of military aviation technology. It also conducts long-term future studies of manned and unmanned aircraft as preparation for new systems and further development of existing products. Information on geographical areas External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, while fixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographically located. Dynamics Dynamics offers a market-leading product portfolio comprising ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles, systems for Seasonal variation training and simulation, signature management systems for armed forces around A major part of Saab’s business is related to large projects where the revenue is the world, and niche products for the civil and defence markets. ­recognised by using recognise revenue over time in relation to reprocessing. The costs incurred in these projects are normally lower during the third quarter ­compared with the other quarters. The fourth quarter is also usually affected by a higher number of deliveries, mainly within Dynamics. 98 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial statements Note 3, cont. Industrial Support and Products and Group Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Services Services Kockums Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 External order bookings 2,737 5,060 6,468 7,084 9,136 7,202 3,641 3,513 4,189 4,006 1,031 1,108 14 2 27,216 27,975 Internal order bookings 242 201 238 224 254 168 458 122 1,326 1,338 185 15 -2,703 -2,068 Total 2,979 5,261 6,706 7,308 9,390 7,370 4,099 3,635 5,515 5,344 1,216 1,123 14 2 -2,703 -2,068 27,216 27,975 External order backlog 42,104 47,316 14,066 13,477 16,241 14,532 8,611 10,634 7,834 9,694 4,690 6,645 -253 -113 93,293 102,184 Internal order backlog 16 43 198 168 224 199 375 56 1 201 1 310 162 1 -2 176 -1 778 Total 42,120 47,359 14,264 13,645 16,465 14,731 8,986 10,690 9,035 11,004 4,852 6,646 -253 -113 -2,176 -1,778 93, 293 102,184 External sales 7,949 7,684 5,931 5,042 7,471 7,082 5,685 5,336 5,118 4,654 2,984 3,275 295 83 35,433 33,156 Internal sales 269 372 209 277 228 315 136 134 1,438 1,453 23 16 -2,303 -2,567 Total sales 8,218 8,056 6,140 5,319 7,699 7,397 5,821 5,470 6,556 6,107 3,007 3,291 295 83 -2,303 -2,567 35,433 33,156 Operating income before share in income of associated companies and joint ­ventures 703 695 677 487 853 631 742 685 239 203 88 160 -360 -581 2,942 2,280 Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures -26 -15 39 48 -1 -1 13 -17 -59 -5 -14 Operating income 677 680 716 535 853 631 742 685 238 202 88 173 -377 -640 2,937 2,266 Financial income 1 1 3 3 20 17 9 2 3 1 34 339 266 -185 -131 190 193 Financial expenses -108 -94 -58 -55 -92 -71 -44 -33 -58 -44 -14 -9 -331 -488 185 131 -520 -663 Income before taxes 570 587 661 483 781 577 707 652 182 161 75 198 -369 -862 2,607 1,796 Taxes 1) -207 -142 -43 -68 -111 -95 -8 4 -25 -58 -7 -35 -181 -36 -582 -430 Net income for the year 363 445 618 415 670 482 699 656 157 103 68 163 -550 -898 2,025 1,366 Assets 11,106 9,879 7,317 7,152 16,431 14,763 6,272 5,103 7,066 6,338 4,437 4,379 29,225 28,081 -21,996 -19,567 59,858 56,128 Of which shares in associated companies and joint ­ventures 110 78 241 223 4 4 3 314 341 672 646 Liabilities 9,760 9,084 4,866 4,978 10,249 9,115 4,104 3,071 5,062 4,539 3,314 3,278 15,978 14,287 -14,284 -11,857 39,049 36,495 Operational cash flow -1,591 -1,096 158 -120 1,156 -1,085 11 369 -302 -351 -70 251 -662 -392 -1,300 -2,424 Capital employed 5,237 3,110 4,182 3,774 7,813 7,781 4,255 3,307 5,064 4,515 1,236 1,181 8,179 9,335 35,966 33,003 Investments 1,143 917 216 187 583 589 89 121 81 67 33 65 656 873 2,801 2,819 Depreciation2) 60 56 76 75 298 273 20 69 86 88 36 30 792 325 1,368 916 1) Current taxes in the Parent Company are reported in Corporate 2) Incremental depreciation as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, MSEK 411 Geographical areas Group Sweden Rest of Europe North America Latin America Asia MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 External sales 13,188 13,519 5,677 4,768 3,889 3,155 4,314 3,821 6,464 6,148 as % of sales 37 41 16 14 111) 10 122) 12 18 19 Fixed assets 19,461 15,450 577 449 493 495 1 2 168 143 Group Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 External sales 357 361 1,544 1,384 35,433 33,156 as % of sales 1 1 4 4 100 100 Fixed assets 461 469 160 136 21,321 17,144 1) Which of US represents 10 (8) % of the Group’s total sales. 2) Which of Brasil represents 12 (10) % of the Group’s total sales. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 99 financial statements Note 3, cont. Sales by operating segment Products Parent Company A share of Saab’s revenue is attributable to products where development, custoMSEK 2019 201 8 misation and integration are relatively minor and relates for the most part only to Aeronautics 7,959 7,691 the manufacture of products, as well as the resale of spare parts, for ­example. Revenue from these contracts is recognised at a given point in time, i.e. normally Dynamics 1,332 1,326 when control of the good has transferred to the customer in accordance with the Surveillance 5,434 5,305 terms of the contract. Support and Services 5,083 4,800 Industrial Products and Services 2,152 1,876 Service assignments Total 21,960 20,998 For Saab’s service assignments, which include the sale of consulting hours and support services, at a fixed price or on current account, the customer normally obtains the benefits when the obligation is satisfied. Revenue is mainly recogSales by geographical market nised over time as the assignment is performed according to the contract. Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 Sweden 8,510 8,707 Saab is active in the military defence market as well as the commercial aircraft and Rest of Europe 3,154 2,789 security market. In 2019, sales of defence materiel accounted for 85 per cent (85) of Saab’s sales. Saab’s international sales represent more than half of its total operaNorth America 2,020 1,688 tions and as a rule entail considerable sums that stretch over long periods of time. Latin America 4,088 3,653 In 2019, 63 per cent (59) of Saab’s sales was to markets outside Sweden. Asia 3,778 3,818 A large share of Saab’s sales comes from a limited number of customers and Africa 235 211 ­relatively few contracts. The European market including Sweden is Saab’s most Australia, etc. 175 132 important market. The Swedish Defence Material Administration (FMV) is Saab’s most important customer, accounting for 26 per cent (32) of Saab’s sales in 2019. Total 21,960 20,998 Saab’s operations are distinguished by complex, multi-year development assignments on the cutting edge of technology. In its long-term customer projects, Saab implements and delivers cost-efficient high-tech solutions in accordance with the NOTE 4 SALES customer contract. The contract model for major development projects according to which Saab is often engaged in development work is complex and entails risks. Contracts are often signed where the customer orders a product with specifications ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES on its features and which problems it will solve. Saab then commits to deliver in Sales accordance with the specifications and produces the required product or system. Revenue recognition is based on a contract for the sale of a good or service Consequently, when contracts are signed, the product in some cases has not been between two parties. The company recognises revenue when it satisfies the oblideveloped and will normally be delivered several years later. Most of the contracts gation to deliver the promised goods or services to the customer, which means are signed with a fixed-price component. In 2019 Long-term customer contracts that revenue is recognised when the customer obtains control over the good or accounted for 62 per cent (64) of total sales. service and has the ability to use or obtain the benefits from the good or service. The majority of Saab’s sales relates to projects that in most cases are recognised The main ­principles of revenue recognition are based on a five-step model: in revenue and income over time. This places high demands on project planning and control as well as monitoring to ensure that at any given time the commitments and 1. Identify the contract estimates of project costs and revenue provide a satisfactory basis for recognition 2. Identify the performance obligations of sales and income. Saab continuously updates cost estimates for long-term 3. Determine the transaction price ­customer contracts, which has a retroactive effect, both positive and negative, on 4. Allocate the transaction price to each obligation sales. The impact of retroactive effects during the year was insignificant in relation 5. Recognise revenue when the obligation is satisfied. to sales. Approximately 80 percent of sales is recognised over time in pace with ­project completion. Long-term customer contracts Accounting for long-term customer contracts affects balance sheet items such A large part of the Group’s operations involves long-term customer contracts for as contract assets and contract liabilities as well as accounts receivable, for which the development and manufacture of complex systems that stretch over several customary payment terms are applied. Many of Saab’s large contracts with reporting periods. The analysis of these contracts according to the five-step model ­customers are based on a payment model according to which the majority of the has mainly meant determining the number of performance obligations (step 2) and payment is not made until or after the product or system has been delivered or parwhen they are fulfilled (step 5), i.e. over time or at a given point in time. tially delivered. Saab has several large customer projects in the development phase. Since Saab’s long-term customer contracts involve considerable customisation Due to the level of completion of major projects, contract assets increased by and integration of goods and services, it usually means that a performance obligaMSEK 1,768 during the year. Opening contract liabilities as of 1 January 2019 were tion has been identified. A performance obligation is satisfied at a given point in time practically all ­recognised in revenue in the financial year. or over time. If a performance obligation is satisfied over time, one of the following Provision for guarantees in connection with products or services sold is normally criteria must be met: a) the customer must obtain immediate benefits when the oblirecognised if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made; see note 33 for gation is satisfied, b) the company’s performance creates or improves an asset that ­further information. the customer controls, or c) the company’s performance does not create an asset The Group has no significant commitments or obligations relating to product returns. with an alternative use to the company and the company has the right to payment Saab has not identified any customer contracts where a significant financing for costs incurred to date, including profit, in the event that the customer terminates component exists. the contract for ­reasons other than the company’s failure to perform as promised. Since Saab’s long-term customer contracts involve considerable customisation Future revenue from long-term customer contracts and integration of goods and services and because the cost to adapt the asset and The order backlog is expected to be realised and recognised as revenue according sell it to a new customer would not be insignificant, the conclusion is that the asset to the following table: is not deemed to have an alternative use. Since the contracts also contain clauses that include the right to payment plus a reasonable profit for costs incurred, it Order backlog duration: means that the criteria for recognising long-term customer contracts over time are satisfied. Revenue and costs are therefore recognised in the income statement in MSEK 2019 2018 relation to the contract’s stage of completion. Within 1 year 28,896 27,954 The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship between Within 2 years 22,255 20,647 expenditures incurred as of the closing day and estimated total expenditures to satisfy the contract. Of the total revenue, the ­portion corresponding to the stage of Within 3 years 16,087 18,138 completion is recognised in each period. The stage of completion can also be Within 4 years 13,205 13,282 determined in certain cases based on milestones or number of units delivered. An 4 years and forward 12,850 22,163 expected loss is recognised in the income statement as soon as it is identified.In Total 93,293 102,184 some long-term customer contracts Saab receives advance payments or build-up material contract assets. If there is a significant financing component, the time value effect is recognised only for contracts where the advance payment still remain after twelve months. 100 S AA B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 financial statements Note 4, cont. Support Industrial and ­Products and Corporate/ Aeronautics Dynamics Surveillance Services Services Kockums elimination Group MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sales per customer: Military customers 7,948 7,679 5,607 4,723 7,435 7,018 4,859 4,458 1,114 886 2,984 3,275 279 80 30,226 28,119 Civilian customers 1 5 324 319 36 64 826 878 4,004 3,768 16 3 5,207 5,037 Total external sales 7,949 7,684 5,931 5,042 7,471 7,082 5,685 5,336 5,118 4,654 2,984 3,275 295 83 35,433 33,156 Sales by significant source: Long-term customer contracts 6,840 6,967 2,258 1,935 5,083 4,926 2,376 2,237 2,954 2,513 2,216 2,512 279 81 22,006 21,171 Services 897 701 699 613 1,646 1,443 2,556 2,535 1,891 1,937 734 731 15 8,438 7,960 Products 212 16 2,974 2,494 742 713 753 564 273 204 34 32 1 2 4,989 4,025 Total external sales 7,949 7,684 5,931 5,042 7,471 7,082 5,685 5,336 5,118 4,654 2,984 3,275 295 83 35,433 33,156 Sales by domain: Air 7,949 7,684 543 289 3,449 3,757 3,888 3,624 364 367 121 55 16,314 15,776 Land 3,977 3,313 1,256 1,083 931 808 493 386 6,657 5,590 Naval 1,192 1,239 2,516 2,153 230 207 13 8 2,984 3,275 174 28 7,109 6,910 Civil Security 210 192 8 42 159 188 2,024 1,841 2,401 2,263 Commercial Aeronautics 1 477 486 1,478 1,202 1,955 1,689 Other 9 9 242 46 23 746 850 997 928 Total external sales 7,949 7,684 5,931 5,042 7,471 7,082 5,685 5,336 5,118 4,654 2,984 3,275 295 83 35,433 33,156 Sales recognition method: Over time 7,716 7,667 2,931 2,397 6,321 6,058 4,455 4,146 3,050 2,822 2,813 3,222 279 81 27,565 26,393 Point in time 233 17 3,000 2,645 1,150 1,024 1,230 1,190 2,068 1,832 171 53 16 2 7,868 6,763 Total external sales 7,949 7,684 5,931 5,042 7,471 7,082 5,685 5,336 5,118 4,654 2,984 3,275 295 83 35,433 33,156 Sales by customer Parent Company NOTE 5 OPERATING EXPENSES MSEK 2019 2018 Military customers 19,432 18,593 Operating expenses Civilian customers 2,528 2,405 The income statement is classified according to function as follows: Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufacturing Total 21,960 20,998 costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, premises, and the depreciation/amortisation and write-down of intangible and tangible fixed assets Sales by significant source Parent Company other than self-financed capitalised development cost (see below). Customer-­ financed research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold. MSEK 2019 2018 Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, Group Long-term customer Management and staff functions as well as expenses attributable to business contracts 15,761 15,488 area and business unit managements. Services 4,729 4,361 Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and sales Products 1,470 1,149 organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. Total 21,960 20,998 Research and development costs are recognised separately and comprise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development as well as amortiSales by domain sation of capitalised development costs. Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 Operating expenses classified by the type of cost, excluding other operating income Air 15,659 15,374 and expenses, are distributed as follows: Land 2,269 2,121 Naval 1,525 1,251 Group Civil Security 558 589 MSEK 2019 2018 Commercial Aeronautics 1,949 1,663 Materials and components 8,259 7,535 Total 21,960 20,998 Purchased services 4,599 4,037 Personnel costs 14,225 13,524 Sales recognition method Parent Company Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs 1,398 1,039 MSEK 2019 2018 Other external costs 4,151 4,634 Over time 17,771 17,335 Total 32,632 30,769 Point in time 4,189 3,663 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs include write-downs and reversal of Total 21, 960 20,998 write-downs on inventory. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 101 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING REVENUE AND EXPENSES NOTE 7 GOVERNMENT GRANTS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Other operating revenue and expenses Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from EU related to Other operating revenue and expenses relate to operating activities that fall outresearch and development projects. These are recognised when there is side of core operations, exchange rate differences on items of an operating ­reasonable certainty that the grant will be received and that the Group will meet nature, changes in the value of ­derivatives of an operating nature and capital the conditions associated with the grant. Government grants are systematically gains/losses on the sale of tangible fixed assets. Also included at the Group level ­recognised in the income statement in the same way and over the same periods are capital gains/losses on the sale of subsidiaries, operations, associated comas the expenses for which the grants are intended to compensate. Government panies and joint ventures. grants related to assets are recognised in the statement of financial position as a reduction in the asset’s carrying amount. Group Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 For 2019, MSEK 147 (121) has been received. MSEK 153 (99) has been recognised Gain on sale of transfer through profit or loss by reducing research and development expenditures and as activity 72 30 30 other operating income. In the statement of financial position at year-end, MSEK 45 (51) is recognised as prepaid income. Exchange rate gains on operating ­ receivables/liabilities 32 29 7 10 Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have reached an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in the Government grants 22 4 15 3 Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at Change in fair value of biological MSEK 350 in which Saab’s obligation to repay is tied to the extent of delivieries. assets 19 Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2019, Gain on sale of tangible the National Debt Office has paid out a net amount of MSEK 263 (263). The debt as fixed assets 13 2 1 2 of 31 December 2019 amounted to MSEK 127 (130), which reduces inventory in the Gain from other operating activities 11 21 financial statements. Gain on sale of associated No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. ­companies 5 11 Insurance compensation 2 3 2 2 Gain on sale of Group ­companies 16 NOTE 8 EMPLOYEES AND STAFF COSTS Capital gain on realised ­accumulated translation The average number of employees in 2019 amounted to 17,174 (16,520), of whom ­differences 12 77 per cent (77) were men. A complete list of the number of employees by country Trading results 1 has been sent to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and can be downOther 41 27 1 6 loaded at www.saabgroup.com, Investor, Financial Data. Total 217 156 26 53 Average number of employees1) 2019 of whom men 2018 of whom men Parent company Sweden 9,523 77% 9,016 77% Other operating expenses Rest of Europe 13 85% 44 89% Group Parent Company North America 4 100% 9 100% MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Latin America 21 81% 24 83% Provisions for guaranteed residual Asia 17 76% 52 83% value -65 -65 Africa 9 89% 44 89% Loss from other operating Parent company, total 9,587 77% 9,189 77% ­activities -9 -3 Loss on sale and disposal of Group companies ­tangible and intangible fixed assets -1 -16 -12 Sweden 4,519 77% 4,370 78% Exchange rate losses on operating Rest of Europe 899 82% 880 81% receivables/ l­iabilities and change North America 741 75% 703 74% in value of derivatives -18 Latin America 57 61% 33 70% Capital gain on realised accumulated translation ­differences -8 Asia 195 79% 145 78% Restructuring costs -200 -200 Africa 716 72% 814 71% Provision environmental reserve1) -48 Australia, etc 460 83% 386 82% Other -1 -18 -3 Group companies, total 7,587 77% 7,331 77% Total -76 -263 -65 -263 Group, total 17,174 77% 16,520 77% 1) Environmental reserve previously reported in the Group company Lansen Försäkrings AB 1) The average number of employees has been calculated as an average of the number of Full Time has been transfered to the Parent Company during 2018. The transaction had no effect on the Group. Equivalents (FTE). The term Full-Time Equivalents excludes long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationers are however included in the calculation. 102 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. Gender distribution of corporate management Remuneration to the President Parent Company The remuneration to the President and CEO consists of a fixed salary. No short-term Share of women, per cent 2019 2018 variable remuneration is paid. The preparation process for compensation issues Board of Directors 40 40 regarding the President is handled by the Board’s Remuneration Committee ­according to the principles laid down by the Annual General Meeting and then voted Other senior executives 33 31 on by the Board. Håkan Buskhe was President and CEO until 22 October 2019, whereby Micael Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses Johansson assumed the position on 23 October 2019. Both Håkan Buskhe and Micael Johansson have participated in ongoing Performance Share Plan 20152019 2018 2019 and Share Matching Plan 2015-2019. As of May 2017, both Håkan Buskhe and Salaries Social Salaries Social Micael Johansson have participated in Saab’s performance program Special and other security and other security ­Projects Incentive 2017-2019. For more detailed information regarding Saab’s MSEK remuneration expenses remuneration expenses ­long-term incentive programmes, see page 106. Parent Company 5,493 2,733 5,218 2,506 In the period 23 October through 31 December 2019, President Micael Johanso  f which pension son received salary and other benefits totalling SEK 3,405,627, of which other costs1) 1,001 853 ­benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 645,036. Outstanding matching rights, i.e. vested and expensed but not yet allotted, for President Micael Group companies 4,602 1,397 4,396 1,404 Johansson in Saab’s long-term incentive programmes total SEK 630,531 at of which pension ­estimated outcomes. costs2) 553 582 In the period 1 January through 22 October 2019, President Håkan Buskhe Group, total 10,095 4,130 9,614 3,910 received salary and other benefits totalling SEK 37,809,117 (21,852,742), of which of which pension other benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 25,827,439 costs3) 1,554 1,435 (7,745,450). In accordance with the terms of the long-term incentive programmes, 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 8 (9) referred to the Parent Company’s Board and the Board of Directors has resolved that outgoing President Håkan Bushke has the President, including deputies and Executive Vice President. The company’s outstanding pension right to participate in future matches in all ongoing incentive programmes, i.e. the ­obligations for these individuals, amount to MSEK 10 (13), of which MSEK 9 (13) referred to former Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special Projects Incentive, which Board members and President, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. he participated in at the time of his termination as President. Shares in these plans 2) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding defined-benefit plans between Parent Company and Group. See notes 1 and 32 for more information. will be allotted or matched on the scheduled dates, but the remuneration was 3) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 21 (20) referred to the Group’s and Group companies’ Boards expensed in its entirety in 2019, representing SEK 17,826,016 of the total remuneraand Presidents. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amounted to MSEK tion for share related plans of SEK 25,696,377. 10 (13), of which MSEK 9 (13) referred to former board members and Presidents. Pension terms Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, The retirement age for the President is at least 62 years. The President has a President and Executive Vice Presidents and other employees defined-­contribution pension plan and may decide himself on the payment term, 2019 2018 though within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums amounting to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. Pension Board, Board, ­premiums are paid as long as the President remains an employee of the company, President and President and Executive Vice Other Executive Vice Other but not beyond the age of 65. To this is added the cost of pension premiums accordMSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees ing to the ITP plan. The pension commitment is vested. For 2019, the cost of President Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including ITP, was SEK Parent Company 35 5,458 32 5,186 4,350,679 (5,111,922). For 2019 the cost of President Micael Johansson’s pension Group companies 91 4,511 84 4,312 including ITP, was SEK 896,527. Group, total 126 9,969 116 9,498 Severance terms Of the salaries and remuneration paid to Board members, President and Executive If terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension Vice Presidents, MSEK 3 referred to the prior President. ­benefits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive severOf the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, MSEK 31 ance pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed salary. If the (29) referred to senior executives other than Board members, the President and President does not obtain new employment, he will receive an additional six months Executive Vice Presidents. of severance pay. The severance will be deducted from income received from other For information on post-employment benefits, see note 32. employment during the same period. If the President resigns voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS The President’s agreement includes a non-compete clause. Remuneration to Board members In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees paid to Remuneration to other senior executives members of the Board, for the term April 2019 – April 2020, amount to The group of other senior executives included 11 individuals (12) at 31 December SEK 7,560,000 (6,625,000), consisting of SEK 1,900,000 (1,750,000) to the Chair2019: the Executive Vice President, the Heads of the Business Areas and the Heads man, SEK 700,000 (675,000) to the Deputy Chairman and SEK 620,000 (600,000) of Group staffs. At 31 December 2019, Group Management was comprised of to each of the other members elected by the Annual General Meeting, with the Micael Johansson (President), Magnus Örnberg, Görgen ­Johansson, Anders Carp, ­exception of the President. Jonas Hjelm, Gunnar Wieslander, Christian Hedelin, Ellen Molin, Annika Bäremo, For audit committee work during the term April 2019 – April 2020, committee ­Jessica Öberg, Sebastian Carlsson and Lena Eliasson. chairman Joakim Westh also received a fee of SEK 250,000 (225,000) and The remuneration paid to other senior executives consists of a fixed salary. No ­committee members Erika Söderberg Johnson and Daniel Nodhäll each received a short-term variable remuneration is paid. Compensation issues regarding the other fee of SEK 165,000 (150,000). senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group Human Resources and For remuneration committee work, during the term April 2019 – April 2020, ­presented to the President, who makes a decision that is presented to the committee chairman Sten Jakobsson also received a fee of SEK 150,000 (150,000) ­Compensation Committee and the Board. and committee members Marcus Wallenberg and Bert Nordberg each received a fee of SEK 90,000 (90,000). Remuneration to Board members and committee members recognised as cost for fiscal year 2019 is shown in the table on page 105. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 103 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. Of the other senior executives, one individual received cash settlement of a Severance terms and severance pay non-recurring nature upon recruitment according to a resolution 2018. An amount Upon termination by the company, the group of other senior executives normally totalling SEK 850,500 will be paid during a period of 36 months from the start of rece­ives salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter 9 employment. The payments are made monthly in the form of pension premiums and (10) senior executives receive severance pay, according to agreement, equivalent to are conditional upon the recipients not giving notice of termination of employment. a ­maximum of 18 months of salary, based on their fixed salary. Severance is paid SEK 283,500 has been paid during 2019. monthly with the first payment in the month after the employment has ended. All eligible executives have participated in ongoing Performance Share Plan ­Severance is not paid for the period falling after the contractual pension age. 2015-2019 and Share Matching plan 2015-2019. As of May 2017, all eligible Together, the term of notice and severance may not exceed 24 months. ­executives participate in Saab’s performance programme Special Projects Incentive The severance will be deducted from income received from other employment 2017-2019. during the same period. Upon termination by themselves, there is a six-month In 2019, other senior executives received salaries and other benefits totalling period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. SEK 62,767,605 (55,148,280), of which other benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 22,298,248 (16,010,185). Outstanding matching rights, i.e. vested Other benefits and expensed but not yet allotted, for other senior executives in Saab’s long-term All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. incentive programmes total SEK 34,335,670 (16,548,267) at estimated outcomes. Several senior executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing For more detailed information regarding Saab’s long-term incentive programmes, and travel. see page 106. Pension terms The pension age of 62 years applies to all other senior execu­tives. However, two ­persons have a pension age according to existing law and collective agreement. In addition to ITP, 9 members (10) of the group are affiliated with the Saab plan, which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pension benefits in addition to ITP or its equivalent on salary levels between 20 and 30 basic amounts as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The individuals themselves can decide on the payment term, though within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. Moreover, an insurance policy finances the period between the agreed ­pension age, 62 years, and 65 years. The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based on a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by each executive’s time remaning untill agreed pension age, 62 years, when joining the plan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted pension from 65 years of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over 30 basic amounts of qualifying salaries. Premium payments continue as long as the individuals remain in their positions or as employees of the company. Pension obligations are vested. In 2019, pension costs for other senior execu­ tives, including ITP and its equivalent, amounted to SEK 14,639,146 (14,518,065). Other senior executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to retire on pension as of the agreed retirement age of 62 years. 104 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2019 Base salary/ Variable Share Board and compensation related Other Pension SEK committee fee remuneration plans2) ­benefits1) cost Total Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,952,500 1,952,500 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 843,750 843,750 Other Board members Sara Mazur 615,000 615,000 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 615,000 615,000 Joakim Westh 858,750 858,750 Bert Nordberg 705,000 705,000 Danica Kragic Jensfelt 615,000 615,000 Daniel Nodhäll 776,250 776,250 Erika Söderberg Johnson 776,250 776,250 Johan Menckel 465,000 465,000 President and CEO Micael Johansson 2,760,591 632,832 12,204 896,527 4,302,154 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 11,981,678 25,696,3774) 131,062 4,350,679 42,159,796 Other senior executives 40,185,857 283,5003) 19,930,748 2,367,500 14,639,146 77,406,751 Total 63,150,626 283,500 46,259,957 2,510,766 19,886,352 132,091,201 1) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 2) Share related plans relate to Share Matching Plans, Performance Share Plans and Special Projects Incentive. 3) Including remuneration to one senior executives, which, as agreed, was paid in the form of pension premiums. 4) In accordance with the terms of the long-term incentive programmes, the Board of Directors has resolved that outgoing CEO Håkan Bushke has the right to participate in future matches in all ongoing incentive programmes, i.e. the Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan and Special Projects Incentive, which he participated in at the time of his termination as CEO. Shares in these plans will be allotted or matched on the scheduled dates, but the remuneration was expensed in its entirety in 2019, representing SEK 17,826,016 of the total remuneration for share related plans of SEK 25,696,377. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Following The Remuneration Commitee’s recommendation, The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting approve remuneration guidelines with the same terms and conditions as those adopted by the Annual General Meeing 2019. The Proposed remuneration guidelines are more detailed than before in purpose to meet the new legal requirements, but do not result in any changes in the remuneration structure. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2018 Base salary/ Variable Share Board and compensation related Other Pension SEK committee fee remuneration plans3) ­benefits2) cost Total Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,787,500 1,787,5001) Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 812,500 812,500 Other Board members Sara Mazur 592,500 592,5001) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 592,500 592,5001) Joakim Westh 817,500 817,5001) Bert Nordberg 680,000 680,0001) Danica Kragic Jensfelt 592,500 592,500 Daniel Nodhäll 742,500 742,500 Erika Söderberg Johnson 742,500 742,5001) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 14,107,292 7,571,858 173,592 5,111,922 26,918,251 Other senior executives 39,090,845 47,2504) 14,004,527 2,005,658 14,518,065 69,567,770 Total 60,558,137 47,250 21,576,385 2,179,250 19,629,987 103,846,021 1) Social security costs are additional, since the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice their Board and Committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount may not exceed the employer’s contribution that the company otherwise would have paid. 2) Including compensation for the additional costs incurred due to the benefits. 3) Share related plans relate to Share Matching Plans, Performance Share Plans and Special Projects Incentive. 4) Including remuneration to one senior executives, which, as agreed, was paid in the form of pension premiums. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 105 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT In 2017 the Annual General Meeting decided to introduced a new programme, the Special Projects Incentive, as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES programme is directed at a maximum of 45 key employees, including the President. Share-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including Participation in the new programme presupposes participation in the Performance ­senior executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or Share Plan or the Share Matching Plan. The programme entitles the employee to other equity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value at allotment of performance shares corresponding to 15-52.5 per cent of the cash the time these plans were issued and the consideration received. This remunerabase salary for the current financial year depending on group affiliation, provided tion is recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the extent the that the employment remains for three years and that performance targets are ­vesting conditions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as the price of the reached. Performance shares are allotted after three years based on the achievecompany’s shares), they are taken into consideration in determining the fair value ment during the current financial year of eight equally weighted performance targets of the plan. Other conditions (such as earnings per share) affect staff costs during related to Saab’s special projects within selected product areas. For the ­President the vesting period by changing the number of shares or share-related instruand other members of the Group Management, the total allotment of shares in the ments that are expected to be paid. new programme and the Performance Share Plan together amounts to a maximum Saab has a Share Matching Plan where all permanent employees are entitled to of 75 per cent of the cash base salary for the President and 60 per cent of the cash participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recognised base salary for the other members of the Group Management. during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The employees Number of matching and performance shares have been restated for the pay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the investment ­programs in accordance with the rights issue in 2018. date. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted as many 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as exchange rate ­differences. shares as they purchased three years earlier, provided that they are still employ2) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. ees of the Saab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In certain coun3) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. tries, social security expenses are paid on the value of the employee’s benefit when matching takes place. During the vesting period, provisions are allocated EVENTS 2019 for these estimated social security expenses. Share repurchases to fulfil the 2015 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan commitments of Saab’s Share Matching Plans are recognised in equity. In the Share Matching Plan, shares have been matched three times in 2019 and In addition, there is a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and other once in February 2020. After the end of the one-year performance period for the key employees that entitles them to performance shares, depending on the ­Performance Share Plan 2015, on 31 December 2016, it was determined that the employee category to which they belong, as well as a Special Projects Incentive, targets had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance as a complement to the Performance Share Plan. The plans entitle the employee matching as follows. Performance matching has occured three times in 2019 and to performance shares depending on group affiliation, provided that they are still once in February 2020. employed after three years and that the performance targets were met. Outcome Performance Reported performance Share Plan 2015 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % Long-term incentive programme The Annual General Meeting of Saab has resolved for a number of years to offer a Organic sales growth 5% 73 30 22 ­long-term incentive programme consisting of three parts: a Share Matching Plan, EBIT margin 6.3% 10 40 4 a Performance Share Plan and a Special Projects Incentive . The Board considers it Free cash flow MSEK 2,359 100 30 30 important that Saab’s employees share a long-term interest in the appreciation of the Total allotment 56 company’s shares. The plans are now designated by calendar year, which corresponds to the savings period. Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the opportunity to participate in the 2016 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan Share Matching Plan. Employees can withhold up to 5 per cent of their gross base In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2020 and once ­salary to purchase Series B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm during a twelve-month in February 2021. After the end of the one-year performance period for the period. Provided that a participant retains the purchased shares for three years after ­Performance Share Plan 2016, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that the the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the participant will be targets had partly been achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares free of charge. Currently, Share matching as follows. Performance matching will take place three times in 2020 and Matching Plans 2015–2020 are ongoing. once in February 2021. Since 2008, Saab also has a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and key employees. The Performance Share Plan covers a maximum of 175 key employOutcome Performance Reported performance ees, including the President. Participants can save up to 7.5 per cent of their base Share Plan 2016 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % salary to purchase Series B shares during a twelve-month period, while participating in the Share Matching Plan as well, but only up to a maximum of 5 per cent of base Organic sales growth 10% 58 30 17 salary. Depending on which category they belong to, participants are entitled to 2–7 EBIT margin 6.9% 40 performance shares for each ­purchased share. Participants are entitled to matching Free cash flow MSEK 852 100 30 30 of performance shares, free of consideration, provided that the performance targets Total allotment 47 are achieved and the participants have retained the purchased shares for three years after the investment date and remain employed by the Saab Group. The number of performance shares is linked to the performance targets established by the Board of Directors. The terms for the performance matching are based on three independent targets for a one-year performance period: organic sales growth1), EBIT margin2) and free cash flow3). The relative apportionment between the targets is as follows: 30 per cent of the allotment is attributable to organic sales growth, 40 per cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to free cash flow. The performance targets are established by the Board of Directors with a minimum and maximum level for each target. The Board of Directors decides on the performance matching after the end of the one-year performance period. If the performance outcome falls short of the maximum level but exceeds the minimum level, a linear proportionate performance matching will occur. No performance matching will occur if the performance outcome is equal to or below the minimum level. Before the performance matching is ultimately determined, the Board of Directors will assess whether it is reasonable in relation to the company’s financial results and position, conditions in the stock market and other circumstances. If it determines that this is not the case, the Board of Directors will reduce the ­number of performance shares that will be matched to the lower number of shares it ­considers appropriate. Performance shares are allotted three years after the investment. Currently, ­Performance Share Plans 2015-2020 are ongoing. 106 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. 2017 Special Projects Incentive 2019 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan According to the resolution of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Special Projects and Special Projects Incentive Incentive 2017 covers a maximum of 80,000 shares. According to the resolution of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Long-Term IncenAfter the end of the one-year performance period for the Special Projects Incentive Programme 2019 covers a maximum of 1,340,000 shares. tive (SPI) 2017, on 31 December 2017, it was determined that seven of the eight In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2022 and once ­performance targets had been met, resulting in an outcome of 87.5 per cent of the in February 2023. aggregate performance targets. After the end of the one-year performance period for the Performance Share Plan The eight performance targets in SPI 2017 were operating goals and milestones 2019, on 31 December 2019, it was determined that the targets had partly been related to the product areas Gripen, AEW&C and submarines. The milestones achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance matching as ­follows. ­consisted, for example, of various steps in a development project that were essential Performance matching will take place three times in 2022 and once in ­February 2023. to its implementation. The targets were tied to among other things construction and design approvals in the Critical Design Reviews and Test Readiness Reviews. There Outcome were also performance targets tied to the physical delivery of key subsystems or Performance Reported performance maiden flight of a new platform. Due to the nature of the defence industry, further Share Plan 2019 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % information on the individual performance targets cannot be provided. Organic sales growth 6% 100 30 30 Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external EBIT margin 8.3% 70 40 28 ­auditor, PwC. Free cash flow MSEK -2,036 100 30 30 The Board of Directors resolved to allot 87.5 per cent of the maximum allotment of Total allotment 88 performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2017 will be ­delivered in May 2020. A total of 66,687 shares will be alloted in the programme. After the end of the one-year performance period for the Special Project Incentives 2018 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan (SPI) 2019, on 31 December 2019, it was determined that six of the eight perforand Special Projects Incentive mance targets had been met. The eight performance targets in SPI 2019 were According to the resolution of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Share Matching ­operating goals and milestones related to the product areas Gripen, AEW&C and Plan 2018 and Performance Share Plan 2018 cover a maximum of 1,260,000 submarines. The milestones consisted, for example, of various steps in a developshares. According to the resolution of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Special ment project that were essential to its implementation and the long term contracts. Projects Incentive 2018 (SPI 2018) covers a maximum of 130,000 shares. The targets were tied to among other things construction and design approvals in In the Share Matching Plan, shares will be matched three times in 2021 and once the Critical Design Reviews and First Article Acceptance Test. There were also in February 2022. ­performance ­targets tied to the physical delivery of key subsystems or maiden flight After the end of the one-year performance period for the Performance Share Plan of a new ­platforms. Due to the nature of the defence industry, further information on 2018, on 31 December 2018, it was determined that the targets had partly been the ­individual performance targets cannot be provided. achieved and the Board of Directors approved performance matching as ­follows. Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external Performance matching will take place three times in 2021 and once in ­February 2022. ­auditor, PwC. The Board of Directors resolved to allot 75 per cent of the maximum allotment of Outcome performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2019 will be Performance Reported performance ­delivered in February 2022. Share Plan 2018 outcome targets, % Weighted,% Allotment, % Organic sales growth 4% 68 30 20 2020 Share Matching Plan, Performance Share Plan EBIT margin 7.7% 77 40 31 and Special Projects Incentive In April 2019, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved as in previous years to offer Free cash flow MSEK -3,195 78 30 24 employees the opportunity to participate in a Long-Term Incentive Programme, LTI Total allotment 75 2020, consisting of a Share Matchning Plan, a Performance Share Plan and a Special Projects Incentive with the same terms as previous programmes. According to the After the end of the one-year performance period for SPI 2018, on 31 December resolution of the Annual General Meeting, Long-Term Incentive Programme 2020 2018, it was determined that all eight performance targets had been met. The eight covers a maximum of 1,465,000 shares. Any performance shares in the Special Properformance targets in SPI 2018 were operating goals and milestones related to the ject Incentive 2020 will be alloted in February 2023. All the plans started in January product areas Gripen, AEW&C and submarines. The milestones consisted, for 2020 and expire in February 2023. The performance period for the two performance ­example, of various steps in a development project that were essential to its implerelated plans is the calendar year 2020. mentation and the long term contracts. The targets were tied to among other things construction and design approvals in the Critical Design Reviews and First Article Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Acceptance Test. There were also performance ­targets tied to the physical delivery Share Matching Plans, 2015–2019 of key subsystems or maiden flight of a new ­platform. Due to the nature of the Number of Number of defence industry, further information on the ­individual performance targets cannot Share Matching Plan shares participants be provided. 2015 369,530 5,310 Performances have been reviewed by Saab’s internal audit and the external 2016 348,290 6,501 ­auditor, PwC. 2018 434,874 6,996 The Board of Directors resolved to allot 100 per cent of the maximum allotment of performance shares in the plan. The performance shares in SPI 2018 will be 2019 489,479 7,519 ­delivered in February 2021. A total of 71,389 shares will be alloted in the programme. Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Performance Share Plans, 2015–2019 Number of Number of Performance Share Plan shares participants 2015 41,135 151 2016 35,168 155 2018 41,726 162 2019 44,808 158 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 107 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 8, cont. Share Matching Plan NOTE 9 AUDITORS’ FEES AND COMPENSATION (number of shares in thousands) 2015 2016 2018 2019 Total Number of matching shares Group Parent Company eligible at ­beginning of the MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 year 351 347 378 1,076 Allotted during the year PwC (purchased shares) 79 489 568 Audit assignments 21 22 12 11 Early share matching -7 -8 -9 -2 -26 where of PwC Sweden 15 14 Ordinary share matching -283 -283 Audit work in excess of the Forfeited -10 -15 -20 -9 -54 audit assignment 1 4 1 4 where of PwC Sweden 1 4 Number of matching shares eligible at year-end 51 324 428 478 1,281 Other services 1 1 Number of participants, where of PwC Sweden 1 31-12-2019 4,270 5,448 6,329 7,184 % of total number Other audit firms of employees 25 32 37 42 Audit assignments 3 3 Average remaining Total 25 30 13 16 maturity, years 0,8 1,8 2,8 where of PwC Sweden 16 19 Performance Share Plan Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that was (number of shares in thousands) 2015 2016 2018 2019 Total necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with the audit assignment. Number of matching Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opinions and shares eligible at ­beginning of the year 38 35 37 110 other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and which are ­normally performed by the external auditor, including consultations on advisory and Allotted during the year reporting requirements, internal control and the review of interim reports. For 2019, (purchased shares) 7 45 52 the external auditors’ assignment as mandated by law amounted to a negligible sum. Early share matching -2 -1 -2 -5 Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignments, Ordinary share matching -30 -30 audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. Forfeited -1 -1 -1 -1 -4 Number of matching shares eligible at year-end 5 33 41 44 123 NOTE 10 D  EPRECIATION/AMORTISATION Number of participants, AND WRITE-DOWNS 31-12-2019 133 146 154 153 Average remaining maturity, years 0.8 1.8 2.8 Group MSEK 2019 2018 Total number of shares Depreciation/amortisation eligible at year-end Capitalised development costs -142 -134 (number of shares in thousands) 2015 2016 2018 2019 Total Other intangible fixed assets -119 -120 Share Matching Plan 51 324 428 478 1,281 Operating properties -89 -95 Performance Share Plan 5 33 41 44 123 Plant and machinery -246 -256 Less: Shares included Equipment, tools and installations -322 -261 in both plans -5 -33 -41 -44 -123 Right-of-use assets1) -450 Total 51 324 427 479 1,281 Total -1,368 -866 Recognised expense for above-mentioned plans, Write-downs ­including social security expenses, MSEK 2019 2018 Capitalised development costs -50 Share Matching Plan 2014 23 Total -50 Share Matching Plan 2015 26 47 Share Matching Plan 2016 52 53 1) MSEK 411 relates to additional depreciation in connection with the implementation of IFRS 16 the remaining MSEK 39 has been reclassified from “Plant and machinery” and “Operating properties”. Share Matching Plan 2018 60 21 Share Matching Plan 2019 26 Parent Company Performance Share Plan 2014 6 MSEK 2019 2018 Performance Share Plan 2015 5 9 Depreciation/amortisation Performance Share Plan 2016 8 7 Goodwill -40 -40 Performance Share Plan 2018 18 3 Other intangible fixed assets -74 -72 Performance Share Plan 2019 12 Buildings -57 -57 Special Projects Incentive 2017 11 10 Plant and machinery -148 -146 Special Projects Incentive 2018 10 12 Equipment, tools and installations -212 -163 Special Projects Incentive 2019 11 Total -531 -478 Total 239 191 No write-downs were recognised in the parent company during 2019 or 2018. The expense for the share matching plans is included in operating income and is ­recognised in the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social security expenses). Administrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to MSEK 8 (5) in 2019. The expense is based on the share price of the matching shares that are expected to be allotted. The share price is determined at the time of the participants’ ­investment adjusted by the dividend that does not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. 108 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES NOTE 13 TAXES Group MSEK 2019 2018 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Interest income on loans receivable 80 55 Income taxes are recognised in the income statement and consist of current tax Financial income from revaluation and disposal and deferred tax. When the underlying transaction is recognised in other compreof financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value hensive income, for example the revaluation of the net pension obligations, the through profit or loss 85 133 related tax effect is also recognised in other comprehensive income. Other financial income 25 5 Current tax is the tax to be paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates that have been set as of the closing day. Adjustment is made for current tax Financial income 190 193 ­attributable to previous periods. Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on Interest expenses on loans and financial liabilities -185 -151 ­temporary differences. Temporary differences constitute the difference between Interest expenses on lease liabilities -104 -16 the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal Deductible temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value reporting of assets and liabilities other than a business combination and which, through profit or loss -110 -394 at the time of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxable result. Financial expenses related to pensions -91 -67 Moreover, temporary differences are not taken into account if they are attri­ Other financial expenses -30 -35 butable to shares in subsidiaries, associated companies, and joint ventures that are not expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of Financial expenses -520 -663 deferred tax is based on when assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or Net financial income and expenses -330 -470 settled. Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have been set as of the closing day. Result from shares in Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry Result from shares in associated companies/ forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be utilised. The Parent Company Group companies joint ventures value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against deferred tax liabilities Dividends 40 88 when the receivable and liability relate to the same tax authority. Deferred tax Group contributions assets and deferred tax liabilities arising from a single transaction are set off both in ­received 757 849 the statement of financial position and in the disclosures. No temporary difference arise on initial recognition on such items that emerge from a single transaction. Capital gain on sale of shares 9 51 Write-downs -63 Tax recognised in the income statement Other 1 4 Taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated based on Total 807 941 -63 51 applicable tax laws in the countries in which the parent company and subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Result from other Group ­securities and ­ Other interest ­ MSEK 2019 2018 receivables held income and similar profit/ Parent Company as fixed assets loss items Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Taxes for the year -378 -479 Interest income, Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 6 14 Group companies 111 95 Total -372 -465 Other interest income 241 30 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Capital gain on sale of shares 3 Deferred tax related to temporary differences -145 78 Dividend 1 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss carry forwards capitalised during the year 11 22 Translation differences 15 11 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously Net change in value from capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -87 -77 revaluation of financial assets/liabilities 59 153 Deferred tax related to previous years -5 -5 Write-downs of financial Deferred tax related to changed tax rates 16 17 assets -4 -5 Total -210 35 Other -19 -15 Total recognised tax in the Group -582 -430 Total 55 144 352 125 The Group’s total deferred tax amounted to MSEK -210 (35) and current tax expense Interest expenses and for the year amounted to MSEK -372 (-465), leading to a total recognised tax of Parent Company similar profit/loss items MSEK -582 (-430) in the consolidated income statement. MSEK 2019 2018 The table “Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry ­forwards” Interest expenses, Group companies -15 -15 for the Group, on the following page, specifies how deferred tax affected income. Other interest expenses -174 -36 Total -189 -51 Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) NOTE 12 APPROPRIATIONS Taxes for the year -234 -354 Parent Company Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 3 14 MSEK 2019 2018 Total -231 -340 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) tools and installations -65 -98 Deferred tax related to temporary differences -15 59 Total difference between tax depreciation and depreciation according to plan -65 -98 Deferred tax related to changed tax rates 1 -19 Deferred tax related to previous years -3 Tax allocation reserve -38 -16 Total -17 40 Total -103 -114 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -248 -300 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 109 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Deferred Intangible Tangible Provisions Tax ContinTax loss tax assets/ fixed fixed Inven­ for Other allocation gency carry Tax liabilities, Group, MSEK assets assets 1) tories pensions provisions reserves reserve 2) forwards Other Total set-off net Closing balance 31 Dec 2017 -542 -489 222 833 183 -402 -220 241 138 -36 -36 Effects of change in accounting principles 1 1 1 Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 -542 -489 222 833 183 -402 220 241 139 -35 -35 Recognised in the income statement -163 -21 37 6 43 -5 113 -55 80 35 35 Recognised in other ­comprehensive income 308 42 350 350 Acquisition/divestment of operations -3 3 Translation differences -3 1 6 1 1 11 -1 16 16 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 -711 -506 265 1,148 227 -407 -107 197 260 366 366 Of which, deferred tax assets 3 9 265 1,148 228 1 197 408 2,259 -1,877 382 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -714 -515 -1 -408 -107 -148 -1,893 1,877 -16 Reclassification 93 -93 Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 -711 -413 265 1,148 227 -407 -107 197 167 366 366 Recognised in the income statement -246 -42 40 31 42 -7 107 -76 -59 -210 -210 Recognised in other ­comprehensive income 124 -43 81 81 Acquisition/divestment of operations Translation differences -3 -8 1 0 0 7 -8 -11 -11 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 -960 -463 306 1,303 269 -414 128 57 226 226 Of which, deferred tax assets 1 13 306 1,303 269 128 267 2,287 -2,021 266 Of which, deferred tax liabilities -961 -476 -414 -210 -2,061 2,021 40 1) Includes from 2019 deferred tax on right-of-use assets and lease liabilites. 2) Attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB. The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the 2019 income statement Other amounts in the ”Recognised in the income statement” row in the table amounted to MSEK -210 (35). The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the above amounted to MSEK -134 (90), which is the total of deferred tax related to statement of comprehensive income amounted to MSEK 81 (350). The ­closing ­temporary differences and deferred tax attributable to previous years. ­balance on 31 December 2019, MSEK 226 (366), consisted of deferred tax assets On transition to IFRS 16 Saab has treated lease liabilities and right-of-use assets of MSEK 266 (382) and deferred tax liabilities of MSEK -40 (-16). as attributable to a single transaction whereby no temporary difference arise on The net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisition/divesttransition. Deferred tax assets and liabilities from temporary differences that have ment of operations and translation differences, amounted to MSEK -76 (-55), which arisen after transition are offset in the statement of financial position and the cateis the amount of deferred tax on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, gory Tangible fixed assets above. Deferred tax assets from lease liabilities that MSEK 11 (22), and deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously ­capitalised existed prior to transition have been reclassified from category Other. tax value in tax loss carry forwards, MSEK -87 (-77). 110 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13, cont. Reconciliation of effective tax Deferred Deferred tax Group Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities MSEK 2019 (%) 2019 2018 (%) 2018 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2019 Net Income before taxes 2,607 1,796 Tangible fixed assets -216 -216 Tax according to current tax rate Inventories 107 107 for the Parent Company -21.4 -558 -22.0 -395 Accounts receivable 5 5 Effect of other tax rates for Provisions for pensions 123 123 ­foreign operations -1.4 -36 0.2 4 Other provisions 81 81 Effect on changed tax rate 0.6 16 0.9 17 Long-term liabilities 2 2 Non-deductible expenses -1.2 -30 -2.9 -51 Accrued expenses and Tax-exempt income 1.9 48 1.7 30 deferred income 40 40 Tax on additional non-capitalised Other -11 -11 tax loss carry forwards -1.0 -26 -0.4 -7 Tax assets/liabilities, total 358 -227 131 Revaluation of previously non-capitalised deferred tax Set-off -227 227 assets 0.5 12 Tax assets/liabilities, net 131 131 Revaluation of deferred tax assets related to previously capiDeferred Deferred tax talized tax loss carry forwards -2.2 -40 Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities Tax related to previous years 1 0.5 9 MSEK 31-12-2018 31-12-2018 Net Other -0.3 -9 0.2 3 Tangible fixed assets -209 -209 Reported effective tax -22.3 -582 -24.0 -430 Inventories 98 98 Accounts receivable 7 7 Capital gains/losses from sale of Group companies, associated companies and Provisions for pensions 118 118 other shares have affected tax-exempt income by MSEK 85 (31). Other provisions 85 85 Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -582 (-430), equivalent to an Long-term liabilities 2 2 effective tax rate of 22.3 per cent (24.0). The announced corporate tax cut in ­Sweden led to a lower tax rate due to the revaluation of deferred taxes. Accrued expenses and deferred income 47 47 Parent Company Tax assets/liabilities, total 357 -209 148 MSEK 2019 (%) 2019 2018 (%) 2018 Set-off -209 -209 Income before taxes 1,041 1,375 Tax assets/liabilities, net 148 148 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -21.4 -223 -22.0 -303 The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, Saab AB, Effect on changed tax rate 0.1 1 -1.4 -19 has been recognised in the income statement. Tax allocated to foreign operations -0.1 -1 0.2 3 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax assets Non-deductible expenses -4.8 -50 -2.5 -35 MSEK Group Parent Company Tax-exempt income 2.4 25 2.9 40 Deferred tax assets expected to be Tax related to previous years 1.0 14 recovered within one year 189 72 Reported effective tax -23.8 -248 -21.8 -300 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after one year 2,098 287 Tax items recognised directly against other comprehensive income Group Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax liabilities MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK Group Parent Company Provisions for pensions 124 308 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment Cash flow hedges -43 42 within one year 208 206 Total 81 350 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment after one year 1,853 22 Expiration of recognised and unrecognised tax loss carry forwards in the Group MSEK Recognised tax loss Unrecognised tax NOTE 14 EARNINGS PER SHARE Expiration carry forwards loss carry forwards Unlimited expiration 534 370 2022 21 2019 2018 2023 5 12 Net income for the year attributable to 2024 28 Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 1,983 1,313 2034 25 Weighted average number of common shares ­outstanding­: 2035 or later 1 before dilution (thousands) 133,245 116,468 Total tax loss carry forwards 586 410 after dilution (thousands) 133,929 117,145 Recognised deferred tax asset 128 Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 14,88 11,27 Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 14,81 11,21 Tax loss carry forwards attributable to the US operations can be utilised through 2037 but the majority expire in 2034. At the close of 2019, the Saab Group’s unrecognised tax loss carry forwards The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to the amounted to MSEK 410 (322). total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased treasury shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after dilution is based on the effects of all potential shares (long-term incentive programmes) that give rise to a dilution effect. The number of shares outstanding for the comparative year of 2018 has been adjusted in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, consistent with the terms of the rights issue in 2018. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 111 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 15 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) are Goodwill mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately among Goodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for other assets in the unit (the pool of units). Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. impairment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of assoImpairment losses from other assets are reversed if a change has occurred in the ciated companies and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the assumptions that served as the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairshares in the associated company and joint venture. ment is reversed only to the extent the ­carrying amount of the assets following In acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had of the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in the if the impairment had not been recognised, taking into account the amortisation acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the that would have been ­recognised. other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit or loss. Group Parent Company Research and development MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Expenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or Goodwill 5,355 5,310 253 293 ­technological knowledge are expensed when incurred. Capitalised development Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowledge costs 4,580 3,328 is applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position from the time when the product or process Other intangible assets 530 419 405 324 in the future is expected to be technically and commercially usable, the company Total 10,465 9,057 658 617 has sufficient resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell the intangible asset, and the product or process is likely to generate future Goodwill ­economic benefits. The carrying amount includes expenditures for material, Group Parent Company direct expenditures for salaries and, if applicable, other expenditures that are MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 ­considered directly attributable to the asset. Other expenditures for development are recognised in profit or loss as an expense when they arise. Development Acquisition value ­expenditures are recognised in the statement of financial position at cost less Opening balance, 1 January 6,007 5,874 784 784 ­accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Customer-financed Business combinations 34 research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold rather Divestments -17 than ­capitalised. Translation differences 62 99 Other intangible fixed assets Closing balance, 31 December­ 6,052 6,007 784 784 Other intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as trademarks Amortisation and write-downs and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation Opening balance, 1 January -697 -697 -491 -451 and any impairment losses. Amortisation for the year -40 -40 Closing balance, 31 December­ -697 -697 -531 -491 Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ Carrying amount, 31 December­ 5,355 5,310 253 293 ­estimated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. Intangible fixed assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with indeter­ Acquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C-­leanship A/S. ­ minate periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available for use. ­Estimated periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: • Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: 5–10 years Capitalised development costs on a straight line basis. Group Parent Company • Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development costs MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 are amortised on a straight line basis over a maximum period of 10 years. Acquisition value Acquired development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a Opening balance, 1 January 9,084 7,916 2,000 2,000 ­maximum of 10 years. • Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maximum Internally developed assets 1,392 1,140 20 years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. Disposals and reclassifications­ 8 Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested for Translation differences 24 20 impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminished value. Closing balance, 31 December­ 10,500 9,084 2,000 2,000 Impairment of goodwill, capitalised development costs Amortisation and ­write-downs and other intangible assets Opening balance, 1 January -5,756 -5,556 -2,000 -2,000 The carrying amount of intangible fixed assets is tested on each closing day for Amortisation for the year -142 -134 any indication of impairment. If an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. Write-downs for the year -50 For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate period of Translation differences -22 -16 use and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable values are Closing balance, 31 December­ -5,920 -5,756 -2,000 -2,000 calculated annually in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling Carrying amount, 31 December­ 4,580 3,328 expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest adjusted for the risk associated with the ­specific asset. If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independent cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the income statement. 112 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 15, cont. Other intangible assets Goodwill is distributed by business area as follows: Group Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Acquisition value Dynamics 681 674 Opening balance, 1 January 2,276 2,117 1,730 1,562 Surveillance 3,129 3,112 Business combinations 22 Support and Services 330 330 Investments 196 198 156 186 Industrial Products and Services 918 896 Disposals and reclassifications­ 24 -77 -7 -18 Kockums 264 264 Translation differences 14 16 Corporate 33 34 Closing balance, 31 December­ 2,510 2,276 1,879 1,730 Total goodwill 5,355 5,310 Amortisation and write-downs Impairment testing of cash-generating units is based on the calculation of value in Opening balance, 1 January -1,857 -1,792 -1,406 -1,353 use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according to the units’ Amortisation for the year -119 -120 -74 -72 business plans. Saab’s assessment is that this does not cause any impairment. Business combinations -8 VARIABLES USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE Disposals and reclassifications­ 8 77 6 19 Volume/growth Translation differences -12 -14 Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expectaClosing balance, 31 December­ -1,980 -1,857 -1,474 -1,406 tions with regard to development in each market area and previous experience. It is also based on estimates of cash flows that are distributed over the long projects and Carrying amount, 31 December­ 530 419 405 324 are dependent on the timing and size of advances and milestone payments. The first five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated by Group ManageAcquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C-­leanship A/S. ment and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five years, the annual growth rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. Amortisation is included in the following lines in the income statement Group Parent Company Operating margin The operating margin is based on the units’ operating income after depreciation and MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 amortisation. Each unit’s operating margin is calculated against the backdrop of Cost of goods sold 119 120 114 112 ­historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard to the future development of Research and development­costs 142 184 markets where the units are active. All business areas have a substantial order ­backlog of projects that stretch over a number of years. The risks and opportunities affecting the operating margin are managed through continuous cost forecasts for Development expenditures all significant projects. The operating margin is based on current projections of The total capitalisation largely relates to development projects for the GlobalEye final costs. ­Airborne Early Warning & Control system and an export version of Gripen. Development expenditures are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In legal entities, all development expenditures are expensed. Capitalisation of Capitalised development costs ­development expenditures in the Parent Company relates to acquired development In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional investments in expenditures. development considered necessary for certain units to reach the growth targets in their respective markets. Other intangible fixed assets Of the carrying amount, MSEK 530 (419), MSEK 498 (358) is attributable to licenses Discount rate for ­operating systems etc and MSEK 32 (61) is attributable to acquired values which Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The relate to expenses incurred for customer relations, trademarks, patents and values WACC rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years adjusted in the order backlog. for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line with the external requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the market. Impairment tests for goodwill All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and support In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cash-genersolutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their business ating units, or groups thereof, that are expected to obtain future economic benefits risk in this respect is considered equivalent. in the form of, for example, synergies from the acquisition. Acquired operations Recent years’ order bookings have increased the share of projects across ­normally have access to knowledge, technology and solutions that will benefit large ­business areas and changed the composition of the order backlog for certain units, parts of the Group, and the acquired operations are usually integrated with other which complicates a differentiation of discount rates between business areas. operations shortly after acquisition. Consequently, goodwill is allocated to and As a result, Saab has decided to apply a uniform discount rate in the impairment tested for impairment at the business area level, which also corresponds to the tests. The discount rate (WACC) used in 2019 was 10 per cent (10) pre-tax. ­lowest level at which goodwill is monitored in internal governance. For the business area Industrial Products and Services, however, it is considered that there are no Sensitivity analysis ­significant synergy effects between the business units, impairment testing is thereGroup Management considers that reasonable possible changes in the above fore done directly at business unit level. variables would not have such a large impact that any one variable individually would Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purchase reduce the recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount. of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 113 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 16 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Group Parent Company Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 position if it is likely that future economic benefits will accrue to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. Operating properties/ buildings and land1)2) 2,270 2,051 1,489 1,420 Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated depreciation and any write-down. Cost includes the purchase price and costs Plant and machinery2) 1,598 1,854 1,005 925 directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utilised in Equipment, tools accordance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable and ­installations 1,071 1,000 701 648 expenditures included in cost are delivery and handling, installation, title and Construction in progress 1,284 1,224 772 716 ­consulting services. Total 6,223 6,129 3,967 3,709 The cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for material, expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other production costs 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount refers to buildings and land. considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. The cost of tangible fixed assets 2) Finance leases on aircraft and properties that were classified as tangible fixed assets have on transiincludes estimated costs for disassembly and removal of the assets as well as tion to IFRS 16 been reclassified to right-of-use assets in the balance sheet and as a result effected ­restoration of the location or area where these assets are found. opening balance in 2019 with MSEK 441. The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the statement of financial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no future Operating properties/buildings and land1) economic benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises on the Group Parent Company sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price and the asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and losses are MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 recognised as other operating income/expenses. Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 5,145 5,057 2,161 2,140 Incremental expenditures Effects of change in accounting Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future principles IFRS 16 -151 economic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the Group Investments 387 123 130 30 and the expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental expendi­ Reclassifications 4 6 -5 tures are recognised as costs in the period they arise. The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to cost Divestments and disposals -127 -40 -6 -4 is whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or parts Translation differences -1 -1 ­thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Also in cases where a new component is Closing balance, 31 December­ 5,257 5,145 2,285 2,161 ­created, the expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amount of replaced components, or parts of components, is disposed of and expensed Depreciation and write-downs in connection with the replacement. Repairs are expensed as incurred. Opening balance, 1 January -3,094 -2,998 -1,638 -1,581 Effects of change in accounting Depreciation principles IFRS 16 79 Depreciation is recognised on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less Depreciation for the year -89 -95 -57 -57 estimated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s Divestments and ­estimated period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is Reclassifications 123 8 2 applied, which means that fixed assets consisting of various components, or Translation differences -6 -9 where significant parts have different periods of use, are depreciated as separate assets based on their periods of use. Closing balance, 31 December­ -2,987 -3,094 -1,693 -1,638 Revaluations Estimated periods of use: Opening balance, 1 January 897 897 • Operating properties/buildings: 20–90 years. • Plant and machinery: 5–10 years. Closing balance, 31 D­ecember 897 897 • Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years. Carrying amount, 31 D­ecember 2,270 2,051 1,489 1,420 Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount refers to buildings and land. Impairment of tangible assets The carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets measured at fair Plant and machinery value, is tested on each closing day for indications of impairment. If an ­indication Group Parent Company exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling Acquisition value expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of Opening balance, 1 January 5,589 5,103 3,078 2,866 ­interest adjusted for the risk associated with the specific asset. If essentially indeEffects of change in accounting pendent cash flows cannot be isolated for ­individual assets, the assets are principles IFRS 16 -473 grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independent cash flows can be Investments 342 516 233 250 identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss is recognised when the Reclassifications -6 -13 -1 5 carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable Divestments and disposals -82 -61 -47 -43 value. Impairment losses are charged against the income statement. Translation differences 52 44 Impairment losses are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is Closing balance, 31 December 5,422 5,589 3,263 3,078 reversed only to the extent the carrying amount of the assets following the reverDepreciation and write-downs sal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment had not been recognised, taking into account the depreciation that Opening balance, 1 January -3,735 -3,508 -2,153 -2,048 would have been recognised. Effects of change in accounting principles IFRS 16 104 Depreciation for the year -246 -256 -148 -146 Reclassifications 9 12 Divestments and disposals 81 58 43 41 Translation differences -37 -41 Closing balance, 31 December­ -3,824 -3,735 -2,258 -2,153 Carrying amount, 31 December 1,598 1,854 1,005 925 114 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 16, cont. Equipment, tools and installations assumption that this option will be exercised. The lease payments are discounted Group Parent Company by the implicit interest rate if that rate can easily be determined, or otherwise by the MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 incremental borrowing rate. Saab sets the incremental borrowing rate for different maturities by constructAcquisition value ing a rate curve based on the interbank interest rate swap curve adjusted with Opening balance, 1 January 2,779 2,442 1,747 1,469 Saab’s credit risk. The credit risk of a liability with the underlying asset type as colBusiness combinations 20 lateral is added. The rate is recalculated if the lessee within the Saab Group has a Investments 370 458 267 342 functional currency other than SEK. The rate is also adjusted for differences in Reclassifications 22 10 -2 -1 credit risk between the Group company in question and the Saab Group. Saab uses market data in the form of swap rates, for example, to calculate the incremenDivestments and disposals -85 -159 -37 -63 tal borrowing rate. If a quote is not available for a variable for a specific maturity, Translation differences 38 8 interpolation or extrapolation is applied. The key judgments made in determining Closing balance, 31 December­ 3,124 2,779 1,975 1,747 the incremental borrowing rate mainly comprise assumptions about the mark-up for lessee-specific credit risk and collateral-specific credit risk. The mark-up for Depreciation and write-downs the credit risk is based on listed bonds with similar underlying credit risk. Opening balance, 1 January -1,779 -1,637 -1,099 -955 Right-of-use assets are initially measured at the lease liability’s value plus lease Depreciation for the year -322 -261 -212 -163 fees paid on or before the start date. Right-of-use assets are subsequently measBusiness combinations -11 ured after deducting accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. An impairment test is conducted if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Reclassifications -8 -15 1 of the right-of-use asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Divestments and disposals 70 144 36 59 Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are presented as separate items in the Translation differences -14 1 balance sheet as Right-of-use assets and Longand short-term lease liabilities. Closing balance, 31 December­ -2,053 -1,779 -1,274 -1,099 Lease payments for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. Short-term leases are Carrying amount, 31 December­ 1,071 1,000 701 648 leases of 12 months or less. Options to extend and terminate are included in a number of the Group’s Acquisitions through business combinations 2018 relates to C­-leanship A/S. leases on premises and buildings. The terms are used to maximise the flexibility in managing the contracts. When determining the term of the lease, available inforConstruction in progress mation is taken into account if it provides an economic incentive to exercise an Group Parent Company extension option, or to not exercise an option to terminate a lease. Possibilities to extend a lease are included in the term of the lease only if it is reasonably certain MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 that the lease will be extended (or not terminated). The key judgments made when Acquisition value determining the lease term have been based on Saab’s judgments when dividing Opening balance, 1 January 1,224 852 716 480 leases into groups based on whether they are of a strategic nature or not. StrateInvestments 114 384 56 236 gic nature refers to premises that contain production equipment which is difficult Reclassifications -56 to move or for which Saab for some other reason has an economic incentive to exercise an option. The lease term for these contracts is regularly assessed, Divestments -9 whereupon extension options are more likely to be included the shorter the Translation differences 2 -3 remaining term is. For leases that are not of a strategic nature, Saab has deterCarrying amount, 31 December­ 1,284 1,224 772 716 mined that there are no economic incentives to exercise options that affect the lease term. It happens, however, that options to extend which have not been Investments in construction in progress refer to a net of new investments taken into account in the calculation of the lease liability are exercised even and reclassifications to other asset classes. though the initial judgment was that there was no significant economic incentive to exercise the extension option. Interest costs on lease liabilities are presented as financial costs in the income Collateral statement. On 31 December 2019 property with a carrying amount of MSEK 0 (0) was ­pledged as collateral for bank loans. Cash flows from leases are classified and presented as follows: • The lease liability’s amortisation is included in financing activities. NOT 17 LEASING • Interest payments are included in cash flows from operating activities. • Payments for short-term leases and payments for leases for which the underlyThe Group’s and the Parent Company’s obligations as a lessee mainly involve preming asset has a low value and is not included in the valuation of the lease liability ises and buildings for production and/or administration. The Group’s other leases are presented in operating activities. mainly relate to aircraft and vehicles. Leases are normally signed for fixed periods over several years, but may include an option to extend, as described in more detail PREVIOUS ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE AND TRANSITION TO IFRS 16 below. The Group or the Parent Company has no material obligations as a lessor. IFRS 16 Leases replaced IAS17 Leases as of 2019. Leasing was classified under The terms are negotiated separately for each lease and contain a large number of IAS 17 in the consolidated accounts as either finance or operating lease. Finance contractual terms. The leases do not contain any special terms or restrictions lease existed when the economic risks and benefits of ownership were essenwhereby the contracts could be terminated if the terms are not met, but the leased tially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it was classified as operating leasing assets may not be used as collateral for loans. meaning it was not recognised in the statement of financial position. The transiIn addition to the leases recognised as of the closing day, the Group has signed a tion to IFRS 16 is described in more detail in note 44. lease on a property it will receive access to in Q2 2020. The contract has a term of 8 years and is expected to increase right-of-use assets and lease liabilities by MSEK 89. The following tables provide information on leases. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Right-of-use assets 2019 Leases are recognised as right-of-use assets and a corresponding liability on the MSEK Properties Other Group date the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease payment is Opening balance, 1 January 2,172 553 2,725 divided between amortisation of the liability and financial cost. The financial cost New leases 159 76 235 is allocated over the lease term so that each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability recognised in that Depreciation -331 -120 -451 period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the Revaluation 29 29 shorter of the asset’s period of use and the term of the lease. Translation differences 11 11 Assets and liabilities arising from leases are initially recognised at present value. Closing balance, 31 December 2,040 509 2,549 Lease liabilities are initially recognised at the present value of future lease payments, which includes fixed fees, variable lease fees that depend on an index or a price, the guaranteed residual value that is expected to be paid to the lessor, the redemption price for a call option, if it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised, and any penalties to terminate the lease, if the lease term reflects the S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 115 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 17, cont. NOTE 18 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS Lease liabilities 2019 MSEK Group ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Opening balance lease liabilities, 1 January 2,695 Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value less deduction of which long-term leases 2,296 for estimated selling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an of which short-term leases 399 independent appraiser. New leases 232 Expensed interest 102 Group Lease fees paid -517 MSEK 2019 2018 Revaluation 33 Living forest Translation differences 27 Carrying amount, 1 January 349 352 Closing balance, 31 December 2,572 Investments of which long-term leases 2,138 Change in fair value 33 13 of which short-term leases 434 Less fair value logging -14 -16 Of the lease liabilities, undiscounted lease fees due within one year from the closing Carrying amount, 31 December 368 349 day amount to MSEK 541, MSEK 1,079 in the range from one to three years and Of which fixed assets 368 349 MSEK 1,464 are due later than three years from the closing day. Lease fees during periods in scope of an extension option which have not been included in the On 31 December 2019, biological assets consisted of approximately 395,000 m³sk ­calculation of the lease liability amount to MSEK 1,118. of spruce, 776,000 m³sk of pine and 95,000 m³sk of hardwood. Forest growth is estimated at 41,000 m³sk per year. During the year, approximately 37,000 m³sk of Result from leases that are not recognised as right-of-use assets and timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, after deduction of selling lease liabilities Group expenses, of MSEK 14 on the felling date. MSEK 2019 The valuation of forests has been done by independent appraisers. The forestry Costs for short-term leases 58 property has been valued according to the market comparison method. In the valuaCosts for leases for assets of low-value 9 tion according to the market comparison method, the environmental impact from a firing range within the property has not been taken into account. An adjustment for Summa 67 the environmental impact has therefore been made by reducing fair value by an amount corresponding to the market value of the size of the firing range Lease fees paid for leases that are not recognised as right-of-use assets and lease (4,457 hectares) less the value of the timber. liabilities amounted to MSEK 67 whereby the Group paid total lease fees of MSEK 584. Contractual obligations for short-term leases amounted to MSEK 22 as of 31 December 2019. In 2018, costs for operating leases amounted to MSEK 596. The following NOTE 19  HARES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES S ­disclosure concerns the Group’s leases for the comparative year 2018. AND JOINT VENTURES Group Facilities and Plant and ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES MSEK buildings machinery Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but not decisive, influence over operating and financial controls, usually through a Outcome shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. Joint ventures are 2018 411 185 ­companies in which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one or more parties, shares a decisive influence over operating and financial controls. As of Contracted the date that significant influence in an associated company and shared decisive 2019 378 150 influence in a joint venture arises, the shares in the associated company or joint 2020 313 75 venture are recognised according to the equity method in the consolidated 2021 265 26 accounts. The equity method is applied until the date when significant or shared 2022 225 3 decisive influence ceases. The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in associated 2023 206 1 companies and joint ventures corresponds to the Group’s share of the associ2024 and forward 1,163 ated companies’ and joint ventures’ equity based on an application of the Group’s Total contracted 2,550 255 accounting principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group surplus or deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures” in Disclosure of leases recognised as finance leases in 2018 can be found in note 16. the income statement comprises the Group’s share of the net income after tax and the non-controlling interests in associated companies and joint ventures The following table provide the result of lease contracts for the Parent Company. adjusted for any amortisation/depreciation, write-downs or dissolution of acquired surplus and deficit values determined in the same way as for business 2019 2018 combinations. Dividends received from associated companies and joint ventures reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Buildings and Plant and Buildings and Plant and If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company or MSEK land machinery land machinery joint venture exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of Expensed lease fees 283 154 280 161 the shares is reduced to zero. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollatof which variable lease eralised financial balances that in their economic significance represent part of fees the owner-company’s net investment in the associated company or joint venture. Subsequent losses are not recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts Contracted lease fees as long as the Group has not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company or joint venture. Within 1 year 275 118 289 122 When significant influence over the associated company or shared decisive 1 to 3 years 640 189 677 394 influence over the joint venture ceases but the Group retains an interest in the Later than three years 1,138 217 1,319 company, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or Total contracted 2,053 524 2,285 516 loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. 116 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 19, cont. The Group’s associated companies and joint ventures are held for operating Associated companies and joint ventures Group purposes, i.e. they are related to operations of the business areas or in the venture MSEK 2019 2018 portfolio and are therefore recognised in operating income. In 2019, Saab has sold Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd. Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Carrying amount, 1 January 646 700 Ltd and Gripen International KB has been liquidated. Acquisition of associated companies Aggregate net income for Saab’s associated companies amounted to MSEK -127 and joint ventures 38 18 (-46) and other comprehensive income/loss to MSEK 56 (47), producing net Sales of associated companies ­comprehensive income/loss of MSEK -71 (-1). and joint ventures -51 -50 For Saab’s joint ventures, net income amounted to MSEK 216 (27) and other Share in income of associated companies ­comprehensive income to MSEK 8 (12), producing net comprehensive income of and joint ventures 1) -5 -14 MSEK 224 (39). New share issues/infusion of capital 44 10 Saab’s share in income of associated companies and joint ventures amounts to Repayment of contributed capital -3 MSEK -5 (-14). Shares in associated companies and joint ventures as of 31 December 2019 include goodwill of MSEK 115 (114). Adjustment against receivable 5 The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities, equity, and the carrying Translation differences 20 19 amount of shares in associated companies and joint ventures is as follows. Dividends -20 -39 Carrying amount, 31 December 672 646 1) Share in associated companies’ and joint ventures’ net income and non-controlling interests. Share in income Carrying amount, of associated shares in associOwnership companies and ated companies 2019, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) joint ventures and joint ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 162 -66 465 189 276 39.9% -26 110 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 22 510 56 454 25.1% 114 FFV Services Private Limited India 49 22 178 29 149 49.0% 11 73 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 70 6 94 17 77 50.0% 3 39 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 629 55 1,612 1,509 103 33.0% 18 34 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 148 -127 389 382 7 47.0% -60 3 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 259 28 368 63 305 27.0% 7 82 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 627 -45 903 678 225 -12 74 Total associated companies 1,966 -127 4,519 2,923 1,596 -59 529 Joint ventures Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden -14 699 699 35.0% -5 Vricon Inc. USA 506 230 511 113 398 50.0% 115 199 Total joint ventures 506 216 1,210 812 398 110 199 Other adjustments of associated companies and joint ventures -56 -56 Total 2,472 89 5,729 3,735 1,994 -5 672 1) The ownership interest of each holding represents both ownership and voting rights. Share in income Carrying amount, of associated shares in associOwnership companies and ated companies 2018, MSEK Country Sales Income Assets Liabilities Equity interest, %1) joint ventures and joint ventures Associated companies Akaer Participacões S.A. Brazil 163 -55 469 191 278 28.2 -15 78 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 39 453 48 405 25.1 102 FFV Services Private Limited India 48 4 157 21 136 49.0 2 67 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 91 23 89 17 72 50.0 11 36 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 348 53 1,014 921 93 33.0 18 31 UMS Skeldar AG Switzerland 18 -99 534 417 117 47.0 -46 55 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 279 62 351 66 285 27.0 17 77 Other associated companies, mainly in the ventures portfolio 591 -34 609 388 221 -15 70 Total associated companies 1,577 -46 3,676 2,069 1,607 -28 516 Joint ventures Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 26 49.0 13 1 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB Sweden 704 704 35.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd South Africa 305 108 40 68 70.0 47 Vricon Inc. USA 184 1 206 41 165 50.0 1 82 Total joint ventures 489 27 1,018 785 233 14 130 Total 2,066 -19 4,694 2,854 1,840 -14 646 1) The ownership interest of each holding represents both ownership and voting rights. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 117 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 20 PARENT COMPANY’S SHARES NOTE 21 RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Long-term receivables from associated Long-term receivables companies and Parent Company Parent Company from Group companies joint ventures MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated acquisition value Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 366 369 Opening balance, 1 January 68 81 391 370 Acquisitions 80 24 Adjusted opening balance IFRS 9 -4 Divestments -25 Change in reserve for excepted credit losses -3 -2 Dividends -2 Settled receivables 15 11 77 76 Write-downs1) -63 Additional receivables -5 -24 -10 -60 Closing balance, 31 December 383 366 Translation differences 8 11 Carrying amount, 31 December 383 366 Closing balance, 31 December 78 68 463 391 1) Refers to Akaer Participacões S.A. Specification of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings NOTE 22 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS of shares in associated companies and joint ventures 2019 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Group Associated companies MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 39,9 112 Financial investments held as fixed assets Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23,0 23 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Skill Scandinavia AB, 556060­-5478, Linköping 33,0 2 Shares and participations 26 27 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 25,1 54 Total 26 27 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50,0/26,0 9 Short-term investments held as current assets UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47,0 61 Financial assets measured at fair value through Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 24,9 35 profit or loss: Joint ventures Interest-bearing securities 5,794 9,003 Vricon Inc., USA 50,0 83 Total 5,794 9,003 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, 559025-4024, Linköping 35,0 4 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80,0 NOTE 23 OTHER LONG-TERM SECURITIES HOLDINGS Total 383 Parent Company 2018 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount MSEK 2019 2018 Associated companies Accumulated acquisition value Akaer Participacões S.A., Brazil 28.2 113 Opening balance, 1 January 42 40 Kedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 Acquisitions 2 3 Skill Scandinavia AB, 556060-­5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Divestments -3 -1 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 25.1 54 Closing balance, 31 December 41 42 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 6 Accumulated write-downs UMS Skeldar AG, CHE-113.226.140, Switzerland 47.0 56 Opening balance, 1 January -17 -17 Combient AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla 24.9 29 Closing balance, 31 December -17 -17 Joint ventures Carrying amount, 31 December 24 25 Vricon Inc., USA 50.0 83 Järfälla-Veddesta Holdings AB, Acquisition in 2019 refers to AMEXCI AB. 559025-4024, Linköping 35.0 Divestment in 2019 refers to the sale of apartment in Brf Loket 14. Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Total 366 NOTE 24 LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Long-term receivables held as fixed assets Receivables from associated companies, interest-bearing 308 226 Receivables from joint ventures, interest-bearing 213 223 Receivables attributable to pensions, interest-bearing 28 6 Other non interest-bearing receivables 203 99 Total 752 554 118 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 24, cont. (169). The reversal of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 73 (46). Group MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Parent Company Other receivables held as current assets MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Receivables from associated companies, Raw materials and consumables 2,545 2,146 interest-bearing 2 Work in progress 3,594 3,052 Receivables from associated companies, Finished goods and goods for resale 834 913 non interestbearing 38 19 Advance payments to suppliers 23 48 Receivables from joint ventures, non interest-bearing 7 10 Total 6,996 6,159 Advance payments to suppliers 81 42 Other interest-bearing receivables 56 Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory write-downs of Other non interest-bearing receivables 526 436 MSEK 94 (159) after the reversal of previous write-downs of MSEK 68 (44). Total 710 507 Parent Company NOTE 26 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Other long-term receivables Non interest-bearing receivables 18 18 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Total 18 18 Accounts receivable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost at the amount expected to be received based on an individual Parent Company ­evaluation. Accounts receivable have a short expected maturity, due to which they are normally recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Impairment losses on accounts receivable and contract assets from Other receivables held as current assets defence-related operations are evaluated based on expected credit losses due Non interest-bearing receivables 378 409 to defaults within the coming twelve months. These tests are done individually by Total 378 409 counterparty. The evaluation is primarily based on counterparty credit risk after consideration of collateral received. Data primarily include official credit rating Parent Company grades for counterparties. Impairment losses on accounts receivable from commercial operations are MSEK 2019 2018 tested based on a probability-weighted outcome for expected credit losses. The Long-term receivables calculation is based on an individual assessment of the solvency of the customer Accumulated acquisition value and on incurred customer losses in the last ten financial years, from which a worstOpening balance, 1 January 18 19 case scenario, default scenario and best-case scenario have been calculated. The default scenario has been calculated using the average of actual customer losses Additional receivables during these ten years. The other two sce­narios have been calculated based on Settled receivables -1 historical information as well as forward-­looking information such as future confiClosing balance, 31 December 18 18 dence and economic forecasts. Each ­scenario has been assigned a probability, where the default scenario is weighted 80 per cent in the calculation and the other two scenarios 10 per cent each. Finally, an evaluation is performed in order to identify whether adjutsments to the caluclated provision is needed to capture credit NOTE 25 INVENTORIES risk that is not captured by the calculation models. Contract assets recognised in the balance sheet for work to be billed essentially have the same risk characteristics as work already billed for the same type of ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES contract. The Group therefore applies the same assessment for expected credit Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The net realislosses in contract assets as for account receivables. able value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deducting Impairment of accounts receivable is recognised in operating expenses. ­estimated expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. Accounts receivable are written off when the counterparty is no longer Cost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (FIFO) or the expected to be able to pay its debt which can be indicated by final settlement weighted average method and includes expenses to acquire inventory assets from liquidation of the counterparty or other information that cause Saab to deem and bring them to their present location and condition. For finished and that no reimbursement is likely. ­semi­finished goods, cost consists of direct manufacturing expenses and a Saab has a trade receivable sales programme with an independent party. ­reasonable share of indirect manufacturing expenses as well as expenses to When a receivable is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, ­customise products for individual customers. Calculations take into account accordingly, accounts receivable are reduced by the proceeds received and ­normal ­capacity utilisation. derecognised. Group As of 31 December 2019 the Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted to MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 MSEK 5,198 (5,199) of which MSEK 4,238 (4,282) were attributable to defense-related operations. Contract assets amounted to MSEK 12,234 (10,466) of which 11,166 Raw materials and consumables 4,664 3,778 (9,656) were attributable to defence-related operations. Saab’s trade receivable sales Work in progress 4,720 4,346 programme that was established to strengthen its financial position and increase Finished goods and goods for resale 1,091 1,152 financial flexibility has not been utilised as of 31 December 2019. Total 10,475 9,276 Defence-related sales accounted for 85 per cent (85) of total sales, where the counterparties in most accounts receivable are nations with high creditworthiness. The Group’s receivables are mainly within the EU, which accounted for 69 per cent Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation have reached an agree(58) of the total. Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, ment with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s partici­pation in the Airbus bank or insurance guarantees or guarantees from EKN are secured. A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at MSEK Write-downs of accounts receivable and contract assets amounted to MSEK 39 350 in which Saab’s obligation to repay is tied to the extent of delivieries. Repayment (41) as of 31 ­Dec­ember 2019, corresponding to 0.8 per cent (0.8) of total accounts is made in the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2019, the receivable. Write-downs are entirely attributable to accounts receivable. MSEK 18 National Debt Office has paid out MSEK 263 (263). (11) of the write-down is attributable to defence-related operations and MSEK 21 The debt as of 31 December 2019 amounted to MSEK 127 (130), which reduced (30) to civil operations. inventory in the financial statements. Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amounted to MSEK 2,125 (2,250). The Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 103 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 119 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 26, cont. During the year, receivables were written down by MSEK 4 (17). Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 0 (3). NOTE 27 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Write-downs of accounts receivable, Group Group Parent Company 2019 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Defencerelated Civil Prepaid expenses 489 802 429 708 MSEK operations operations Total Capitalised changes in Write-downs, 1 January -11 -30 -41 value related to forward contract rollovers 1,074 1,149 Write-downs for calculated losses -8 -2 -10 Accured service income 130 40 Reversal of previous write-downs 1 1 Other accrued income 350 117 418 196 Actual credit losses 1 10 11 Total 969 919 1,961 2,053 Translation differences Write-downs, 31 December -18 -21 -39 Prepaid expenses primarily relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and insurance. 2018 Defencerelated Civil NOTE 28 LIQUID ASSETS MSEK operations operations Total Write-downs, 1 January -7 -20 -27 Write-downs for calculated losses -5 -18 -23 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Reversal of previous write-downs 1 8 9 Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible Actual credit losses balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments with a maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which are Translation differences exposed to no more than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. Write-downs, 31 December -11 -30 -41 Group Age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 2019 Cash and bank balances 891 1,300 DefenceBank deposits 796 1,151 related Civil MSEK operations operations Total Total according to statement of financial position 1,687 2,451 <30 days 279 139 418 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,687 2,451 30 to 90 days 146 23 169 Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, with a maturity of less than three 91 to 180 days 37 8 45 months. The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility amounted to MSEK 78 (43) >181 days 270 29 299 at year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facilities, refer to notes 31 and 36. Accounts receivable overdue 732 199 931 Accounts receivable not overdue 3,505 762 4,267 NOTE 29 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Total accounts ­receivable 4,237 961 5,198 2018 The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, A and B. DefenceBoth classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series A related Civil share is entitled to ten votes and each Series B share one vote. The shares have a MSEK operations operations Total quota value of SEK 16. <30 days 708 64 772 Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of 30 to 90 days 83 24 107 31 December 2019 shares shares, % votes, % 91 to 180 days 61 19 80 Series A shares 2,383,903 1.8% 15.4% >181 days 423 39 462 Series B shares 130,542,460 98.2% 84.6% Accounts receivable overdue 1,275 146 1,421 Total 132,926,363 100.0% 100.0% Accounts receivable not overdue 3,007 771 3,778 Total accounts ­receivable 4,282 917 5,199 Outstanding shares at Number of Number of Number of 31 December 2018 shares shares, % votes, % Series A shares 2,383,903 1.8% 15.4% Series B shares 131,098,977 98.2% 84.6% Total 133,482,880 100.0% 100.0% Change in number of outstanding shares 2019 Series A Series B Total Number of outstanding shares at 1 January 2,383,903 131,098,977 133,482,880 Repurchase of shares -1,000,000 -1,000,000 Early share matching 26,749 26,749 Ordinary share matching 416,734 416,734 Number of outstanding shares at 31 December 2,383,903 130,542,460 132,926,363 In 2019, 1,000,000 Series B shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. During the year, 443,483 shares were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. Transferred shares correspond to 0.3 per cent of the share capital. A total of 2,919,484 shares are held in treasury. The dividend to shareholders amounted to MSEK 601 (588), or SEK 4.50 (5.50) per share. 120 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 29, cont. Proposed disposition of earnings 2019 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriated earnings NOTE 30 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General Meeting, ­amounting to: SEK Group Retained earnings 4,582,043,414 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Long-term liabilities Net income for the year 793,134,484 Liabilities to credit institutions 6,512 7,773 Total 10,932,308,025 Other interest-bearing liabilities 1 423 Total 6,513 8,196 be disposed as follows: To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.70 per share 624,753,906 Current liabilities To share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Liabilities to credit institutions 1,277 986 Funds to be carried forward 4,750,423,992 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 45 43 Total 10,932,308,025 Other interest-bearing liabilities 39 Total 1,322 1,068 Management of the Group’s capital Total interest-bearing liabilities 7,835 9,264 The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital ­management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain prepared to capitalise on business opportunities. Saab’s equity/asset goal is at least 30 Terms and repayment schedules per cent. Collateral for bank loans amounts to MSEK 0 (0). Of the long-term liabilities, MSEK 5,513 (6,270) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and MSEK 1,000 (1,926) later than five years of the closing day. The undiscounted cashNet result of cash flow hedges flows in the interval between one and five years from the closing day are MSEK 5,237 The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative (6,552) and MSEK 1,528 (1,963) later than five years from the closing day. The internet change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge est rate curve as of the closing day has been used to calculate future cashflows transactions that have not yet taken place. from floating rate liabilities. Liabilities to credit institutions consist of Medium Term Notes (MTN) and SchuldTranslation reserve schein loans. For more information on financial risk management, see note 36. The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from the The fair value of MTNs and Schuldschein loans exceeds book value by MSEK 78 translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their reports in (173). Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair a currency other than the currency of the Group’s financial reports. The Parent value as for the rest of the interest-bearing liabilities. ­Company and the Group present their financial reports in SEK. The translation Other interest-bearing liabilities as of 31 December 2018 constituted liabilities reserve at year-end amounts to 651 (447). Of the translation reserve MSEK 0 (5) has from financial leases. They have been reclassified to lease liabilities on transition to been reclassified to gains. IFRS 16. Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and carryNOTE 31 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS ing amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. No transfer from the revaluation reserve to retained earnings has been made in 2019. Parent company PARENT COMPANY MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Restricted reserves Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. Current liabilities Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 31 30 Revaluation reserve Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -30 -30 When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount is Utilised credit amount 1 ­allocated to a revaluation reserve. Credit facilities: Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Unutilised portion of commercial paper -5,000 -5,000 Statutory reserve Provisions to the statutory reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 per cent Utilised credit amount of net income for the year, until the statutory reserve corresponded to at least 20 per Credit facility: Medium Term Notes (MTN) 1,275 986 cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are voluntary and Total 1,276 986 the Parent Company makes no provisions to the statutory reserve. Long-term liabilities Unrestricted equity Credit facilities: Available credit/limit Share premium reserve (revolving credit facility) 6,000 6,000 Amounts exceeding the quota value per share received in connection with rights Unutilised portion of revolving credit facility -6,000 -6,000 issue. The amount is available for distribution to the shareholders. Utilised credit amount Credit facility: Medium Term Notes (MTN) 5,470 6,745 Retained earnings Retained earnings consist of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit Credit facility: Schuldschein (SSD) 1,042 1,027 ­distri­bution and Group contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income Total 6,512 7,772 for the year comprise unrestricted equity, available for ­distribution to the shareholders. Total liabilities to credit institutions 7,788 8,758 Since 2009, Saab has a Medium Term Note programme (MTN) to enable the ­issuance of long-term loans on the capital market. During 2018, the MTN programme was increased to MSEK 10,000. Under the terms of this programme, Saab has issued fixed rate bonds as well as Floating Rate Notes (FRN). During 2019 bonds has matured to an amount of MSEK 986. As a result, outstanding loans under the MTN programme totaled MSEK 6,745. In December 2015, Saab signed Schuldschein loan agreements amounting to MEUR 100. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 121 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S NOTE 32 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Saab Group’s post-employment benefits refer to pensions. These pensions USA comprise both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans. A defined-contribuThe US has a defined-benefit plan for certain employees and a supplementary plan tion plan is a pension plan according to which the Group pays fixed fees to a sepafor individuals in executive positions. rate legal entity that assumes the obligations to employees. Other pension plans are The plans are company-specific according to an agreement in 1986 between the defined-benefit and refer to pension obligations that are retained by the Group, employees and the company and include retirement and survivor’s pensions. The secured through its own pension funds or through insurance. pension is not vested during the first five years of employment, and the ­retirement age is 65. Payments corresponding to accrued pensions are made yearly to an ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GROUP external trustee to cover the obligation. Payments during 2019 amounted to Defined-contribution plans MSEK 0 (1). Obligations for fees to defined-contribution plans are expensed through the income statement. Switzerland Switzerland has a defined-benefit plan that includes all employees and where Defined-benefit plans ­minimum benefits are prescribed by law. The company is affiliated with a collective Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. Defined-benefit foundation for the purpose of insuring its employees’ retirement and survivor’s plans mainly relate to the Swedish operations, where the ITP2 plan accounts for pension, and payments are made annually. Provisions for pensions are made by both 93 per cent (92) of the total obligation. employer and employees. The employee may elect to receive the full pension as a The Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated separately lump sum at retirement. for each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees have earned through employment in present and previous periods. This compensation is Other countries ­discounted to present value. Most of the liability is met through provisions to a The pension plans in other countries are of insignificant amounts and are therefore pension fund. The net obligation on the closing day is estimated as the net of the reported together with Sweden below. fair value of the fund assets and the present value of the pension liability. The discount rate to estimate the obligation at present value is based on the Disclosures regarding defined-benefit plans interest rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage bond with a maturity corresponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is made by qualified 31-12-2019 Group actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total When the compensation terms in a plan are improved, the portion of the Wholly or partially funded obligations increased compensation attributable to the employees’ service in previous Present value of defined-benefit periods is expensed through the income statement. obligations 11,529 317 286 12,132 If the obligation calculated on the closing day deviates from the estimated Fair value of assets under management -6,792 -345 -273 -7,410 obligation, actuarial gains or losses arise and are recognised directly in other Present value of net obligation 4,737 -28 13 4,722 comprehensive income. The same interest rate is used to calculate financial income on assets under management as to discount pension liabilities. Share funded 59% 109% 95% 61% If pension obligations are lower than assets under management, this amount Average duration of pension obligation 20 13 17 is recognised as an asset. When there is a difference between how the pension cost is determined for a legal entity and for the Group, a liability or receivable is recognised for the special The net amount and the special ­employer’s contribution is reported employer’s contribution based on this difference. in the following items in the statement of financial position Provisions for pensions (excluding The following tables provide information on defined-benefit pension plans. special employer’s contribution) 4,737 13 4,750 Provisions for pensions (related to Sweden special employer’s contribution) 1,264 1,264 The predominant plan in Sweden is the ITP plan under collective agreements Long-term receivables 28 28 between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Business Sector (PTK). The ITP2 plan, which is based on an employee’s final salary, covers individuals born 1978 and before and is 31-12-2018 Group a defined-benefit plan, while the ITP1 plan is a defined-contribution plan and covers individuals born 1979 and after. MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Saab’s defined-benefit pension plans in Sweden are secured either through Wholly or partially funded obligations transfers to the Group’s own pension fund, as liabilities in the balance sheet or are Present value of defined-benefit funded through insurance mainly with Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, which obligations 10,195 327 230 10,752 secures part of the ITP2 plan, had assets of MSEK 6,741 (6,051) as of 31 December Fair value of assets under management -6,098 -319 -236 -6,653 2019, compared to an obligation of MSEK 11,262 (9,939), calculated according to Present value of net obligation 4,097 8 -6 4,099 IAS 19, which means that the solvency margin amounted to 60 per cent (61). The following applies to the portion of the defined-benefit pension obligation for Share funded 60% 98% 103% 62% retirement and family pensions secured through insurance with Alecta. According to Average duration of pension obligation 19 14 16 a pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, this is a defined-benefit plan for multiple employers. Alecta is unable to provide the information that would The net amount and the special allow Saab to report these obligations as a defined-benefit plan, owing to which they ­employer’s contribution is reported are reported as a defined-contribution plan. All newly earned pensions are secured in the following items in the statement through the pension fund solution. As a result, no additional premiums are paid of financial position to Alecta. Provisions for pensions (excluding The collective funding ratio is calculated as the market value of Alecta’s assets as special employer’s contribution) 4,097 8 4,105 a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s ­actuarial Provisions for pensions (related to methods and assumptions, which differ from IAS 19. special employer’s contribution) 1,008 1,008 The collective ­funding ratio is normally permitted to range between 125 and 155 Long-term receivables 6 6 per cent. At year-end 2019, ­Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 169 per cent (161). 122 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 32, cont. Cost reported in the income statement Changes in net obligation for defined-benefit plans reported in the statement of financial position 2019 Group Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total MSEK 2019 2018 Current service costs 313 11 8 332 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 1 January 4,099 2,646 Net interest expense 92 -1 91 Compensation paid -318 -315 Cost of defined-benefit plans Deposits to pension fund and other funding -9 -128 in the income statement 405 10 8 423 Cost reported in the income statement 423 353 Cost of defined-contribution plans 837 Income (-) /cost (+) reported in other comprehensive income 488 1,383 Special employer’s contribution 294 Settlement/translation differences 1 -4 Total cost of post-employment benefits 1,554 Withdrawals from pension funds 38 164 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 31 December 4,722 4,099 2018 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Change in pension obligation Current service costs 266 14 6 286 Group Net interest expense 68 -1 67 MSEK 2019 2018 Cost of defined-benefit plans Fair value, 1 January 10,752 9,341 in the income statement 334 13 6 353 Benefits vested during the year 332 285 Cost of defined-contribution plans 830 Benefits vested previous years Special employer’s contribution 252 Interest expense 244 233 Total cost of post-employment Pension disbursements -318 -315 benefits 1,435 Settlement 4 1 Actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) 1,096 1,162 Items included in the statement of cash flow Translation differences 22 45 2019 Group Fair value, 31 December 12,132 10,752 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Deposits to pension fund Change in assets under management and other funding -3 -6 -9 Group Payments -280 -36 -2 -318 MSEK 2019 2018 Withdrawals 36 2 38 Fair value, 1 January 6,653 6,695 Total impact on cash flow -283 0 -6 -289 Financial income 153 167 Withdrawals -38 -164 2018 Group Settlement 3 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Contributions 9 128 Deposits to pension fund Actuarial gain (+)/loss (-) 608 -221 and other funding -122 -1 -5 -128 Translation differences 22 48 Payments -271 -53 9 -315 Fair value, 31 December 7,410 6,653 Withdrawals 120 53 -9 164 Total impact on cash flow -273 -1 -5 -279 Interest expense on the pension obligation less financial income on assets under management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by function in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to Estimated payments during 2020 amount to approximately MSEK 317. the various functions. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. ­Actuarial losses related to pensions amounted to MSEK -612 in 2019 primarily due to Sensitivity analysis (excluding special employer’s contribution) the ­following. Group The discount rate decreased by 75 basis points from 2.25 per cent to 1.5 per cent Change in compared the beginning of the year, which resulted om actuarial loss. During the MSEK Change obligation year, the inflation assumption decreased by 25 basis points from 2.0 per cent to 1.75 Discount rate 0.25% -562 per cent which resulted in an actuarial gain. The net of the changed assumptions -0.25% 603 regarding discount rate and inflation amounted to MSEK -1,085. Inflation 0.25% 579 Negative experience adjustments resulted in a actuarial loss of MSEK -11. Actuarial loss related to special employer’s contribution amounted to MSEK -124. -0.25% -542 The return on assets under management was higher than expected, which proSalaries 0.25% 124 duced an actuarial gain of MSEK 608. -0.25% -116 Life span + 1 year 519 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 123 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 32, cont. Return on assets under management Group ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES PARENT COMPANY MSEK 2019 2018 The parent company’s accounting principles differ from IAS 19 in the following ways: • The calculation does not take into account future salary increases Actual return on assets under management 761 -54 • The discount rate is determined by PRI Financial income on assets under management -153 -167 • Changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions are recognised Actuarial result from assets under management directly in the income statement and balance sheet during the year 608 -221 • Surplus in the pension plan cannot be recognised as an asset while the deficit should either be expensed or recovered through contributions to the pension fund Governance The pension fund is governed by the Pension Board, which resumes 4–5 times per year and has the following responsibilities: Parent Company’s pension obligations • Appoint the members of the Investment Committee Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to the net • Appoint the Fund Manger present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are secured by Saab’s • Annually establish the Investment Policy pension fund. • Decide on strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) asset allocation and allow deviations in accordance with the terms of the SAA and TAA mandate MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 • Annually approve the benchmark indices to track the fund’s performance Pension obligations ITP 2 4,649 4,455 • Annually approve the stop loss limit Less funds secured in pension fund -4,649 -4,455 Total ITP 2 and the book reserve method Investment strategy and risk management Other pensions 97 97 The pension fund manages the allocation and investment of assets with an aim to increase the consolidation level over time. Certain risks are accepted in order to Other provisions for pensions 141 145 achieve the desired return. The investment horizon is long-term and the allocation Total 238 242 ensures that the investment portfolio is well diversified. Of which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 40 38 The Fund’s investments are subject to a number of restrictions and limitations, the purpose of which is to limit investment losses. Treasury Operations continuously MSEK 2019 2018 monitors the Fund’s management and reports its findings to the Chairman of the Board and the Investment Committee. Amount related to pension obligations ITP 2 ­expected to be settled within 12 months 202 197 Assets under management divided by asset class Group of which of which NOTE 33 PROVISIONS listed on listed on an active an active Per cent 2019 market 2018 market ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group Interest-bearing assets 31 100 37 100 has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is Share-related assets 36 100 33 100 likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the Hedge funds 13 11 ­obligation and a ­reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is Property 19 19 ­important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by Liquid assets 1 ­discounting projected cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market estimates of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks Total assets 100 67 100 70 associated with the liability. Assumptions for defined-benefit obligations Provisions for incremental costs for industrial cooperations Group Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology Per cent 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 and knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. The related costs are included in the project’s expenditures and expensed in relation Significant actuarial assumptions as of closing day (expressed as to the stage of completion. The expenditures are then set against this provision, weighted averages)1) which can also occur after the delivery of goods and services under the contract. Discount rate, 31 December 1.50 2.25 2.50 2.75 3.25 Onerous contracts Future salary increase 2.75 3.00 2.75 2.75 2.75 A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when anticipated benefits are Future increase in pensions 1.75 2.00 1.75 1.75 1.75 less than the unavoidable costs to fulfill the obligations as set out in the contract. Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all defined-benefit plans are in Sweden. Guarantees A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying products The following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s or services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made. pension liability: The provision is based on historical data on guarantees for the products or similar products and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relation to the likeliDiscount rate: The valuation has been based on Swedish covered mortgage bonds hood associated with these outcomes. (AAA), taking into account the duration of all cash flows. A nominal government bond whose duration corresponds to the average duration of the pension obligation is Restructuring used as a basis. A premium is then added equal to the ­difference between the interA provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restructuring est rate on a mortgage bond and a nominal government bond with similar maturities. plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or been p ­ ublicly The same discount rate has been used for all future ­disbursements. announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. Long-term salary increase assumption: The long-term salary increase assumpA provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if tion corresponds to a real salary increase of 1 per cent plus an inflation assumption the company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary of 1.75 per cent, rendering a future salary increase of 2.75 per cent. time, e.g., when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termination Long-term inflation assumption: The long-term inflation assumption is based on offer. In cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed plan is drafted market pricing of inflation on maturities corresponding to the pension liability’s containing at the minimum the workplaces, positions and approximate number of ­duration. For 2019, the assumption is 1.75 per cent. individuals affected as well as compensation for each personnel category or Mortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial position and a schedule for the plan’s implementation. ­Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2007:31). Employee turnover: The employee turnover is assumed to be 3 per cent per year. 124 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 33, cont. Guarantees Soil remediation Parent In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and MSEK Group Company applicable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligations Opening balance, 1 January 2019 153 76 to restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted to Provisions allocated during the year 85 34 present value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. ­Provision Amount utilised during the year -63 -21 for environmental commitments is included in other provisions below. Reversal of unutilised amount -11 -9 Reclassification 2 Group Closing balance, 31 December 2019 166 80 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Expenditures for restructuring measures Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 834 567 Parent Onerous contracts 24 39 MSEK Group Company Guarantees 51 56 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 188 186 Expenditures for restructuring measures 3 42 Provisions allocated during the year 15 15 Other 432 377 Amount utilised during the year -105 -105 Total 1,344 1,081 Reversal of unutilised amount -2 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 96 96 Provisions that are current liabilities Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 15 15 Other provisions Onerous contracts 205 168 Parent Guarantees 115 97 MSEK Group Company Expenditures for restructuring measures 93 146 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 567 164 Other 274 190 Effects of change in accounting principles IFRS 16 32 Total 702 616 Provisions allocated during the year 223 117 Amount utilised during the year -108 -15 Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Reversal of unutilised amount -16 -13 Translation differences and other 8 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations 823 567 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 706 253 Onerous contracts 92 92 Guarantees 80 76 Total provisions Expenditures for restructuring measures 96 186 Parent Other 253 164 MSEK Group Company Total 1,344 1,085 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 1,697 1,085 Effects of change in accounting principles Incremental costs for industrial cooperations IFRS 16 32 Parent Provisions allocated during the year 765 472 MSEK Group Company Amount utilised during the year -423 -184 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 582 567 Reversal of unutilised amount -36 -29 Provisions allocated during the year 267 256 Translation differences and other 11 Amount utilised during the year Closing balance, 31 December 2019 2,046 1,344 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 849 823 Incremental costs for industrial cooperations Onerous contracts Some of Saab’s contracts with customers contain requirements on technology and Parent knowledge transfers as well as various forms of industrial cooperation. MSEK Group Company Provision for incremental costs for industrial cooperations relates to costs to Opening balance, 1 January 2019 207 92 meet future obligations for industrial cooperations in accordance with these ­contracts. The expenditure is expected to occur during the term of the projects but Provisions allocated during the year 175 50 also after the delivery of goods and services under the contracts in accordance with Amount utilised during the year -147 -43 the contract and the regulation for industrial cooperation. Reversal of unutilised amount -7 -7 Translation differences and other 1 Restructuring Structural costs primarily relate to costs to adapt resources and transformation Closing balance, 31 December 2019 229 92 costs. The expenditure is expected to occur 2020. Onerous contracts Provisions for onerous contracts on the closing day relate to certain military ­projects. The provisions are utilised in pace with the project’s completion. Other provisions Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for remaining costs in projects, environmental commitments, provisons related to leasing as well as for royalty. No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production of civil aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 125 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 34 OTHER LIABILITIES NOTE 36 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial ­instruments. Other long-term liabilities Group Treasury is responsible for managing the financial risks. The Board of Liabilities to previous owners and minority owners 76 83 ­Directors of Saab has established a Group Treasury Policy, which provides an overall Liabilities related to employees 48 50 description of the management of the financial risks and Treasury operations. The Other 56 57 goal is to identify and actively manage the financial risks in order to reduce any negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive strength and financial ­flexibility. Total 180 190 Of which liabilities due for payment The financial risks are defined as follows: more than five years after closing day 34 112 • Foreign currency risk Other current liabilities • Liquidity risk • Refinancing risk Value-added tax 529 271 • Interest rate risk Employee withholding taxes 271 274 • Commodity price risk Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 175 4 • Credit and counterparty risk Other 218 221 • Pension obligations Total 1,193 770 Group Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as VaR (Value at Risk) of MSEK 50 (50). The mandate is divided between management of the financial risks related Parent Company to fixed price tenders and to a limited extent trading. Risks are managed through MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 various portfolios and are reported daily according to defined risk measures. Value-added tax 236 83 Management of the Group’s funding and investment of liquid assets, customer Employee withholding taxes 166 169 financing, guarantees and insurance is centralised in Group Treasury. Other 586 355 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Total 988 607 Recognition and valuation of financial assets and liabilities Of which liabilities due for payment A financial asset or liability is recognised in the statement of financial position more than five years after closing day 15 13 when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of financial position when Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. an invoice has been sent. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position when the rights in the contract are realised, expire or the company loses control over the NOTE 35 ACCRUED EXPENSES asset. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is derecogAND DEFERRED INCOME nised from the statement of financial position when the obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a financial liability. Group Parent Company On each reporting date, Saab evaluates the need of impairment for expected MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 credit losses for financial assets or pools of financial assets, which are not recognised at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and Accrued expenses recognised as a net amount in the statement of financial position when there is a Accrued project costs 2,120 2,049 1,637 1,127 legal right to a set-off and when the intent is to settle the items with a net amount or Vacation pay liability 1,207 1,160 811 780 to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. Social security expenses 794 749 641 604 Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to the ­instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses. This applies to all financial instruExpected invoices 433 436 253 275 ments with the exception of those in the category financial assets and liabilities at Personnel liabilities 335 286 191 178 fair value through profit or loss, where fair value equals the acquisition cost. The Royalties and instruments are subsequently recognised at fair value or amortised cost, dependcommissions 30 26 28 21 ing on how they have been classified as described below. The fair value of listed Claims reserve 13 17 5 financial assets and liabilities is determined using market prices. Saab also applies Other 28 159 75 67 various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabiliTotal accrued ties traded on an inactive market or that are unlisted holdings. These valuation expenses 4,960 4,882 3,641 3,052 methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, ­discounted cash flows or well-recognised valuation models such as Garman-­Kohlhagens. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective interest rate c­alculated on the acquisition date. Deferred income Capitalised changes in value related to forward Classification of financial assets and liabilities contract rollovers 322 326 The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are classified according to the ­following categories, which determine how each item is valued. Other 312 215 72 77 Total deferred income 312 215 394 403 Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost: Total 5,272 5,097 4,035 3,455 Financial assets in this category are assets that are held to collect contractual cash flows that consist of principal and interest, such as liquid assets, accounts receivable, loans receivable, other receivables and contract assets. Saab considers that there is no significant difference between book and fair value. Interest income is recognised as financial interest income by applying the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses that arise upon derecognition from the balance sheet are recognised directly in profit or loss together with FX effects. Financial liabilities in this category refer to interest-bearing liabilities, accounts payable and other liabilities that are initially recognised at fair value, which corresponds to the amount received less deducting transaction costs. After acquisition, the liabilities are measured at amortised cost according to the effective interest rate method. 126 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. Financial assets at fair value FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS through other comprehensive income: Financial assets within the Group mainly consist of liquid assets, accounts receivaFinancial assets in this category are assets that result in payments related only to ble, shares, loans receivable, bonds receivable, derivatives with positive ­market principal and interest on the outstanding principal and where the financial asset is ­values, certain accrued income and other receivables. The liability side includes held under a business model whose purpose is achieved both by holding financial accounts payable, loans payable, derivatives with negative market values, certain assets to collect contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. These assets accrued expenses and other liabilities. are subsequently measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI), except effective interest, impairments and The following table shows classification and categorisation of financial assets their reversal as well as exchange rate gains and losses, which are presented in and liabilities. profit or loss. When the asset is derecognised from the balance sheet, accumulated gains and losses in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. Classification and categorisation of financial assets and liabilities 2) Carrying amount Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Assets that do not satisfy the requirements to be recognised at amortised cost Financial assets or fair value through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Gains or losses on assets and liabilities at fair value through Valued at amortised cost4): profit or loss that are not included in a hedging relationship are offset in profit or Accounts receivable, contract assets loss in the period the gain or loss arises. Derivatives included in a hedging and other receivables 18,542 16,254 ­relationship are recognised in other comprehensive income for the portion Liquid assets 1,687 2,451 ­determined to be an effective hedge. Equity instruments such as shares and Long-term receivables 724 548 ­participations are continuously measured at fair value with changes in value Valued at fair value through profit and loss3): ­recognised in profit or loss. Short-term investments 5,794 9,003 Impairment of financial assets: Derivatives for trading 146 148 Financial assets that are not recognised at fair value through profit or loss are Financial investments 26 27 tested for impairment on each ­closing date using a model based on expected Derivatives identified as hedges 1,298 948 credit losses. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Derecognition Total financial assets 28,217 29,379 from the balance sheet occurs when there is no longer a reasonable expectation of collecting payment. See also note 26. Financial liabilities Valued at amortised cost: Hedge accounting Interest-bearing liabilities¹⁾ 10,407 9,264 To meet the requirements for hedge accounting there must be an economic Other liabilities4) 7,960 8,626 ­relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item and the Valued at fair value through profit and loss3): ­hedging relationship must be effective until the hedge matures. To cover the Group’s risks associated with changes in exchange rates and Derivatives for trading 15 74 exposure to interest rates, derivatives, consisting of forward exchange contracts, Derivatives identified as hedges 1,691 1,160 options and swaps, are utilised. They are recognised initially and in subsequent Total financial liabilities 20,073 19,124 revaluations at fair value, that is, at each reporting date. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not meet the requirements for 1) Fair value 10,485 9,437 hedge accounting are recognised directly in profit or loss. If the underlying hedged 2) Derivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative values items relate to operations-related receivables or liabilities, the effect on earnings is are recognised as liabilities. Derivatives with a legal right of offset amount to MSEK 1,243. recognised in operating income, while the corresponding effect on earnings related 3) The impact of credit risk on these instruments is considered low given the limits in the current to financial receivables and liabilities is recognised in financial net. ­investment policy. 4) Carrying amount, in Saab’s assessment, essentially corresponds to fair value. The Group applies hedge accounting to cash flow hedges as follows. Cash flow hedges Valuation of financial instruments at fair value are divided into the following three Forward exchange contracts (hedge instruments) entered into mainly to hedge ­valuation levels: future receipts and disbursements against currency risks and classified as cash Level 1 flow hedges (primarily related to contracted sales volumes) are recognised in the According to listed (unadjusted) prices on an active market on the closing date: statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in • Bonds and interest-bearing securities other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in • Electricity derivatives equity until the hedged cash flow affects the operating income, at which point the • Interest rate forwards cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit or loss to offset the effects on earnings of the hedged transaction. Level 2 When the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capitalAccording to accepted valuation models based on observable market data from ised in the statement of financial position, the hedge reserve is dissolved when Reuters Datascope: the hedged item is recognised in the statement of financial position. If the hedged • Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are item is a non-financial asset or liability, the reversal is included in the acquisition ­discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and valued in SEK at cost of the asset or liability. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the ­period-end exchange rates. hedge reserve is dissolved gradually through profit or loss at the same rate that • Options: The Garman-Kohlhagens option-pricing model is used in the market the hedged item affects earnings. ­valuation of all options. When a hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or the • Interest rate swaps and cross currency basis swaps: Future variable interest rates company otherwise revokes the designation as a hedging relationship before the are calculated with the help of current forward rates. These implicit interest hedged transaction occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to ­payments are discounted to the valuation date using current market rates. The occur, the recognised cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedge reserve in market value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the transaction occurs. ­variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed interest If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging ­payments. ­instrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit or loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. Level 3 According to accepted principles, e.g. for venture capital firms: • Unlisted shares and participations S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 127 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. As of 31 December 2019, the Group had the following financial assets and liabilities Net assets translated to SEK at fair value: MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 USD 3,063 2,015 Assets at fair value EUR 1,214 862 MSEK 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 AUD 904 775 Bonds and interest-bearing ZAR 534 475 securities 5,794 5,794 GBP 413 334 Forward exchange contracts 1,317 1,317 DKK 172 138 Currency options 5 5 BRL 158 142 Interest rate swaps 4 4 Other currencies 525 496 Cross currency basis swaps 115 115 Electricity derivatives 3 3 Total 6,983 5,237 Shares and participations 26 26 The effect on net assets as of 31 December 2019 of a change in exchange rates of Total 7,264 5,797 1,441 26 +/– 10 per cent would be a change in value of MSEK 698 (524). Foreign currency risk due to translation effects on the net assets of foreign Liabilities at fair value subsidiaries is not hedged. MSEK 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Forward exchange contracts 1,614 1,614 Transaction exposure Contracted flows in the order backlog are exposed to transaction exposure. Currency options 1 1 Saab hedges the currency exposure in the order backlog with currency derivatives Interest rate swaps 87 87 (mainly forward exchange contracts), which means that changes in exchange rates Electricity derivatives 4 4 do not affect the Group’s future results with respect to the current order backlog. Total 1,706 4 1,702 To reduce the transaction exposure, amounts in foreign currency are netted as well. Hedges are normally arranged for each specific contract. The average forward rate is then used as the contract’s rate for revenue recognition. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT In 2019, countries outside Sweden accounted for 63 per cent (59) of Saab’s sales. Foreign currency risk Since a large share of production takes place in Sweden with expenses denomiForeign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will nated in SEK, Saab has a large net exposure in foreign currencies. negatively affect income or net assets. The predominant contract currencies in the order backlog of SEK 93.3 billion (102.2) are SEK, USD, EUR and GBP. Of the total order backlog, 68 per cent (66) is in Economic exposure fixed prices with or without indexing, while the remaining 32 per cent (34) contains Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold are in variable prices with index and/or currency clauses. currencies other than the functional currency. Foreign currency risk also arises when In the event the cash flow is far in the future, an extension strategy can be applied, fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency. the currency hedge can be shifted to an earlier date than when the cash flow is Outstanding fixed-price tenders in foreign currency are usually managed in a expected and hedge accounting for that time period is then applied to changes in special portfolio, the tender portfolio. The following table shows outstanding the spot price. ­nominal net hedges for the most predominant currencies as of year-end. Impairment testing of unprofitable contracts in foreign currency that are not hedged against foreign currency risk is based on the valuation of future cash flows at Forward contracts1) Options2) Total hedge the spot rate. These contracts mainly refer to anticipated future orders as part of Net hedges ­long-term commercial aircraft programmes in USD. ­(million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Framework agreements contain both transaction and economic exposure and USD -35 -39 -30 -30 -65 -69 mainly apply to the various commercial aircraft programmes. EUR -32 -39 -20 -55 -52 -94 Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives that hedge the transaction exposure. The hedge is effective when the hedging relationship is entered and periodically evalGBP -13 4 -25 -38 4 uated to ensure that the criteria for effectiveness are still met. The factors that are DKK -26 -26 examined to ensure the effectiveness are currency, ­timing of payment flows and ZAR 40 40 amount. If the flow generated by the hedging instrument matches the flow from the 1) Also including sold calland put options. hedged item in currency, timing and amount, the hedging relationship is considered 2) Net of bought calland put options. effective. Until maturity, value changes from effective hedges are ­recognised in other comprehensive income and recognised separately in the hedge reserve in equity. The tender portfolio’s external hedges are measured in relation to the benchmark in Value changes in ineffective hedges are recognised in profit or loss. Ineffectiveness order to allocate VaR. The benchmark corresponds to the external hedge that would can arise if the timing and/or amount of cash flow changes. Since portions of the optimally be done to entirely eliminate the exchange rate risk that a tender gives rise portfolio extend over long periods, effects from forward points could also be a source to in relation to the likelihood that a business contract is received. If the two correof ineffectiveness. Hedging relationships are arranged such that adjustments are spond, the tender portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e. its VaR measure will made continuously to avoid this effect. ­Inefficiency affecting net income for the year be zero. amounted to MSEK 0 (0). In 2019, about MSEK 35, expressed as VaR, was allocated to the tender portfolio, The market value of existing hedges of the order backlog and framework agreeand at year-end VaR amounted to MSEK 15.8 (4.4). Hedge accounting is not applied ments amounted to MSEK -309 (-167). Currency sensitivity, i.e. the effect of a to the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the Group’s result is affected by the extent of change in exchange rates of +/10 per cent, would affect the market value of derivatenders and the exchange rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s effect tives as of 31 December 2019 by +/MSEK 587 (619). The inefficiency in the cash on the Group’s result in 2019 was MSEK -32 (-226). flow hedges that affected net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). Translation exposure Comprehensive income is affected when the results and net assets of foreign ­subsidiaries are translated to SEK. The value of net assets exposed to transaction exposure amounted to MSEK 6,983 (5,237) at year-end; see the following table. 128 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. The following table shows the cash flows for derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges, expressed in millions in local currency. EUR GBP USD Million Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net Outflow Inflow Net 2020 -229 220 -9 -131 59 -72 -523 1,037 514 2021 -22 75 53 -50 9 -41 -324 878 554 2022 -10 39 29 -43 8 -35 -189 145 -44 2023 -4 16 12 -40 7 -33 -108 35 -73 2024 -2 9 7 -7 3 -4 -12 4 -8 2025 and forward -0 13 13 2 2 -25 0 -25 Total flows 2019 -267 372 105 -271 88 -183 -1,181 2,099 918 Total flows 2018 -262 361 99 -320 132 -188 -1,398 2,180 782 Currency exposure The Group’s total outstanding currency derivatives related to all currency risks are shown in the following table. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2019 2018 Million Currency Local currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Local currency Net Maturity up to 1 year EUR -7 151 65 86 -205 -20 GBP 39 83 40 43 42 -11 USD -426 463 754 -291 -323 -45 Other 43 31 12 -18 Subtotal 740 890 -150 -94 Maturity 1 to 3 years EUR -78 26 39 -13 51 49 GBP 79 26 35 -9 82 -36 USD -462 393 592 -199 -798 -81 Other 23 6 17 9 Subtotal 468 672 -204 -59 Maturity 3 to 5 years EUR -19 2 12 -10 -34 -12 GBP 37 17 21 -4 65 -88 USD 84 92 10 82 120 71 Other 2 4 -2 -1 Subtotal 113 47 66 -30 Maturity over 5 years EUR -12 6 -6 -20 -5 GBP 5 -2 USD 25 1 1 Subtotal 1 6 -5 -7 Currency derivatives, total1) 1,322 1,615 -293 -190 1) Of which derivatives used as cash flow hedge MSEK 151 (67). The Parent Company’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2019 2018 Million Currency Local currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Local currency Net EUR 9 211 145 66 -62 30 GBP 148 134 118 16 188 -161 USD -653 993 1,379 -386 -777 -12 Other 64 43 21 -12 Currency derivatives, Parent Company total 1,402 1,685 -283 -155 Liquidity risk Saab has access to the following credit facilities: Liquidity risk refers to the risk of not being able to meet payment obligations due to Loan facilities insufficient liquidity. The company consistently maintains unutilised credit facilities MSEK Facility Utilised Available or liquid assets corresponding in value to MSEK 4,000, adjusted for loans with Revolving credit facility (maturity 2022) 6,000 6,000 ­maturity dates within 12 months but never less than 10 per cent of sales (total sales) Overdraft facility (maturity 2020) 79 1 78 or a risk-weighted amount of bank guarantees that are covered by Saab. Treasury calculates all guarantees issued by banks as a risk weighted amount. Liquid assets Total confirmed credit facilities 6,079 1 6,078 must not fall short of the risk-weighted amount. Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 Liquidity risk is minimised by diversifying financing sources and maturities. For Medium Term Notes (MTN) 10,000 6,745 3,255 maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities, see tables for each class of derivaTotal loan programmes 15,000 6,745 8,255 tives in this note as well as information on interest-bearing liabilities in note 30. The Group’s other financial liabilities include accounts payable with credit terms normally Total loan facilities 21,079 6,746 14,333 within 30-90 days as well as other operating liabilities which are classified as current. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 129 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. Saab has two revolving credit facilities with an equivalent value of MSEK 6,000 Investment portfolio divided between eight banks. Both facilities mature in 2022. Saab also has a commerThe investment portfolio consists of investments in interest-bearing securities and cial paper programme with a limit of MSEK 5,000 (5,000) and a Medium Term Note interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s average duration falls in the range of 3–24 (MTN) programme with a limit of MSEK 10,000 (10,000). As of 31 December 2019, months (3–24). As of year-end, the duration was 8 months (3). An increase in ­market MSEK 0 (0) in commercial paper and MSEK 6,745 (7,731) in MTN had been issued. interest rates of 0.10 per cent units would affect financial income negatively by 5 In addition to these credit facilities, as part of efforts to diversify funding sources, MSEK (3). Saab has borrowed MEUR 100 under a Schuldschein documentation. In addition, A corresponding decrease in market interest rates of 0.10 per cent units would Saab has an established programme for the sale of trade receivables with a framework positively affect financial income by ­5 MSEK (3) based on the investment portfolio as of MSEK 1,425, of which MSEK 0 (0) was utilised at 31 December 2019. Saab’s aim is of 31 December 2019. to utilise this programme in situations where greater financial flexibility is needed. No financial covenants are attached to any of Saab’s credit facilities. Investments in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits MSEK (Nom) Fixed Tied-up Refinancing risk Maturities interest 1) capital Refinancing risk refers to the risk that Saab cannot replace maturing loans with either 1 year 5,439 2,274 new loans or its own funds. To minimise this risk, Saab maintains a diversified loan maturity structure; see the table under funding. Capital is tied up in Saab’s loan 2 years 300 1,185 ­portfolio for an average in the range of 24-60 months. As of 31 December 2019 this 3 years 208 700 amounted to 34 months (43). 4 years 620 1,158 5 years and forward 1,250 Interest rate risk Total 6,567 6,567 Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes in interest rate levels. Interest rate futures and swaps are used to manage interest rate 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. risks and achieve the desired interest rate duration. Lending to subsidiaries in foreign currency is normally financed in SEK and converted to the subsidiary’s currency Forward exchange contracts through swaps. Interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in external funding in forForward exchange contracts used to hedge commercial currency flows contain eign currency is managed with cross currency basis swaps. an interest component. In certain cases, Saab may decide to shift the hedge to an Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the earlier date than when the cash flow is expected. This primarily refers to very longstatement of financial position is affected by changes in underlying interest rates. The term customer contracts, which then generate an interest rate risk. The underlying item with the largest exposure is pension obligations due to the liability’s long duration. cash flows that are exposed to extensions through forward exchange contracts Changes in market rates affect Saab’s net financial items. amounted to MUSD 0 (84) at year-end. Loan portfolio Interest rate derivatives The loan portfolio consists of loans and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio’s The table below shows the Group’s outstanding interest rate derivatives. average duration falls in the range of 12-48 months (12-48). As of year-end, the loan Interest rate derivatives Fair value 2019 2018 portfolio’s duration was 27 months (31). Local Asset Liability Local The interest rates on long-term floating-rate funding are primarily hedged at fixed Million Currency currency SEK SEK Net currency Net rates through interest rate swaps. Outstanding interest rate swaps cover approxiMaturity up to 1 year SEK 725 3 -3 1,475 -15 mately 67 (83) per cent of outstanding floating-rate loans as of 31 December 2019. Cash flow hedging is applied in the financial statements. The effectiveness of a Subtotal 3 -3 -15 hedge is evaluated when the hedging relationship is included and periodically Maturity 1 to 3 years SEK 1,750 15 -15 1,125 -14 ­evaluated to ensure that the relationship meets the requirement. The factors that are EUR 2) 85 100 100 80 80 evaluated to ensure effectiveness are the timing of payment flows and amount of Subtotal 100 15 85 66 interest payments as well as the nominal amount of the hedging instrument and the Maturity 3 to 5 years SEK 600 4 4 1,750 -13 hedged item. If the nominal amount of the hedging instrument does not exceed the nominal amount of the hedged item and the flows generated by the hedging EUR 2) 15 15 15 20 17 ­instrument do not exceed the flows from the hedged item in timing and amount, the Subtotal 19 4 15 4 hedging relationship is considered effective. Until maturity, value changes in effecMaturity over 5 years SEK 1,500 65 -65 1,500 -36 tive hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and recognised sepaSubtotal 65 -65 -36 rately, in the hedge reserve in equity. The value change is recognised in the financial net when it is transferred to profit or loss. Value changes in ineffective hedges are Interest derivatives, total 1) 3) 119 87 32 19 recognised in profit or loss. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). The interest rate benchmark reform could potentially affect hedge 1) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -19 (-20). 2) Refers to cross currency basis swaps (CCY). effectiveness in the future. An increase or decrease in market interest rates of +/3) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK -63 (-57). 0.10 per cent would affect financial income by +/0.7 MSEK (1.0) and other ­comprehensive income by +/24 MSEK (23) based on the loan portfolio as of 31 Commodity price risk December 2019. Commodity price risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes in commodity prices. Purchasing costs for raw materials are managed priFinancing (refers to utilised credit facilities) marily through contract clauses with customers and suppliers. Electricity costs are Of which effect managed through hedging instruments. Electricity directives are managed through from derivative a discretionary management mandate. The market value of electricity derivatives at MSEK (Nom) Fixed agreements Tied-up year-end was MSEK -1 (34). Hedge accounting is applied to electricity derivatives. Maturities interest entered capital Projected electricity consumption is hedged using a model where 100 per cent of 1 year 3,432 -3,850 1,275 the coming quarter’s consumption is hedged; the hedge ratio then drops on a 2 years 400 400 2,184 straight-line basis to 0 per cent in quarter 13. The effectiveness of the hedge is ­periodically evaluated to ensure that the relationship meets the requirement. 3 years 1,700 1,350 1,752 To ensure that the hedge is effective, an evaluation is made to determine that the 4 years 556 400 677 hedged volume per quarter does not exceed the projected volume. Value changes 5 years and forward 1,700 1,700 1,900 in derivatives that exceed the projected volume in a quarter are recognised in profit Total 7,788 7,788 or loss. Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). 130 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. The Group’s outstanding electricity derivatives Net Master Collateral Electricity derivatives Fair value 2019 2018 amount in netting received/ 2018 Gross balance arrangeassets Net MegaAsset Liability MegaMSEK amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount watt MSEK MSEK Net watt Net Currency Maturity up to 1 year 14 3 2 1 13 25 derivatives 965 965 -947 18 Subtotal 3 2 1 25 Interest rate Maturity 1 to 3 years 11 2 -2 10 9 derivatives Subtotal 2 -2 9 CCY1) 97 97 97 Electricity Electricity ­derivatives, total1) 3 4 -1 34 derivatives 34 34 34 1) Of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges MSEK -1 (34). Assets 1,096 1,096 -947 149 Currency Credit and counterparty risks derivatives 1,155 1,155 -947 208 Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to fulfil the Interest rate financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day operations, Saab is derivatives 79 79 79 exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with counterparties in the form of CCY1) customers, suppliers and financial players. The Group’s aggregate credit risks Electricity ­consist of commercial credit risks and financial credit risks. derivatives Liabilities 1,234 1,234 -947 287 Commercial credit risks Commercial credit risks consist of outstanding accounts receivable, contract 1) Cross currency basis swaps. assets and advances paid to suppliers. This type of credit risk is identified and managed on a case-by-case basis. Credit risks that arise in customer contracts are manThe exposure towards banks, mortgage institutions, corporates and the Swedish state aged by utilising available banking or insurance products. In some cases, export as of 31 December 2019 amounted to MSEK 7,846 (10,562). The exposure is calculated credit institutions may be used as well. Commercial credit risks that arise through using the market value of assets with each counterparty. advances paid to suppliers are managed by maintaining bank-guaranteed collateral. Hedge reserve At 31 December 2019, the Group had paid advances to suppliers of MSEK 81 (42). The hedge reserve before tax amounted to MSEK -260 (-461), of which the Accounts receivable and contract assets represent a commercial credit risk. ­unrealised value of derivatives was MSEK 87 (44) and the realised effects arising Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurfrom rollovers of derivatives was MSEK -347 (-505). ance guarantees or guarantees from EKN are secured to ensure that payment will be The change in the hedge reserve in 2019 of MSEK 201 consists of a reversal to received. Since accounts receivable are generally secured through bank or insurprofit or loss of MSEK 168, change in the value of existing derivatives of MSEK -282, ance guarantees or are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low. For the market value of hedges obtained during the year of MSEK 29, and change that more information on the Group’s accounts receivable including expected credit arose due to derivative rollovers of MSEK 286. For information on the amount recoglosses, see note 26. nised in other comprehensive income, see consolidated other comprehensive income. The inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year Financial credit risks amounted to MSEK 0 (0). Financial credit risk consists of exposures to financial institutions through deposits, securities investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. Effects in the hedge reserve per derivative The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to ensure that all financial counterparties have a long-term credit rating of no lower than Afrom Standard and 2019 Currency Interest rate Electricity Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s. Consequently, the risk of credit losses is considered low MSEK derivatives derivatives derivatives and there was no need for credit reserves at year-end. Recognised amount in hedge Each financial counterparty is assigned a credit limit based on its long-term reserve 151 -63 -1 credit rating. Nominal amount -6,698 4,275 25 Saab has entered into ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties to Maturity date 2020-2027 2020-2026 2020-2022 net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives; see the Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 tables below. Change in value of outstanding derivatives since 1 January 84 -6 -35 Market value of financial assets and liabilities subject to netting arrangements Change in value of hedged asset to Net Master Collateral determine effectiveness -84 6 35 amount in netting received/ 2019 Gross balance arrangeassets Net Trading MSEK amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount Proprietary trading is permitted to a limited extent in fixed income and currency Currency instruments. The main purpose of this trading is to gain access to qualitative market derivatives 1,322 1,322 -1,239 83 information and maintain a high level of market expertise. Interest rate The Board of Directors has issued a risk mandate for trading in fixed income and derivatives 4 4 -4 ­currency instruments. In 2019, MSEK 2 was allocated to trading, expressed as VaR. The CCY1) 115 115 115 mandate has not been utilised during the year. Electricity Pension obligation derivatives 3 3 3 The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the Assets 1,444 1,444 -1,243 201 Group’s pension obligation. The fund has a long-term real yield requirement that Currency ­corresponds annual financial cost of pension liability to PRI Pensionsgaranti. Investderivatives 1,615 1,615 -1,239 376 ment guidelines indicate asset allocation as follows 0-40 per cent equities, 0-20 per Interest rate cent alternative assets, 15-100 per cent interest-bearing products and 0-25 per derivatives 87 87 -4 83 cent real estate. Investments are made in interest-bearing securities from issuers CCY1) with a credit rating of no lower than BBB according to Standard & Poor’s and Baa according to Moody’s. Electricity derivatives 4 4 4 Of the fund’s capital at year-end, 30 per cent (35) was invested in interest-bearing assets, 19 (19) per cent property related investments, 37 per cent (34) in equity and Liabilities 1,706 1,706 -1,243 463 14 per cent (12) in alter­native investments. The market value of the fund’s assets as 1) Cross currency basis swaps. of 31 December 2019 was MSEK 6,741 (6,051) and the annual return was 11 per cent (-1). In 2019, the fund was capitalised by MSEK 0 (120) and MSEK 0 (120) in refunds was paid. The table below shows the solvency margin for the pension fund. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 131 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 36, cont. MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 NOTE 38 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Fair value of assets under management 6,741 6,051 6,098 5,579 The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. Saab has not had Present value of defined-­ 11,235 any significant transactions with Investor, Board members or members of Group benefit ­obligations1) 9,916 8,554 7,811 Management. For information on remuneration, see note 8. Solvency margin 60% 61% 71% 71% Of the Parent Company’s sales, 7 (7) per cent referred to sales to Group companies, Pension obligation while 22 (21) per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Group companies. according to PRI 6,043 5,776 5,522 5,369 Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies and joint ventures Solvency margin 112% 105% 110% 104% amounted to approximately MSEK 201 (47) and MSEK 253 (136), respectively. 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. For information on receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures, see notes 24 and 34. NOTE 37 ASSETS PLEDGED AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES NOTE 39 GROUP COMPANIES Significant Group company holdings Ownership share, ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES per cent A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from Group company’s events whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events Group company ­registered office, country 2019 2018 and there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or provision Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required or the size of the Combitech Oy Finland 100 100 obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Information is provided Saab Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 as long as the likelihood of an outflow of resources is not extremely small. Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 Group Parent Company 100 Saab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Saab Defense and Security USA LLC USA 100 100 Contingent liabilities Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Guarantees to insurance company, Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 PRI Pensionsgaranti 121 116 121 116 Saab Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 75 75 Guarantees for Group ­companies’ commitments Saab Kockums AB Malmö, Sweden 100 100 to customers 4,618 4,655 Saab Medav Sureties for joint Technologies GmbH Germany 100 100 ventures 9 8 Saab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 Sureties for associated Saab Sensis Corporation USA 100 100 companies 11 11 396 386 100 Saab Technologies B.V. The Netherlands 100 Total 141 135 5,135 5,157 Total ownership of non-controlling interests amounted to MSEK 274 (221). In the ordinary course of business, Saab is occasionally involved in disputes and No non-controlling interests are considered material. legal proceedings arising as a result of the company’s operations worldwide. These ­disputes and legal proceedings are not expected, either individually or collectively, Parent Company to have any significant negative effect on Saab’s financial result or position. MSEK 2019 2018 Accumulated acquisition value The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent contingent Opening balance, 1 January 18,834 18,718 liabilities and a distribution by category. New issues/shareholders’ contributions 121 Per cent Per cent Acquisitions 1 MSEK 31-12-2019 of total 31-12-2018 of total Adjusted purchase price -5 Bank Guarantees: Sales and liquidations -4 On demand 17,435 97 18,181 99 Closing balance, 31 December 18,831 18,834 Award 517 3 173 1 Bank Guarantees total 17,952 100 18,354 100 Accumulated write-downs Opening balance, 1 January -12,653 -12,653 Type of Bank Guarantee: Write-downs for the year Advance Payment 9,611 54 9,614 52 Sales and liquidations Performance 7,744 43 7,872 43 Closing balance, 31 December -12,653 -12,653 Others 597 3 868 5 Bank Guarantees total 17,952 100 18,354 100 Carrying amount, 31 December 6,178 6,181 In the ordinary course of business, Saab AB issue Parent Company guarantees to subsidiaries and joint ventures on a case by case basis. These guarantees may cover all or part of the relevant subsidiary’s or joint venture’s general obligations, or be a defined amount for a specific purpose. With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments to customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small and, as a result, no value is recognised in the table of contingent liabilities. 132 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 39, cont. Specification of Parent Company’s holdings of shares in Group companies 31-12-2019 Share, Carrying amount, Group company/Corp. ID no./Registered office No. of shares per cent MSEK Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 144 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm, Sweden 1,720,000 100 158 Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö, Sweden 100,000 100 1,064 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal, Sweden 2,000 100 3 Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping, Sweden 20,000 100 4 Fastighets AB Stensholm-Huskvarna, 556030-2746, Jönköping, Sweden 150,000 100 42 Fastighets AB Tannefors 1:114, 559043-3206, Linköping, Sweden 500 100 6 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga, Sweden 100,000 100 10 Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, Linköping, Sweden 500,000 100 51 Muskövarvet AB, 556675-3496, Haninge, Sweden 1,002 100 61 N. Sundin Dockstavarvet AB, 556193-6138, Kramfors, Sweden 5,100 100 85 Nordic Defence Industries A/S, Denmark 100 22 Saab Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100 3 Saab Applied Composites AB, 556326-2988, Linköping, Sweden 10,000 100 82 Saab Asia Pacific Co. Ltd, Thailand 100 12 Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik, Sweden 200,000 100 101 Saab Canada Inc., Canada 100 1 Saab Czech s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 25 Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100 103 Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB, 559060-0747, Linköping, Sweden 295 59 35 Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga, Sweden 500,000 100 357 Saab France S.A.S, France 100 Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100 Saab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100 14 Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100 Saab Kockums AB, 556205-5623, Malmö, Sweden 500,000 100 340 SAAB LTD, United Arab Emirates 100 Saab Medav Technologies GmbH, Germany 100 317 Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, Mölndal, Sweden 300,000 100 49 Saab North America, Inc., USA 100 2,043 Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100 194 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 100 443 Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Technologies B.V., The Netherlands 100 295 Saab Technologies BVBA, Belgium 100 29 Saab Technologies Ltd., Canada 100 18 Saab Technologies s.r.o., Czech Republic 100 Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100 3 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100 3 Saab Training and Simulation GmbH, Germany 100 Saab Transpondertech AB, 556535-9790, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100 Dormant companies etc. 61 Carrying amount at year-end 6,178 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 133 F I n a n cial stateme n ts FREE CASH FLOW VERSUS CASH FLOW NOTE 40 UNTAXED RESERVES FOR THE YEAR IN STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MSEK 2019 2018 Parent Company Free cash flow -2,036 -3,195 MSEK 2019 2018 Investing activities – interest-bearing: Tax allocation reserve: Short-term investments 3,219 -4,554 Opening balance, 1 January 1,825 1,809 Other financial investments and receivables -90 -29 Provision for the year 360 530 Financing activities: Reversal for the year -322 -514 Repayment of loans -990 -967 Closing balance, 31 December 1,863 1,825 Raising of loans 8 3,820 Accumulated accelerated/under depreciation Rights issue 11 5,967 Buildings and land: Repurchase of shares -301 -203 Opening balance, 1 January -2 -2 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -601 -588 Accelerated/under depreciation for the year Dividend paid to non-controlling interest -24 -24 Closing balance, 31 December -2 -2 Transactions with non-controlling interest 8 -14 Machinery and equipment: Cash flow for the year -796 213 Opening balance, 1 January 582 484 Accelerated depreciation for the year 65 98 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Closing balance, 31 December 647 582 Liquid assets Group Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 2,508 2,405 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 The following components are included in liquid assets: NOTE 41 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, Cash and bank balances 891 1,300 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Bank deposits 796 1,151 Total according to the statement The Group’s free cash flow, and a reconciliation between free cash flow of financial position 1,687 2,451 and cash flow for the year from the statement of cash flows, are stated below. Total according to statement of cash flows 1,687 2,451 FREE CASH FLOW Group Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 MSEK 31-12-2019 31-12-2018 Cash flow from operating activities before The following components are included changes in working capital, excluding taxes in liquid assets: and other financial items1) 4,626 4,026 Cash and bank balances 211 472 Cash flow from changes in working capital: Bank deposits 796 1,151 Contract assets and liabilities -1,649 -3,039 Total according to balance sheet 1,007 1,623 Inventories -1,141 -1,057 Other current receivables 176 -1,044 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,007 1,623 Other current liabilities -218 1,965 Provisions -325 -479 Interest and dividend Change in working capital -3,157 -3,654 Group Parent Company MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities, Dividends received 20 39 34 111 excluding taxes and other financial items 1,469 372 Interest received 61 38 185 149 Investing activities: Interest paid -265 -122 -186 -146 Investments in intangible fixed assets -1,588 -1,338 Total -184 -45 33 114 Investments in tangible fixed assets -1,213 -1,481 Sales and disposals of tangible fixed assets 32 23 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Cash flow from investing activities2) -2,769 -2,796 Group Parent Company Operational cash flow -1,300 -2,424 MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 Taxes and other financial items -690 -862 Depreciation Sale of and investments in financial assets -46 43 and amortisation­ 1,368 866 531 478 Investments in operations 15 Capital gains/losses from sales of Group compaSale of subsidiaries 33 nies, associated companies and other shares -8 -27 -12 Free cash flow -2,036 -3,195 Provisions 632 673 438 565 1) Including amortisation of lease liabilities. Write-downs 50 63 2) Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interest-­ Share of profits in bearing financial assets and excluding sale of and investment in financial assets, investments in ­operations and sale of subsidiaries. If investments in and sale of financial fixed assets are considered associated companies to be of operating nature, the item is included in investing activities. and joint ventures 5 14 Dividends and Group ­contributions from/to Group companies -798 -936 Other 135 232 165 75 Total 2,132 1,808 387 182 134 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts Note 41, cont. Reconciliation of cash flows arising from liabilities in financing activities Non-cash changes Adjustment 2019-01-01 Foreign exchange New contracts / Interest-bearing liabilities, MSEK 31-12-2018 IFRS 16 Restated Cash flows1) movement Revaluation 31-12-2019 Liabilities to credit institutions 8,759 8,759 -985 15 7,789 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 43 43 2 45 Lease liabilities 2,695 2,695 -415 27 265 2,572 Other interest-bearing liabilities 462 -462 1 1 Total interest-bearing liabilities 9,264 2,233 11,497 -1,397 42 265 10,407 1) These amounts refer to cash flows arising from liabilities in Financing activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows. Investments in operations Group NOTE 42 INFORMATION ON PARENT COMPANY MSEK 2019 2018 Acquired assets and liabilities Saab AB (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered office in Linköping. The Parent Company’s B shares are registered on the ­Nasdaq Stockholm. Intangible fixed assets 51 The address of the head office is Saab AB, Olof Palmes gata 17, 5th floor, SE-111 22 Tangible fixed assets 9 Stockholm, Sweden. Current receivables 18 The consolidated accounts for 2019 comprise the Parent Company and its Group Liquid assets 11 companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes the holdings Total assets 89 in associated companies and joint ventures. Saab AB also operates a small business in a South Korean branch. Deferred tax liability 5 Interest-bearing liabilities 1 Current liabilities 36 NOTE 43 NON-RECURRING ITEMS Total liabilities 42 Adjusted purchase price -4 Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -11 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Effect on the Group’s liquid assets Non-recurring items comprise the financial effects from events or transactions (positive (-)/negative (+)) -15 with material impact that are relevant to understand the result when comparing periods. Such events or transactions can relate to restructuring programs, No acquisitions were made in 2019. Acquisitions in 2018 refers mainly to costs related to disputes and legal proceedings, impairment charges and C-­Leanship A/S and its subsidiaries C-Leanship Singapore Pte.Ltd. gains and losses from divestments of group companies, joint ventures or ­associated companies. Sale of subsidiaries Group Non-recurring items 2018 were related to efficiency improvements to increase proMSEK 2019 2018 ductivity. The costs comprised severance payments etc. in restructuring programs of MSEK 248 and impairment of intangible assets of MSEK 50. The items are Divested assets and liabilities reported in the income statement per function as shown below Tangible fixed assets 23 Inventories 1 Current receivables 5 MSEK 2019 2018 Liquid assets 5 Cost of goods sold -41 Total assets 34 Administrative expenses -3 Deferred tax liability 4 Research and development costs -54 Current liabilities 4 Other operating expenses -200 Total liabilities 8 Total -298 Sales price 38 Purchase price received 38 Less: Liquid assets in divested operations -5 Effect on the Group’s liquid assets 33 No divestments were made in 2019. Divestments in 2018 mainly relate to a property company. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 135 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 44 NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2019 Transition effects due to IFRS 16 Reconciliation between operating leases (according to IAS 17) and recognised As of 1 January 2019, Saab has applied the new standard. The Group has no signifilease liabilities (according to IFRS 16) cant leases as a lessor. Saab has applied the simplified transition approach and has not restated comparMSEK ative amounts. The Group has applied the exemptions in the standard for short-term Obligations for operating leases as of 31 december 2018 2,805 leases as well as leases where the underlying asset is of low value, i.e. leases where Financial lease liabilities as of 31 december 2018 462 the term is not more than 12 months as well as leases where the underlying asset is of low value is not recognised as right of use assets and lease liabilities but is recogShort-term leases (expensed in income statement) -71 nised in the same way as before as a cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Leases of low value (expensed in income statement) -29 IFRS 16 has been applied to all leases previously classified as operating leases. Effect of discounting -472 In accordance with the practical expedient in IFRS 16, the Group has not assessed Carrying lease liabilities, 1 January 2019 2,695 any lease components in contracts that were not already classified as leases according to IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. Rightofuse assets for leases recognised in the balance sheet has been measured initially, as of 1 January 2019, at an amount corresponding to the lease liability with NOTE 45 EXCHANGE RATES USED adjustments for prepaid or accrued lease fees attributable to the contract as of IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2018. The lease liability has been calculated by discounting remaining future contractual lease fees by the Group’s weighted incremental borrowing rate as of 1 January 2019 Year-end rate Average rate which amounted to 4.1 percent on average. Land 2019 2018 2019 2018 Finance leases on aircraft and properties that were already classified as tangible Australia AUD 1 6.51 6.32 6.57 6.49 fixed assets have been reclassified to right-of-use assets in the balance sheet. The transition to IFRS 16 do not affect reporting, performance indicators or alterBrazil BRL 1 2.31 2.32 2.40 2.39 native performance indicators for the Group’s operating segments. Adjustments in Denmark DKK 100 139.62 137.60 141.78 137.62 accordance with IFRS 16 are made at an overarching Group level. Euro EUR 1 10.43 10.28 10.59 10.26 See the following table for effects on the financial position owing to the transition India INR 100 13.06 12.82 13.43 12.71 to IFRS 16. Canada CAD 1 7.13 6.59 7.13 6.71 Norway NOK 100 105.77 102.45 107.47 106.87 Statement of financial position 2018-12-31 Adjustment 2019-01-01 Switzerland CHF 1 9.57 9.10 9.52 8.88 MSEK Outcome IFRS 16 Restated UK GBP 1 12.20 11.35 12.07 11.59 ASSETS South Africa ZAR 100 66.48 62.13 65.44 65.87 Tangible fixed assets 6,129 -441 5,688 Czech Republic CZK 100 40.96 39.81 41.23 39.99 Right-of-use assets 2,725 2,725 USA USD 1 9.33 8.97 9.46 8.69 Other fixed assets 11,015 11,015 Total fixed assets 17,144 2,284 19,428 Other receivables1) 507 44 551 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 919 -63 856 Other current assets 37,558 37,558 Total current assets 38,984 -19 38,965 TOTAL ASSETS 56,128 2,265 58,393 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 19,412 19,412 Non-controlling interest 221 221 Total equity 19,633 19,633 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities1) 8,196 -421 7,775 Long-term lease liabilities1) 2,296 2,296 Other provisions 1,081 32 1,113 Other long-term liabilities 5,319 5,319 Total long-term liabilities 14,596 1,907 16,503 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities1) 1,068 -41 1,027 Short-term lease liabilities1) 399 399 Other short-term liabilities 20,831 20,831 Total short-term liabilities 21,899 358 22,257 Total liabilities 36,495 2,265 38,760 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 56,128 2,265 58,393 1) Adjustments effecting net liquidity/-debt as of 1 January 2019. 136 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 F I n a n cial stateme n ts NOTE 46 DEFINITIONS OF KEY RATIOS Below are definitions of financial key ratios that are used in the report. Non-recurring items Non-recurring items comprise the financial effects from For more information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, events or transactions with material impact that are relevant to understand the result please see saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios. when comparing periods. Such events or transactions can relate to restructuring Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. programs, costs related to disputes and legal proceedings, impairment charges and gains and losses from divestments of group companies, joint ventures or associCapital turnover Sales divided by average capital employed. ated companies. Earnings per share Net income for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s Operating margin Operating income (EBIT) as a percentage of sales. shareholder­s, divided by the average number of shares before and after full dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. Operating income adjusted for non-recurring items Operating income (EBIT) adjusted for items classified as non-recurring. EBITDA Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and write-downs. Operating margin adjusted for non-recurring items Operating income adjusted EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and for non-recurring items as a percentage of sales. write-downs as a percentage of sales. Operational cash flow Cash flow from operating activities, excluding taxes and Effective tax rate Current and deferred taxes as a percentage of income before tax. other financial items, amortisation of lease liabilities and acquisitions and divestEquity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. ments of intangible fixed assets and tangible fixed assets. Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders Order backlog Total value of orders at the end of the year. divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the year. Order bookings Total value of orders received during the year. Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities, including amortisation of lease Organic sales growth Change in sales in percentage adjusted for effects from liabilities, and cash flow from investing activities, excluding acquisitions and divestexchange rate due to the translation of foreign subsidiaries, and structural changes ments of short-term investments and other interest-bearing financial assets. such as acquisitions and divestments of subsidiaries. Free cash flow per share Free cash flow divided by the average number of shares Profit margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. after dilution. Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. percentage of average capital employed. Interest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. financial expenses. R&D expenditures Research and development costs are recognised separately Net investments Acquisitions and divestments of intangible and tangible and comprise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development as fixed assets. well as amortisation of capitalised development costs. Total research and developNet liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing ment expenses also include the part of Saab’s research and development that is receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for pensions excluding conducted in cooperation with customers, which is reported as cost of goods sold. provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ contribution. NOTE 47 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE CONCLUSION OF THE PERIOD • In January, Saab started assembly production of its section of the T-7A advanced • Saab has successfully completed its participation with Gripen E and GlobalEye trainer in Linköping. The T-7A has been developed and is being produced together AEW&C in the Finnish HX Challenge, the Finnish Air Force testing and evaluation with Boeing for the U.S. Air Force event. The flight evaluation is part of the capability assessment in the on-going HX • Gunnar Wieslander leaves the role as head of the business area Kockums and a programme, the procurement of new fighter aircraft to equip the Finnish Air Force. member of Saab’s Group Management. • In February, Saab has signed an Enterprise Partnering Agreement with the Austral• On 29 January, Saab has appointed Lars Tossman as the new head of business ian Department of Defence to provide combat management systems across all area Kockums and a member of Saab’s Group Management. the Royal Australian Navy’s major surface ships. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 137 D I V I D E N D M O T I VAT I O N Dividend motivation The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB. Saab is one of the world’s leading high-techSaab’s gross capital expenditure in 2019 nology companies, with operations that are amounted to MSEK 1,213. Investments are characterised by complex development also made in research and development, assignments on the cutting edge of technowhich in 2019 amounted to MSEK 2,387, of logy. Over the years, Saab has conducted sigwhich MSEK 1,392 was capitalised in the nificant development projects and balance sheet. managed the associated risks with great At year-end, Saab had net debt, which success. See also risks and uncertainties in includes liquid assets, short-term investments the annual report. and interest-bearing receivables less interestThe Board of Directors is proposing a total bearing liabilities, including provisions for dividend of MSEK 625 (601), an increase of lease liabilities and pensions, amounting to 4.0 per cent, corresponding to SEK 4.70 per MSEK 7,069. share (4.50). The proposed dividend is not expected to Saab AB’s unrestricted equity amounts to affect Saab’s ability to carry out its commitMSEK 10,932 and profit carried forward in the ments on a shortor long-term basis. Group before the dividend is paid amounts to MSEK 11,828. The proposed dividend is considered justifiNet income for the year attributable to the able with regard to what is stated in chapter Parent Company’s shareholders amounted to 17, § 3, paragraphs two and three of the ComMSEK 1,983 for the Group and MSEK 793 for panies Act (2005:551): the Parent Company. 1. the demands that the company’s nature, After paying the dividend to the shareholscope and risks place on the size of its equity, ders, the Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts and to 34.1 per cent, compared to the target of 30 2. the company’s consolidation needs, liquiper cent. Since the IPO in 1998, the equity/ dity or financial position in other respects. assets ratio has risen from 22 per cent to 34.8 per cent in 2019. The Board of Directors of Saab AB 138 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS Proposed disposition of earnings 2019 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriaAfter the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will be as ted earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General follows: Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Capital stock 2,173,533,552 Retained earnings 4,582,043,414 Ongoing rights issue 542,471,135 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Statutory reserve 662,843,478 Net comprehensive income for the year 793,134,484 Share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 Total 10,932,308,025 Retained earnings 4,750,423,992 Total 13,686,402,284 be disposed as follows: To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.70 per share 624,753,906 The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net To share premium reserve 5,557,130,127 income over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the President Funds to be carried forward 4,750,423,992 propose that MSEK 625 (601), or SEK 4.70 per share (4.50) be issued as Total 10,932,308,025 a dividend. This has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2019, of 132,926,363 (133,482,880). Saab’s equity/assets ratio is currently 34.8 per cent (35.0) and after the proposed disposition of earnings will be 34.1 per cent (34.3). The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping 21 February 2020 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Sten Jakobsson Danica Kragic Jensfelt Sara Mazur Johan Menckel Daniel Nodhäll Deputy Chairman Board member Board member Board member Board member Bert Nordberg Cecilia Stegö Chilò Erika Söderberg Johnson Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson Nils Lindskog Board member Board member Board member Micael Johansson President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Our audit report was submitted on 27 February 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Bo Hjalmarsson Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 139 AU DI TOR ' S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556036-0793 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND respects, the financial position of the group as knowledge and belief, no prohibited services CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS of 31 December 2019 and their financial perreferred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Opinions formance and cash flow for the year then Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited We have audited the annual accounts and ended in accordance with International Financompany or, where applicable, its parent comconsolidated accounts of Saab AB (publ) for cial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by pany or its controlled companies within the EU. the year 2019 except for the corporate goverthe EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The stanance statement and the statutory sustainatutory administration report is consistent with Basis for Opinions bility report on pages 54 to 69 and 72 to 81 the other parts of the annual accounts and We conducted our audit in accordance with respectively. The annual accounts and consoconsolidated accounts. International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and lidated accounts of the company are included We therefore recommend that the general generally accepted auditing standards in Sweon pages 38-139 in this document. meeting of shareholders adopts the income den. Our responsibilities under those stanIn our opinion, the annual accounts have statement and balance sheet for the parent dards are further described in the Auditor’s been prepared in accordance with the Annual company and the income statement and stateResponsibilities section. We are independent Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material ment of financial position for the group. of the parent company and the group in accorrespects, the financial position of parent comOur opinions in this report on the the annual dance with professional ethics for accounpany as of 31 December 2019 and its financial accounts and consolidated accounts are contants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled performance and cash flow for the year then sistent with the content of the additional report our ethical responsibilities in accordance with ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts that has been submitted to the parent these requirements. Act. The consolidated accounts have been company's audit committee in accordance with We believe that the audit evidence we have prepared in accordance with the Annual the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. This obtained is sufficient and appropriate to proAccounts Act and present fairly, in all material includes that, based on the best of my (our) vide a basis for our opinions. OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview • We have used an overall materiality of SEK 125 million in our audit representing approximately five percent of operating profit. Materiality • In our audit we have focused on the operations in the parent company Saab AB and the subsidiaries Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Kockums AB. In addition, units in Australia, South Africa and USA has been subject to review procedures. • A significant part of Saab’s reported revenue derives from long term contracts where Scope management’s estimates and assumptions are critical for recognition of revenue as well as cost of goods sold. In addition to the income items, several balance sheet items are affected by the assumptions and judgments made related to the long term contracts. A significant part of our Key audit is focused on the review of large projects. Audit Matters A significant part of Saab’s revenue and result Revenue and income are in many projects confirm the assumptions and estimates for is derived from long term customer contracts recognised using percentage of completion, project cost and revenue to give a satisfying including substantial development and cuswhich as such are based on management’s base for recognizing revenue and income. In tomization for specific customers, which are estimates and measurement of percentage of many cases the customer contracts have a associated with technical and commercial completion, estimated profit margin as well as significant element of integration with the risks. Some of Saab’s large projects are total costs and risks. customer and sub-contractors why the finanmoving towards a production and delivery This requires a high level of project control cial outcome is not only dependent on Saab’s phase which can alter the risks in the projects. and monitoring to be able to, at any given time own activities but other parties as well. 140 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 AU DI TOR ' S REPORT We designed our audit by determining materiSaab AB. In addition, substantial parts of the materiality, including the overall materiality for ality and assessing the risks of material missoperation is carried out in the subsidiaries the consolidated financial statements as a tatement in the consolidated financial stateSaab Dynamics AB and Saab Kockums AB in whole as set out in the table below. These, ments. In particular, we considered where Sweden. These units are included in the audit together with qualitative considerations, helmanagement made subjective judgements; of the group. Foreign operations of some ped us to determine the scope of our audit for example, in respect of significant accounimportance for the financial reporting is carand the nature, timing and extent of our audit ting estimates that involved making assumpried out in Australia, South Africa and USA. In procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstions and considering future events that are these entities our audit is focused on project tatements, both individually and in aggregate inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we oriented parts of the financial reporting. on the financial statements as a whole. also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other Materiality matters consideration of whether there was The scope of our audit was influenced by evidence of bias that represented a risk of our application of materiality. An audit is desigmaterial misstatement due to fraud. ned to obtain reasonable assurance whether We tailored the scope of our audit in order the financial statements are free from material to perform sufficient work to enable us to promisstatement. Misstatements may arise due vide an opinion on the consolidated financial to fraud or error. They are considered material statements as a whole, taking into account the if individually or in aggregate, they could structure of the Group, the accounting proreasonably be expected to influence the ecocesses and controls and the specific circumsnomic decisions of users taken on the basis of tances in larger customer projects. the consolidated financial statements. A significant part of the Saab Group’s opeBased on our professional judgement, we ration is carried out in the parent company determined certain quantitative thresholds for Group Materiality SEK 125 million How we determined it Five percent of operating profit Rational for the materiality We chose operating profit as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchbenchmark applied mark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by users and is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose five percent which in auditing standards is a generally accepted benchmark. Key audit matters in the context of our audit of, and in forming company, Saab AB. The key audit matters desKey audit matters of the audit are those matour opinion thereon, the annual accounts and cribed below is applicable for both the group ters that, in our professional judgment, were of consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do and the parent company. most significance in our audit of the annual not provide a separate opinion on these mataccounts and consolidated accounts of the ters. A considerable part of the operations in current period. These matters were addressed the Saab Group is carried out in the parent S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 141 AU DI TOR ' S REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter LONG TERM CUSTOMER CONTRACTS Saab has implemented processes, methods following procedures focusing on whether sigRevenue and income are in many projects and controls to account for and monitor the nificant risks are reasonably accounted for: recognised over time using percentage of long term customer contracts from tender, • We inspect management’s assessment of completion, which as such are based on through execution and completion. These the project execution and how this affect the management’s estimates and measurement processes include among other project orgafinancial reporting. This includes total contof percentage of completion, estimated profit nisation, documentation, financial reviews and ract value, level of completion, method for margin as well as total costs and risks. If a proreporting as well as guidance on application of recognising stage of completion, cost incurject is expected to be in a loss position, the the accounting principles. This is further desred and estimated reaming cost. loss is recognised as soon as it can be detercribed in the annual report on page 50. • We reconcile management’s assessment to mined. In our audit we have evaluated the design underlying documentation and compare this Percentage of completion and the income of these processes, methods and controls with previous quarters. recognised can be based on cost incurred, and tested on a sample basis that they work as • We reconcile financial information between milestones reached, or units delivered. designed. In this testing we have focused on reports and systems and recalculate calculaThe financial reporting risk in the financial the following: tions. reporting is that revenue and income recogni• Test of monitoring controls on business area, In these reviews we use our knowledge sed, not correctly reflect Saab’s fulfilment of business unit of where applicable on product about Saab and how similar long term contperformance obligations in the long term level. racts have been treated to discuss and ask customer contracts and that the risks in the • Test of transaction controls for accounting for questions and challenge management’s esticontracts deviate from actual outcome, which cost incurred related to long term customer mates and judgements. We also assess concan result in revenue being recognised at contracts for procurement to projects. sistent application of accounting principles wrong margin. This in turn might lead to cut off • Test that project reviews and documentation between contracts with similar circumstanerrors in revenue and cost over the project’s has been approved according to methods ces. In this we also test items reported as work lifecycle. applied within Saab. in progress. We test them from both quantitaAccounting for long term customer conttive and qualitative aspects and assess racts also, besides revenue and cost of gods We have further selected a sample of long whether they are accounted for under Saab’s sold, affect balance sheet items such as receiterm customer contracts for substantive tesaccounting policies. vables from customers, inventory and proviting. Our sample is based on quantitative and Contracts for Gripen E Sweden, Gripen NG sion for loss contracts. qualitative factors where we have selected Brazil and Air born surveillance United Arab In the annual report risk related to long long term contracts that are material from Emirates have been of specific interest in our term contracts are described on page 50 and contract value, revenue recognised or risk in audit. in the notes to the financial statements (note 2 residual cost to complete. For specific contracts, we have from time and 4) the accounting principles are described For the selected contracts we have in to time observations related to both amounts in more detail. detail obtained an understanding for the proand judgement that we report to management ject though, among other procedures, review and the audit committee. The projects comof contract clauses, project plans, analysis of plexity and judgments involved mean that the stage of completion and contract forecasts. amounts recognized by nature is affected by Each quarter we review the projects together uncertainty where future outcome can deviate with the project leader, the project controller significantly from management’s judgments. or similar. In these reviews we perform the 142 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 AU DI TOR ' S REPORT OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL dice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities Responsibilities of the Board ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED and tasks in general, among other things overof Directors and the Managing Director ACCOUNTS see the company’s financial reporting process. The Board of Directors is responsible for the This document also contains other informaproposal for appropriations of the tion than the annual accounts and consolidaAUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a ted accounts and is found on pages 1 to 37 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assudividend, this includes an assessment of and 145 to 148 as well as the statutory sustairance about whether the annual accounts and whether the dividend is justifiable considenability report on page 54 to 69. The Board of consolidated accounts as a whole are free ring the requirements which the company's Directors and the Managing Director are from material misstatement, whether due to and the group’s type of operations, size and responsible for this other information. fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report risks place on the size of the parent Our opinion on the annual accounts and that includes our opinions. Reasonable assucompany's and the group’s equity, consoliconsolidated accounts does not cover this rance is a high level of assurance, but is not a dation requirements, liquidity and position in other information and we do not express any guarantee that an audit conducted in accorgeneral. form of assurance conclusion regarding this dance with ISAs and generally accepted auditThe Board of Directors is responsible for other information. ing standards in Sweden will always detect a the company’s organization and the admiIn connection with our audit of the annual material misstatement when it exists. Misstanistration of the company’s affairs. This accounts and consolidated accounts, our tements can arise from fraud or error and are includes among other things continuous responsibility is to read the information identiconsidered material if, individually or in the assessment of the company’s and the fied above and consider whether the informaaggregate, they could reasonably be expected group’s financial situation and ensuring that tion is materially inconsistent with the annual to influence the economic decisions of users the company's organization is designed so accounts and consolidated accounts. In this taken on the basis of these annual accounts that the accounting, management of assets procedure we also take into account our knowand consolidated accounts. and the company’s financial affairs otherledge otherwise obtained in the audit and A further description of our responsibility for wise are controlled in a reassuring manner. assess whether the information otherwise the audit of the annual accounts and consoliThe Managing Director shall manage the appears to be materially misstated. dated accounts is available on ongoing administration according to the If we, based on the work performed concerRevisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsBoard of Directors’ guidelines and instrucning this information, conclude that there is a inspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This descriptions and among other matters take measumaterial misstatement of this other information, tion is part of the auditor’s report. res that are necessary to fulfil the company’s we are required to report that fact. We have accounting in accordance with law and nothing to report in this regard. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULAhandle the management of assets in a reasTORY REQUIREMENTS suring manner. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD Opinions OF DIRECTORS AND THE MANAGING In addition to our audit of the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility DIRECTOR and consolidated accounts, we have also Our objective concerning the audit of the The Board of Directors and the Managing audited the administration of the Board of administration, and thereby our opinion Director are responsible for the preparation of Directors and the Managing Director of Saab about discharge from liability, is to obtain the annual accounts and consolidated AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed audit evidence to assess with a reasonable accounts and that they give a fair presentation appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. degree of assurance whether any member in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act We recommend to the general meeting of of the Board of Directors or the Managing and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in shareholders that the profit be appropriated in Director in any material respect: accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. accordance with the proposal in the statutory • has undertaken any action or been guilty of The Board of Directors and the Managing administration report and that the members of any omission which can give rise to liability Director are also responsible for such internal the Board of Directors and the Managing to the company, or control as they determine is necessary to enaDirector be discharged from liability for the • in any other way has acted in contravention ble the preparation of annual accounts and financial year. of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts consolidated accounts that are free from mateAct or the Articles of Association. rial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Basis for Opinions In preparing the annual accounts and conWe conducted the audit in accordance with Our objective concerning the audit of the solidated accounts, The Board of Directors and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweproposed appropriations of the the Managing Director are responsible for the den. Our responsibilities under those stancompany’s profit or loss, and thereby our assessment of the company’s and the group’s dards are further described in the Auditor’s opinion about this, is to assess with reasoability to continue as a going concern. They disResponsibilities section. We are independent nable degree of assurance whether the close, as applicable, matters related to going of the parent company and the group in accorproposal is in accordance with the Comconcern and using the going concern basis of dance with professional ethics for accounpanies Act. accounting. The going concern basis of tants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled Reasonable assurance is a high level of accounting is however not applied if the Board our ethical responsibilities in accordance with assurance, but is not a guarantee that an of Directors and the Managing Director intends these requirements. audit conducted in accordance with geneto liquidate the company, to cease operations, We believe that the audit evidence we have rally accepted auditing standards in Sweor has no realistic alternative but to do so. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to proden will always detect actions or omissiThe Audit Committee shall, without prejuvide a basis for our opinions. ons that can give rise to liability to the S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 143 AU DI TOR ' S REPORT company, or that the proposed appropriaaudit conducted in accordance with Interna12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutions of the company’s profit or loss are tional Standards on Auditing and generally tory sustainability report. This means that our not in accordance with the Companies accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We examination of the statutory sustainability Act. believe that the examination has provided us report is different and substantially less in A further description of our responsibility with sufficient basis for our opinions. scope than an audit conducted in accordance for the audit of the administration is available A corporate governance statement has been with International Standards on Auditing and on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.reviprepared. Disclosures in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Swesorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph den. We believe that the examination has prodescription is part of the auditor’s report. points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and vided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph A statutory sustainability report has been preThe auditor’s examination of the corporate the same law are consistent with the other pared. governance statement parts of the annual accounts and consolidaPricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Stockholm, The Board of Directors is responsible for that ted accounts and are in accordance with the was appointed auditor of Saab AB (publ)’s by the corporate governance statement on Annual Accounts Act. the general meeting of the shareholders on pages 72 to 81 has been prepared in accorthe 11 April 2019 and has been the dance with the Annual Accounts Act. The auditor’s opinion regarding the company’s auditor since the 7 April 2011. Our examination of the corporate governance statutory sustainability report statement is conducted in accordance with The Board of Directors is responsible for the Stockholm 27 February 2020 FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s statutory sustainability report on pages 54 to PricewaterhouseCoopers AB examination of the corporate governance sta69, and that it is prepared in accordance with tement. This means that our examination of the Annual Accounts Act. Bo Hjalmarsson the corporate governance statement is diffeOur examination has been conducted in Authorized public accountant rent and substantially less in scope than an accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions TO SAAB AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY Professional Accountants issued by the Interthe assurance necessary to become aware of NUMBER 556036-0793 national Ethics Standards Board for Accounall significant matters that might be identified tants, which includes independence and other in a reasonable assurance engagement. Introduction requirements founded on fundamental prinAccordingly, we do not express an audit opiWe have been engaged by Saab AB (publ) to ciples of integrity, objectivity, professional nion. undertake a limited assurance engagement of competence and due care, confidentiality and Our review has, based on an assessment Saab’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for professional behavior. of materiality and risk, included inquiries, the year 2019, as disclosed on page 61 of the The firm applies ISQC 1 International Stanobservation of processes performed, inspecAnnual Report 2019, more specifically in the dard on Quality Control and accordingly maintion of documents, analytical procedures, evadiagrams “GHG emissions by source”, “GHG tains a comprehensive system of quality conluating the appropriateness of quantification emissions relative to Saab's climate target trol including documented policies and procemethods and reporting policies, and agreeing 2030” (excluding forecasts), and “Major chandures regarding compliance with ethical requior reconciling with underlying records. ges in emissions in 2019 compared to 2018”. rements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Limited assurance conclusion Saab’s responsibility for the reporting Based on the procedures we have performed of GHG emissions Our responsibility and the evidence we have obtained, nothing Saab is responsible for the preparation of the Our responsibility is to express a conclusion has come to our attention that causes us to GHG emissions data in accordance with the on the reported GHG emissions based on the believe that Saab’s GHG emissions data (as applicable criteria, as explained on page 54. procedures we have performed and the evispecified above) is not prepared, in all material The criteria consist of relevant parts of the GRI dence we have obtained. We conducted our respects, in accordance with the applicable Sustainability Reporting Standards, the limited assurance engagement in accordance criteria. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol – A Corpowith ISAE 3410 Assurance Engagements on rate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and Greenhouse Gas Statements issued by Stockholm, February 27, 2020 the accounting and calculation principles that IAASB. That standard requires that we plan PricewaterhouseCoopers AB the company has developed. This responsibiand perform this engagement to obtain limited lity includes the internal control relevant to the assurance about whether the GHG emissions Bo Hjalmarsson reporting of GHG emissions that is free from are free from material misstatement. Authorized Public Accountant material misstatements, whether due to fraud The procedures performed in a limited or error. assurance engagement are different from, and Fredrik Ljungdahl their extent is substantially less than, a reasoSustainability Expert, Member of FAR Our independence and quality control nable assurance engagement (audit), and We have complied with the Code of Ethics for consequently they do not enable us to obtain 144 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 I N F O R M AT I O N T O S H A R E H O L D E R S Information to shareholders ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2020 RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE The Annual General Meeting will be held at Only shareholders recorded in the share 4:00 pm (CET) on Wednesday, 1 April 2020 at register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB Stockholm City Conference Centre, Barnhuson Thursday, 26 March 2020 are entitled to gatan 12, Stockholm. participate in the meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through NOTIFICATION the trust department of a bank or a brokerage Shareholders must notify the company of firm must temporarily re-register their shares their intention to participate in the meeting not in their own names to participate in the meelater than Thursday, 26 March 2020. ting. To ensure that this re-registration is recorded in the share register by Thursday, 26 • By telephone +46 13 18 20 55 March 2020 they must request re-registration • By mail to: Saab Aktiebolag c/o Euroclear with their nominees several business days in Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, advance. Sweden • Online: www.saabgroup.com/arsstamma DIVIDEND The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of Please indicate your name, personal ID numSEK 4.70 per share and 3 April 2020 as the ber (Swedish citizens), address and telephone record day for the dividend. With this record number. If you are attending by power of proxy, day, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to registration certificate or other authorisation, distribute the dividend on 8 April 2020. please submit your documentation well in advance of the meeting. The information you DISTRIBUTION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT provide will be used only for the Annual GeneThe annual report will be available on Saab’s ral Meeting. website, www.saabgroup.com, approximately Shareholders or their proxies may be three weeks prior to the Annual General accompanied at the Annual General Meeting Meeting on 1 April. A printed version of the by a maximum of two people. They may only annual report will be distributed to shareholattend, however, if the shareholder has notiders who request it. A printed version of the fied Saab as indicated above. annual report can also be ordered by e-mail to annual.report@saabgroup.com. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 145 M U LT I -Y E A R O V E R V I E W Multi-year overview MSEK. unless otherwise indicated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Order bookings 27,216 27,975 30,841 21,828 81,175 22,602 49,809 20,683 18,907 26,278 Order backlog 31 December 93,293 102,184 107,233 107,606 113,834 60,128 59,870 34,151 37,172 41,459 Sales 35,433 33,156 31,666 28,631 27,186 23,527 23,750 24,010 23,498 24,434 Foreign market sales, % 63 59 58 57 58 55 59 64 63 62 Defence sales, % 85 85 84 83 82 79 81 82 84 83 Operating income (EBIT) 2,937 2,266 2,250 1,797 1,900 1,659 1,345 2,050 2,941 975 Operating margin, % 8.3 6.8 7.1 6.3 7.0 7.1 5.7 8.5 12.5 4.0 Operating income before depreciation/ amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 4,305 3,182 3,089 2,743 2,859 2,523 2,367 3,168 4,088 2,187 EBITDA margin, % 12.1 9.6 9.8 9.6 10.5 10.7 10.0 13.3 17.4 9.0 Financial income 190 193 121 90 169 103 62 153 162 116 Financial expenses -520 -663 -272 -276 -338 -239 -428 -202 -324 -341 Income after financial items 2,607 1,796 2,099 1,611 1,731 1,523 979 2,003 2,783 776 Net income for the year 2,025 1,366 1,508 1,175 1,402 1,168 742 1,560 2,217 454 Net income attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 1,983 1,313 1,477 1,133 1,362 1,153 741 1,585 2,225 433 Total assets 59,858 56,128 44,998 41,211 35,088 29,556 27,789 28,938 31,799 29,278 – of which total equity 20,809 19,633 14,285 13,301 12,912 11,373 12,227 11,280 13,069 11,444 – of which equity attributable to Parent Company's shareholders 20,535 19,412 14,097 13,156 12,851 11,291 12,136 11,168 12,950 11,274 Equity per share, SEK1) 154.48 145.43 121.86 114.17 111.99 98.83 105.31 97.35 113.53 99.41 Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and net provisions for pensions -354 2,190 344 28 -1,880 185 1,953 3,837 4,735 2,382 Net liquidity/debt 6) -7,069 -1,460 -1,834 -1,836 -3,217 -2,113 813 1,996 5,333 3,291 Cash flow from operating activities 1,194 -490 3,164 4,154 358 -713 -662 350 2,392 4,487 Free cash flow6) -2,036 -3,195 852 2,359 -726 -1,094 -1,460 -396 2,477 4,349 Free cash flow per share after dilution, SEK3) -15.20 -27.27 7.33 20.38 -6.30 -9.45 -12.35 -3.35 20.96 36.79 Average capital employed 34,485 28,151 22,495 21,135 18,454 15,897 15,454 15,131 13,987 13,743 Average equity 20,221 16,959 13,793 13,107 12,143 11,800 11,754 12,175 12,257 11,063 Return on capital employed, % 9.1 8.7 10.5 8.9 11.2 11.1 9.1 14.6 22.2 7.9 Return on equity, % 10.0 8.1 10.9 9.0 11.5 9.9 6.3 12.8 18.1 4.1 Profit margin, % 8.83 7.42 7.49 6.59 7.61 7.49 5.92 9.18 13.21 4.47 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.03 1.18 1.41 1.35 1.47 1.48 1.54 1.59 1.68 1.78 Equity/assets ratio, % 34.8 35.0 31.7 32.3 36.8 38.5 44.0 39.0 41.1 39.1 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 6.01 3.71 8.72 6.84 6.12 7.37 3.29 10.91 9.58 3.20 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK2) 5) 14.88 11.27 12.79 9.85 11.90 10.03 6.45 13.86 19.57 3.80 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK3) 5) 14.81 11.21 12.70 9.79 11.81 9.96 6.27 13.41 18.82 3.66 Dividend, SEK 4.70 4) 4.50 5.50 5.25 5.00 4.75 4.50 4.50 4.50 3.50 Gross capital expenditures for tangible fixed assets 1,213 1,481 1,093 807 799 732 543 328 325 262 Research and development costs 7,643 7,562 7,348 7,421 6,841 5,970 6,543 5,946 5,116 5,008 Number of employees at year-end 17,420 17,096 16,427 15,465 14,685 14,716 14,140 13,968 13,068 12,536 1) Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2019: 132,926,363; 2018: 133,482,880; 2017: 115,685,451; 2016: 115,232,495; 2015: 114,746,834; 2014: 114,251,832; 2013: 115,241,831; 2012: 114,718,422; 2011: 114,069,871; 2010: 113,404,688. 2) Average number of shares before dilution 2019: 133,245,360; 2018: 116,467,822; 2017: 115,444,915; 2016: 114,971,098; 2015: 114,484,478; 2014: 114,929,422; 2013: 114,928,817; 2012: 114,395,790; 2011: 113,691,233; 2010: 113,946,228. 3) Average number of shares after dilution 2019:133,929,292; 2018:117,144,915; 2017: 116,310,466; 2016: 115,775,275; 2015: 115,280,946; 2014: 115,785,595; 2013: 118,205,015; 2012: 118,205,015; 2011: 118,205,015; 2010: 118,205,015. 4) Board of Directors’ proposal. 5) Net income less non-controlling interest divided by average number of shares. 6) For more information and explanations regarding the usage of these key ratios, please see saabgroup.com, investor, financial data, key ratios.. Financials for 2017 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for revenue from contracts with customers (IFRS 15). Financials for 2013 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). Financials for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS 19). Financials for 2012 and earlier are not restated to operational and free cash flow. The average number of outstanding shares during the period, as well as for previously reported periods for comparative purposes, have been adjusted in accordance with IAS 33 “Earnings per share”, in accordance with the terms of the rights issue 2018. 146 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 G LO S S A R Y Glossary 9LV GLSDB Combat Management System Ground Launched Small Diameter Bomb A26 Submarine programme for the Swedish Navy GRI Global Reporting Initiative AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & ­Control Gripen Fighter system Arthur Artillery Hunting Radar ICT Information and communication technology AT4 Anti-Tank weapon ISP Swedish Inspectorate of Strategic Products Carl-Gustaf Man-portable multi-role weapons system ISR Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance CBRN Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear LTI agents Long-Term Incentive Programme CDP MBD Carbon Disclosure Project Model Based Design Erieye MCS Airborne surveillance system (AEW&C) Mobile Camouflage System Protection FMV Nasa Försvarets Materielverk (Swedish National Aeronautics and Space Defence and Materiel Administration) Administration FTE R&D Full time equivalent Research and Development Giraffe SOTACS Surveillance radar system Special operations tactical suit GHG T-7A Program Greenhouse gas emissions The United States procurement programme for fighter trainers GlobalEye Airborne surveillance system (AEW&C) ULCAS Ultra-lightweight camouflage screen S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 147 SA AB IN THE WORLD Saab in the world 17,420 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN THE WORLD NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 Linköping, Sweden 6,484 Muskö, Sweden 67 Sweden 14,420 Göteborg, Sweden 1,594 Tampere, Finland 63 USA 654 Järfälla, Sweden 1,359 Thun, Switzerland 59 South Afrika 596 Karlskoga, Sweden 992 Uttenreuth, Germany 59 Australia 459 Karlskrona, Sweden 733 Docksta, Sweden 56 UK 204 Huskvarna, Sweden 576 Lillington NC, USA 52 Netherlands 154 Centurion, South Africa 544 Cape Town, South Africa 52 Denmark 120 East Syracuse NY, USA 531 Luleå, Sweden 52 Finland 117 Malmö, Sweden 506 Rockingham, Australia 51 Czech Republic 98 Arboga, Sweden 501 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 47 Germany 88 Adelaide, Australia 378 Singapore, Singapore 37 Brazil 68 Växjö, Sweden 344 Zeist, Netherlands 35 Canada 67 Stockholm, Sweden 240 Norrköping, Sweden 33 Switzerland 59 Östersund, Sweden 175 Helsingborg, Sweden 30 United Arab Emirates 56 Trollhättan, Sweden 138 Ljungbyhed, Sweden 27 Norway 46 Fareham, UK 138 Vancouver, Canada 27 India 44 Apeldoorn, Netherlands 111 Jyväskylä, Finland 26 Singapore 37 Sonderborg, Denmark 109 Västerås, Sweden 25 Kenya 26 Slavkov, Czech Republic 89 Sao Bernardo, Brazil 25 Saudi Arabia 24 Gamleby, Sweden 75 Other 835 Other 83 Jönköping, Sweden 75 Total 17,420 Total 17,420 Nyköping, Sweden 70 148 S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 S aab i vä rlden 14,420 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN SWEDEN Luleå Docksta Östersund Järfälla Västerås Arboga Stockholm Karlskoga Muskö Nyköping Linköping Norrköping Trollhättan Gamleby Contact information Göteborg Jönköping Huskvarna Headquarters Saab AB Olof Palmes gata 17, 5tr SE-111 22 Stockholm Växjö Telefon: +46 8 463 00 00 Ljungbyhed Corp. ID no 556036-0793 www.saabgroup.com www.saab.com Helsingborg Karlskrona Concept, text and production: Saab Investor Relations in co-operation with Narva. Malmö Photo: Getti (cover), Unsplash (page 19), Shutterstock (page 27), all other images from Saab’s image bank. Photos of Board of Directors, Group Management and Saab's employees by Ingemar Lindewall. S A A B A N N U A L A N D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 019 NARVA
