ACTING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 04 Interview with Nicolas Jachiet 07 Foreword by Laurent Germain 08 Strategic activities for our future 09 The climate emergency, an absolute priority 12 Digital at the heart of our services 16 Key figures 18 Our global offering 19 A YEAR IN PHOTOS 27 Non-financial disclosures 29 Governance 31 Financial disclosures CONTENTS 2 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT Sustainable development lies at the heart of our work and our commitments. Every day, our teams put forward concrete solutions to address the climate emergency and protect biodiversity, improve transport, buildings and the quality of life in cities, and meet the changing needs of our clients and populations. Such is our vocation: to bequeath a sustainable and desirable tomorrow to current and future generations. 3 INTERVIEW WITH NICOLAS JACHIET CHAIRMAN The Covid-19 crisis has shaken up many economic sectors including construction. How has the Egis Group responded and dealt with this unprecedented moment in history? In a nutshell, we mobilised our forces everywhere and at every level to deal with this crisis. All the geographical areas in which we operate were affected, albeit to varying extents and at different times. Our first priority was, of course, to protect the health of our employees. We managed to keep our business going thanks to the massive and rapid deployment of teleworking in most of our locations. In France, in mid-March, we implemented Economic teleworking everywhere in virtually the space of a weekend. On our construction recovery © Mario Renzi sites, we were able to continue working, with the necessary protective precautions, in many countries around the world. must be an We stayed permanently close to our clients in order to organise production as the COVID-19 crisis that we are going opportunity best we could, given this unprecedented situation. With our commitment to through. Of course, major uncertainties still exist, particularly on where our to make significant support them in their low-carbon markets will stand following the health pathway, we also brought together crisis. However, the Group’s diversity in our experts to formulate 21 proposals its lines of business and geographical that would make French and European economic stimulus measures contribute footprint offers us strong resilience. progress on Similarly, we know that we can count on to an accelerated change in production models. The aim is to help create a future our healthy 2019 results to help us get through this unique period. In the 2019 climate change. that is less carbon intensive, protects financial year, our turnover grew by nearly biodiversity and learns the lessons from 8% to €1.22 billion euros. Our overall 4 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | INTERVIEW | Engineering is on the front line to address profit levels also saw a spectacular is revolutionizing our businesses and the climate increase, with distributable net profit of nearly 50 million euros, which is 19 our offerings. BIM, which is gradually becoming more widespread, is just the challenge. million euros more than the previous year. This solid financial health is a powerful first step in this revolution. The profile of our clients is also changing, asset that will help us get through the with more and more private sector players coming months. alongside public sector order principals. And their requirements are changing: they What is your view of the current and expect us to provide expertise that is both future challenges facing construction more specialized and more diversified, to engineering firms? constantly optimize their projects, while aiming for the satisfaction of the end The climate emergency remains without user. This is what we are working on, in doubt the most worrying challenge order to pursue our Group’s development facing the world today. It is a universal among the world’s leading companies, and unavoidable problem that affects while maintaining our independence from everyone, including our profession. It construction companies. should be noted that transport is today the largest emitter of CO2, accounting for How is the Group preparing for its future 39% of total GHG emissions (excluding development? LULUCF), according to ADEME. Similarly, buildings and construction account for We will be building the Egis Group of nearly 30% of greenhouse gas emissions tomorrow based on our vocation and in France, nearly 40% of carbon dioxide our values, which form the foundation equivalent energy emissions worldwide, of our identity, but also on our advances and have a major impact on our and recent achievements. In 2019, we environment. Construction engineering reviewed our strategic priorities to look is therefore in the front line for climate further ahead and ensure the long-term action, by proposing very tangible development and independence of our solutions in terms of energy efficiency and Group. Our strategic plan, called “Vision sobriety, carbon footprint assessments, 2025”, is based on two priorities, which infrastructure resilience or the regreening I have just mentioned: the climate of cities. emergency, on the one hand, which is Engineering also has to cater to rapidlya source of not just challenges but also changing markets. Our sector continues opportunities to create sustainable value, to consolidate around major players. and the development of digital technology, The boundaries between disciplines are on the other hand, because it profoundly blurring. New competitors are emerging, changes the organisation and the very particularly from the digital world. And nature of our lines of business. understandably so: the digital wave 5 | INTERVIEW | also to develop our shareholder model. Previously wholly owned by the Caisse des Dépôts, our capital is now 25% owned by our managers and employees. Finally, we have also developed very strongly internationally over the years, without neglecting the French market. I am sure that my successor, Laurent Germain, will be able to continue the great adventure of our Group on the road to success. Previously CEO of © Mario Renzi Segula Technologies, an industryoriented engineering and technology consulting group, Laurent Germain is very familiar with the engineering sector. He is perfectly aware of the issues and You have announced that you will be requirements inherent to our activities. Digital retiring this October. After 15 years spent at the head of the Egis group, what In his various responsibilities, he has shown managerial qualities and a sense technology are the largest changes you have led? of teamwork that qualify him to lead the When I see how far our Group has come, development of Egis in keeping with our is profoundly I can’t help but be proud of what the values and culture. His ambition for our Egis teams have achieved. Thanks to Group is fully aligned with the dynamics we have seen in recent years and with changing their skills and talents, in just a few years we have become France’s leading the fundamentals of our strategic project construction engineering company and “Vision 2025”, with a strong focus on the very our brand has acquired an international climate change and the digital revolution. He took up his duties as Chief Executive reputation. nature of our At the beginning, our Group was only involved in infrastructure, mainly in Officer at the beginning of July, while Paul-Marie Chavanne, already a Director profession. France. In the space of 15 years, we of Egis and previously Chairman and CEO have succeeded in diversifying our of the Geopost group, will take up the activities and businesses, so that today position of non-executive Chairman in we are present across the entire value October. chain, from upstream consulting and A new page in the history of Egis is engineering to operations and services. thus being written, and it is with every 2011 was a particularly important year in confidence and much pride that I wish the life of Egis. It marked our merger with him a bright future. the Iosis group, which enabled us to add construction to our areas of activity, but 6 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT FOREWORD BY LAURENT GERMAIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER © Nicolas Robin I n the space of several years, Egis Egis lies at the heart of the social, has become the French leader and economic, environmental and one of the leading global groups technological challenges of the next Nothing is in project structuring and operations 20 years. The climate challenge, and infrastructure and construction the digital revolution, new forms of more valuable engineering, with widely-acclaimed mobility and sustainable cities are technical expertise. exciting challenges that our teams today than to We owe much of this accomplishment to my predecessor, Nicolas Jachiet, are ready to take up, with all the discipline and ingenuity that are their feel useful and and I pay tribute to his career and dedication. He has patiently hallmark. Our clients are well aware of this and have been calling on our to bequeath succeeded in developing the company in its traditional business lines while know-how for years for major iconic projects, and for everyday projects, a sustainable successfully completing external which shape and substantially growth operations that have enriched improve our quality of life. its offering. He has also been able to future to the next bring to life strong values, those of a This is where our vocation lies, this people-first, responsible and creative is what gives meaning to our work. generations. company, shared by all his employees. Nothing is more valuable today I am fully committed to these values, than to feel useful and to bequeath and it is with pride and conviction a sustainable future to the next that I will honour them in my turn, by generations. taking over the management of the group. 7 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT STRATEGIC ACTIVITIES FOR OUR FUTURE EGIS HAS A KEY ROLE TO PLAY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE. DRAWING ON THE BENEFIT OF ITS EXPERTISE, TECHNICAL PROWESS AND INFLUENCE ON THE WORLD STAGE, OUR GROUP IS FULLY MOBILISED TO RESPOND TO TWO MAJOR STRATEGIC CHALLENGES: THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY THE DIGITAL REVOLUTION Absolute and global People-first and responsible On the backdrop of urban concentration and growing demand for mobility, and in view of the Group’s range of skill sets, we are addressing two challenges as a priority: TRANSPORTATION AND SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY OF THE FUTURE CITY CONSTRUCTION The transport of the future will have to be The construction and use of the cities of tomorrow environmentally friendly and energy-efficient. will have lower footprints by using low carbon Modes of transport will be increasingly complex and materials and preserving, natural resources. interconnected. Adequacy to needs, reliability and Energy needs will be reduced and covered locally by safety at every stage of construction and operation renewable sources, and we must think even further will be crucial requirements. ahead about the balance with rural life to reduce our overall carbon footprint. We have genuine distinguishing skills in urban transport engineering (systems and civil engineering). Our structures will be increasingly connected and Only the development of mass transit can solve urban interact with users whose patterns and travelling, and climate challenges. Intercity rail transport is also working and consumption methods are becoming set to develop. Our acknowledged expertise in the increasingly flexible and collaborative. environment, roads, aviation and mobility services will also help us to design and implement this new The quality of life in the city will be better and yet vision of transport. adapted to high urban density and an explosion in mobility. 8 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | VISION 2025 | THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY, AN ABSOLUTE PRIORIT Y SINCE ITS ESTABLISHMENT, EGIS HAS CONTRIBUTED TO OPTIMISING THE PROJECTS ENTRUSTED TO IT TOGETHER WITH THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ON THE COMMUNITY. This responsibility, deeply rooted in our values, is a duty towards our clients and drives us to provide them with insights on all the risks related to their projects and offer them the most appropriate solutions. EGIS STEPS UP ITS COMMITMENT TO THE CLIMATE Today, in view of the climate emergency and in order to achieve the targets of the Paris Agreement, we must continue our efforts to propose economical In 2019, the Group signed the charters and resilient projects to all our stakeholders. This is why we decided in 2019 of Syntec Ingénierie and the Women’s to make the climate emergency a top priority of our development strategy. Forum Charter for Engagement and joined the “Engineers Declare” In our organisation, this climate priority is borne out in: movement made up of construction 1 engineering firms who are mobilizing for Ongoing R&D and innovation efforts to imagine the solutions of the climate emergency. tomorrow through our in-house incubation structures and external Egis has made a commitment to partnerships, and to offer our clients an engineering and operation biodiversity, alongside Caisse des service range that effectively addresses the issues of the climate Dépôts, by signing the “Act4nature” challenge. This is where we have the greatest leverage; the sectors initiative led by the French Office for in which we operate (buildings and transport, in particular) account Biodiversity. for more than half of global CO2 emissions. Furthermore, Egis is one of the first 2 An ambitious policy to reduce our own carbon footprint and companies to have answered the achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. questionnaire of the Student Manifesto for an Ecological Awakening. CLIMATE, A CATALYST The COVID-19 crisis FOR INNOVATION has prompted us to In order to raises awareness among all our employees to climate issues, a road trip intensify our efforts was organised around our various sites in France and abroad with the organisation of towards greater €11 million talks and debates on this priority issue. This initiative will be continued in 2020. resilience and For the second edition of the Ideathon, the iR&D Egis group’s major in-house innovation sustainability. competition, we asked all our employees nvested in 2019 in to put forward projects and solutions on in the area of the theme of “sustainable city construction © aliunix-unsplash and the mobility of the future”. Many very Martine Jauroyon, Climate-Energypromising ideas emerged, directly linked Chief Business Transformation and Biodiversity to our two cross-cutting themes of climate and digital technology. Sustainability Officer 9 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | VISION 2025 | THE AVOID-REDUCE-OFFSET SEQUENCE AT THE CENTRE OF OUR OFFERING Our expertise in the fight against its self-designed artificial reefs urban developments, water and climate change is today a off the coast of Cap d’Agde. A energy consumption according to specificity with high added value worldwide first! These blocks, climate scenarios. on the international market. printed in 3D by our partner Finally, we also recommend XtreeE, are a way to protect the To date, more than 70 actions carbon sequestration measures, seabed, replacing the concrete, have been carried out by all our from wood construction to tyres and rusty chains typically business units to respond to this reforestation and natural used to attach the yellow buoys global phenomenon. resource management plans. on the 300-metre line. But they In general, we make maximum also increase the birth rate of fish use of eco-design in our by acting as nurseries for juvenile engineering projects, in the fish. drive to avoid and reduce carbon In the area of adaptation, emissions. We support our clients we continue to develop in their labelling or certification tools to identify the climatic processes and we develop vulnerabilities of a given road carbon quantification tools for section or structure or to road, rail, air and sea transport, anticipate the effects of climate buildings, tramways and metros. change on the operation of a city’s A CLIMATE AIR ENERGY For cities, we are at the forefront PLAN FOR THE PARIS urban services. We also assist of providing studies to achieve carbon neutrality. our clients in risk assessment, METROPOLITAN REGION preparation, prevention and We are also mobilised to control, in the aim of building In a concerted effort to materialise the safeguard biodiversity and resilience in communities. We ambition of the Paris agreement, the ecosystems. In May 2019, our are among the first in the world Greater Paris metropolitan authority subsidiary Seaboost, specialising to have invented decision support has asked Egis’ consulting teams to in innovative marine structures tools that make it possible for draw up its first metropolitan airbased on biomimicry, sunk 32 of example to assess, in view of climate-energy plan. This plan responds to the urgency of the climate challenge by proposing a long-term roadmap to organise the ecological transition and develop the resilience of the region and its inhabitants. © Thinkstock 10 | VISION 2025 | © Hardel Le Bihan / Youssef Tohme Architects and Associates / Adjaye Associates / Buzzo Spinelli Architecture / Elioth BRUNESEAU IN PARIS: ONE OF FRANCE’S FIRST CARBON NEUTRAL DISTRICTS The development of this 2-hectare plot of city land, between Paris and Ivry-sur-Seine, aims to create a district that is exemplary EGIS, CARBON NEUTRAL IN 2050: from an ecological point of view, with pride A DUTY OF EXEMPLARITY of place given to eco-materials and energy efficiency. By supporting the pathway towards Our carbon footprint We make every effort carbon neutrality that Paris is aiming for by is improving year after to control the energy 2050, the project’s design includes a target year. We have reduced consumption of our of 50% of its energy produced or recovered it by 25% since 2016, buildings, through a on site, a carbon footprint reduced to a fifth thanks in particular to concrete action plan (LED of the Parisian average and 65% of its energy the implementation of a bulbs, reduction of the needs covered by renewables. The mix of proactive policy to regulate length of time that the uses offered by this district has made it business travel by air which lights are on in buildings) possible to imagine a very low-carbon energy resulted in a decrease in and the choice of high mix via a smart grid* allowing the real-time domestic flights. We have environmental performance selection of the least carbon-intensive energy also improved the overall buildings when relocating, source. As such, it is planned to supply the energy performance of as we did for our Bordeaux future district with renewable and recoverable our vehicle fleet, going site this year. Among the energy, in particular with heating and cooling from 105 g of CO2 per km essential measures is also networks and the large-scale installation of in 2016 on average to 98 g the necessary control of the solar panels. in 2019. We additionally carbon footprint generated encourage the use of by the storage of our digital * A smart electricity grid enables information to videoconferencing or data, with a decreasing circulate between suppliers and consumers to adjust the flow of electricity in real time and bring about more homeworking, where carbon intensity index in efficient grid management. feasible, to keep travel to a relation to turnover. minimum. 11 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | VISION 2025 | It is not technology that will save the world, but rather our ability DIGITAL AT THE HEART to use it wisely. Tomorrow’s information systems will themselves be sustainable OF OUR SERVICES or else will have no future. Jan Chodzko, IT Director, Egis BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING (BIM), BIG DATA AND OPEN DATA, VIRTUAL AND AUGMENTED REALITY, 3D PRINTING, INTERNET OF THINGS, ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE… FOR A RESPONSIBLE DIGITAL A veritable “digital tidal wave” is sweeping across the TRANSFORMATION construction sector! Digital tech is not only changing the way we design and visualize projects. It gives us the opportunity to Today, we are facing a paradox: respond to the growing demands of our clients and to meet the technology allows us to better economic, societal and environmental challenges we face today. understand the complexity of At Egis, two key consequences are arising from this digital the challenges we face and revolution: provide answers to them. 1 However, with the explosion of a profound revolution in how projects are designed, with data and the multiplication of resulting productivity gains 2 data centers, digital technology an opportunity to develop new high added value has a strong environmental services for our clients and the customers of our footprint. clients (operators and end users of infrastructure and buildings) Nevertheless, it is not a question of opposing digital transition Digital technology is one of the keystones for conceiving and ecological transition, but of sustainable cities, implementing the mobility of the future, mobilising the full potential of designing, building and operating facilities in a context of limited digital technology for the benefit resources. Each local authority and every asset manager wants of the ecological transition, by to go beyond the mere communicative scope of modelling tools adopting responsible behaviour and acquire genuine tools for management, decision support to limit the environmental and performance measurement based on digital models or impact of digital developments. geographic information systems (GIS). Egis is a member of national and international data exchange standardisation bodies and contributes to collaborative research Being smart means contributing more work on modelling (national MINnD project in France and intelligence, connections and services but buildingSmart international on a worldwide level) so as to also more inclusion, living standards, sobriety place the Group among the most advanced players on the and rooting in the long term. © Aurelia Blanc subject. Martine Jauroyon, Christophe Castaing, Chief Business Transformation Digital Engineering and Sustainability Officer Programme Director at Egis; Codirector of the MINnD project 12 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | VISION 2025 | © Egis A WIDESCALE AN ONGOING OVERHAUL OF PRODUCTION PROCESSES TRANSFORMATION This year we continued the Digital tech also provides the PLAN operational roll-out of BIM in all our business areas and defined opportunity to imagine disruptive approaches to our core business. the associated key performance For example, we are currently indicators. developing the Pearls initiative A MULTIFACETED ROADMAP SETS OUT By the end of 2020, 90% of the with the start-up Kicklox, OUR GROUP’S DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION design of our structures will which aims to create more FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS be carried out using BIM, as we collaborative working methods. are currently doing for the Grand Two experiments with virtual Paris Express, which will be the platforms are currently being first metro in the world to be conducted. The first aims, as designed entirely in this way. part of an operation made up of As we strongly believe that numerous elementary projects, to digital technology will profoundly distribute roles more efficiently change the organization and the among the different teams. The very nature of our businesses, second consists of providing our teams are embracing new clients with online means of technologies and strengthening filling in regulatory forms related their skills in project lifecycle to environmental requirements, management, data acquisition, under the supervision of a and the management of interfaces business expert. © Egis and requirements. FAST GROWING DIGITAL KNOWHOW Substantial training resources are being mobilised to Thanks to artificial intelligence and its computing power, enhance the skills of our teams through a wide variety of generative design provides the engineer with the ability to courses in digital tech, so as to strengthen the structural simulate an array of construction solutions according to a set technological building blocks that will enable us to be at the of technical, programme-related or regulatory constraints. cutting edge of digital engineering. We used this innovative method to design the refurbishment For example, our teams have successfully experimented of the Montparnasse Tower in Paris, by matching heat with the use of virtual and augmented reality tools during energy performance requirements with the building’s energy the design phase for its Rail (with the Gamer® tool) and road consumption indicators. projects, in particular the project to build the A10 motorway interchange in Orleans. 13 | VISION 2025 | Applying BIM methodology facilitated coordination between all the participants in this complex project, but also and above all ensured digital continuity of data from design to construction, from the 3D models delivered in IFC format to the detailing of the steel required for the works in progress. Véronique REMANDE, BIM Management Officer on the Hinkley Point C EPR project in the United Kingdom HINKLEY POINT PROJECT: EGIS AND PARTNERS ACCLAIMED AT THE 2019 BUILDINGSMART AWARDS Egis and its partners were designated winners of the BuildingSmart Award in © EDF the “Construction” category from around a hundred finalists. This award recognises their outstanding collaborative work in openBIM on the Hinkley Point EPR project in the south west of England. Egis is the leader of the ICOS consortium (Egis, Tractebel, Setec), in charge of SMART ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM (SES), detailed civil engineering designs for MULTIPARAMETER ENVIRONMENTAL the main buildings of the EPR. Contract SUPERVISION UK1221 relates to the production of digital mock-ups (BIM) and plans, while This platform designed by our teams gathers all strategic another ongoing contract (UK 1220) aims data for the management of construction, infrastructure to provide models and calculations for the and industrial installation projects. Site data supplied various buildings making up the power by sensors or reported from surveys or local residents plant’s nuclear island. Egis is the project is analysed in real time to monitor the state of the manager for these two contracts as well projects’ environment. Thanks to an accessible and as performing the key function of BIM comprehensible user interface, the SES enables project manager. The production of a complete owners to visualize data and improve the environmental digital mock-up of the rebars and inserts performance of processes in a predictive manner. is a world first for a nuclear power plant. CYCLE UP WINS PRIZE AT DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION AWARDS At SIMI (professional real estate event) 2019, Cycle Up, a start-up designed by Egis and Icade to optimize the match between supply and demand for reusable materials, was awarded the Judges’ Prize at the first edition of the Digital Transformation Awards (Trophées de la transformation digitale) in the Construction category. This event aimed to compile an initial overview of digital transformation throughout the real estate value chain and give greater visibility to the initiatives taken by real estate players. 14 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT EGIS WINS BIM D’ARGENT 2019 Egis and its partners Bouygues TP région France, Colas and EGCEM received the 2019 BIM d’Argent in the “Infrastructure” category for the BIM process that they implemented on the “Rond-point des Lavandes” redevelopment project to improve road access to Marseille Provence Airport. The BIM Execution Plan deployed for the design & build A SUSTAINABLE SERVICE PLATFORM project defined the goals and roles of each contributor, together with the environment and working method. For june 2020 this project, which was launched in September 2018, BIM was incorporated into traditional building processes to guarantee interoperability and the correct compilation of models for the design consolidation phase. The BIM process THE DIGITAL TWIN, was also included in the building phase and to produce A RESPONSE TO digital as-built drawings. THE NEW EXPECTATIONS OF PROJECT OWNERS AND USERS A living representation of the structure “as it works” and not just “as built”, the digital twin goes beyond a simple 3D model, by dynamically simulating and predicting the different behaviours of a physical structure at all stages of its life cycle. Discover our vision of the digital twin, its practical application cases and perspectives in our position paper “Digital twins by Egis: A sustainable service platform”. © STOA INMASYST, FOR OPTIMAL © Boris-Yvan Dassié INTERFACE MANAGEMENT Egis has always considered In 2019, the tool entered its interface control as a distinctive operational phase. The recent feature of its expertise in provision of an operational operations management. dashboard to monitor interface Based on known requirements treatment and the display of The digital twin is a decision support on emblematic road, tramway interfaces in the digital model tool, capable of integrating and and metro projects, we have together minimize technical risks, simulating the behavioural changes developed the INMASYST web secure deadlines and greatly of a structure and its impacts service tool to identify, prioritise improve the performance of during its life cycle. It constitutes a and manage interfaces, with the operations. response to the new expectations support of Eurostep, a company In 2020, the focus will be on of owners, managers and users specialising in innovative deployment in other lines of of sustainable, high-performance solutions for PLM (Product business, such as nuclear power, infrastructure, buildings and LifeCycle Management) tools. with the Hinkley Point EPR communities. We tested it on the project to project, or in Systems, on line 18 extend the Birmingham light of Grand Paris Express. Béatrice GASSER, Technical, innovation and rail network, Midland Metro, for Sustainability Director which Egis won a prize at the 2017 Global Light Rail Awards. 15 | KEY FIGURES | EGIS AT A GLANCE Managed turnover breakdown in 2019 €1.22 BN TURNOVER + 7.9 % COMPARED WITH 2018 73 % ENGINEERING 27% 30 % Rail OPERATION 28 % Buildings AND MOBILITY SERVICES 15 % Roads 68 % Road operation 8 % Energy & Environment 21 % Mobility services 7 % Water &Ports 10 % Airport operation 6 % Aviation 4 % Cities 1 % Energy 2 % Mobility 16 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | KEY FIGURES | Our activity around the world 23% 36% EUROPE FRANCE 14% 9% 64 % 7% MIDDLE EAST ASIA OF OUR BUSINESS OUTSIDE FRANCE AMERICAS 8% AFRICA 3% OCEANIA 17 AIRPORTS MANAGED IN 8 COUNTRIES Headcount breakdown 15,800EMPLOYEES 9,250 28 WORLDWIDE ROAD OPERATING COMPANIES IN 20 COUNTRIES 2019 Distributable Net Profit * IN ENGINEERING Capital breakdown +€18.9 M €49.8 M COMPARED WITH 2018 75 % 25 % IN OPERATION CAISSE PARTNERS DES DÉPÔTS EXECUTIVES AND 6,550 EMPLOYEES * Distributable net proﬁt is the group share of net proﬁt restated with the inclusion of deferred tax and exceptional capital gains or losses recognised in the group share of comprehensive income or in the group share of equity, and the depreciation of assets revalued when the PPA was performed. 17 | EXPERTISE & KNOW-HOW | | EXPERTISE & KNOW-HOW | SERVICES FOR A UNIQUE GLOBAL OUR SERVICES OFFERING CONSULTING RAIL AVIATION MAJOR STRUCTURES BUILDINGS ENGINEERING CITIES ARCHITECTURE, URBAN PLANNING TURNKEY PROJECT STRUCTURING, PPP INVESTMENT OPERATION ROADS MOBILITY ENERGY ENVIRONMENT WATER MOBILITY SERVICES 18 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT 18 A YEAR IN PHOTOS Headquarters of Société du Grand Paris – Saint-Denis © Fotolia – Mirko France. Egis assisted Société du Grand Paris in finding and fitting out its new head office. Benefitting from faultless environmental quality, these new premises aim to accommodate all the SGP teams and cater to the growth of its headcount, and fulfils all the requirements in terms of comfort, services and fittings necessary for the delivery of the largest infrastructure project in Grand Paris Express: a boring beginning to line 16! Europe. France. Twenty months after work started up on lot 1 of line 16 between Saint-Denis Pleyel and the Aulnay maintenance depot, the tunnel boring machine christened Armelle began to operate. This is the first of six earth pressure balance TBMs purpose-built to drill the 19 km of tunnel on lot 1 of this line, on which Egis is leading the comprehensive infrastructure programme management. © Yacine Berrezag Renovation of Montparnasse Tower – Paris Carmelha Tower France. Living in harmony with the climate, the wind and natural light, the Montparnasse Tower will be Monaco. Complying with the highest environmental refurbished, transparent and greened. Designed to be standards, this ten-storey high-rise will be the first “super passive” and raised to the ranks of the most housing block in the Principality to benefit from an energy-efficient new buildings, entirely wooden structure. Egis conducted all the it will surpass them in terms technical engineering for the project and undertook of carbon footprint by saving substantial research and innovation work in the area a proportion of the resources of energy. necessary for its reconstruction. Our teams are tasked with the environmental design of the project, under the leadership © Inui Architectes : Bellecour, Gabriel Viora of the Nouvelle AOM architects’ alliance, and for the follow-up of environmental certifications and the modelling of technical systems for © NouvelleAOM RSI Studio the tower’s energy simulations. 19 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Underground base of the Charles III urban island Monaco. Egis is conducting the comprehensive programme management for the new heating and cooling plant for the heating and cooling networks. As part of the extensive programme led by the Principality of Monaco to develop disused railway land, Egis is the programme manager for civil engineering and all-trades facilities (excluding industrial plant). The Group is coordinating the © Manjik Istock project to fit out the underground spaces of the Charles III island, earmarked to accommodate a new logistics and industrial complex at the city limits. Egis supports four Brazilian cities in their Smart City approach Brazil. Egis, working on behalf of the French Development Agency, is advising the Brazilian cities of Curitiba, Belo Horizonte, São Paulo and Recife on a © Sergio Souza – Unsplash range of innovative themes such as central urban management using a hypervisor, or intelligent mobility. Ajmer Smart City Project India. Egis is conducting the project management and supervising the various work sites planned under this massive scheme which aims to improve quality of life in Ajmer (Rajasthan) and make it one of the © Aboud Al Monla leading smart cities in India. Green Riyadh © Ajmer Smart City Limited Saudi Arabia. As project management consultant, Egis is supporting the Royal Commission of Riyadh City in the implantation of the “Green Riyadh” strategy which aims to increase planted areas from 1.5% to 9% of the city’s surface area by 2030. This greening project will substantially improve the quality of life and the environment in the Saudi capital. 20 | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Airport carbon Seine-Nord Europe Canal: neutrality commitments construction of sectors 2 and 4 Europe. Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) is a voluntary process that is now applied to all airports worldwide. France. By connecting up the Seine and Oise Within the network of concessions managed by basins with the north European high-capacity Egis, Brest and Quimper airports have signed up waterway network, the future canal will enable to the approach (level 1) and Larnaca and Paphos France not only to develop its economy thanks to airports in Cyprus have reached level 2, while Abidjan river freight transport, but also to reduce carbon International Airport in Côte d’Ivoire has become the emissions through efficient modal shift from first and only carbon-neutral airport in Africa (level 3+). roads to waterways. Egis is responsible for the In June 2019, the Cypriot and Brest Bretagne airports comprehensive programme management of the furthermore made a commitment at the ACI Europe two main sectors of this iconic project. Congress to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. © ACI-Europe Hermes Airports Egis launches its Rail and urban transport activity in Oceania © Hassan Bensliman AdobeStock Oceania. In January 2019, Egis launched its urban and rail transport engineering business in Oceania, with the projects of the Parramatta LRT in Australia and the City Rail Link in Auckland, New Zealand. © Taras Vyshnya 21 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Launch of LRT services in Caen la Mer, Nice, Saint-Etienne, Clichysous-Bois and Birmingham Europe. 2019 will be remembered for the © Alfred Ulmanis launch of five LRT lines to which Egis contributed in France and the United Kingdom. Rail Baltica HSL & Riga station Latvia. Egis is in charge of the design and technical assistance during the construction phase of the Vangaži – Salaspils – Misa (Latvia) section of the Rail Baltica highspeed line project. This railway project is conducted entirely using BIM. For Riga station, which is part of the Rail Baltica project, Egis won a supervision contract. © Midland Metro Alliance © Egis Mateusz Szczygieł Extension of motorway maintenance and renewals contract (MMaRC) Ireland. Following an initial six-year spell, our motorway operating contract in Ireland has been extended. Egis operates and maintains a 329-km section. Piekielko (L104) railway project Poland. Polskie Linie Kolejowe, the Polish railway operator, has launched an extensive modernisation and performance improvement programme relating to the country’s rail infrastructure. Egis is contributing to this ambitious programme through design, supervision and implementation assignments for a dual project: the modernisation of an © Wolfgang Rice existing line and the construction of a new one. 22 | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | CDG Express: Mitry-Mory and Tremblay-en-France works (Zones H and G) – Île-de-France France. Egis is conducting the programme management © Stefan Fischbach Egis within the design and build consortium for the construction of zones G and H of CDG Express, the future direct railway line between Paris-CDG airport and Paris city centre. Millennium Challenge Corporation Project in Abidjan Côte d’Ivoire. Egis is producing design studies for the renovation of 24 km of urban boulevards and © Roman Yanushevsky 12 expressways in the Greater Abidjan area. Assistance with climate change adaptation in Benin, Mauritania, Renovation and extension Senegal and Togo of Sihanoukville airport runway Africa. Egis is supporting the World Bank and the Green Cambodia. Egis is providing project consultancy Climate Fund in the WACA (West Africa Coastal Areas) services for the renovation and extension project which aims to identify and assess solutions to of the runway of Sihanoukville airport in combat the effects of climate change in the coastal zones Cambodia. of West Africa. © Curioso photography – unsplash © Mathieu Sellier Egis 23 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Inauguration of final section of Gebze-Izmir motorway Turkey. The largest infrastructure project ever conducted in Turkish history, this highway runs from Gebze, east of Istanbul, to Izmir, in the Aegean region, covering more than 400 km (2x3 lanes). Along its route it includes many engineering structures including a 3,000-m suspension bridge, three tunnels and 20 toll plazas. Egis is operating the highway for 22 years through the company Gebze Izmir İşletme ve Bakım (GIIB), a 50% owned Egis subsidiary, in association with Otoyol, the project’s concessionaire. © Atakan Süler (GİİB) Route Centre Europe Atlantique (RCEA) France. Dubbed “France’s most dangerous road”, the RN79 has failed to meet road traffic and safety standards for many years. It is therefore to be converted to a motorway, the A79, between Digoin and Montmarault in the Allier department. Egis is the programme manager of this huge project which involves the dualling of the current road running 60 km, the creation of a new 2-km section and the construction of around 60 engineering structures (including 12 major structures). © H. Piraud Hinkley Point project: major milestones reached and acknowledgment of expertise United Kingdom. The ICOS consortium (Egis as leader, Tractebel and Setec), the BYLOR consortium and EDVANCE picked up the © EDF Energy 2020 BuildingSmart Award in the “Construction” category in Beijing in October 2019 for this project conducted using BIM, a world first in civil nuclear engineering. Furthermore, in June, the project achieved the major milestone J-Zero relating to the completion of the concrete base. Modernisation of Way Sekampung irrigation system in Lampung Indonesia. In response to climate change in Indonesia and to meet the needs of the farming © ivan-bandura-unsplash population, Egis is conducting a consultancy and technical assistance assignment with a view to formulating recommendations to the Indonesian authorities for a comprehensive water management process and the development of infrastructure and installation management institutions. 24 | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Ecological rehabilitation of Al Karaana lagoons Qatar. As part of its programme management assignment for the rehabilitation of one of the rare protected water reserves and wildlife sanctuaries in Qatar, Egis put forward solutions to depollute and preserve the lagoon ecosystem over the long term. The mission includes the design, cleaning and removal of all sources of pollution, the rehabilitation of the © Corinne Vezzoni nature reserve to the state of “no development” land status and the protection of existing habitats. Cosquer cave museum – Marseille France. This project reproduces an identical copy of the decorative © Manuel Bobin parts of the cave and the 500 drawings and engravings made 27,000 years ago. Egis is tasked with missions on fluids (HVAC/ electricity/fire safety). Fond Lahayé viaduct Martinique © Lavigne Chéron Architectes, 2019 France. This suspension bridge, a project managed by Egis, is the first link in the process of opening up the island’s northern coast. It will allow the RN2 to elegantly cross the Fond Lahayé bay, spanning 385m, without impacting the cliffs or the sea bed. ITER project: Egis to continue the adventure with the ENGAGE consortium until 2025 France. As part of the ENGAGE consortium, Egis © ITER Organization EJF-RICHE has for the past 10 years been in charge of the comprehensive project management of the world’s most ambitious energy project. This huge project covers the construction of all the buildings and civil infrastructure on the ITER site. The ITER project is designed to produce clean, carbon-free energy through the experimental process of nuclear fusion, to meet the long-term energy needs of the planet. 25 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | P R OJ E C T O V E R V I E W | Cancerology, haematology and imagery – Brest France. Egis is the project manager for the approximately 108-bed cancerology unit on the premises of the Cavale Blanche hospital. This will accommodate the departments of radiotherapy, oncology, haematology, imagery and nuclear medicine. © Egis – JB Nappi © Egis-Abdelatif Belgout EPCM of Larivot bridge – French Guiana France. Egis was awarded the programme management contract for the Larivot Bridge between Macouria and Matoury (near Cayenne), a structure that is outstanding in both its size (1,312 m long) and is environmental setting. This new crossing will run alongside an existing bridge and is part of the Guiana Environment, Planning and Housing Directorate’s plans for the redevelopment of the RN1 highway between Balata and the RD51 junction. Project Vilagil, to aiming to transform the mobility system – Toulouse France. The Toulouse Metropolitan authority selected Egis’ bid to assist it in the project management of this transformation project scheduled to last four years. Goal: improve the mobility conditions of its inhabitants, with 500,000 more trips per day expected to take place between now and 2025. Cloche d’Or © Siddhant-kumar-unsplash shopping mall – Luxembourg © Fabeck architectes Luxembourg. La Cloche d’Or is a mixed-use project (commercial and residential) built on island C of the Ban de Gasperich, a town in Luxembourg. Egis is the programme manager on a 2.9-hectare plot. 26 NON-FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES R&D INVESTMENTS AVERAGE CARBON FOOTPRINT ELIGIBLE FOR CIR (per employee/year) Calculated according to the “Bilan Carbone” method used by the French Environment and Energy Efﬁciency Agency (ADEME) on the scope of subsidiaries headquartered in France €17 M €27 M €31 M 3 tCO2 eq 2017 2018 2019 CO2 2.9 tCO eq 2 CO2 2019 CARBON FOOTPRINT Calculated according to the “Bilan Carbone” method used by the French Environment and Energy Efﬁciency Agency ADEME on the scope of subsidiaries headquartered in France 2018 2019 OUR TRAVEL 89 % OUR WASTE INFORMATION SYSTEM 1% DISCLOSURE OF SENSITIVE CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION ORIGINATING FROM THE EGIS OUR BUILDINGS INFORMATION SYSTEM 10 % TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS 2019 2017 2018 2019 13,940 12,000 11,769 nil tCO2eq tCO2eq tCO2eq 27 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | NON-FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES | TELEWORK EMPLOYEES WORKING FROM HOME IN 2019 PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN GOVERNING BODIES BOARD 2017 OF DIRECTORS 2018 5 women / 11 5 women / 11 7% 2019 4 women / 11 GENERAL 2017 4 women / 9 MANAGEMENT 2018 4 women / 8 COMMITTEE 2019 4 women / 8 EXECUTIVE 2017 5 women / 18 COMMITTEE 2018 5 women / 17 2019 4 women / 17 BUSINESS ETHICS PROPORTION OF OUR BUSINESS HOLDING CERTIFICATION % % ,5 TOTAL NUMBER OF PEOPLE TRAINED % Y 53 % Y 60 40 E T 42 E T IN THE PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION, WORLD % E NT SA F % T 0 EN SA F CRIMINAL RISK AND BUSINESS PRACTICES 98 M & 10 M & Y ON H Y ON H IT T IT T U AL VIR EAL U AL VIR EAL Q E N H Q E N H 95 1,740 2012 2019 2018 2019 GENDER PAY GAP EMPLOYEE SAFETY & SECURITY IN EQUAL CLASSIFICATION OR EQUAL DUTIES RATE OF MONTHLY UPDATE OF COUNTRY RANKING BY RISK LEVEL This is a country-by-country 100 % 3.49% 3.46% 3.22% monitoring exercise identifying all the risks likely to jeopardise the safety of people on business travel (target of 11 updates in the year = 100%) 2017 2018 2019 2019 28 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CA): The Board of Directors is the collective body which holds decision-making authority regarding the Group’s strategic orientations. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (COMEX): The main governing body, debates the Group’s major strategic decisions. COMMITTEE FOR STRATEGIC ORIENTATION AND OPERATIONAL COORDINATION (COSCO): Contributes to strategic thought on the group’s orientations and deals with matters relating to the coordination of operational activities. 29 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | O R G A N I S AT I O N | BOARD OF DIRECTORS at 30/06/2020 Nicolas Jachiet, Vincent Delsart, Claire Gazdag, Jocelyne de Montaignac, Chairman of the Board of Director of investments Iosis Partenaires Independent Director Directors and accounting in the Director, Chief Financial President of Map department of pensions Officer of Egis Projects International and solidarity, Caisse des Caisse des Dépôts, Dépôts represented by Gilles Iosis Partenaires, Philippe Rofidal, Hayem, Head of Equities represented by Thomas Employee representative Laurence Dors, Salvant, Chairman of director, Egis Group Independent Director, Iosis Partenaires Paul-Marie Chavanne, Associate Director, Chairman of Groupe Theano Advisors Françoise Tauzinat Geopost Claire Messager, Head of Infrastructure, Employee representative Transport and Rémi Fournial, director, Egis Group Engineering Unit Head of M&A, Caisse des of Group Steering Dépôts Department, Finance, Strategy and Investments Division, Caisse des Dépôts EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE at 06/07/2020 Laurent Germain, Sabine Bonnard, Thibaut de Ladoucette, Mathieu Loussier, Chief Executive Officer Chief Human Resources Chief Financial Officer Executive Director, Officer International Regions Rémi Cunin, Eric Desplanches, Deputy Chief Executive Isabelle Bourguet, Executive Director, Pierre-Yves Massille Officer Chief Strategy, Marketing Consulting Chief Investor Relations and Communication and Transformation Officer Officer Cédric Barbier, Régis Dumay Executive Director, Executive Director Aviation Olivier Bouvard, Major Structures, Water, Thomas Salvant, Executive Director, Rail Environment and Energy Executive Director, Buildings Renaud Béziade, Executive Director, Amrei ChaussatMartine Jauroyon Project Structuring, Augustin, Chief Business Operation & New Corporate Secretary, Transformation and Services General Counsel Sustainability Officer François Bienvenue, James Chopty, Christian Laugier Executive Director, Cities, Deputy CEO for Executive Director, Roads and Mobility International Affairs Middle East 30 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT € Thousand 2018 2019 Managed turnover 1,129,863 1,219,201 Consolidated turnover 1,045,710 1,129,908 Other operational revenues 28,276 38,610 TOTAL REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS 1,073,986 1,168,518 Proﬁt from equity-accounted entities 18,728 24,229 Operating expenses (998,127) (1,045,414) EBITDA after equity-accounted entities 94,587 147,333 Amortisation, depreciation and proﬁt/loss on disposals (37,299) (62,141) OPERATING PROFIT 57,288 85,192 FINANCIAL PROFIT/(LOSS) 2,767 793 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 60,055 85,985 Taxation (25,939) (29,455) NET CONSOLIDATED PROFIT 34,116 56,530 Attributable to Non Group share 7,857 12,542 Group share 26,259 43,988 31 2019 ACTIVITY REPORT | FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES | CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS 2018 2019 € thousand net net Intangible, tangible assets and goodwill 237,909 340,180 Participations in non-consolidated equity-accounted entities 376,369 424,711 Other non-current assets 127,545 134,012 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 741,823 898,903 Other current assets 657,414 722,236 Cash and cash equivalents 174,003 199,617 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 831,417 921,853 Total assets held for sale 882 TOTAL ASSETS 1,573,240 1,821,638 LIABILITIES 2018 2019 € thousand net net Equity attributable to Group 461,262 484, 082 Minority interests 158,333 190,234 TOTAL EQUITY 619,595 674,316 Provisions for risks and charges 69,947 73,312 Put option on minority shareholders 27,209 52,525 Borrowings and ﬁnancial liabilities 67,609 155,437 Deferred tax liabilities 25,343 26,194 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 190,108 307,468 Provisions for risks and charges 25,134 20,897 Borrowings and ﬁnancial liabilities 67,748 110,989 Other current liabilities 670,655 706,520 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 763,537 838,406 Total liabilities held for sale 1,448 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,573,240 1,821,638 SHAREHOLDERS STATUTORY AUDITORS Egis SA's share capital amounts to PricewaterhouseCoopers Mazars Audit 61, rue Henri Régnault 67,880,460 Euros 63 rue de Villiers 92208 Neuilly sur Seine 92075 Paris La Défense made up for 4,525,364 shares of €15 each. Represented by Represented by The company's shareholder structure Monsieur Bertrand Baloche Messieurs Achour Messas was as follows: and Julien Huvé Caisse des Dépôts Appointed on 12/06/2009 75.83 % Extended on 27/03/2015 Appointed on 15/05/2000 Iosis Partenaires 19.21 % End of appointment: Annual Extended on 06/06/2006 FCPE 4.63 % General Meeting to approve Then on 27/03/2012 2020 ﬁnancial statements Then on 05/04/2018 Treasury shares 0.33 % End of appointment: Annual Private investors <0.01 % General Meeting to approve 2023 ﬁnancial statements 32 www.egis-group.com Egis SA RCS Versailles 702027376 Published July 2020 Designed by CIMAYA – Layout: Gilles L’hospitalier – Egis Communications Department
