Communication on Progress | 1 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Communication on Progress | 2 This is LATTANZIO KIBS’ Communication on Progress in implementing the Principles of the UN Global Compact and supporting broader UN Sustainable Development Goals. Communication on Progress | 3 Contents Introduction 6 Overview of LATTANZIO KIBS 7 Human Rights 10 Labour 14 Environment 18 Anti-Corruption 22 Appendix 26 Communication on Progress | 4 Communication on Progress | 5 Our Statement of Continued Support We are pleased to reaffirm LATTANZIO KIBS’s support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. These fundamental principles have been at the core of our Code of Ethics since 2016. LATTANZIO KIBS commits to making them part of our strategy, culture, dedicated services and daily activities. We are constantly involved in collaborative projects, integrating the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations into all our activities, with the aim to enhance sustainability both within LATTANZIO KIBS as with all our business partners and external stakeholders. Our support in shaping a more sustainable future is therefore put into practice both internally in our key operations and processes, and externally in our services and projects. 2019 has been a crucial year for LATTANZIO KIBS in terms of re-organisation and improved governance. In this Communication on Progress, we describe the actions we performed to include the Global Compact and its principles into our business throughout 2019. At the same time, we engage to share this information with our business partners and stakeholders by means of our main communication channels. Valerio Torda CEO of LATTANZIO KIBS S.p.A Communication on Progress | 6 Introduction The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) started in i. LATTANZIO KIBS supports and respects the 2000 with the intention to lead the power of companies protection of internationally proclaimed human and stakeholders taking collective actions in support of rights (Principle 1) responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact ii. LATTANZIO KIBS regularly monitors that it is not is a framework for businesses aimed at supporting, with complicit in human rights abuses (Principle 2) their operations and strategies, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, iii. LATTANZIO KIBS upholds the freedom of environment and anti-corruption. association and the effective recognition of When companies incorporate the Ten Principles of the the right to collective bargaining (Principle 3) UNGC into their strategies, policies and procedures, and establish a culture of integrity, they are not only upiv. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the elimination holding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, of all forms of forced and compulsory labour but also setting the stage for long-term success. As the (Principle 4) world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, it is v. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the effective concerned with demonstrating and developing the social abolition of child labour (Principle 5) legitimacy of business and markets. LATTANZIO Group decided in November 2017 to become a signatory of the vi. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the elimination of UNGC to prove its commitment to the UNGC Principles1 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (Principle 6) vii. LATTANZIO KIBS supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Principle 7) viii. LATTANZIO KIBS undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities (Principle 8) ix. LATTANZIO KIBS encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9) x. LATTANZIO KIBS strongly works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (Principle 10) 1 On 12/17/2018 LATTANZIO KIBS S.p.A. became sole shareholder of all LATTANZIO Companies Communication on Progress | 7 Overview LATTANZIO KIBS is an Italy-based strategic consulting hub that operates worldwide. LATTANZIO Knowledge Intensive Business Services covers Advisory, Monitoring & Evaluation, Learning, Communication, Safety Quality Environment, ICT Lab and Audit & Risk management. Our multidisciplinary contribution to value creation is the answer to the new demand for strategic consulting with strong accountability. Indeed, organizations are facing challenges in relation to multi-dimensional goals that require more and more integrated services. Strategy Evaluation Integrated EU-funded Integrated Management EU Funds & management of public policies and innovative programs advisory systems and consulting and international learning models communication and project organizational Risk management, cooperation management models internal control Technical Training Institutional and internal audit assistance Performance and expertise communication Design Legislation assessment and development & implementation & training Cyber security Management of analysis for the Visibility development private sector Digital content campaigns Innovation RPAS Remote funds development Piloting Aircraft System E-learning infrastructure Our sectors of expertise PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM RURAL DEVELOPMENT & AGRIBUSINESS GOVERNANCE & PUBLIC MANAGEMENT | JUSTICE STRENGHTENING VALUE CHAINS DIGITAL AGENDA & E-GOVERNMENT FOOD SECURITY & FOOD SAFETY ACCOUNTABILITY & QUALITY OF SERVICE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY LOCAL DEVELOPMENT HUMAN RIGHTS MARKETING PLACES DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONALIZATION GENDER POLICIES EVALUATION PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SMEs DEVELOPMENT ENERGY & NUCLEAR SAFETY STARTUP & BUSINESS INCUBATION ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & WORKPLACES CREATIVE INDUSTRIES SAFETY MANAGEMENT EDUCATION & SOCIAL POLICIES EMPLOYMENT | VOCATIONAL TRAINING DIGITAL LEARNING Communication on Progress | 8 58% in Italy more than Projects 3.500 implemented 500+ assignments in130 clients Countries 42% abroad 235 CENTRAL 121 & EAST PROJECTS EUROPE PROJECTS ASIA 32 in the last 5Y 109 in the last 5Y MENA 64 PROJECTS 24 in the last 5Y 68 LATIN PROJECTS AMERICA 15 in the last 5Y 162 SUBSAHARIAN PROJECTS 7 AFRICA 24 in the last 5Y OCEANIA PROJECTS 1 in the last 5Y +75 Global projects Next to national and local governments all over the world, alongside the European Commission, the United Nations, the World Bank and some of the most relevant international cooperation funding and development organizations. Communication on Progress | 9 Implementing the Ten Principles 2019 Communication on Progress | 10 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Actions to promote Human Rights LATTANZIO KIBS has a deep commitment to recipients, helping to create a control environment safeguarding people and making sure that each person that can ensure the Group’s activities are always based is treated with equal consideration of interests and respect. on the principles of fairness and transparency, and For this reason, we promote and support the human reducing the risk of the crimes mentioned in Italian rights of every employees, external consultants, Legislative Decree 231/2001. stakeholders and beneficiaries we work, or come into Internally, the Group makes sure not to damage the contact with. Protecting and enhancing human rights, physical, psychological and moral integrity of its human whether through direct interventions or through the resources by: work we do to advise and support the recipients of our services, is a central aim of our work. In delivering • Protecting the privacy according to the law and to our work, we make sure, that we do not inadvertently the General Data Protection Regulation, expressly allow the rights or well-being of anyone, whether it is delimiting the information that can be collected from our staff, our partners’ personnel, our beneficiaries, or employees (any investigation of ideas, habits and in indeed any other member of the public, and particularly general on the private life of employees is prohibited). vulnerable members of the community, to be harmed • Protection against any mobbing action or behavior in the process. that can cause psychological suffering in employees, LATTANZIO KIBS has its own Code of Ethics (CoE), ensuring a positive environment within the Group. which covers respect for human rights and applies to • Protection against any form of sexual harassment all our employees as well as to external consultants to and gender discrimination. ensure LATTANZIO KIBS respects fundamental human rights in every country it operates. The CoE outlines the ethical principles and conduct that should be followed by employees and other Communication on Progress | 11 Permanent Team 38% Men 123 62% Permanent Women employees Equity Partners Manager Senior Junior Interns 30 34 9 14 47 30 4 under 30 30-39 3 3 5 6 2 43 16 104 PROFESSIONALS 40-49 50+ air s tio n ce ter ce aff ality tra offi en Offi ator r a l u n i s de r ice c in Mean age 37 19 STAFF ne , Q mi Te n rv rd Ge HR Ad Se c oo Our Services to promote Human Rights Externally, LATTANZIO KIBS provides supporting services evaluation of the Programs of Fight Against Sexual to public entities to improve their institutional capacity Violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. to reduce poverty, support more vulnerable populations, In addition the Group won the formative evaluation fight gender imbalance, guarantee access to education, of UNICEF Hygiene Programmes in the West and and improve the justice sector. These activities are taken Central Africa Region. within the framework of short-term or multi-annual projects • LATTANZIO KIBS has supported UN Women in funded by the European Commission, UN Agencies, its Strategic Partnerships for Gender Equality and the World Bank, as well as other most relevant international cooperation funding and development Women’s Empowerment, providing an overall organizations. evaluation that among other aspects: analyzed to what extent UN Women’s approaches During the course of the period in consideration, these to strategic partnerships are aligned with Human have been some of the most relevant projects our Rights approach and gender equality principles; Group has implemented in the field of Human Rights: assessed the effectiveness of UN Women’s • As member of the consortia retained by the European approaches to strategic partnerships in contributing Commission Framework Contract SIEA 2018-2022 to gender equality and women’s empowerment results (Services for the Implementation of the External Aid), at global, regional and national level. LATTANZIO Advisory is involved in Lot 3 “Human Rights, Democracy and Peace”. • LATTANZIO Learning supported the training process on “Statelessness” through the instructional design • LATTANZIO Monitoring & Evaluation carried out a and development of e-learning course for UNHCR. joint evaluation of the NEPAD Spanish fund for the empowerment of women in Africa and a joint Communication on Progress | 12 Policies & Procedures to promote Human Rights These are LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to human rights. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of fundamental Human Rights LATTANZIO KIBS has its own Code of Ethics (CoE), which covers respect for human rights and applies to all our employees as well as to external consultants to ensure the Group respects the fundamental rights in every country it operates. Data protection Privacy Art. 7 ensures protection of privacy according to the law and to the General Data Protection Regulation, expressly delimiting the information that can be collected from our employees and from individuals we come into contact with. Counter terrorism policy Art. 22 sets our Counter Terrorism Policy, prohibiting any engagement of the Group with activities related to terrorism or subversion of the democratic order. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian Legislative ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organisational, management and 231/2001 control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model, LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Human Rights principles, among which: Whisteblowing The organizational model 231 sets our Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate mechanism to report via anonymous emails, to an independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to ethical behavior, procedures or illegality, in compliance with relevant legislation. Health and safety This covers manslaughter and personal injury through negligence. Counter Terrorism Policy This covers various crimes committed for the purposes of terrorism and subversion of democracy. Female genital mutilation practices Crimes against individual This covers, inter alia, child pornography and childprostitution, trafficking in persons, trade in organs from a living person. Communication on Progress | 13 Measurements of the outcomes • Over the period considered, there have been no • All of LATTANZIO KIBS’ employees receive equal reportable HR issues, no complaints of any kind pay for equal work regardless of race, caste, national from employees nor violations of the Code of Ethics origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, nor in relation to the application of Organizational sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. Model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. • Within the Group, LATTANZIO Advisory, LATTANZIO • LATTANZIO KIBS has not been involved in any trial Safety Quality Environment, and LATTANZIO ICT Lab for Human Rights violations. have fully implemented the Organizational Model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. Targets • An update of the Organizational Model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 is planned for 2019, to incorporate most recent regulations. • We aim at making sure that all of our independent consultants, sub-contractors, partners and other suppliers are aware of our policies and commit to the respect of the UNGC’s Human Rights principles. Therefore, we constantly commit ourselves to make our standards a compliance requirement at contract signature for every individual or company we engage with. Communication on Progress | 14 Labour UN Global Compact Principles Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forces and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Actions to promote the Labour Principles At LATTANZIO, we recognize that human resources Furthermore, we make sure that all employees are given are a key factor for the development of our Group. equal opportunities to contribute to the growth of the For this reason, the management of our human resources Group as well as to apply and develop their personal is based on the respect for the personality and skills to their full potential, without any form of favoritism professionalism of each of our employees in compliance or nepotism. with the general framework of the current legislation. The Group strongly believes in the importance of In fact, the Group complies with minimum age supporting youth employment and each year activates standards and national collective labour agreements a considerable number of internships for students in each of the countries where our staff is employed. and newly graduates. In 2019, the Group activated The Group takes safety on the workplace very seriously 21 internships distributed among: LATTANZIO KIBS, and makes sure that all of the employees are properly LATTANZIO Advisory, LATTANZIO Communication, trained on the subject by distributing a Handbook on LATTANZIO ICT Lab, Abylia, LATTANZIO Learning Health & Safety and by demanding the mandatory and LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment. participation to an e-Learning class and test. The interns received a compensation higher than the minimum requirement set by the regional law and 38% The remuneration policy of our employees is based of them was hired at the end of the internship. on the recognition of merit for the contribution made, calculated in terms of effort and results. Understanding the importance of creating new job LATTANZIO KIBS adopts assessments, incentives opportunities in less developed areas, LATTANZIO and remuneration systems that favor not the most KIBS regularly hires staff in disadvantaged regions in able to prevail over colleagues but those who foster Southern Italy, i.e. our administrative office is based collaboration and team spirit in order to solve problems in Bari (Puglia) and we have recently established a project and create value for the Group and for its stakeholders. office with over 20 staff members in Naples (Campania). Communication on Progress | 15 CONTRACTS TYPES annually to examine the risk plan and identify improvement actions. H&S regulations require also LATTANZIO KIBS to provide training on H&S procedures to all employees. Basic training is provided 68% Permanent contracts online and is compulsory for all staff. Specific training provided via frontal training to a targeted number of staff. In addition to law requirements, LATTANZIO KIBS has decided to provide regular medical check-ups to 32% Other types all employees. All our staff receive a H&S procedures handbook when they join the company and can make use of a whistleblowing facility in order to highlight any Regarding Health and Safety (H&S) in workplace, issues related to H&S. The Group has a dedicated LATTANZIO KIBS abides fully to the principles set in organization within it, that is LATTANZIO Safety Quality Italian Legislative Decree 81/2008 on prevention and Environment, which ensures both compliance and surveillance of a healthy and safe workplace to all awareness about health and safety at work matters workers. Within this framework, each company of within the Group. the Group has its own Risks Assessment document, Moreover, the team provides support to other private one company representative for H&S plus one worker companies in this field via qualified personnel. representative for H&S. At Group level, we are also LATTANZIO KIBS itself is compliant with the rules on required to nominate a person in charge for the health and safety in workplaces being certified according implementation of H&S Procedures (RSPP), who is to the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System. an internal staff in the case of LATTANZIO KIBS. A person responsible for the correct application of safety A regular meeting of the RSPP with the companies’ rules and procedures within the Quality Management and workers’ representative for H&S takes place System is nominated and trained. OUR COMMITMENT TO CREATE NEWJOB OPPORTUNITIES IN SOUTHERN ITALY STAFF IN ITALY BARI NAPLES 95 TOTAL EMPLOYEES STAFF IN SOUTH ITALY 38 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 17 in Bari 21 in Naples Our Services to promote the Labour Principles Externally, LATTANZIO Advisory and LATTANZIO of transmission of skills and knowledge increasingly Learning are regularly engaged in providing technical integrated with communities. support to various public and private sector entities Over the period in consideration, LATTANZIO Safety to improve their performance and compliance with Quality Environment organized different projects, training national and international standards. activities and events, such as “Web reputation” and This includes, for example, tailoring the training offer “Management systems and legislative compliance”, to to the needs of the labour market and ensuring a system promote safety on the workplace. Communication on Progress | 16 Policies & Procedures to promote Labour Principles These are LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to labour. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Labour Principles Art. 9 identifies human resources as a key factor for the development of our companies. Art. 10 & 11 set procedures for fair human resources selections, avoidance of discriminatory practices, etc. Art. 12 protects the professional and personal enhancement of our staff. Art. 13 provides for healthy and safe working conditions. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX Within LATTANZIO KIBS, LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. 231/2001 This organizational, management and control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Labour principles, among which: • Purchase and sale of slaves • llicit intermediation and exploitation of labour and grooming of minors • Employment of illegally staying third country nationals ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE LATTANZIO KIBS abides to the norms set out in Legislative Decree 81/2008 ON HEALTH AND 81/2008 on Health and Safety in workplaces. SAFETY IN WORKPLACES QUALITY MANAGEMENT LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an integrated Quality Management System SYSTEM EX ISO ISO 9001:2015 (IQMS) which covers ISO standard 9001:2015. This IQMS provides a framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring system for a proper and effective management of work processes in full respect of all applicable laws and international standards. Communication on Progress | 17 Measurements of the outcomes • Valid Certification: ISO 9001:2015 Quality • Percentage of employees trained on Italian Management System (2018 2021). Legislative Decree 231/2001: 100%. • N. of internal audit carried out in the framework of • Number of medical check-ups provided to employees: Quality Management System: 2. 18 for the staff of LATTANZIO Advisory, 3 for LATTANZIO KIBS, 3 for Abylia, 1 for LATTANZIO • During the period considered, there have been no Learning and 1 for LATTANZIO Communication. complaint from employees not professionals regarding violations of Labour Rights and there have • Number of ergonomic equipment purchased to been no violations of the Code of Ethics regarding facilitate the work with laptops: 28 kits including Labour Rights. mouses ergonomic keyboards and laptops supports. • LATTANZIO KIBS has not been involved in any trial • All full-time employees are provided with a medical regarding violations of Labour Rights. insurance, as per the national employment contract to which LATTANZIO KIBS abides. • Percentage of employees’ contracts that respect national law on work safety: 100%. • All external consultants employed in projects outside their country of residence are provided with • Percentage of employees’ contracts that comply an accident and repatriation insurance. N. of business with minimum wage standards and national travel insured days: 652. collective labor agreements in each of the countries where our staff is employed: 100%. • Our Milan office has been relocated for a fixed period of time to a new building, in order to improve lighting, • Percentage of employees trained on Health & Safety comfort and the general working conditions of our on the workplace: 100%. employees, which were affected by the refurbishment of the building where the office is located. Targets • We aim at introducing further work flexibility for our employees based in Milan since the refurbishment of the building where the office is located is expected to continue in the first half of 2020. • The improvement of both management by objectives and work-life balance are our main targets for 2020. Communication on Progress | 18 Environment UN Global Compact Principles Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Actions to promote the Environmental Principles LATTANZIO KIBS understands the importance of the PAPER | LATTANZIO KIBS is a paperless organization. environmental challenge and takes accountability All data is stored centrally in a highly secure data center. for its environmental impact. We are committed to Users can access the file system from a digital work be environmentally conscious and to monitor and environment. reduce our energy consumption as well as our Project leaders have a responsibility to control and carbon footprint in order to minimize the negative ensure that professionals use paper sparingly, avoiding environmental impact of our day-to-day operations. any kind of waste. In particular, we make sure that Although we constantly face the environmental challenges, sheets are always used in a complete manner, both at the current stage we have identified 3 targets that front and back and/or printing four sheets per page. help us reduce our environmental impacts. These are: Furthermore, the Information Systems Manager and TRANSPORT | To promote CO2 reduction, our policy Office Automation must ensure that all computers are demands that no employee is provided with a set to print by default duplex and in black and white. company car. The Group encourages all employees to As for our paper supplies, the office manager, choose the most effective means of transport taking into responsible for managing all office supplies is account costs, itinerary, distance, time and safety. It is supported by the Office coordinator (OffCo) in verifying strongly advised to use public transportation. that all our paper supplies come from certified In fact, most of our employees come to work every day companies according to the ISO 14001:2015 by bike or by public transport. When it comes to meetings, environmental standard and that paper comes from the Group encourages the use of every form of forests managed in a correct and responsible manner, communication that is less environmentally harmful, such according to strict environmental, social and economic as Skype calls or emails instead of physical meetings. standard (as assured by the FSC brand). Communication on Progress | 19 WASTE | The disposal of waste takes place through separate collection of paper and the head of the site the use of differentiated containers, which allow the has the task of ensuring that the disposal of the same separation of the same from other types of waste. takes place properly, using the appropriate bins for the All offices are equipped with special bins for the collection of paper. Our Services to promote the Environmental Principles LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment department ensures both compliance and awareness about environmental related matters and performance within the Group. In addition, this organization provides technical consulting for the Carbon Footprint and Sustainability plans to external entities, with the objective of improving the environmental performance of both the entity and its supply chain, using a methodology in line with ISO / TS 14067 and defining a Sustainability Plan for the production processes. LATTANZIO KIBS itself is certified according to the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System. LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an Integrated Quality Management System (IQMS) which covers ISO standard 14001:2015. This IQMS provides a framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring system and includes a handbook. As far as the services implemented by LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment, n. 5 are the projects in the field of Quality, Environment and Safety Management Systems, n. 5 are the projects in the field of Quality and Environment Management Systems, n. 4 are the projects in the field of Quality and Safety Management Systems, and n. 94 are the projects aimed at supporting training activities in the field of Health and Safety in workplaces. In 2019 LATTANZIO Advisory was working on 2 contracts for the “On-site Technical Support to the EU CBRN Center of Excellence (CoE) Regional Secretariat in Manila and in Rabat”. The purpose of these contracts is to strengthen the capabilities of the CBRN CoE (Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Center of Excellence) Secretariat with responsibility in the formulation and implementation of projects promoted by member countries and those of a regional nature. Communication on Progress | 20 Policies & Prodecures to promote Environment Principles These are LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to environment. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of fundamental Environment Principles Art. 24 provides for the protection of environment, considers the environment as fundamental economic growth value and engages our companies to use more and more renewable energies to improve also the environmental quality of the territories where we operate. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX As already mentioned, LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis, in order 231/2001 to promote the prevention of a large number of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model, the company ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Environment principles, among which: • Environmental pollution • Environmental disaster • Intentional crimes against the environment • Trafficking and abandonment of high level radioactive material • Killing, destruction, capture, taking and possession of specimens of protected wild fauna and flora species ENVIRONMENTAL LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an integrated Quality Management System MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (IQMS) which covers ISO standard 14001:2015. This IQMS provides a EX ISO 14001:2015 framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring system for a proper and effective management of work processes in full respect of all applicable laws and international standards for the protection of the environment. Communication on Progress | 21 Measurements of the outcomes • Valid Certification: ISO 14001:2015 Environmental • Energy Performance of our Milan Headquarters: Management System (2018-2021). GRI Indicator EN 4: Indirect Energy Consumption • N. of internal audit carried out in the framework of 2018 2019 Environment Management System: 2. kWh 14.146 17.889 • Amounts of paper supplies that come from companies GRI Indicator EN 1: Materials used certified ISO 14000 environmental standard: 100%. 2018 2019 • Amounts of paper supplies that come from forests Reams 290 171 managed in a correct and responsible manner, of paper according to strict environmental, social and economic standard assured by the FSC brand: 100%. • In adherance with the Environmental Principles, LATTANZIO KIBS promoted and encouraged business • All of our independent consultants, sub-contractors, trips by train instead of by airplane, reducing CO2 partners and other suppliers are aware of our emissions fivefold per person. policies and commit to the respect of the UNGC Train Air Environmental principles. Therefore, we have worked towards making commitment to our standards a Milan-Rome 24,1 CO2* 113,5 CO2* compliance requirement at contract signature for * Kg of CO2 saved in a year in our most common route every individual or company we engage with. Targets • LATTANZIO KIBS aims at improving and extending to all of its offices its performance reporting system. • We aim at reducing our energy consumption as well as our carbon footprint in order to minimize the negative environmental impact of our day-to-day operations. • We are discouraging the use of personal vehicles for business purposes, while we are elaborating a news policy specific for the staff of LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment that needs to use cars to visit their clients located throughout the region. To this end, in 2020 we aim at we aim at implementing a car sharing system and therefore reducing the carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere by 20%. Communication on Progress | 22 Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Actions to promote the Anti-Corruption Principles LATTANZIO KIBS’ Code of Ethics (art. 4, art. 14) and business partners are required to refrain from making expressively prohibits practices of corruption, favoritism, payments to any entity in order to obtain unlawful benefits collusive behavior, direct and/or indirect solicitations also in representing the interests of the company vis-à-vis through promises of personal advantages, towards any the Public administration. It should be noted that Italy’s subject belonging to either the Public administration or regulatory framework to prevent corruption, both in the to private entities. private (since 2001) and public sector (since 2012), is well established and articulated, and is considered a best LATTANZIO KIBS is committed to respecting, maintaining practice by several other countries. and making all its personnel and consultants respect and As a requirement for participation in public tenders all maintain the highest ethical principles, and among over the world, LATTANZIO KIBS is required to regularly others: zero tolerance for “corrupt practices” in any form. provide certifications attesting the absence of professional and criminal records, including the anti-mafia In its daily interaction with national, EU and international certificate and is subject to checks done via the public institutions as well as with public officials, National Anti-corruption Authority (ANAC). institutions, administrations, and various public and semi-public entities, LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted The Group’s record proves that there are no criminal the highest national standard requiring our staff and convictions ongoing nor any provision in civil and associates to act strictly in compliance with the current administrative matters passed in judgment and charged legislation and on the basis of the general principles to LATTANZIO KIBS’ professionals. of fairness and loyalty, respect impartiality and good performance as adopted by the public administration. All the employees are required to attend mandatory e-learning trainings on the Group’s organisational, Illicit payments in relations with Institutions or with Public management and control model formulated according Officials are indeed prohibited. All the staff, consultants, to the specific requirements determined by the Italian Communication on Progress | 23 Legislative Decree 231/2001.The organizational model 231 sets our Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate mechanism to report via anonymous emails to an independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to ethical behaviour, procedures or illegality, in compliance with relevant legislation. Our Services to promote the Anti-Corruption Principles LATTANZIO KIBS has one dedicated organization,that sector. LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management has is LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management, operating been an active participant in several events related to specifically in the field of improved governance and the fight against corruption at national and international compliance, internal audit and controls and the level, including high-level seminars organized by the fight against corruption. The Managing Director of Directorate General for Globalization and Global Issues LATTANZIO Audit is a qualified Lead Auditor for ISO of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the issue of 37001:2016 Anti Bribery. This organization provides global anti-corruption strategies and corporate services to improve the performance of the Public compliance. administration in Italy and in Europe. At the same time, LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment In addition, in the course of 2019, the company had supports private sector organisations in the setting up undertaken an upgrade of its own organizational model and implementation of organizational models ex Italian ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 and Code of Legislative Decree 231/2001, providing inter-alia antiEthics, with the aim to enhance the effectiveness of corruption systems. In 2019, LATTANZIO Safety Quality its implementation and increase awareness among its Environment has worked with 16 firms on this subject. users. All LATTANZIO KIBS’ business partners, be it firms or individuals, are now required to adhere to and respect In 2019 LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management has the principles and procedures of our organizational started providing technical assistance to two Provincial model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, including Government offices (Prefetture), namely the Prefettura anti-corruption and our Code of Ethics. of Catania and the Prefettura of Brindisi in their institutional role of support and guidance to the An internal organizational process aimed at obtaining the municipalities of their respective province in the drafting, ISO 370011:2016 for the Group, under the guidance of updating and effective implementation of the annual LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management and LATTANZIO Anti-corruption and Transparency plans. Safety Quality Environment, has also been pursued. LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management, in cooperation with Protiviti Government Service, Lombardia Region and Bicocca Milano University, has also promoted the creation of a Permanent Working Group on internal controls practice in the Public administration, starting with the best practice of Lombardia Region, and with the aim of expanding this initiative to other regional governments throughout Italy. The Permanent Working Group involves PA staff, private and semi-public companies as well as professionals and the academic world, divided into sub-groups and working on specific topics, such as Public Internal Control Systems and Risk management in the public Communication on Progress | 24 Policies & Prodecures to promote Anti-Corruption Principles These are LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to anti-corruption. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Fundamental Anti-corruption Principles LATTANZIO KIBS’ Code of Ethics (art. 4, art. 14) expressively prohibits practices of corruption and collusive behaviours towards any subject. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian Legislative ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organisational, management 231/2001 and control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. Legislative Decree 231/2001 is a flagship piece of anti-corruption legislation, recognized as such worldwide. The Decree 231 establishes the responsibility of corporations, in addition to individual responsibility, for corruptive action or attempts and related crimes. This includes the fundamental facility of: Whisteblowing The organizational model 231 sets our Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate mechanism to report via anonymous emails, to an independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to ethical behaviour, corruption related procedures or illegality, in compliance with relevant legislation, and fundamental anti-corruption principle such as: • Crimes against the public administration • Corporate crimes • Forgery of money, public credit instruments, revenue stamps • Money Laundering • Use of false documents, etc. Communication on Progress | 25 Measurements of the outcomes • Number of complaints from employees regarding • Number of senior management staff who hold an Corruption or in relation to the application of ISO 37001:2016 Anti Bribery qualifications: 1 + 1 Organizational Model ex Italian Legislative Decree associate consultant. 231/2001: 0. • Percentage of employees trained on the Group’s • Number of penalties due to violations of the code organisational, management and control model of LATTANZIO KIBS Code of Ethics regarding formulated according to the specific requirements Corruption: 0. determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001: 100%. • Number of criminal conviction and/or provision in civil and administrative matters in relation to corruption: 0. Targets • The Group aims to complete the upgrade and reach full implementation of its own organizational and control model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 to cover all companies of LATTANZIO KIBS (in addition to LATTANZIO Advisory, LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment, and LATTANZIO ICT Lab). This shall include a more detailed mapping of corruption risks and preventive action in relation to the activities and countries of operation, as well as an increased awareness and sensitiveness of LATTANZIO’s staff to this matter. Communication on Progress | 26 9 (+ 2) 23 (+ 6) 3 (=) 29 (+ 17) Appendix 13 (+ 4) 13 (+ 5) 23 (+ 5) 10 (+ 5) 11 (+ 3) 3 (=) Examples of Projects LATTANZIO KIBS has undertaken during the Reporting Period 12 (+ 3) addressing the SDGs 6 (+ 3) The nature of LATTANZIO9 (+ 3) KIBS’ core business nurtures 30 (+ 3) our engagement in supporting a large number of the UN goals of sustainable development. Whether working 65 (+ 16) 11 (+ 3) with the public administration in Italy and Europe or at the implementation of development projects worldwide, we are acutely aware of the impact27our actions may (+ 17) Y 2016 2019 have in reaching the goals set for 2030. LATTANZIO KIBS’ SDGs support by territorial distribution AFRICA 1 1 1 3 1 1 3 2 1 2 1 2 1 5 ASIA 1 1 1 3 1 2 4 2 1 1 1 1 EUROPA 7 1 11 22 8 8 9 57 22 11 26 11 7 3 5 26 10 LATIN AMERICA 1 1 1 MENA 1 2 2 1 1 Y 2016 2019 Communication on Progress | 27 Distribution of LATTANZIO KIBS’ effort per SDGs (number of projects) 2019 9 (+ 2) 3 (=) 13 (+ 4) 23 (+ 5) 11 (+ 3) 12 (+ 3) 9 (+ 3) 65 (+ 16) 27 (+ 17) 13 (+ 6) 29 (+ 17) 13 (+ 5) 10 (+ 5) 3 (=) 6 (+ 3) 30 (+ 3) Y 2016 2019 11 (+ 3) Communication on Progress | 28 LATTANZIO KIBS S.p.A. Milan (Italy) Via Cimarosa, 4 20144 +39 02 29061165 Milan | Rome | Bari Brussels Washington DC info@lattanziokibs.com www.lattanziokibs.com
