CSR Report 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Philosophy We will contribute to the development of a more secure society through a striving spirit and cooperative efforts. Our corporate philosophy represents Glory's corporate goal and raison d'être. Striving spirit includes our desire that we will strive to meet the needs of customers and society with an unyielding spirit and make the impossible possible . It represents the eternal origin of Glory all through the ages that we can do a great job only when we combine the power of everyone who shares the striving spirit . Keeping the origin in mind, Glory will contribute to the creation of a safe and secure society from now on. Editorial Policy Scope of the Report The Glory CSR Report 2020 is intended to inform a wide • As a basic principle, this report describes the efforts of GLORY LTD., and range of stakeholders about Glory’s understanding of CSR it will be explicitly stated if a particular item being reported concerns a and the progress of its CSR initiatives. specific Glory Group company or another company. We publish the report in booklet form and on our website, • The report on environmental activities (including environmental data) where we also post descriptions of our initiatives, additional covers the ISO 14001-certified offices of GLORY LTD. and the Group details, related data, and other information not included in companies (12 companies and 32 sites). the booklet. Reporting Period Fiscal year 2019 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) (may include reporting CSR Website Investor Relations Website of items occurring in or after April 2020) Publication Date September 2020 (previous English edition: September 2019, next English edition: September 2021) Referenced Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 and 2018 2018 edition of Environmental Reporting Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment, Japan Contact Information https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/ https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/ GLORY LTD. ▲ Corporate Communications Department, Management Strategy For financial and stock information, please visit this site. Headquarters 1-3-1 Shimoteno, Himeji, Hyogo 670-8567, Japan Phone: +81-79-297-3131 01 Glory CSR Report 2020 Management Creed • Through a spirit of continuous development, we will provide products and services our customers can rely on. • We will build a vigorous corporate group through respect for the individual and teamwork. • We will endeavor to act as responsible corporate citizens and co-exist harmoniously with society at large. Our management creed expresses what Glory should aspire to and our management stance. In short, it constitutes our basic philosophy of management. The three components of the management creed express our stance toward our customers and business operations, toward our employees, and toward society as a whole. Corporate Philosophy https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/philosophy/ CONTENTS Environment Corporate Philosophy and Management Creed / Environmental Management 26 Editorial Policy 01 Reducing Environmental Impact in Business Activities 28 Message from the President 03 Developing Environmentally Friendly Products / Corporate Information 05 Preserving Biodiversity 29 Special Report: Establishing a New Style of Cash Circulation 07 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan 30 Glory’s CSR 09 Governance Society Corporate Governance 31 Products and Services 15 Risk Management 35 Supply Chain Management 17 Compliance 37 Respect for Human Rights 19 Responsibility to Shareholders and Investors 39 Human Resources 20 Social Initiatives 24 ESG Data 40 Third-party Opinion 44 Glory CSR Report 2020 02 Message from the President We leverage the power of identification to contribute to the creation of a secure society. President, GLORY LTD. Creating “New Confidence” for People and Society Since its founding in 1918, Glory has consistently retailers are diversifying payment methods in response achieved growth and progress by manufacturing to the popularity of cashless settlements. products and creating innovative technologies to meet society’s needs. Our founder’s philosophy of Seeking opportunities in these changes, we are making “continuously striving to benefit people by creating a concerted effort to emerge as a leading company that products that have never been seen before” has realizes the spirit of confidence expressed in our Longbeen handed down over generations and remains Term Vision 2028: “We enable a confident world”. our enduring identity to the present time, as we now We will continue providing products and solutions to provide products and solutions to customers in over a meet those customer needs that change with the times hundred countries around the world. and trends. Additionally, we will establish businesses and new value by further enhancing our accumulated The market environment surrounding the Glory technologies, particularly in the areas of recognition Group is evolving at an unprecedented speed. In both and identification through the power of identification, domestic and overseas markets, financial institutions to create new confidence as a company that is able to are accelerating their drive to measure for the deliver benefits to society in the coming era. reorganization of financial institutions, a reduction of branches and a shift to minimized branches, while 03 Glory CSR Report 2020 Addressing Social Issues with Toward the Creation of a Sustainable Technologies and Ideas Society We are currently promoting the 2020 Medium-Term For the Glory Group to play a role in creating a Management Plan to prepare for realizing our Long-Term sustainable society, it must meet society’s demands, Vision and focusing on creating new business domains which include managing business from an ESG under the Basic Policy of strengthening collaboration with (environmental, social, and governance) perspective and various partners to solve social issues. Although cashless contributing solutions to international issues toward settlements are expanding across the world, cash remains achieving the SDGs (Social Development Goals). Glory an important means of payment, and securing access identified its Priority CSR Themes in 2018 to engage points to cash has emerged as a social concern. Glory in SDG-related initiatives. Recent recommendations intends to create a new style of cash circulation* to realize by the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial efficient cash circulation across society. To that end, we Disclosures) have gained attention. Glory recognizes have acquired Cash Payment Solutions GmbH, a German climate change as a key management concern that company who develop and provide online cash settlement must be tackled across countries, regions, and industries platforms and formed a capital and business alliance with and has therefore been engaging in activities under the SOCASH PTE. LTD., a Singaporean FinTech company who 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan. In the years develop and provide a cash out service. By combining ahead, we will adopt a more strategic approach for these services with Glory’s cash handling solutions, we enhancing our disclosure of climate-related information will be able to contribute to increasing society’s comfort while strengthening our ESG initiatives across our level with alternative payment systems. business activities, including our supply chain. Glory is also expanding applications for its recognition/ The Glory Group conducts management under the identification technology into new areas. For example, we guidance of its Corporate Philosophy and believes in have developed a new walk-through facial recognition realizing its philosophy through the actions of each system that can identify individuals even when they are individual employee. We now face the new challenge wearing masks or sunglasses by applying deep learning of responding to social changes and needs in practicing to our facial recognition engine to accurately grasp our philosophy. Aspiring to address global social individual features around the eyes, forehead, and nose. In issues, we will endeavor to create new value through the field of medical and nursing care, we are participating innovation that is generated by the full capabilities of in joint industry-academia research with Juntendo our diverse workforce. University. Glory’s image recognition technology is being applied to diagnosing patients with neurodegeneration We will earnestly seek to earn the trust of our and cognitive impairment diseases that advance with age, stakeholders and strive to be a corporate group that such as Parkinson’s disease and dementia, to construct contributes to the realization of a sustainable society. a system for early detection and diagnosing progression. In this way, we seek to establish technologies that benefit the early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of medical August 2020 conditions associated with an aging society. Meanwhile, the ongoing global pandemic of novel coronavirus is expected to cause a variety of changes in society, increasing the need for automation to prevent infections and for power and labor savings to achieve operational efficiency, ultimately leading to further advances in AI, IoT, and related technologies. The Glory Group will contribute to creating a safe, secure society by accurately identifying social issues and needs that accompany change and provide solutions through its business activities. *We provide detailed information on initiatives for creating a new style of cash circulation in the Special Report (pages 7 and 8). Glory CSR Report 2020 04 Corporate Information Profile Corporate name : GLORY LTD. Stock listings : Tokyo Stock Exchange (1st Section) Founded : March 1918 Number of employees : 3,473 (Group: 10,267), as of March 31, 2020 Incorporated : November 1944 Line of business : Development, manufacturing, sales, and maintenance Capital : ¥ 12,892,947,600 of cash handling machines, data processing equipment, peripheral devices with data processing equipment, vending machines, automatic service equipment, etc. Business Segments Main Customers Main Products and Goods Financial Market Open teller systems Security storage systems Financial institutions, Coin and banknote recyclers for tellers Key management systems OEM clients, and others Coin recycling modules for ATMs Banknote recycling modules in Japan Multifunctional banknote changers for horse race ticket vending Cash monitoring cabinets machines Retail and Transportation Market Supermarkets, department stores, Coin and banknote recyclers for cashiers Cigarette vending machines Sales proceeds deposit machines Medical payment kiosks cashin-transit companies, railroad Multifunctional banknote changers RFID self-checkout systems for companies, tobacco companies, Cash recyclers for gas stations cafeterias hospitals, local governments, general Ballot sorters for handwritten Coin-operated lockers companies, and others in Japan ballots Ticket vending machines Amusement Market Card systems for pachinko parlors Pachinko ball counters for Banknote conveyor systems individual pachinko machines Amusement halls (pachinko Pachinko prize dispensing Membership management parlors) and others in Japan systems for pachinko parlors machines Pachinko ball/token counters Overseas Market Banknote recyclers for tellers Coin and banknote recyclers Financial institutions, cash-in-transit Banknote sorters for cashiers companies, retail stores, casinos, Banknote and check deposit Sales proceeds deposit modules for ATMs machines OEM clients, and others overseas Banknote counters Coin wrappers Other Other than those above Other than those above Financial Data (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating Income Sales and Sales Composition Ratio by Business Segment (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Others 300 25 5.0 billions of yen 2.2% 20.5 20.3 20.5 226.9 222.5 227.3 235.7 224.1 20 19.6 Financial 17.9 Market 200 18.9% 15 Overseas 42.2 billions of yen Market 46.2% 10 103.6 100 billions of yen 23.4% 5 Retail and 9.3% Transportation Amusement Market Market 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 20.7 billions of yen 52.4 billions of yen 05 Glory CSR Report 2020 Glory Group’s Global Operations The Glory Group operates its direct sales and maintenance service network in more than 20 countries. We provide products and solutions in more than 100 countries. GLORY LTD. ■ Direct support ■ Distributor support Group Companies JAPAN EMEA AMERICAS Development & Manufacturing Sales & Maintenance Sales & Maintenance 6 companies 23 companies 6 companies • GLORY Products Ltd. • Sitrade Italia S.p.A. • Glory Global Solutions Inc. • GLORY AZ System Co., Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Canada) Inc. • GLORY System Create Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Topco) Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Brasil) Máquinas e • GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Midco) Ltd. Equipamentos Ltda . • GLORY Mechatronics Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Holdings) Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Colombia) S.A. (and one other company) • Glory Global Solutions (International) Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions México, S.A. de C.V. • Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. (and one other company) Sales & Maintenance • Glory Global Solutions (Belgium) N.V./S.A. 8 companies • Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH • Glory Global Solutions (Netherlands) BV CHINA · ASIA PACIFIC • GLORY Service Co., Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Spain) S.A. • Hokkaido GLORY Co. Ltd. Manufacturing • Glory Global Solutions (Switzerland) A.G. • GLORY IST Co., Ltd. 5 companies • Glory Global Solutions (Portugal) S.A. • GLORY NASCA Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions RUS, LLC • GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd. • GLORY Techno 24 Co., Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Ireland) Ltd. • GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. • GLORY Engineering Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Austria) GmbH • GLORY IPO Asia Ltd. • Japan Settlement Information Center Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions Nakit Otomasyon • GLORY IPO China Ltd. (and one other company) Teknolojileri Ltd.Şti. (and one other company) • Cash Payment Solutions GmbH Sales & Maintenance • Acrelec Group S.A.S. (and 4 other companies) 9 companies • Glory Global Solutions (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Australia) Pty. Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (New Zealand) Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (South Asia) Pvt. Ltd. • Glory Global Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. • Glory Global Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. • Glory Currency Automation India Pvt. Ltd. • PT. Glory Global Solutions Indonesia • Glory Global Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd. Glory CSR Report 2020 06 Special Report Establishing a New Style of Cash Circulation Representative initiatives for creating a new style of cash circulation with our new partners are summarized below. France Self-Service Kiosks that Improve Customer Experience while Meeting Labor-Saving Needs Acrelec Group S.A.S. Acrelec Group S.A.S. (Acrelec; headquartered in SaintThibault-des Vignes, France) has end-to-end capability encompassing the development, manufacturing, and sales of self-service kiosks*, with 19 bases mainly in Europe. Acrelec provides products and services to major fast-food chains and retailers in over 80 countries around the world. Coin and banknote Self-service kiosk recyclers The combination of Acrelec’s self-service kiosks with Glory’s coin and banknote recyclers will deliver a selfservice solution that meets the needs of both cash and non-cash payments, this is expected to help save power and labor in shop management while also enhancing the customer experience. In addition, we will utilize the AI integrated into Acrelec software to collect and analyze sales data and in turn boost operational efficiency while offering a user-friendly service by displaying information optimized for each customer. *Self-service kiosks allow users to place orders and settle accounts on their own. They have attracted attention as a means for improving operational efficiency and supporting new businesses that utilize the sales data they collect. Installation image Acrelec’s Business Bases Manufacturing locations Software development sites Sales and maintenance sites 07 Glory CSR Report 2020 Singapore Cash-Out Service for Greater User Convenience and Cash Flow Efficiency SOCASH PTE. LTD. SOCASH PTE. LTD. (soCash; headquartered in Singapore) develops and provides a cash-out service that allows consumers to withdraw cash at the point of sale in retail stores. Users can withdraw cash at the nearest store instead of having to visit a financial institution. The service also allows stores to cut their cash-in-transit costs by allocating part of their sales to withdrawals and thus reducing the frequency of collections. Our collaboration with soCash will enable us to transcend the boundaries of financial institutions and Users present the read-only QR code displayed on their mobile phone to retail stores to create an efficient cash circulation cycle withdraw cash from the cashier. for society as a whole. Germany Cash Settlement Platform Generating Multiple Benefits Cash Payment Solutions GmbH Cash Payment Solutions GmbH (CPS; headquartered in Germany) develops and provides a comprehensive cash settlement platform that uses POS registers in retail shops. Users can deposit and withdraw cash from their bank account and pay e-commerce and utility bills with cash by presenting the CPA-issued barcode at the register. Stores can expect to attract more customers and reduce cash-in-transit costs, while partner banks can offer deposits and withdrawals at a lower cost than ATMs and bank tellers. As an additional benefit of the service, e-commerce operators can attract consumers Cash payment service in use who prefer cash payments. CPS and Glory share a common strength in networks that straddle the financial and logistics sectors. By combining CPS’ cash payment solution and Glory’s cash handling solutions, we will be able to integrate the digital society with physical cash to realize a new style of cash circulation. E IC VO Together with Glory, we will provide services that increase the convenience of using cash. More than 60% of Germans do not own credit cards, and many have given up shopping online. Since cash is still widely used here, I sought to create an infrastructure that would make it more convenient to use cash by integrating the Internet with cash settlements. This is how I was able to develop a cash payment platform. I am aware of Glory as a global player with superior expertise and an extensive network. Collaboration between CPS and Glory will generate synergies that exceed expectations and enable us to expand our services across Europe to create a society that is even more convenient and secure. Mr. Sebastian Seifert Managing Director, Cash Payment Solutions GmbH Glory CSR Report 2020 08 Glory’s CSR Basic Philosophy United Nations Global Compact Under our corporate philosophy of contributing to Glory signed the United Nations Global Compact in the development of a more secure society through March 2014. We believe that the ten principles of the a striving spirit and cooperative efforts, the Glory four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and Group participates in realizing a sustainable society by anti-corruption share common values addressing social issues and creating new value through with our Group’s Corporate Action advanced technologies and the core technologies Guidelines. By making various efforts developed. based on these guidelines, the Glory Group will strive to realize its Corporate Philosophy while at the same time taking actions to address global challenges. CSR Promotion Framework The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The Glory Group’s CSR management is led by the CSR Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Committee, which is chaired by the President and made protection of internationally proclaimed Human human rights; and up of executives. The committee convenes twice a year, rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in at which time it deliberates on the basic direction and human rights abuses. plans for CSR management and establishes policies for Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of major annual CSR initiatives. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; CSR Promotion Framework Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and President Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CSR Committee Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Secretariat approach to environmental challenges; Corporate Communications Department, Management Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment Department Strategy Headquarters environmental responsibility; and Managers Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Employees AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Glory signs the United Nations Global Compact https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/csr_news/detail/id=722 CSR Education Every employee in the Glory Group receives a copy of the Guidelines of GLORY handbook, which contains Contribution to Achieving the information such as the corporate philosophy, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) management creed, and the Corporate Action Guidelines. The handbook is available in eight different The SDGs, adopted by the United Nations in 2015, language versions to ensure that employees around the represent worldwide goals for 2030 related to social world have the shared understanding needed to realize issues such as poverty, employment, and environmental Glory’s corporate philosophy. Glory also seeks to deepen protection. Glory is striving to address such global employee understanding of CSR through an e-learning challenges and contributes to the realization of a program and the publication of CSR-related information sustainable society by achieving SDGs through its on its intranet. business operations. And in fiscal year 2019, we invited outside experts to hold a seminar on ESG for relevant departments. Guidelines of GLORY handbook 09 Glory CSR Report 2020 Stakeholder Engagement Glory openly communicates with stakeholders and discloses appropriate information. Stakeholders Principal Engagement Opportunities When Glory introduces products and solutions in Japan or other parts of the Customers world, it uses these occasions to communicate directly with customers. • Daily sales activities • Showroom tours • Call Centers • Factory tours • Visits for maintenance • Glory’s official website • Exhibitions Participating in Euro Shop 2020, the largest trade show for retailers in Germany Suppliers are key partners that enable Glory to consistently manufacture highBusiness quality products, and therefore the establishment of a system for cooperation Partners is vital. The Glory Group focuses on maintaining trusting relationships that allow the Group and its suppliers to share the common goal of achieving a sustainable society. • Customary purchasing activities • Quality Improvement Activity Workshops • Supplier Conferences • Quality Policy Briefings for Suppliers Quality Improvement Activity • Quality Conferences • Visits to business partners Workshop Glory seeks to maintain long-term trusting relationships with shareholders Shareholders and investors. To this end, it engages in constructive dialogue to deepen and Investors the understanding of Glory’s management policies and business activities. It also improves management transparency through prompt, accurate, and fair information disclosure. • General meeting of shareholders • Small meetings • Financial results briefings • Showroom tours, factory tours Showroom tour for shareholders • Conference calls • Briefings for individual investors following the general meeting of shareholders • Visits to institutional investors • IR section of the Glory website Senior executives closely interact with employees to enhance their sense of Employees involvement in business management, boost motivation, and foster a sense of unity across the Glory Group. • Meetings with the president, president’s • Goals/career interviews site visit • Various training and educational programs • Group company visits • In-house newsletter President’s site visit • Labor-management consultation • Intranet • Employee awareness surveys Local As a good corporate citizen, Glory actively participates in social contribution Communities and environmental protection activities around the world. • Fostering the next generation through the GLORY • F orest conservation, tree-planting, Foundation for Elementary School Students and clean-up activities • Supporting the promotion of sports • Nature appreciation events • Programs to support developing countries • Collaboration with NPOs Participating in a riverbed cleanup activity (Philippines) Glory CSR Report 2020 10 Glory’s CSR Glory’s CSR Material Issues Process for identifying CSR material issues and their relationship to SDGs We identified priority material issues based on the following process and identified the relationship of these material issues to SDGs. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Assess the Materiality Find and Extract of CSR Issues from Assess Validity by Identify Material Determine CSR Issues the Standpoint of Experts Issues Relationships to Both Glory and Its SDGs Stakeholders Based on international standards A questionnaire was administered Two outside experts assessed Based on the materiality We identified the such as the GRI standards and in both the business and the validity of materiality. map, 11 items considered to relationship of these ISO 26000, social impact was corporate departments to assess Based on the assessment be Glory’s CSR material issues material issues to SDGs. assessed across all stages of materiality. Responders ranked results, a materiality map were chosen and classified the value chain, from planning, the priority of CSR issues from the was created and issues were into five priority CSR themes. development, procurement, two standpoints of “materiality in categorized. Following approval from and manufacturing to sales and businesses” and “level of impact management, these were maintenance, and CSR issues on stakeholders”. confirmed as material issues. were discovered and extracted. CSR Material Issues Priority CSR Themes Material Issues Targets for Fiscal Year 2019 • Build a business model that contributes to the advancement of customers’ business and helps them • Build solutions using diverse data Creating new New value boost their operational efficiency creation through value business • Aim to be a reliable partner to customers, and establish a scheme for periodically confirming progress and • Select model customers and periodically review customer satisfaction • Reduce energy consumption per employee by 1% (base year: fiscal year • Reduce energy consumption per employee 2010) • Improve energy efficiency of newly developed products by at least 15% • Reduce CO2 emissions from new products compared to previous models Environmental Environment protection • Carry out biodiversity preservation activities in • Carry out 100% of activities planned for this fiscal year cooperation with stakeholders • Promote work-style reform • Implement and verify new ways of working Human resource initiatives • Support and secure human resources essential to • Offer job-level-specific training and support candidates who can lead the Glory’s business company in the future Society Promotion of • Continue to use the CSR voluntary checklist, and work to improve assessment score CSR in the supply • Conduct CSR-oriented procurement worldwide • Spread activities to overseas sites chain • Strengthen corporate governance • Conduct activities in line with the Corporate Governance Guidelines Strengthening of Governance • Strengthen risk management activities and • Conduct risk management from a global perspective and communicate governance communicate to Glory Group companies activities to Glory Group companies • Strengthen compliance management and communicate • Conduct job-level-specific compliance education, and strengthen to Glory Group companies collaboration with Glory Group companies 11 Glory CSR Report 2020 Materiality Map High • Build a business model that contributes to the advancement of customer’s business and helps them boost their operational efficiency Level of impact on stakeholders • Aim to be a reliable partner to customers, and establish a scheme for periodically confirming progress and customer satisfaction • Reduce energy consumption per employee • Reduce CO2 emissions from new products • Promote work-style reform • Strengthen corporate governance • Carry out biodiversity preservation activities in cooperation with stakeholders • Support and secure human resources essential to Glory’s business • Conduct CSR-oriented procurement worldwide • Strengthen risk management activities and communicate to Glory Group companies • Strengthen compliance management and communicate to Glory Group Low High companies Level of impact on Glory Results for Fiscal Year 2019 Targets for Fiscal Year 2020 Linkage to SDGs • Provision of a prescription input support system based on OCR technology for insurance pharmacies • Implementing external proof of concept (PoC) for • Demonstration of a biometric payment service using a combination of facial recognition and speech the facial recognition payment system recognition for the practical application of personal authorization platform • Provide electronic know your customer (eKYC) 8 9 11 12 • Demonstration of the application, Rejitomo, a service that aggregates cash register sales through solutions the use of a smartphone • Trial launch for the commercialization of store business support application, Shoppers Cloud • Support for store reform by analyzing customer and employee behavior through the use of AIBeacon • Conduct regular reviews with model customers 8 12 17 at model customers' experimental stores based on big data analysis • Reduce energy consumption per employee by 1% • Annual average energy consumption per employee reduced by 2.2% (base year: fiscal year 2010) (base year: fiscal year 2010) 13 • Average reduction of 11.1% (targets achieved for 7 out of 14 models, which were approved as G-Eco • Improve energy efficiency of newly developed products products) by at least 15% compared to previous models 7 12 13 • 100% achievement ratio for yearly plans Himeji: Glory Yumesaki Forest Forest conservation activity (82 participants, including six from one supplier) Nature experience event for families (82 participants including nine from one supplier) • Carry out 100% of activities planned for this fiscal Kanto area: Kamikawa in Hachioji, Tokyo (designated greenery conservation area) year 14 15 Forest conservation activity (53 participants, including five from one supplier) Arakawa riverside in Tokyo Riverside clean-up project (21 participants) • Introduction of teleworking (mobile work, working at home) • Implement and establish new ways of working • Trial of the flextime system • Further promote of health management 5 8 10 • Continue offering job-level-specific training and • Implementation of Glory Business College training for future executives (total of seven programs) support candidates who can lead the company in 4 5 8 10 the future • Implementation of survey using the CSR voluntary checklist (451 primary suppliers), feedback to companies that responded (98% response rate) • Continue to use the CSR voluntary checklist, and • Implementation of survey by GLORY Products Ltd. using the CSR voluntary checklist (62 primary work to improve assessment score suppliers), feedback to companies that responded (95% response rate) 8 10 12 17 • Pursue activities at the purchasing division at Glory • Implementation of survey by GLORY IPO Asia Ltd. using the CSR voluntary checklist (80 primary Global Solutions (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. suppliers), feedback to companies that responded (76% response rate) • Preparation for further expansion of the CSR voluntary checklist at overseas sites • Preparation for the memorandum on CSR procurement • Strengthen supervisory functions of the Board and accelerate decision-making in line with the transition to a company with an Audit & • Decision to transition to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee (delegation of authority) • Amendment of the Corporate Governance Guidelines (June 2019) • Amend the Corporate Governance Guidelines 16 • Reinvigorating, streamlining, and digitizing Board meetings through paperless management (June 2020) • Revitalize Board meetings further and streamlining proposals • Unification of risk assessment items and criteria with overseas Group companies • Develop risk assessment items further with • Implementation of Glory's business continuity plan (BCP) training for emergencies such as major overseas Group companies 16 earthquakes and cyber attacks, and reviewing the effectiveness of existing manuals • Response to the COVID-19 pandemic • Enhance and strengthen legal functions in line with business development • Implementation of job-level-specific compliance education for Glory and Group companies in Japan • Enhance of the global compliance system 10 16 and overseas • Implement job-level-specific compliance education for Glory and Group companies in Japan and overseas Glory CSR Report 2020 12 Glory’s CSR Major CSR Initiatives in the Value Chain The Glory Group clarifies its challenges after considering how Group business activities might impact society and the environment throughout the value chain and based on a detailed review of SDGs with 169 targets. We are implementing these major initiatives below for each stakeholder category while aiming to increase positive impacts, minimize negative impacts, and contribute to SDGs. Human Resource Initiatives Promote work-style reform Support and secure human resources essential to Glory’s business Plan, develop, and provide products that match customer needs Increasing Positive Impacts Sell products and solutions in over 100 countries New Value Creation through Ensure quality Ensure quality and pursue appropriate, Business Incorporate universal design competitive pricing Develop products utilizing new technologies Strengthen partnerships with suppliers R&D sites Create new value and solutions 11 sites in 7 countries R&D investment 14 billion yen (consolidated) R&D personnel Japan: approx.800 Overseas: approx. 400 Planning Development Procurement Map out the product life cycle Promotion of CSR in the Supply Chain Environmental Protection Promote CSR-oriented procurement in unison Promote green procurement Minimizing Negative Impacts with suppliers Preserve biodiversity Respect human rights within the supply chain CO2 emissions from parts and Response rate of the CSR voluntary checklist materials procured 98 % (GLORY LTD.) Scope 3, Category 1 95 % (GLORY Products Ltd.) 151,288 t-CO 2 76 % (GLORY IPO Asia Ltd.) (15.9% decline over previous fiscal year) Respect human rights and ensure occupational health and safety Human Resource Initiatives Promote a work-life balance Annual working hours (per employee) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2,004 hours /year 0.80 13 Glory CSR Report 2020 Priority CSR Themes ■ Customers ■ Business partners ■ Employees ■ Local communities ■ Environment Environmental Protection Plan, develop, and provide environmentally friendly products Environmentally friendly products Environmentally friendly products Developed 7 models Account for 65.3 % of sales Ensure quality and reliable supply Provide appropriate information on products and services Shorten lead time Properly manage customer information and personal information Boost cost competitiveness Manufacturing system 9 sites in 3 countries Provide products and solutions in a timely manner that match customer needs Provide prompt, reliable maintenance Improve maintenance quality through customer focus Plan services that match customer needs Number of maintenance personnel Japan: approx. 1,000 Overseas: approx. 2,400 Manufacturing Sales Maintenance Manufacturing and distribution processes Reduce environmental impact by use of Switch to eco-cars that facilitate saving, recycling, and products, transportation, and disposal Sell CFC-free cleaning goods (Recycle Jet) reusing resources CO2 emissions from product usage Number of newly filled Recycle Jets Waste volume Scope 3, Category 11 53,356 units 1,578 t (Japan and overseas) 168,131 t-CO 2 (Reduced CO2 emissions: approx. 27,745 t) Zero-emission sites (15.8% decline over previous fiscal year) CO2 emissions from product disposal CO2 emissions from transportation and shipping 8 sites (Japan) Scope 3, Category 4 Scope 3, Category 12 10,711 t-CO 2 1,771 t-CO 2 (18.9% decline over previous fiscal year) (33.0% decline over previous fiscal year) Ensure safety in the vicinity of each plant Collection of used products (using the Wide-area Certificate System) Approx. 156 t (GLORY LTD., Hokkaido GLORY Co., Ltd.) Environmental protection Energy-induced CO2 emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 13,230 t-CO (12.6% decline over previous fiscal year) 2 Glory CSR Report 2020 14 Society Products and Services Under its Quality Policy, Glory provides safe, high-quality products and services. We also established the Quality Control Department for Quality Policy overall quality control, and we continue to improve our entire internal quality management system. Glory established its Quality Policy in 1999 and seeks to ensure uniform quality based on three priority guidelines. To prevent recurrence of quality issues, we hold product Thorough quality control is implemented throughout all safety meetings, attended by representatives from stages of its business operations, from product planning, the related departments, to periodically evaluate the development, procurement, and manufacturing to sales effectiveness of measures conducted through examination and maintenance, so that it can respond to customer and discussion as well as standardization. needs and develop reliable products and services. Quality Management System Quality Policy Top Management (Chief Officer in charge of Quality Management*) We will provide products and services in a timely manner Quality Management Quality Control to win the confidence and satisfaction of customers. Administrator Committee Three Priority Guidelines 1 By sensing advanced market needs, develop Development Quality assurance Manufacturing divisions divisions divisions products that are attractive to customers. 2 Establish the quality of products at the earliest Sales divisions Maintenance divisions Administrative divisions stage possible. 3 Place importance on the customers’ first impression *Chief officer of the quality management system, entrusted by the president of quality and on after-sales services. with all authority and responsibility to promote and maintain the quality management system. To achieve the above, our company will satisfy the requirements of laws and regulations and customers’ requirements, and continually improve the effectiveness of the quality management system. Executing Consistent Quality Control All Glory departments, from planning and development through maintenance, closely collaborate with each Quality Management System other and work to create products that satisfy the diverse needs of customers by conducting product and technical All our business sites and regional offices in Japan have development from the client’s perspective. acquired ISO 9001 international standard certification. Planning and Anticipate customer needs and plan and Development We formulate the annual quality control policy under develop trusted products in the spirit of the Basic Policy for Management and Quality Policy. continuous development. Under each year’s policy, we work to improve our quality assurance system as well as the quality of our products Procurement Conduct thoroughly transparent and fair trading and services to earn customer trust. as called for in our purchasing policies, ensuring quality in cooperation with our suppliers. Furthermore, we disseminate the annual quality control policy across departments, review the status of the implementation, and horizontally share information Manufacturing Establish a system to promote quality on quality problems and counter measures across assurance efforts and meticulously control departments through the establishment of the Quality quality in the manufacturing processes. Control Committee and a management review. Through these efforts, we work together to conduct quality control activities aligned with our business by applying PDCA Sales Pay close attention to customer needs as cycles. feedback for the development department’s efforts to offer trusted products. With regard to our product quality management system, the Quality Assurance Department is responsible for quality Maintenance Provide high-quality maintenance service assurance from development through to the shipping of through roughly 1,000 technical staff products, while the Maintenance Department handles the members. quality control of all post-shipping maintenance services. 15 Glory CSR Report 2020 In addition, text is accompanied by illustrations and photos Quality Assurance at the Planning and Products and Services for greater clarity. Safety explanations in user manuals are Development Stage provided in multiple languages so that customers around the world can use our products worry-free. Subscribing to the general belief that 70% to 80% of product quality is determined at the planning To prevent product failures from deterioration associated and development stage, which sets the standard with long-term use, we attach precaution labels to for all subsequent stages, Glory focuses continuous items such as coin and banknote recyclers for tellers and improvement from that point. Quality confirmation is banknote changers. The information is also posted on our then executed at every stage throughout manufacturing website. and shipping and by conducting design reviews and evaluation tests. In addition, the Quality Assurance To safely use our product (Japanese only) Supply Chain Management Department conducts product safety reviews to confirm https://www.glory.co.jp/safety/ that no safety issues have emerged and ensures that our quality and safety controls are thorough and comprehensive. As a provider of products and services in over 100 countries around the world, Glory endeavors Efforts to Improve Maintenance Quality to enhance quality assurance from the development Respecting Human of quality control standards to the implementation of We pay close attention to post-shipping quality control intensive staff training in order to develop products to ensure that customers can confidently use our Rights that comply with the respective regulations, laws, and products, which are repaired and inspected by our standards of each country. technical staff. ■ Developing Human Resources Who Ensure Quality Members of our technical staff constantly improve We emphasize education and training to improve the their technical skills and response capability to provide Human Resources technical skills of designers as part of our efforts to customers with fast, reliable maintenance service. In develop high-quality products. For instance, we conduct Japan, they attend group maintenance training and level-based training programs and enhanced training engage in self-study e-learning classes to acquire basic for young designers to develop and improve their knowledge and practical skills. Follow-up courses are fundamental design competencies and quickly acquire provided as needed after the initial training to ensure skills. technical staff can maintain and enhance their skill levels. At overseas sites, we conduct group skill training We also hold technical presentations to promote by region or country. The staff responsible for each product model train technical staff in the products Social Initiatives horizontal deployment of technologies, learn market characteristics, and being offered in their market. Glory is strengthening improve the technical the effectiveness of the training by having participants skills of designers. Each undergo preparatory study via an online education department shares system ahead of the training day. its top technological achievements towards Maintenance managers from each region of the world improving the speed meet to share their initiatives and success stories of delivering products regarding their respective maintenance work and with reliable quality to summarize their progress in actions underway on a customers. Training session for young designers global scale. In order to provide maintenance services that meet the diverse needs of customers, Glory will improve Information Provision and Product Labeling maintenance quality across the entire Glory We focus on providing adequate information on products Group and raise the to enable safe customer use. level of performance at each of these We have established guidelines for product information operations. displays, labeling, and user manuals so customers can Responding to a customer inquiry via telephone support safely and efficiently use and maintain our products. Our guidelines stipulate type styles, writing styles, and other Maintenance service (Japanese only) information to prevent misunderstanding or misreading. https://www.glory.co.jp/support/ Glory CSR Report 2020 16 Society Supply Chain Management We view our business partners as key partners and seek to establish a relationship of trust and mutual growth through fair and open trading as well as compliance with all laws and ordinances. Purchasing Policy Strengthening Partnerships with Suppliers Our suppliers are important partners that enable Glory The Glory Group will procure parts from suppliers in to manufacture high-quality products consistently, and a fair and transparent manner in all aspects of our the cooperative system we have in place is vital. transactions while strictly observing related laws and regulations and establishing relationships built on We therefore hold the annual Supplier Conference mutual trust. As we proceed with our procurement in Japan, where we explain the company’s current activities, we will consider both our CSR and situation, strategies, purchasing policy, and CSR efforts. environmental conservation toward developing a In fiscal year 2019, the conference was held in May sustainable society. with 170 business partners in attendance. Conferences 1. Strict compliance with legal and social norms are also organized overseas by GLORY Products Ltd. In addition to strict compliance with applicable (72 suppliers), GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd. (97 laws, we respect the ethical norms of society and suppliers), and GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. (62 suppliers) promote transparency, fairness, and equitability in to build relationships of trust that allow Glory and its our purchasing activities. suppliers to take on the common goal of achieving a 2. Environmental preservation sustainable society. The Supplier Conference includes an Based on Glory’s Environmental Policy, “We will award ceremony for suppliers who have demonstrated act in environmentally safe ways and endeavor an excellent performance in such areas as quality and to provide environmentally-sound products with cost reduction. services that contribute to a sustainable society”. We are committed to environmental preservation We also regularly hold our Quality Conferences, to share initiatives, and we have established Green information on quality and manufacturing processes Procurement Standards covering the purchasing and examine related issues, and Quality Improvement and procurement of materials. Activity Workshops or Substrate Quality Policy 3. Fairness and impartiality in transactions Briefings, during which suppliers present their quality Glory provides opportunities on an impartial basis improvement initiatives. These provide opportunities for to all suppliers who comply with our selection suppliers to share best practices as well. guidelines, regardless of whether or not they are based in Japan and without regard to prior Our parts acceptance unit also conducts periodic transaction history. We endeavor to find the best inspection visits to our suppliers for onsite reviews suppliers for our company by maintaining free of manufacturing processes and to offer advice for competition and ensuring fair evaluation and selection. improvements. 4. Maintenance of quality and competitive and reasonable pricing Our Quality Policy is “We will provide products and services in a timely manner to win the confidence and satisfaction of customers”. We focus on quality, price, delivery schedules, and technological development, and we make active use of proposals from our suppliers regarding new materials and ways to lower costs. 5. Mutual advancement based on relationships of trust Through fair transactions, we aim to establish relationships of trust with suppliers and contribute Supplier Conference in Japan to our mutual advancement. 6. Management and protection of information Confidential business and technical information acquired by Glory in the course of purchasing transactions is managed strictly and never divulged to outside parties without the consent of the Supplier Conference held by GLORY supplier concerned. Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd. 7. Promotion of CSR-conscious procurement We promote our procurement activities with business partners throughout its supply chain. 17 Glory CSR Report 2020 Promotion of CSR Procurement Promoting Green Procurement Products and Services Glory issued the Glory CSR Procurement Guidebook Glory established the Green Procurement Standard for suppliers in Japan and Glory Supplier Code of to put into action its basic policy of promoting Conduct for overseas suppliers to further promote environmentally sound purchasing. We will remain CSR procurement in March 2014. The guidebook committed to the purchasing of materials and parts stipulates the Group’s basic stance on CSR as well as that have minimal environmental impact with the Glory’s requests to business partners such as respect cooperation of our suppliers. for human rights, occupational health and safety, and Supply Chain anti-corruption as well as environmental protection. Green Procurement Standard, 20th edition Glory uses the guidebook to encourage cooperation https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/gr_ Management with business partners in promoting CSR initiatives guide_en.pdf throughout its supply chain. Specified Chemical Substances, 23rd edition https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/gr_ The Glory Group is taking steps to comply with the list_en.pdf code of conduct established by the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA, formerly EICC), a CSR promotion Respecting Human organization for supply chains mainly in the electronic device industry, and the conflict mineral survey. Supplier Compliance Hotline ■ Efforts to Promote CSR Procurement The Glory Group operates the Supplier Compliance Rights Glory periodically monitors the CSR efforts of business Hotline as a point of contact to raise concerns about partners through a survey that includes its CSR voluntary Group compliance violations in order to further checklist to determine their progress in CSR efforts. encourage transparent and fair purchasing trading Human Resources with them. These whistleblowing reports are filed In fiscal year 2019, the company surveyed 451 domestic by the relevant department of GLORY LTD., which primary business partners who handle around 80% of is independent of Glory’s subject procurement Glory’s total purchases, and findings were reported to department, where they are properly handled through the 440 suppliers who responded (response rate: 98%). an investigation of the facts and circumstances. In addition, 62 domestic primary business partners for GLORY Products Ltd. (response rate: 95%) and 80 No compliance violations were reported by suppliers in primary suppliers for GLORY IPO Asia Ltd. (response fiscal year 2019. Social Initiatives rate: 76%) were also surveyed and received the results. Supplier Compliance Hotline (Japanese only) https://www.glory.co.jp/csr/society/supplychain_ For our first transaction with a business partner, we management/#anchor06 ensure that they understand the legal compliance, environmental protection, and CSR procurement requirements of our purchasing policy and ask them to comply with the Glory CSR Procurement Guidebook and Developing Procurement Staff Green Procurement Standard. In addition, we execute a memorandum of understanding on CSR procurement The Glory Group focusses on employee education to with business partners, including a request for promote CSR across its supply chain and ensure fair and cooperation on the CSR voluntary checklist to promote open trading. The Group trains domestic and overseas sustainable procurement together. procurement staff through an e-learning program, available in three languages. This consists of curriculum Glory Supplier Code of Conduct modules such as the Japanese Subcontract Act and CSR https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/glory_ procurement, helping staff to improve their skills and supplier_code.pdf acquire the knowledge they need. CSR voluntary checklist (Japanese only) https://www.glory.co.jp/files/user/csr/pdf/checklist.xls A total of 123 employees (Japan: 93, China: 22, Request for consent of the Glory CSR Procurement Singapore: 8) participated in training sessions during Guidebook (Japanese only) fiscal year 2019. https://www.glory.co.jp/files/user/csr/pdf/csr_format.xls Glory CSR Report 2020 18 Society Respecting Human Rights We support various international rules related to human rights and respect for basic human rights. Basic Concept Response to Risks Related to Human Rights All employees must abide by Glory’s Corporate Action Guidelines, which stipulate rules on respect for The Glory Group stipulates rules on respect for individuals, talent development, and workplace safety. human rights, such as the prohibition of child labor They also clearly call for respect for other employees’ and forced labor, the payment of appropriate wages, diversity, personalities, individual differences, and— and restrictions on working hours in the Glory CSR above all—human rights. In addition, the Glory Legal Procurement Guidebook, which was formulated Code of Conduct governing the laws and codes of in March 2014 and revised in April 2018 to ensure ethics, which all Glory Group employees and business respect for human rights throughout the supply chain partners are expected to follow, stipulate the protection and promote initiatives for compliance with business of human rights, including prohibition of discrimination partners. and harassment, to ensure that human rights are respected in the course of conducting business and In addition, Glory Global Solutions (International) establishing the work environment. We also recognize Ltd. discloses a statement on initiatives with business various international rules related to human rights, such partners to prevent forced labor, human trafficking, and as the International Bill of Human Rights and Guiding other prohibited actions, as resolved by the Board of Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as the Directors and in compliance with the UK government’s respective laws of each nation or region. Modern Slavery Act 2015. Furthermore, the Glory Group has signed and In fiscal year 2019, no cases of child labor or forced participates in the United Nations Global Compact, labor were identified. which advocates universal principles covering the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and antiFY2019 Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking corruption. The Group will continue to ensure respect Transparency Statement for human rights as a cornerstone of its management. https://www.glory-global.com/en-gb/anti_slavery/ Consultation and Whistleblowing Initiatives for Raising Awareness System for Human Rights of Human Rights Glory has set up internal and external consultation Glory is striving to raise employee awareness of human services or helplines to handle inquiries and feedback, rights, such as the prohibition of discrimination and from regular and non-regular employees, related to prevention of harassment. all compliance matters in the Group, including human rights and harassment. When any problem related to In fiscal year 2019, we focused on training to eradicate human rights is identified through the services, the Legal harassment for newly appointed managers and Affairs Department, Human Resources Department, through an e-learning program for all domestic Group and other relevant departments work together to employees. address the problem and prevent future incidents. In fiscal year 2019, 22 inquiries including harassment allegations were received and appropriately handled with information from the consultations. A Supplier Compliance Hotline, which can be accessed anonymously, has also been set up. Whistleblowing reports including human rights issues are filed by the relevant department of GLORY LTD., which is independent of Glory’s subject procurement department. No such reports were received in fiscal year 2019. E-learning material on a screen 19 Glory CSR Report 2020 Human Resources Glory respects every employee as an individual and strives to create an enriching, pleasant working environment. ■ Recruitment of Foreign Nationals Promoting Diversity Glory actively promotes the recruitment of foreign Products and Services nationals under its policy for hiring excellent talent Glory aims to build a workplace where every employee, regardless of national origin. As of the end of fiscal year regardless of nationality, race, religion, gender, age, or 2019, 11 foreign national employees from 5 nations, disability, can utilize their talents to the fullest. including China and Malaysia, are working at the company. ■ Equal Opportunities for Women Meanwhile, we provide several services to support Since fiscal year 2011, Glory has been focusing their livelihoods and help them become familiar with on ensuring gender equality and delivering equal home and work life in Japan. Included are Englishopportunities for female employees. The many efforts language menus at restaurants at the headquarters that being implemented include steps for establishing a address the dietary practices of certain religions, helping Supply Chain Management more worker-friendly workplace environment for all to establish a welcoming work environment where employees, including women, and awareness-raising employees from various cultural backgrounds can feel activities for managers and female employees to comfortable. change the corporate culture. In fiscal year 2016, Glory formulated an action plan based on Japan’s Act on the ■ Employing People with Disabilities Respecting Human Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement In 1999, GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd. was established to in the Workplace and has been creating a more inclusive offer people with disabilities opportunities to participate workplace while ensuring a higher representation of in society and build their self-reliance. Rights women. Employees take on tasks such as company janitorial In fiscal year 2019, 18.6% of the new graduate hires work and greening, in-house documentation and mail were female and the number of female managers was delivery, and waste disposal. We are also focusing on 17. expanding work Human Resources areas so that each employee’s personality Action Plan based on the Act on the and ability can be Promotion of Women’s Participation and maximized. Advancement in the Workplace 1 Increase representation of female new graduate As of the end of fiscal hires to 20% over the next three years year 2019, the ratio 2 Double the number of female managers (section of employees with Social Initiatives manager and above) over the next five years disabilities was 2.23%. Glory Friendly employees cleaning a public area ■ Re-hiring Elderly Workers Ratio of Female New Graduate Hires Glory has established standards for employment (%) Ratio of females Target ratio extension in accordance with the Act on Stabilization of 30 Employment of Elderly Persons. Those who have reached the retirement age of 60 are able to choose to extend 21.2 their employment until 65. The system encourages 19.6 20 18.6 senior employees to remain active in the workforce and ensures that their knowledge and experience are 13.1 effectively leveraged. 10 In fiscal year 2019, 52 out of 59 employees who had reached retirement age were re-employed under the 0 system. 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Number of Female Managers Work-Life Balance Target FY 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY2021) Glory has in place numerous initiatives for promoting Female 11 15 16 17 22 a work-life balance. These initiatives enable employees managers to match their job and work schedule to their lifestyle while maximizing their abilities and career potential. Glory CSR Report 2020 20 Society Human Resources ■ Supporting Flexible Work Styles ■ Reducing Long Work Hours Glory has implemented teleworking while also Glory strives to modify work processes and schedules introducing a work-at-home program for office workers to prevent working long hours on a routine basis. This and a program for mobile workers toward improving helps to bolster mental and physical well-being and the flexibility of its working environment and preventing maintain work motivation. the confinement of employees to specific locations and timeframes. During the initial outbreak of COVID-19, In an effort to impress upon employees the importance we enforced working from home as a rule and allowed of working efficiently, Glory has instituted “no-overtime staggered commuting while also separating work days” and “no-overtime weeks”. To encourage areas for certain operations to prevent infection. We employees to go home on time, the company has continuously promote a shift system with flexible limited the number of overtime hours per day. Faceworking hours as well as the work-at-home program to-face consultations with the industrial physician are and, as an additional prevention measure, institute split carried out for employees who routinely work long shifts in some operations where necessary. hours in order to prevent health problems. ■ Work-Life Balance Support Systems Balancing Work and Parenthood Employees can take advantage of systems that allow Fostering Human Resources them to place equal importance on raising children and carrying out their jobs. ■ Fostering Globally Minded Human Resources Overseas sales account for approximately 46.2% of An in-house daycare center called “G Kids Home” is the Glory Group’s consolidated net sales, and overseas opened for children of full-time employees. The center employees account for approximately 41.7% of all caters for children aged from 57 days up to the age Group employees (as of the end of fiscal year 2019). The at which they enter elementary school. The company company therefore particularly emphasizes the fostering also has provided subsidies to hire childcare services for of human resources that can support international parents working full-time at Glory sites other than the expansion. head office and have children who are in the third grade of elementary school. Short-Term Overseas Study Program The company has set up a short-term overseas study Moreover, the shortened working hours system has been program where participants can attend language expanded in terms of eligibility so that working parents schools in Western countries so they can acquire the can take advantage language and business of it until the end of skills needed to a child’s third grade conduct business on in elementary school the global stage, as a and use it for a short means for developing term or re-apply. human resources with These measures allow a global perspective. In employees to both fiscal year 2019, four develop their careers employees participated and raise children. G Kids Home in the program. Employees at a language school Balancing Work and Caregiving ■ Developing Candidates for Future Executive Glory has established a nursing care leave system Glory has implemented the Glory Business College whereby employees are entitled to up to 365 days of training program, targeting management-level leave per family member and a shortened working hour employees with the goal of developing candidates for system for nursing care of up to three years. next-generation executives. The seven training sessions and external seminars over a seven-month period aim to It also has a system that allows employees to give participants the skills and knowledge they need to accumulate unused annual paid leave that expires after take on executive positions. The program also provides two years of receiving it and use the leave for nursing them with opportunities to network with internal and care or personal sickness and injury. These revisions help external contacts from various backgrounds. In fiscal balance time for work and that spent caring for sick or year 2019, 18 employees participated in the program. elderly family members. 21 Glory CSR Report 2020 ■ New Career-Building Initiatives Our Personnel System Guidebook concerning the Glory helps employees achieve their personal career Evaluation/Treatment/Remuneration System is made Products and Services plans by providing systems and programs that support available to all employees, with the results of evaluations the development of their capabilities and further their also disclosed to employees individually, thus increasing careers. fairness, transparency, and credibility. Career Training ■ Sound Labor-Management Relationship Glory holds level-specific career training for employees. With the belief that maintaining a peaceful labor For example, the Self-Inquiry Adventure Training is held management relationship leads to healthy business for employees when they first join Glory, on their fourth development, Glory meets regularly with its labor year at the company, and when they are 30 years old. union to discuss issues such as improved working The program allows them to envision a career plan conditions and management of working hours. Supply Chain Management and grow into competent personnel who can achieve Through open dialogue, it maintains and reinforces a their career goals. In fiscal year 2019, a total of 280 healthy relationship between labor and management, employees took part in the program. encouraging both parties to grow together in harmony. The company also offers other career training such as ■ Creating Pleasant Working Environments Life-Career Plan Training for employees over the age of Employee Awareness Surveys Respecting Human 50. This gives them the opportunity to reflect on their Glory conducts employee awareness surveys targeting careers, experience, skills, and strengths and think about executive officers, employees, and senior employees Rights the remainder of their career up to retirement. on topics such as employee engagement, the environments where employees’ abilities can best be utilized, awareness of harassment, and the penetration of CSR activities, aiming to create a pleasant working Labor Practices environment. In fiscal year 2017, 2,859 responded, a Human Resources response rate of 86%, while in fiscal year 2019, 3,375 ■ Fair Evaluation and Treatment responded for a response rate of 96%. To help both the company and its employees grow, and for clarifying the roles and responsibilities of Survey results are distributed to management in each each employee, Glory operates its “management by department, and significant results are disclosed to line objective” system. employees. The survey is also periodically conducted to monitor changes in employee satisfaction, identify Under the system, employees meet with their emerging issues, and plan and develop countermeasures supervisors semi-annually to evaluate progress against Social Initiatives for improvement. The relative effectiveness of goals they defined at the beginning of each fiscal year countermeasures is confirmed through subsequent and receive feedback. surveys. TOPIC Certified as a “Best Workplace” in the “Great Company to Work for” Ranking Glory Global Solutions (International) Ltd. strives to create a working environment in which every employee can fully engage and maximize their own performance. Since 2014, we have been using the Great Place to Work® survey platform and examined employee satisfaction indicators to enhance the working environment and support career development. As a result of these ongoing efforts, Glory Global Solutions (International) Ltd., Glory Global Solutions Inc., and Glory Global Solutions (Switzerland) A.G. were certified as a “Best Workplace” in 2019. Glory CSR Report 2020 22 Society Human Resources ■ Basic Policy of Health Management Occupational Health and Safety • Visualizing Health Conditions We encourage every employee to be health-conscious ■ Structure for Managing Health and Safety and provide them with tools for preventing illnesses while supporting sound health. Collecting and visualizing their To maintain and reinforce the structure for managing health condition also helps them to realize and analyze current health and safety, Glory established the Central Health problems and challenges and decide how to tackle them. and Safety Committee, to be responsible for creating • Encouraging Healthy Habits annual and midto long-term company-level activity We offer employees in-house seminars and events promoting plans related to health and safety as well as Health and personal health habits, such as adequate exercise, ideal dietary Safety Committees at each business site for creating practices, and a better work-life balance, to improve their their own respective activity plans. mental and physical well-being. • Creating a Healthy, Safe Workplace Each committee meets monthly to discuss health We study motivations for existing “Presenteeism” to achieve a more comfortable workplace and lower the risk of mental and promoting activities, occupational accidents, including physical illness toward further boosting productivity. root causes, and countermeasures. The committees also provide a forum for sharing information. Members Health Management Promotion Framework include the safety operation manager, fire prevention manager, and other managers who deal with health Health Management Officer (President) and safety. As a result, the committees’ activities cover a Chairperson (Executive General Manager, wide range of topics. General Affairs Headquarters) Secretariat (Human Resources Japan Health Framework for Managing Health and Safety Department, General Affairs Insurance Headquarters) Association Central Health and Safety Committee (Chaired by the President) Secretariat (Human Resources Health Mental Health Labor Industrial Department, General Affairs and Safety Counseling Union Committee Physician Center Headquarters) Health and Safety Committee at Each Health Management Promotion Committee Business Site (13 Sites) In fiscal year 2019, we conducted a health questionnaire Departments, Main Offices, Branch Offices targeting all employees to further promote health management. The following actions have been implemented ■ Activities for Occupational Health and Safety to address the challenges that emerged for strengthening health maintenance starting in fiscal year 2020. Glory strives to prevent accidents during working hours and commuting with the objective of zero Establishment of Healthy Habits occurrence of both industrial and commuting accidents. • To appreciate the benefits of exercise and raise awareness of Its Occupational Health and Safety System, based physical activity on OHSAS 18001, is in place at the head office and • To provide information on adequate eating habits nearby factories. Under the system, safety efforts are • To provide information on the life cycle of women and their health control based on health and safety management standards Measures for Risks of Smoking at the departmental level and focus on preventing • To prevent passive smoking occupational accidents through risk assessment. • To support smokers who wish to stop smoking Improvement of Consultation Rate • To improve the consultation rate for complete medical checkups as well as medical checkups aimed at preventing Promoting Health Management lifestyle diseases • To improve the rate of receiving health guidance focused on metabolic syndrome Glory believes that maintaining employee well-being is • To improve the consultation rate for follow-up checkups a key management concern for corporate activities and therefore established Meanwhile, in March 2020, Glory was recognized the Health Management as a Certified Health and Productivity Management Declaration to Organization 2020 in the large enterprise category by promote initiatives for the Certified Health and Productivity maintaining employees’ Management Organization health. Recognition Program operated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and, Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Japan Health Council) . 23 Glory CSR Report 2020 Social Initiatives Glory harmonizes and advances the interests of the company and society by actively conducting social action programs as a good corporate citizen. Hands-on Classes for Parents and Children Fostering the Next Generation This program is held every spring and autumn with Products and Services the goal of strengthening the bonds between parents ■ GLORY Foundation for Elementary School Students and children through a range of fun and exciting In March 1995, Glory established the GLORY Foundation experiences. for Elementary School Students to support the sound development of young people. Through the foundation, In fiscal year 2019, a total of 80 children and parents the company conducts sports, arts, and cultural activities participated in the spring sessions of Hands-on Classes that include hands-on science classes, experience-based for Parents and Children and the Watch and Stage classes for parents and children, and a children’s theater. A Seminar for the musical The Little Mermaid by the cumulative total of 106,000 people have taken part in Shiki Theatre Company in the Osaka Shiki Theatre. In these activities since the foundation was launched. November of that year, 300 students and their parents Supply Chain Management were invited to view The foundation also assists organizations that work a hot air balloon at toward the sound development of elementary school a local elementary students through activities in sports, science, and school. Participants culture. learned how hot air balloons work and Respecting Human Hands-on Science Classes took turns boarding In hands-on science classes during the summer holidays, one anchored at the Rights elementary school students build their own science school. projects, experiencing at first hand the wonders of Enjoying the hot air balloon experience science while also cultivating their creativity and unique GLORY Foundation for Elementary School Students powers of imagination. Glory employees take part by https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/society/community/ helping the students with their projects. foundation/ Human Resources In the fiscal year 2019, science classes consisting of 200 Supporting the Promotion of Sports students from grades three to six took ■ Glory Sponsors the Victorina Himeji Volleyball Team on the challenge of Glory has signed a sponsorship agreement with Himeji building dinosaur Victorina Co., Ltd., which manages the Victorina Himeji Social Initiatives mechas powered women’s volleyball team (director and owner Masayoshi by windup springs Students build dinosaur Manabe and director and vice-president Yoshie mechas with guidance and learned about Takeshita). Based in Himeji, Hyogo, Victorina Himeji is from a Glory employee the principle of Japan’s first professional women’s volleyball team. electromagnetic induction. Dinosaur mecha Besides playing in a V1 league, the team promotes the sport in the community through activities that include Children’s Theater appearances on talk shows and volleyball clinics for The Children’s Theater project is held with the goal of elementary and junior high school students. Glory strives enriching the aesthetic sensibilities of young people and to use sponsorship as a way to stimulate communityplanting in them the seeds of creativity. level sports and support the development of the next generation. In fiscal year 2019, a total of 3,200 We expect the team elementary school to make another students and their great leap forward parents were invited to in the V1 League performances of the and will continue to musical The Story of support them in their a Seagull and the Cat endeavors. Who Taught Her to Fly A scene from The Story of a Seagull by the Shiki Theatre and the Cat Who Taught Her to Fly At the V. League challenge match Company. Glory CSR Report 2020 24 Society Social Initiatives Other Contributions to Society ■ Participating in the Employment Assistance Program for Students ■ Donated Ticket Vending Machines to Himeji City PT. Glory Global Solutions Indonesia are involved in the Glory donated to Himeji City four ticket vending employment assistance program for students, run by the machines with touch screens to be set up at the entrance Indonesian government, and participated in its activities of the World Heritage Himeji Castle. The machines will with our client Bank Central Asia (BCA). The purpose enable users to select from six different languages, of the program is to provide students with useful workchoose audio guidance and handle cashless payments. related knowledge and skills. One activity involved the In recognition of our contribution to improving use of a secondhand the welcoming banknote sorter environment for donated by BCA and castle visitors and dummy banknotes, for increasing the with accompanying efficiency of its explanations about operations, we received the mechanism and an appreciation plaque a basic description and the Furusato of how the product (home) Himeji Award in works. A student adjusting a banknote sorter March 2020. Appreciation plaque presentation ceremony ■ Protecting the Marine Environment in the ■ Participating in the TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) Program Philippines Glory has been participating in the TFT program and In October 2019, GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. donated contributes a portion of the proceeds from meals “reef buds” as its contribution to an ocean regeneration sold in the cafeteria of the company headquarters project in the municipality of Rosario in the province to provide school of Cavite. This artificial coral is made from low-impact meals in developing material and provides a habitat for sea organisms. Reef countries. In fiscal year buds also contribute to 2019, 18,534 meals the stabilization of the were donated, for an ocean’s pH balance, accumulated total of helping to prevent 129,414 donated. degradation of the Glory has been marine environment certified as a “Silver caused by increasing Partner” of TABLE FOR atmospheric CO2 TWO International concentrations. and received a letter Letter of appreciation from TFT and Employees who donated reef buds of appreciation for its Silver Partner badge support during 2019. ■ Donated Banknote Sorters to a Charity Bazaar Glory Global Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd. donated two ■ Educational Support Activities in America banknote sorters for counting the proceeds from a Glory Global Solutions Inc. regularly invites local senior charity bazaar, which was held in Hong Kong to provide high school students who are studying mechanical rescue and rehabilitation services for those living in engineering to a workplace experience event, which poverty. Approximately includes a tour of our development sites and a lecture 200 shops participated about the company, to broaden their understanding in selling sweets of our business. Employees share their knowledge and craftwork. and experience About 12,000 Glory with students while employees volunteered supporting projects for the event, with that the participants proceeds donated are working on as a to a charitable way of contributing organization. Employees who participated in the charity to their education bazaar related to their future careers. Workplace experience event 25 Glory CSR Report 2020 Environment Environmental Management To create a sustainable society, the entire Glory Group works to protect the environment under the Glory Environmental Vision. Glory Environmental Vision Environmental Management Framework The Glory Group considers environmental conservation to Environmental Environmental Vision be a key management concern, and we have therefore implemented an ISO 14001-compliant environmental Management We contribute to securing the future of the Earth’s management system to reduce the environmental impact environment by working worldwide to reduce in every aspect of our business. The system covers a broad environmental impact and protect the planet’s range of our activities, from energy conservation, resource Reducing the Environmental Developing Environmentally resources. conservation, waste reduction, and appropriate chemical substance management to environmentally friendly The Glory Group’s environmental vision is captured product development. in the slogan we adopted in 2010: “GLORY GREEN CHALLENGE: Leading the way for a prosperous Earth In March 2002, the head office was the first in the Group with dynamics and technology through cooperative to acquire ISO 14001, and certification has currently spread efforts.” We established the 2020 Medium-Term to Glory’s main business sites, regional offices, and Group Impact of Business Activities Friendly Products Environmental Plan as our three-year plan from April manufacturing companies. We are also working toward 2018 based on this vision, and we are working to acquiring ISO certification and for comprehensive environmental achieve its targets. impact reduction efforts to promote environmental conservation at overseas Group companies as well. Our environmental management framework consists Environmental Policy of the Glory Group of sites for reducing environmental impacts from business operations and business units for reducing the environmental impact of products. We develop an annual Preserving Biodiversity environmental management action policy in conjunction We will act in Earth-friendly ways and endeavor with the basic management and environmental policies, to provide environmentally friendly products with ensuring reliability and continuous improvement of the services that contribute to a sustainable society. management framework and system to be effective in all business operations related to products and services. 1. Compliance with laws and regulations We will comply with environmental laws and regulations, Also, we strive to expand the action policy into respective as well as the demands of our stakeholders. sites and business units and confirm implementation status. 2020 Medium-Term 2. Mitigation of global warming At the same time, we share and horizontally address issues We will strive to reduce our use of energy and our and counter measures by the Environmental Management Committee and conduct management reviews whereby Environmental Plan emissions of greenhouse gases. we utilize PDCA cycles to integrate business activities 3. Promotion of resource recycling Group-wide. Moreover, the environmental management We will strive to use resources effectively and will department conducts a continuous improvement of the promote the recovery and recycling of our products. system for the entire Group. 4. Prevention of pollution by chemical substances We will properly manage chemical substances and will Environmental Management Framework reduce hazardous substances in our products. Top Management* (Chief Officer in Charge of 5. Conservation of biodiversity Environmental Management) Each of us will strive to conserve ecosystems through Environmental Management Committee activities that contribute to our communities. Environment Management 6. Proper disclosure of environmental information Officer We will proactively carry out disclosure of information and will respond to the wishes of our stakeholders. Site Environmental Manager Business Unit Environmental Manager In order to achieve this policy, we will set and work Business Sites and Regional Divisions toward environmental targets and will strive to effect Offices, Group Companies continuous improvements. *The chief officer of the environmental management system, who is entrusted by the president with all authority and responsibility to promote and maintain the environmental management system. Glory CSR Report 2020 26 Environment Environmental Management Environmental Audit Compliance with Environmental Laws We strive for total optimization of our products Recognizing legal compliance as a key aspect of and services by inclusively reviewing quality and environmental conservation, Glory is committed to environmental issues under the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 thorough operational management. We closely monitor standards, respectfully, in a supportive manner. So that changes to laws and regulations and confirm our own this approach remains effective in our management compliance status twice a year. On-site inspections system, we conduct integrated internal and external are based on a dedicated checklist at each site during audits and apply PDCA cycles for continuous internal environmental audits. Moreover, CMS (chemical improvement. substances management system) audits are periodically conducted at the sites of business partners and overseas The environmental audits and examinations in fiscal subsidiaries. year 2019 examined the conformity and validity of the implementation status of the standards, and As a result of verifying legal compliance in fiscal year no incidents of nonconformity were identified. The 2019, we confirmed that no serious non-compliance results were laterally reviewed across the Glory Group problems or accidents have impacted the environment. and shared with all employees through a bottom-up approach across our activities. Environmental Risk Management Environmental Education We conduct environmental impact assessments annually We focus on environmental education as we believe to reduce environmental risk and stipulate response that correctly understanding the impact of our business procedures for specific risks. Furthermore, we ensure activities on the environment is a key to ongoing efforts that internal systems are in place and conduct thorough to reduce such impact. employee education, particularly by emphasizing proper industrial waste processing and hazardous materials In addition to including environmental management management. system requirements in new employee training, we conduct tailored educational programs based on Waste management systems are in place at each site professional positions such as management training for proper industrial waste processing, and in addition for newly appointed managers and training on to the thorough training of managers and other environmentally friendly design for product designers. responsible employees in charge of waste management, Moreover, we seek to build on the expertise of we apply strict standards in selecting waste processing employees by executing training in areas such as internal contractors and conduct on-site inspections. environmental auditing and waste management. For hazardous materials management, we stipulate We are also striving to raise environmental awareness the response procedures in the event of an emergency further by informing all employees, including resident involving an oil spill and regularly hold simulation business partners, of our environmental activities. drills while also preventing the leakage and outflow of poisonous and deleterious substances as well as accidents and losses. 27 Glory CSR Report 2020 Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Glory continuously strives to preserve the Earth’s environment and reduce environmental impact by reducing CO2 emissions, managing chemical substances, and effectively using resources. Volume of PRTR Law-Listed Substances (Domestic)* Mitigation of Global Warming Reduced by 6.5％ Environmental (t) “Mitigation of Global Warming” has been established 100.0 over the previous fiscal year as a theme of the Glory Environmental Vision, and we are working to cut emissions of CO2. 80.0 74.4 76.4 73.6 Management 70.9 68.8 Under this part of the vision, we have adopted highly 60.0 Reducing the Environmental Developing Environmentally efficient production equipment to cut CO2 emissions. We have also been installing power monitoring systems 40.0 (demand monitoring functions), LED lighting, and human 20.0 detection sensors at our business sites while setting up a solar power system on the roof of the head office for 0 the use of renewable energy sources. Furthermore, we 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) are promoting a modal shift by switching transport from *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification trucks to railways and ships as a means of improving Impact of Business Activities Friendly Products shipping efficiency with lighter weight packing materials in order to reduce the burden on the environment. CO2 Emissions Reduced by Effective Use of Resources (t-CO₂) Domestic Overseas 12.6％ 20,000 over the previous Glory is engaged in 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) efforts to fiscal year 16,317 16,706 16,716 contribute to creating a recycling-oriented society. 15,135 15,000 3,384 3,565 3,722 13,230 3,468 In order to use resources more effectively, we are Preserving Biodiversity 3,539 improving our production processes, raising parts 10,000 manufacturing yields, and reducing the number of 12,933 13,141 12,994 11,666 9,691 manufacturing trials to cut down on the volume of 5,000 materials used. In addition, our factories and offices are going paperless, returnable containers are being 0 used for deliveries from suppliers, and efforts are being 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) made to reduce the volume of packing material. Also, *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification we are reusing cushioning materials used for intra2020 Medium-Term *2 The following overseas business sites have acquired ISO 14001 certification. Group parts shipping. Wastes are thoroughly separated GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. when we dispose of them in order to increase recycling rates. Moreover, we have established a recycling rate Environmental Plan Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. of 99.5% as our zero emissions target and intend to achieve it at our production sites. Waste Volume Management and Reduction of (t) Domestic Overseas Chemical Substances 3,000 Reduced by 8.0％ over the previous We thoroughly manage the chemical substances used 2,201 fiscal year 2,119 1,991 in production and are making progress in switching 2,000 to chemical substances with a low impact on human 1,716 1,578 health. The factories manage and issue semi-annual 1,266 1,385 1,295 891 758 reports about the amount of chemical substances they 1,000 use. Factory employees who use chemical substances, including those subject to the Law concerning Pollutant 853 816 696 825 820 Release and Transfer Register (PRTR Law), are trained 0 in chemical substance handling. Safety data sheets 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (SDS) containing chemical substance safety data are *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification always on hand so employees can, as necessary, confirm *2 The following overseas business sites have acquired ISO 14001 certification. precautions when handling these substances as well as GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. response procedures for emergencies. Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. Glory CSR Report 2020 28 Environment Developing Environmentally Friendly Products Glory develops environmentally friendly products that minimize the environmental impact throughout the product life cycle, from material procurement and customer use to final disposal. Developing Environmentally Friendly Products Management of Chemical Substances The Glory Group has set a long-term goal of 30% Glory designates materials regulated by the RoHS reduction in CO2 emissions from the 2005 levels in Directive, REACH Regulation, and other laws and 2030 by its products during use and is engaged in regulations in the Glory Specified Chemical Substances developing environmentally friendly products in order List. It also stipulates banned materials in the Green to achieve a low-carbon society as it continuously Procurement Standards to facilitate the thorough engages in environmental conservation efforts. We management of chemical substances contained in our conduct life cycle assessments (LCAs) in response to products. customer requests to evaluate the environmental impact at every stage of the product life cycle, from material In addition to confirming compliance with regulations procurement and customer use to final disposal. concerning chemical substance content during the parts selection process, we use X-ray fluorescence Our product assessments during new product spectrometers to inspect all parts carefully as they are development cover over 60 categories, from energy delivered. We also measure chemical content amounts, efficiency to reuse-recycling, and we compare products which are registered in the Chemical Substance Control under development to those that already exist. Through System, making it easy to tally amounts for the overall these assessments, products that meet standards product. Furthermore, all new products are inspected such as electric power use efficiency are at least 15% before shipping to comply with relevant regulations. better than existing products, and chemical substance regulation-compliant, are designated as G-Eco products Supplier cooperation is essential for controlling chemical in accordance with in-house standards. substances. We request that domestic and overseas suppliers ensure the parts and materials shipped to 22% of our new products released us fully comply in fiscal year 2019 were designated with the Glory as G-Eco products. The coin and Green Procurement banknote recyclers for cashiers Standards. They are for financial markets also asked to execute (RB-700) use 20% a memorandum of less electricity during understanding on operation compared to green procurement their predecessors and and provide data achieved recyclable rates concerning chemical Inspecting parts for chemical substance Coin and banknote recyclers for of 85%. cashiers (RB-700) substance content. content Preserving Biodiversity Glory is engaged in a variety of activities for preserving biodiversity in collaboration with stakeholders such as local communities and incorporated NPOs. Activities in the Glory Yumesaki Forest Glory has been participating in forest conservation In fiscal year 2019, activities in the Glory Yumesaki Forest located in Himeji, we conducted a forest Hyogo in collaboration with the forestry cooperative. conservation project We thin out one hectare of undergrowth per year in April, and a total among the hinoki cypress and broadleaf groves and of 82 Glory Group plant 20 trees per year, mainly broadleaf trees including employees, business mountain cherry and konara oak, from the beginning partners, and family of spring to early summer every year. We strive to members participated. reproduce and maintain the rich natural environment by Making tables out of timber from forming favorable environments for village forests. forest thinning 29 Glory CSR Report 2020 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan We have been working toward the targets in the 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan. Targets and Results for the 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan Under the Environmental Vision, we have been striving to address environmental challenges, including the reduction of Environmental Group-wide environmental impact, in accordance with our 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan, developed for the three-year period beginning in April 2018. We are currently formulating the 2023 Medium-Term Environmental Plan, with Management a focus on the three areas of products, business, and awareness, toward achieving SDGs. ■ Targets and Results for Fiscal Year 2019 Reducing the Environmental Developing Environmentally Targets for 2020 Activity Targets for Fiscal Year Activity Themes Medium-Term Results for Fiscal Year 2019 Areas 2019 Environmental Plan Improve energy efficiency of new Mitigation of global warming Reduce CO2 emissions from new products products by at least 15% Reduced by average of 11.1% (target achieved for 7 of 14 models, designated as G-Eco products) compared to previous Impact of Business Activities Friendly Products Products models Management and reduction Make all new products Comply with all relevant 23 models were RoHS-compliant (achieved of chemical RoHS-compliant laws compliance rate of 100%) substances Increase environmentally At least 65% of sales for friendly product account all products Accounted for 65.3% of sales ratio out of sales Mitigation of global warming Preserving Biodiversity Reduce annual per Reduce annual average Reduced annual average by 2.2% (base year: fiscal employee energy by 1% (base year: fiscal year 2010) consumption year 2010) Business Management Balance control of Counted record of volume of in-process chemical and reduction Balance control of chemical substances products in May of chemical chemical substances Reduce PRTR Law-listed Reduced volume of PRTR Law-listed substances substances substances (Type 1) by 6.5% Reduce annual volume Effective use of Reduce volume of waste of waste generated by Reduced annual volume of waste generated by 2020 Medium-Term resources generated 1% (base year: fiscal average of 1.4% (base year: fiscal year 2010) year 2010) Environmental Plan • Himeji: Held forest conservation activity in April (20 broadleaf and apple trees planted, 1 hectare Increase contribution to of forest thinned) biodiversity preservation • Plant 20 trees Held nature appreciation event for employees’ (improve management • Thin 1 hectare of families in October criteria) forest • Kanto area: Held forest conservation activity in Hachioji, Tokyo in May Held clean-up on banks of Arakawa River, Tokyo in October • 100% achievement ratio for yearly plans Himeji: Glory Yumesaki Forest Preservation of 82 people participated in forest conservation biodiversity activity (6 people representing one Glory supplier also participated) Awareness 82 people participated in nature appreciation Cooperate with • Formulate plan event (9 people representing stakeholders to preserve • Carry out 100% of one Glory supplier also participated) biodiversity activities planned Kanto area: Kamikawa in Hachioji, Tokyo (designated greenery conservation area) 53 people participated in forest conservation activity (5 people representing one Glory supplier also participated) 21 people participated in clean-up on banks of Arakawa River, Tokyo • CSR Report 2019 posted on our website (data Disclose environmental on reducing environmental impact from business Communication information on CSR Run articles activities, etc.) Report and website • Responded to questionnaires from CDP and the Nikkei Environmental Management Study Glory CSR Report 2020 30 Governance Corporate Governance Glory (the “Company”) continuously strives to increase its corporate value by promoting sound business management based on its corporate philosophy. and Compensation Advisory Committee to boost the Corporate Governance transparency and objectivity of decision-making around key management concerns. ■ Basic Policy Glory’s corporate philosophy guides its efforts to Glory’s basic policy on corporate governance is set out continuously improve corporate value through sound in the Corporate Governance Guidelines. and efficient business management so that the Company can exist in harmony with society and earn Corporate Governance Guidelines the trust and support of all stakeholders. None of this https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/ir/ Guidelines20200626.pdf can be achieved without a firm commitment to the continuing improvement of corporate governance. Glory Corporate Governance Report https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/governance/ will continue its efforts to strengthen the supervisory report/ and executive functions of management, accelerate decision-making, ensure transparency and objectivity, and enhance compliance management to further Outline of Main Organs increase our corporate value. Directors and Board of Directors The Board of Directors includes a sufficient number ■ Corporate Governance Framework of independent outside directors, who exceed the Glory has had a Company with an Audit & Supervisory number of directors by one-third and have credentials Committee since June 2020 in order to further that support their contribution to sustainable growth promote rapid and efficient management decisions and higher corporate value over the midto longby the Board of Directors and enhance supervisory term toward achieving the appropriate supervisory functions. Also, the way the Company is structured functions of management. The board consists of eight allows for flexible decision-making in terms of key directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee business execution, which is entrusted to the directors. members, including two independent outside directors, In addition, an executive officer system facilitates and three directors who are Audit & Supervisory timely, efficient business administration. We have also Committee members, two of whom are independent broadened the supervisory functions of the Board of outside directors, totaling eleven directors. The Board Directors, which includes four outside directors, as well of Directors in principle meets at least once a month to as the audit and supervisory functions of the Audit and formulate important business policies for the Company Supervisory Committee. Finally, we have established and Group, supervise business execution, and review such entities as the Nomination Advisory Committee reports on the status of business execution. Corporate Governance Framework(as of June 26, 2020) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Removal Appointment/ Appointment/ Removal Removal Board of Directors Nomination Advisory Committee Audit & Supervisory Directors Examination/ Compensation Advisory Committee Audit/ Committee Reporting Supervision Audit & Supervisory Committee Members Representative Directors Compliance Disclosure Risk Management Examination Internal Audit Management Conference Cooperation Committee Committee Executive Executive Directors Department Committee Executive Officers and others Officers Business Promotion Conference Accounting Auditors 4 compliance helplines Accounting Operational Audit Audit Development Manufacturing Maintenance Administrative Sales Divisions Divisions Divisions Divisions Divisions Group companies 31 Glory CSR Report 2020 Audit & Supervisory Committee ■ Remuneration for Officers Corporate Governance The Company’s Audit & Supervisory Committee The Company’s current policy of remuneration for is composed of three members, including two directors is as follows. independent outside directors. It conducts audits based on an annual corporate audit plan in accordance with Basic Policy on Remuneration the audit policy and the assignment of duties that it Remuneration for directors is designed in such a manner determines are necessary. Meanwhile, the committee that the value can be shared with the shareholders, closely liaises with those involved in the internal the level is appropriate for their duties, and due control system as well as members of the internal audit consideration is given to incentives for continued department and the Company’s accounting auditors. improvement of corporate performance and securing Risk Management With the findings from these audits, the committee talented human recourses. members issue reports on the status of those audit and exchange information and views at their meetings. Procedures for Determining Remuneration To ensure transparency and objectivity, remuneration for Nomination Advisory Committee and directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee members will be determined by a resolution of the To ensure transparency and objectivity in appointing Board of Directors. For directors who are Audit & directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members Supervisory Committee members, remuneration will as well as when determining their remuneration, be determined by consultation among the Audit & Compliance the Company established the Nomination Advisory Supervisory Committee members. All remuneration Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee as decisions are subject to review by the Compensation advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, and for each Advisory Committee and within the ranges approved by at least half of the members and the chairperson are the general meeting of shareholders. independent outside directors. Structure of Remuneration Responsibility to Members of Main Organs • Remuneration consists of fixed compensation, shortAudit & Nomination Compensation term performance-based bonuses and medium-term Board of Title Name Supervisory Advisory Advisory performance-based stock compensation. Shareholders and Investors Directors Committee Committee Committee • Fixed compensation is determined in accordance Chairman Hirokazu with the position and responsibilities of the person of the ○ ○ ○ Board Onoe concerned. Motozumi • The target indicators for Bonuses are consolidated President ◎ ○ ○ Miwa net sales and operating income. The amounts to be Hideo paid will be determined according to the degree of Director ○ Onoe achievement toward those predetermined targets. Director Shigetoshi ○ • The target indicators for Stock Compensation are Mabuchi consolidated ROE and the operating margin from Kaname among the performance targets in the 2020 MediumDirector ○ Kotani Term Management Plan. The number of shares to be Akihiro Director ○ allotted will be determined according to the degree of Harada achievement toward those predetermined targets. Outside ○ ◎ ○ Director Joji Iki • Remuneration for directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members and outside directors Outside Junji Director ○ ○ ◎ who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee members Uchida consists solely of fixed compensation. Director (Audit & Supervisory Toru Fujita Committee ○ ◎ ■ Evaluation on Effectiveness of the Board of member) Directors Outside The Company has conducted an annual analysis and Director (Audit & Satoshi ○ ○ evaluation of the effectiveness of its Board of Directors Supervisory Hamada Committee based on its Corporate Governance Guidelines since member) fiscal year 2015, thereby endeavors to strengthen the Outside function of the Board of Directors as a whole. Director (Audit & Keiichi Supervisory Kato ○ ○ Committee Results of Evaluation on Effectiveness of the Board member) of Directors *◎ in the above table shows chairperson of each committee. https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/governance/ evaluation/ Glory CSR Report 2020 32 Governance Corporate Governance Message from Outside Directors Joji Iki In recent years, I have heard various views about the positioning of the Board of Directors and the role of outside directors during discussions about corporate governance. I believe that the mission of an outside director is to supervise the execution of operations and support the proposal and implementation of management strategies. Observance of laws and regulations, the establishment of internal control systems, and the achievement of consistent compliance are all fundamental requirements for the survival of a company. That is why it is so important to ensure comprehensive supervision. We also need to be aware that the level of compliance required will change in step with social change in Japan and overseas. Over the past few years, there have been significant changes in the markets resulting from social change and the evolution of a cashless society due to the use of the IoT. The Glory Group needs to modify its business operations flexibly in line with these changes. The formulation and implementation of management strategies are extremely important from this perspective, Joji Iki because Glory has shifted from an environment in which it could look forward to a certain level Outside Director of organic growth, to one in which it needs to pioneer products and markets through its own Chairperson of the efforts and start up new businesses and new markets. Nomination Advisory Committee I believe that outside directors have a responsibility to provide robust advice and support to Member of the Compensation the executive organization as they work to formulate and implement new group management Advisory Committee strategies, including product development for new businesses and markets, market Held posts including president development, and M&A. Participants in the Glory Group’s Management Conference and Board of the Gas Turbine & of Directors engage in lively discussions, sometimes using IT tools. I look forward to continuing Machinery Company, senior to play the role expected of me in the efforts to speed up management decision-making and vice president and senior executive vice president at ensure that everyone can express their views freely and frankly. Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. Serving in the current The COVID-19 pandemic that emerged in the early months of 2020 is having an enormous post since June 2017. impact on the world, including Japan. Despite this, I am determined to work even harder to ensure the sustainable growth of the Glory Group and the achievement of further improvement in its mediumto long-term corporate value. As someone with a background in the steel industry, I have built up wide-ranging experience in business and management in a field that is different from Glory’s business domain. My career has given me a real understanding of the importance of continuous efforts to enhance corporate value through structural reforms designed to improve competitiveness, as well as through global initiatives, such as overseas expansion. I have learned through my day-to-day work that people and frontline operations are the lifeblood of any company, and that the trust of customers is an asset. In addition to the powerful product range that it has built up over the years, Glory’s emergence as a leading company in its industry also reflects its dynamic expansion into overseas markets. However, Glory cannot adapt to the large and rapid market changes that are now occurring simply by continuing with its existing business activities. Instead it will need to take up the challenge of innovation in all areas of its business. Junji Uchida As an outside director, my task in this context is to work on behalf of stakeholders, including shareholders, to further energize management, and to provide an outside perspective that Outside Director contributes to the fair and appropriate implementation of business operations. Chairperson of the Compensation Advisory In this fiscal year, Glory made the transition to a new structure as a Company with an Audit & Committee Member of the Nomination Supervisory Committee. As a listed company, Glory is constantly working to strengthen and Advisory Committee enhance its governance through progressive initiatives, and this latest change will significantly improve the transparency of its management structure. As the Company’s supreme decisionHeld posts including making body, the Board of Directors can be expected to discuss a variety of themes that managing director of NIPPON STEEL CORPORATION and will have important implications for Glory’s future growth, including innovation in existing representative director and business areas, expansion of overseas operations, and expansion into new business areas. president of OSAKA STEEL Glory’s value as a company will also depend on its response to the impact of the COVID-19 CO., LTD. Serving in the pandemic. current post since June 2019. I have the greatest respect for the corporate culture developed by Glory, and a sense of anticipation about the role that I can play in contributing to its next growth phase. 33 Glory CSR Report 2020 Corporate Governance I believe that the role of an outside director is to identify deviations from the Company’s basic policies or management strategies and to ascertain whether business risks are being kept within reasonable limits by monitoring the performance of day-to-day business operations by executive directors. I aim to use my past experience as an accounting auditor in an audit corporation and as an outside director in other listed companies to provide appropriate input concerning matters that cannot be assessed or decided solely through internal processes. Risk Management Glory’s business environment is being transformed by the diversification of payment methods due to the emergence of the cashless society and advances in AI, the IoT, and other technologies. The fundamental management challenge for Glory is to ensure sustainable growth and improvement in its corporate value over the mediumto long-term future, by further evolving its existing business in its core area of cash handling, and to develop new business domains. One way to achieve these goals might be business restructuring through M&A in Japan and overseas. I believe that when M&A or other projects are proposed in Board of Directors meetings, there is a need for oversight from the perspectives of corporate Satoshi Hamada profitability and capital efficiency to ensure that there will be no adverse impact on the Outside Director (Audit & interests of stakeholders, including shareholders, or corporate value. During my five years as Supervisory Committee Compliance an outside Audit & Supervisory Board member for Glory, I have deepened my understanding Member) of the Glory Group’s business activities and management. I will work to ensure that the President of Satoshi Hamada expectations of shareholders and investors are fulfilled by further integrating and enhancing Accounting Office. Holds the knowledge that I have gained in the past. post of outside director at other companies, including NISHIMATSUYA CHAIN Co., Ltd. and WDB Holdings Co., Ltd. (Audit & Supervisory Responsibility to Committee Member). Appointed Outside A&SB Member of the Company in June 2015. Serving in the current post since June 2020. Shareholders and Investors Glory has restructured itself as a Company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. This change is expected to strengthen the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors, while also enhancing the speed and efficiency of management decision-making. It will further reinforce our corporate governance systems. Under this new structure, I will combine my position as an outside director with my new role as a member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. I will also audit and supervise the performance of duties by directors from my independent perspective as someone outside of the Company. The knowledge and experience gained through my many years of work as an attorney, the intuition I developed for management through my experience as an outside corporate auditor for other companies, and my position as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board member for the Glory Group have all helped me to form a deeper understanding of the Glory Group’s business and management. Keiichi Kato As an outside director, I will work with increased determination to meet the expectations of Outside Director (Audit & shareholders and investors by participating in the decision-making processes of the Board Supervisory Committee of Directors, and by further deepening my knowledge so that I can help Glory to achieve Member) sustainable growth and improvement in its mediumto long-term corporate value by providing Registered as an Attorneyat-law in October 2003. effective advice about management policies and improvements to management systems. Attorney-at-law and partner at the Harima Law Office. Apart Many factors are driving far-reaching changes in the Glory Group’s business environment, from serving as an Outside including the emergence of the cashless society and the diversification of payment methods, as Corporate Auditor at Sanyo well as country-specific risks overseas where the Company has established operations. However, Color Works Ltd., Mr. Kato has extensive experience serving Glory’s management creed includes the following statement: “Through a spirit of continuous as an outside member of local development, we will provide products and services our customers can rely on.” I believe that government committees. by working under this philosophy Glory can adapt to these changes and achieve continuing Appointed Outside A&SB Member of the Company in growth and success by creating products that society needs and taking up the challenge of June 2019. Serving in the technological innovation. current post since June 2020. Glory CSR Report 2020 34 Governance Risk Management Glory strives to prevent and avoid operational risks and mitigate losses in times of disasters, ensuring the safety of stakeholder positions. risks, which are disclosed as such documents as Security Risk Management Framework Reports in connection with the consideration of financial impacts. Glory has established the Risk Management Committee, chaired by the president, to maintain and strengthen In recent years, we consider worldwide progress of risk management for the entire Glory Group. The the cashless system as a risk that should be taken Glory Group regularly conducts risk assessments account of within the Group. In fiscal year 2019, the and works mainly with predetermined divisions and COVID-19 pandemic has been spreading rapidly since individuals responsible for each risk item to implement the fourth quarter, this has been added to risks to be precautionary measures against risks during normal considered, thereby enhancing the content of business times and to secure and improve a system that can risks disclosed through Security Reports and other respond promptly in times of crisis. The committee appropriate documents. discusses measures based on the results of these assessments. A summary of the discussion is regularly reported to the Board of Directors. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) In fiscal year 2019, Glory developed activities based on the annual policy and major items predetermined by Glory developed its BCP in preparation for emergencies the Risk Management Committee. We also strived to in order to continue key activities and ensure prompt grasp the Group-wide status of risks and implement risk recovery in times of crisis, including disasters. We have reduction by planning and executing measures based on organized a strategy for promptly responding during the same risk assessment method applied by Glory to emergencies to reliably and steadily provide products each Group company. and services by strengthening the supply chain through diversifying the parts procurement risk and preparing Risk Management Framework regulations and a manual on disaster response. In fiscal year 2019, we conducted a drill for a possible disaster in Board of Directors the vicinity of the headquarters and in accordance with a BCP in order to identify potential problems. Risk Management Committee Moreover, in preparation for contingencies, we have Chief Risk Management strengthened our response to potential damage to Officer important network systems that have a major impact Secretariat on business continuity, introduced a safety confirmation (General Affairs Headquarters) system, installed Department Managers satellite phones at main business sites, stocked supplies of Employees food and water, and regularly conduct disaster drills to ensure the effectiveness Risk Identification Process of our disaster countermeasures. Simulation drill for a machinery oil spill The Glory Group annually revises its list of potential risks along with the associated management policy and countermeasures based on changes in the prevailing business environment and progress of our businesses. In identifying risks, new risks are recognized through a review of the current assessment and internal and external environmental changes. Assessment and analysis are then conducted according to the level of influence and frequency of occurrence, and key items are identified in the Risk Management Committee for formulating countermeasures. These company-wide risks are also reflected as appropriate in the business 35 Glory CSR Report 2020 ■ Technical Safety Management Information Security Management System We are enhancing information security measures, such Corporate Governance as introducing ID management systems and systems to Glory handles a large volume of confidential information prevent unauthorized entry via the Internet or to limit concerning matters such as cash processing and the use of external storage by device control. settlement processing. Accordingly, we focus on the integrated strengthening of our information security ■ Physical Safety Management throughout the Group based on the Information We have introduced an entrance and exit management Security Basic Policy and Privacy Policy, which stipulate system with ID cards or facial recognition along with a our basic stance and attitude as a Group. key management system to strictly control access and Risk Management automatically save records. ■ Measures for Organizational Safety Management Having established the Information Security Promotion We also ensure the continuous operation of the IT Section as a subsidiary organization of the Compliance infrastructure by installing equipment such as private Committee, we created an information security power generators and a UPS (uninterruptible power management system under the supervision of the chief system). information security officer (CISO) to utilize PDCA cycles in order to promote continuous improvement. We also periodically conduct internal audits to confirm Compliance its conformity and validity. In fiscal year 2019, we Information Security Education concentrated on procedures for taking external storage devices out of the office as well as the status of virus ■ Personnel Safety Management scanning. We respond to constantly changing technologies and social circumstances and conduct level-based employee Responsibility to Furthermore, as the risk of cyberattacks has been training to prevent information security breaches. increasing, we are strengthening our website security by taking measures to address vulnerabilities such as Our training includes programs for new employees to the security diagnosis of our websites, including those provide them with a basic knowledge of information Shareholders and Investors of Group companies. In addition, security measures security and relevant laws and regulations and training for the supply chain, including our cooperative firms, on supervisor responsibilities for information security outsourcing contractors, and Group companies, involve so management can acquire the knowledge they need. investigating the level of security of contractors that We also conduct training programs for managementhandle important information and providing directions level personnel to deepen understanding of social for necessary improvements, thereby enhancing the trends (external environment) and our status (internal security of the overall supply chain. environment) related to information security. We also conduct an annual, companywide e-learning program in October during Corporate Ethics Month Enhancing Information Security Measures to strengthen the information security literacy of employees. For the purpose of safely and appropriately handling the information assets of our customers, departments concerned with offering systems solutions and services, such as the GCAN Center (Glory Card and Network Response to Information Security Incidents Center: information processing center), have acquired ISO 27001 certification, the international standard for In preparation for information security incidents such as information security. data leaks, malware infection, and unauthorized access, we have established a system for minimizing damage, Business sites and departments that have acquired ISO 27001 promptly recovering and preventing reoccurrence. certification G-CSIRT (Glory Computer Security Incident Response Team), which plays a central role in this effort, joined GLORY LTD. System Product Development Division, 3 Departments GCAN Center, Glory Monitoring Center Nippon CSIRT Association, an industry group, in 2014 and has been enhancing response capabilities Domestic Group to incidents through such initiatives as gathering and companies GLORY System Create Ltd. sharing information and acquiring related skills. 1 company Glory CSR Report 2020 36 Governance Compliance Glory strives to foster awareness of compliance Group wide and conduct honest and fair business activities. Compliance Framework Legal Code of Conduct Glory views legal compliance as an important We established the Glory Legal Code of Conduct management issue for the Group, and so we strive to governing the laws and codes of ethics that must be maintain or improve our compliance framework. One adhered to by all Glory Group officers, employees, and measure taken in that regard is the establishment of the business partners, including distributors, both domestic Compliance Committee. and overseas. The committee is chaired by the president, includes The code was developed from a global perspective two outside experts (attorneys at law), and deliberates to accommodate the rapid expansion of our overseas key compliance-related issues concerning the Glory business. We strive to improve employee awareness of Group. Matters deliberated are reported to the Board of compliance through activities such as the distribution of Directors. the “Handbook” and training for every Group employee in order to continue to conduct honest and fair business Also, a chief compliance officer is appointed from worthy of the Glory brand and to maintain and ensure among the officers in charge. The committee’s a high level of compliance and ethical standards. secretariat takes charge of planning measures for Moreover, additions and amendments to the code may thorough compliance as well as employee education be made after approval by the directors. and awareness activities. In fiscal year 2019, we confirmed that no serious nonCompliance Framework compliance problems had occurred. Board of Directors ■ Corruption Prevention We have specified rules to prohibit bribery and prevent Compliance Committee corruption in the Glory Legal Code of Conduct and endeavor to keep all domestic and overseas employees and business partners informed of them. We also Chief Compliance Officer Related Sections conduct e-learning and other suitable means of education to prevent corrupt practices. Internal Audit Department Secretariat (Legal Affairs Department, General Helpline Affairs Headquarters) In fiscal year 2019, there were no occurrences of corrupt Outside Helpline practices, including bribery. Department Compliance Manager Office Consultant Glory Legal Code of Conduct (Bribery and Corruption, Money Laundering) https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/governance/ compliance/#anchor02 Employees Helpline ■ Personal Information Protection The Glory Group recognizes the importance of its responsibility to properly manage the personal ■ Setting up a Consultation Service (Helplines) information of stakeholders, including customers, Glory has set up four compliance helplines advised by (1) business partners, and shareholders acquired through an immediate superior, (2) the Compliance Committee our business activities. We therefore ensure the proper secretariat, (3) an office consultant, and (4) an external management of personal information according to the helpline (law firm) as a consultation service (helpline) Privacy Policy. for overall compliance issues of the Glory Group. The helplines were established to detect and correct Furthermore, we have developed internal rules and issues at an early stage as well as to protect those conduct training to respond effectively to the EU seeking consultation under the Internal Regulations on General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which went Consultation. into effect in May 2018. In fiscal year 2019, 22 calls were received, and each Privacy Policy (Japanese only) consultation case was handled appropriately with an https://www.glory.co.jp/info/privacy/ investigation of the facts and circumstances. 37 Glory CSR Report 2020 offers a competitive advantage, is shared to support the Compliance Education Company’s pursuit of profitable businesses. Corporate Governance We conduct comprehensive training, including at As of the end of fiscal year 2019, the Glory Group held Group companies, to ensure thorough compliance. a total of 2,173 patents, utility models, and designs New employee education includes learning about (1,213 domestic and 960 overseas). fundamental legal and ethical issues as well as internal rules. In addition, we conduct e-learning Number of patents, utility models, and designs applied for every year during Corporate Ethics Month in October and acquired for all domestic Group employees to refresh their Risk Management Number of applications in Japan Number of applications overseas understanding of basic issues and social trends. Number acquired in Japan Number acquired overseas 1,500 In fiscal year 2019, programs were conducted in areas 1,188 1,191 1,213 such as the rules of confidential information protection, 1,200 1,141 1,057 prevention of harassment, and regulations governing 960 867 862 insider trading as stipulated in the Glory Legal Code of 900 772 Conduct, with a combined total of 6,857 employees 680 taking part in the various programs. Other programs 600 Compliance include newly appointed manager training and 272 308 252 300 231 213 specialized training to develop a more thorough and 109 93 96 76 precise understanding of issues concerning laws and 74 0 corporate ethics. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *1 Numbers are the total number of patents, utility models, and designs Intellectual Property Initiatives *2 Numbers for both Japan and overseas are on a consolidated basis ■ Basic Concept ■ Fostering Human Resources on Intellectual Property Responsibility to We encourage the creation of domestic and overseas Level-based training is provided to the planning and Shareholders and Investors inventions and acquire the relevant rights, make use of development divisions to raise general awareness of intellectual property rights, and take measures to avoid intellectual property while qualificationand positionthe risk of disputes by researching the rights of others, based human resource development programs are for the benefit of the Glory Group. offered to employees in the Intellectual Property Department. We established a strategy for raising the level of expertise through those programs, making ■ Ensuring Alignment with Business it possible for the divisions involved as well as the We conduct activities for intellectual property in Intellectual Property Department to foster human alignment with business activities. For example, divisions resources at appropriate levels. involved in intellectual property, such as the business and development divisions and the Intellectual Property Moreover, we have instituted an invention incentive Department, regularly convene meetings to discuss system to provide compensation for outstanding the utilization of intellectual property and application inventions, especially those that have contributed to our strategies to gain an advantage in business promotions. business to boost the motivation of inventors. Meanwhile, we also engage in activities to extract ideas at each stage of planning and development to generate valid patents at an early stage. Once the applied patents are registered, the business and development divisions share details regarding rights and discuss how best to utilize them. Furthermore, before making decisions for an M&A or business alliance, analysis is conducted from the perspective of patented technology by referring to patent publication bulletins that contain patent applications across the world. Information on the relative strengths and weakness of technology that the counterparty holds, and whether the technology Glory CSR Report 2020 38 Governance Responsibility to Shareholders and Investors Glory communicates with stakeholders and appropriately discloses information. Policies Concerning Disclosure of Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Information and Constructive Dialogues Glory proactively arranges opportunities for dialogue Glory is committed to “communicating with with shareholders and investors to deepen their stakeholders and striving for appropriate information understanding of the company. disclosure,” as declared in its Corporate Action Guidelines. With this stance, the company is dedicated At meetings with institutional investors and analysts, we to increasing the transparency of its management actively engage in dialogue on various topics, including through quick, accurate, and fair provision of the shareholder returns and capital policies, as well as our latest corporate information and to gaining a better management strategy, business models, and medium to understanding of its management policies and long-term management plan. business activities through constructive dialogues, thereby building long-term relationships of trust with In terms of information disclosure, we voluntarily hold shareholders and investors. financial results briefings and conference calls and include supplementary explanation to further clarify Policies Concerning Disclosure of Information and performance by segment and by area. We also extend Constructive Dialogues with Shareholders and Investors invitations to IR events such as factory tours and https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/management/policy exhibitions so participants can see our work themselves and gain a clearer understanding of our management strategy and business operations. General Meeting of Shareholders In addition, we co-host briefings with securities companies to provide Glory recognizes the vital importance of opportunities individual shareholders for dialogue with shareholders and endeavors to enliven and investors with a the General Meeting of Shareholders. clear description of our business activities We distribute convocation notices three weeks before and communicate the meetings to enable shareholders to have sufficient additional information time to review proposals addressed at the General through shareholder Meeting of Shareholders. Furthermore, convocation newsletters and our notices are posted on Tokyo Stock Exchange and Glory corporate website. Financial results briefing websites at least four weeks in advance. We have been exercising ingenuity every year in preparing clear and Main Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors (FY2019) informative convocation notices with suitable photos and graphic charts. We also adopted electronic voting • Attendees at the 73rd Ordinary to facilitate shareholder participation in resolutions. General Meeting of Shareholders Approx. 280 At the General Meeting of Shareholders, audio-visual • Meetings with institutional Involving approx. presentations and narratives are used by the president to provide detailed reports on proposals to be acted upon investors and analysts 300 companies along with key considerations for shareholders. During the Showroom Tour, conducted after the meeting, • Attendees at briefings for individual where our main investors (held 7 times) Approx. 380 products are displayed, executive officers including the president ■ Information Disclosure on Website and staff members A special section for shareholders and investors has actively encourage been set up on the Glory corporate website to ensure communication with timely and more convenient information disclosure. shareholders by Documents disclosed include quarterly financial reports, explaining about Glory shareholder newsletters, and annual reports. We want products and history. General Meeting of Shareholders our website to be easy to understand and user-friendly with enhanced content. General Meeting of Shareholders https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/meeting/ 39 Glory CSR Report 2020 ESG DATA ESG Data Environment Environmental Impacts from Business Operations (Material Balance) Input Output Energy use 125,539 GJ Greenhouse CO₂ 4,725 t-CO₂ Development gases HFCs in products None Energy Electricity 1,244 million kWh NOx 0 t 85 thousand m3 Atmospheric and Production City gas SOx 0 t emissions Water use 40 thousand t PRTR substances 0.3 t Wastewater 39 thousand t Operations in Glory Water Emissions to Clean water 40 thousand t water PRTR substances 0 t Industrial water 0 t Total waste emissions 276 t Chemical Waste Recycled waste 276 t Volume handled 69.6 t substances Landfill disposal 0.07 t Scope: Production sites of GLORY LTD. CO2 Emissions for each Scope CO2 Emissions Fiscal Year 2019 (t-CO₂) Domestic Overseas Scope and Category Emissions Ratio 20,000 (t-CO2) (%) 16,317 16,706 16,716 Scope 1 1,004 0.3 15,135 15,000 3,384 3,565 3,722 13,230 Scope 2 12,226 3.1 3,468 3,539 Scope 3 377,072 96.6 10,000 1.Purchased goods and services 151,288 40.1 12,933 13,141 12,994 11,666 9,691 2.Capital goods 35,801 9.5 5,000 3.Fueland energy-related activities 2,062 0.5 4. Upstream transportation and 0 10,711 2.8 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) distribution 5. Waste generated in operations 566 0.2 *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification 6. Business travel 2,924 0.8 GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. 7. Employee commuting 2,890 0.8 Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH 8. Upstream leased assets 928 0.2 Glory Global Solutions Inc. 9. Downstream transportation and Not applicable – distribution 10. Processing of sold products Not applicable – Energy Consumption per Employee 11. Use of sold products 168,131 44.6 12. End-of-life treatment of sold 1,771 0.5 (kl / person) products 2.0 13. Downstream leased assets Not applicable – 14. Franchises Not applicable – 1.5 1.26 1.28 1.27 1.23 1.20 15. Investments Not applicable – 1.0 Total of Scope 1, 2, and 3 390,302 100.0 *Boundaries for each scope are as follows. Scope 1: GLORY LTD. and domestic and overseas Group companies that have acquired 0.5 ISO 14001 certification (excluding fuels of vehicles owned by the company) Scope 2: GLORY LTD. and domestic and overseas Group companies that have acquired 0 ISO 14001 certification 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Scope 3: 1. Purchased goods and services, 2. Capital goods, 3. Fueland energyrelated activities not included in Scope 1 or 2, 4. Upstream transportation *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification and distribution, 5. Waste generated in operations, 6. Business travel, 7. Employee commuting, 8. Upstream leased assets, 11. Use of sold products, and 12. End-of-life treatment of sold products Glory CSR Report 2020 40 ESG Data Volume of PRTR Law-Listed Substances (Domestic) Water Use (t) (t) Domestic Overseas 100 150 124.6 125.1 120.3 125.1 80 76.4 115.8 74.4 73.6 120 70.9 68.8 43.1 45.1 40.7 33.7 33.5 60 90 40 60 81.5 80.0 79.6 91.4 82.3 20 30 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification (excluding some non-production sites) *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification Waste Volume GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. (t) Domestic Overseas Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH 2,500 2,201 Glory Global Solutions Inc. 2,119 1,991 2,000 1,716 1,578 1,385 1,500 1,266 1,295 Zero-Emission Sites (Domestic) 891 758 1,000 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 500 Number of 853 816 696 825 820 8 8 8 8 8 sites 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. Human resources Employees Data 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Male 2,837 2,832 2,882 3,000 3,016 Number of Female 407 414 432 447 457 employees Total 3,244 3,246 3,314 3,447 3,473 Male 18.7 19.8 20.1 20.1 20.1 Average years Permanent employees Female 17.8 18.2 18.4 18.8 18.9 of employment Total 18.6 19.6 19.9 19.9 19.9 Male 42.2 43.2 43.6 43.8 43.9 Average age Female 40.2 40.7 41.1 41.5 41.7 Total 41.9 42.9 43.3 43.5 43.5 Semi-regular and Number of contract employees., Total 435 419 380 379 354 employees etc 41 Glory CSR Report 2020 Number and the Ratio of Employee Turnover Number and Ratio of Employees Who Utilized Re-employment System (Persons) Number of employee turnover Ratio of employee turnover (%) (Persons) Number of Number of employees who Ratio of employee（％） retired employees utilized re-employment system turnover 100 2.5 150 100 2.10 94.0 80 2.0 120 87.2 87.2 88.1 80 1.36 60 1.5 90 64.1 60 1.02 1.11 73 0.96 59 40 1.0 60 50 47 40 47 47 52 47 41 39 41 33 35 38 20 0.5 30 25 20 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Number of New Graduate Hires and Ratio of Female Ratio of Days Taken Paid Leave (Persons) Male Female Ratio of female new graduate hires (%) (%) 200 25 100 21.2 19.6 160 18.6 20 75 65.8 66.7 66.7 64.6 59.6 120 13.1 15 12.5 102 91 19 50 80 12 10 66 66 56 47 47 14 13 7 79 83 25 40 5 49 52 53 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave and Ratio of Number of Managers and Ratio of Female Managers Employees Who Returned to Work after Taking Childcare Leave (Persons) Male Female Ratio of female managers (%) (Persons) Male Female Ratio of employees who returned to (%) 2,400 1.6 work after taking childcare leave 1.40 1.49 1.57 80 100 100 100 100 100 1,800 1.05 1.06 1.2 92 60 75 51 1,200 1,047 1,041 1,070 1,076 1,086 0.8 44 11 11 15 16 17 40 50 31 31 600 0.4 47 43 21 20 25 1,036 1,030 1,055 1,060 1,069 29 30 17 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 4 1 2 1 4 0 0 * Data for certain fiscal years have been recalculated retroactively for improved accuracy. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Number and Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Annual Actual Working Hours Per Employee (Persons) Number of employees Ratio of employees with (%) with disabilities disabilities FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 200 3.0 Actual working hours 2.29 2,088 2,058 2,032 2,020 2,004 2.26 2.24 2.23 2.23 (hour / year) 150 113 112 112 117 110 Training Expenditures 100 1.5 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 50 Training expenditures 208 225 245 248 189 (millions of yen) 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Training expenditures per employee 64,118 69,316 73,929 71,947 54,420 * Includes data from GLORY Products Ltd., GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd., GLORY (yen / person) System Create Ltd., and GLORY Mechatronics Ltd. Glory CSR Report 2020 42 ESG Data Ratio of Employees in Union Lost Time Injury Severity Rate FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.020 Ratio of employees in 54.5 55.7 55.4 55.3 55.8 union (%) 0.010 0.010 Number of Occupational and Commuting Accidents 0.004 0.003 0.003 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.001 Number of 0 occupational 17 19 10 8 11 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) accidents * This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 Number of hours worked. commuting 15 18 13 18 17 Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total actual working hours accidents × 1,000 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 1.5 Social Initiatives Social initiatives expenditures 0.93 1.0 0.80 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.53 Social initiatives 0.5 expenditures 18 22 15 21 45 (millions of yen) 0.40 0.40 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 Social Evaluation Evaluation related to CSR (achievements in FY2019) ▪ Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series ▪Included in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index ▪Included in the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index THE INCLUSION OF GLORY LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A ▪Recognized as the Certified Health ▪Received a 3.5 star rating from the SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF and Productivity Management NIKKEI Smart Work Management GLORY LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI Organization 2020 Survey INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. MSCI ESG Research https://www.msci.com/esg-investing 43 Glory CSR Report 2020 Third-Party Opinion unfavorable information. The company reports on the environmental aspects and reveals the number of violations with respect to compliance, internal reporting, and human rights issues (including zero incidents) as well. This ensures the integrity of reporting and is beneficial for managing risks. Masahiko Kawamura Director/Senior Chief Research Fellow, Sun Report Content: The Need to Achieve a High Messe Innovative Network Center (Sinc) Senior Advisor, Sun Messe Co., Ltd. Degree of Integration between Glory’s CSR Visiting Researcher, NLI Research Institute Materiality and SDGs I focused on two topics regarding the report’s content. Report Composition: The Company Should Pursue One is the Special Report: Establishing a New Style of Cash Global CSR Management Circulation. It features Glory’s global partnerships for the next The overall composition follows the concise pattern that was 100 years in response to mega-trends such as technological determined by last year’s revision. It is particularly noteworthy innovations like AI and IoT, cashless systems, and the that the section “Major CSR Initiatives in the Value Chain” diversification of payment methods. These trends specifically under “Glory’s CSR” has been revamped, perhaps in line with involve self-service kiosks, cash-out services, and a cash my recommendations for last year’s report. settlement platform. I think these are bold in terms of creating new business models and values that address the ongoing This is an effort to understand the impact on society and integration of financing and distribution that characterizes the the environment of the Glory Group’s activities across its 21st century. entire value chain in terms of the 169 SDG targets to clarify the relevant issues to be addressed. Initiatives for helping to On the other hand, a considerable number of people achieve the SDGs have been laid out with respect to each across the world do not have credit cards or access to the stakeholder, from the perspective of maximizing the positive Internet. In Western countries, addressing this social issue has impact and minimizing the negative. gained attention as a corporate social responsibility of the financial and distribution industries. I recommend exploring Still unclear, however, is how the latest SDG value chain solutions with business partners from the planning stages of mapping relates to Glory’s CSR Material Issues identified in development. 2018. As I shall elaborate later, this creates the impression of two separate standards at work. The other topic is the company’s SDG value chain mapping. While the effort itself is commendable, it is not necessarily Glory already has a global presence, with overseas sales consistent with Glory’s existing CSR Material Issues. While the accounting for nearly half of total sales. In that sense, it is results of initiatives and targets for the 11 Material Issues are commendable that in this report a whole page was allocated presented, other issues in the value chain are placed under to describing the company’s efforts related to respect for different categories. The SDGs require companies to identify human rights. Also noteworthy is that the Group has been issues in the value chain that are of material importance to addressing the UK Modern Slavery Act for some time and to resolving social issues and to link them with ongoing efforts the extent that the board of its British subsidiary has issued a in their core operations. To that end, I recommend that Glory statement. incorporate the SDG perspective to significantly revise its current material, which is now three years old. In connection with this, there is a pressing need for Glory to develop its global CSR management and associated report, as In view of Glory’s transformation this year into a company I pointed out last year. Apart from overseas topics, the report’s with an Audit & Supervisory Committee, I think this also offers content remains centered on activities in Japan. Again, I a good opportunity from the perspective of governance to recommend the establishment of a Global CSR Committee. strategically redefine its management risks and opportunities. I look forward to further enhancement in Glory’s CSR This year’s report should also be recognized for disclosing management. Glory’s Response We are very grateful to Mr. Kawamura for offering his valuable remarks on our CSR for the second consecutive year. The Glory Group is aggressively developing businesses in the final fiscal year of the 2020 MediumTerm Management Plan. The realization of a new style of cash circulation, as noted by Mr. Kawamura, is indeed a key initiative in our overseas business, and we are working with three business partners, Acrelec Group S.A.S. (France), SOCASH PTE. LTD. (Singapore), and Cash Payment Solutions GmbH (Germany), to resolve social issues that include providing people with points of access to cash. We will also boost our efforts to harness the Glory Group’s technological strengths in order to address new social issues arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Masashi Michishita Senior Executive Officer, Currently, we are formulating the next Medium-Term Management Plan and revising Glory’s CSR GLORY LTD. Material Issues. We will take your opinions and recommendations to heart in our effort to further promote CSR management throughout the Glory Group. Glory CSR Report 2020 44 GLORY LTD. Corporate Communications Department, Management Strategy Headquarters 1-3-1 Shimoteno, Himeji, Hyogo 670-8567, Japan Phone: +81-79-297-3131 corporate.glory-global.com
