20 SUSTAINABLE FIRST AID AP-Services CONTENTS 02 PREFACE BY FOUNDER ALLAN PEDERSEN 03 THE COMPANY The Customer, The Products and Services 04 GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights, Labour Rigths, Environment case in-house productio, Anti Corruption 09 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being case mentorshoppen, Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production case give and take, Goal 13 Climate Action case increasing our impact on co2 emissions, Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions case transparency PREFACE I am pleased to confirm that AP Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. AP services also works focused towards implementing the SDG´s in all our matters. This is our seventh Communication on Progress, in which we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Allan Pedersen Founder AP-Services 02 THE COMPANY THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We provide lifesaving purposes as well as knowledge on how to properly use our equipment. AP Services is focusing on saving lives and limbs. Since 2004 we have AP Services is able to manage and develop solutions that are caredeveloped customized solutions for exposed environments such as fully adapted to customer needs, thanks to our continuous professiooffshore industries, catastrophes and conflict areas. nal first-hand experience in medicine, pre-hospital care, and work with industrial safety, taking advantage of a network of the world’s best Our mission is to reduce the loss of life and limbs and increase the manufacturers of equipment. treatment options for people whose lives or health are in danger, by developing and delivering pre-hospital emergencyand tactical meOur products are a wide range of prehospital equipment, our mantra dical equipment and solutions. is to save lives and limbs before reaching the hospital. Making first responders capable of providing crucial lifesaving treatment before THE CUSTOMER the rescue team arrives at the scene. By creating publicly accessible As a trusted advisor and partner AP Services has developed solutions equipment such as AED´s or Bleeding Control Kits, we enhance the for UNHCR, UNICEF, EEAS, International Federation Red Cross, Unichance of stopping crucial accidents and their consequences as quickted Nations and NATO. ly as possible. In cooperation with suppliers and customers, we deliver customized solutions that fit the needs of the rare and difficult environments our Due to the seriousness we have to our products and field of knowledclients operate in. ge, we know that customized solutions increase the effectiveness of the pre-hospital treatment by first responders. Therefor we work with a constant innovation on how to carefully and intelligently create kits and rescue bags, so they meet the complex needs of the individual purposes. 03 GLOBAL COMPACT AP Services support the UN Global Compact agreement and will in the Every year we offer medical products with a limited or extended life following lay out our initiatives in regards of the Global Compact´s four cycle, free of charge, to rescue personnel for training purposes. principles in relation to our core business. We know the importance of being able to work with a real Tourniquet HUMAN RIGTHS instead of pretending it was there. AP Services care for adherence to human rights, it constitutes a signiPre-hospital equipment is vital to the treatment of wounds and injuries ficant element of corporate responsibility in AP Services. We believe that valuable medical equipment should never go to waste We wish to promote general human rights and work to promote bettherefor being able to train with the correct equipment might enhance ter health care through utilizing advanced technology, modernized the quality of treatment and knowledge that can make the difference equipment and education from highly trained specialists. Saving lives between life and death. is without doubt the very core of our business and in all simplicity what we aim to do every day. AP Services is committed to conducting all of We wish to point out that we are very focuses on equal rights and posits business in a legal and ethical manner to an ethos of transparency sibilities within our company. and our mission statement: Products to save life and limb. We have gender equality among all levels withing our company. At AP We are fully committed to support and respect the protection of inServices we believe in qualifications, values, experience and the will to ternationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that it is not comlearn, upon everything else. We do not judge upon gender, sexuality, plicit in human rights abuse. We support the Universal Declaration of race, political or religious beliefs. Human Rights and its conventions and the European Human Rights declaration written in the EU charter and are pertinently aware of its implications and our obligations therein. Our human rights policy together with associated procedures with violations remains under continual review. AP Services fully complies with the danish legislation regarding human rights. At AP Services we do not stand back to engage in programs that can increase the welfare and human rights within our field of knowledge. 04 LABOUR RIGHTS Our mission it to increase the pre-hospital treatment possibilities in dangerous and remote areas. This is primarily done through education of our employees to reduce risk for people whose lives are in danger. We prepare them if anything should happen with pre-hospital emergency treatment options and medical equipment, solutions, advice and most importantly training. We encourage all our stakeholders to match our high standards in respect of personal well-being, safety, training practices and working conditions. In accordance with work regulations, we conduct preliminary and periodic medical health checks for our employees and instructors. AP Services makes an effort to prevent accidents, injuries and physical disabilities in the workplace. Recognizing the risk, our clients and employees are exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar areas of operation. AP Services always meets all statuary health and safety obligations from the danish working environment legislation. In order to ensure a decrease in occupational accidents of our safety performance our standard measures vary from task to task in preventing accidents and injuries. Thus, various risk potentials vary significantly from one another. We keep detailed track records on work related accidents and will establish an accurate and verifiable baseline for future monitoring and benchmarking purposes so that we can make the necessary changes to bring it to a minimum. Further we have initiated a yearly employee satisfaction survey to make sure we support our employees and to improve working conditions on a continual basis. AP Services has committed to support a local NGO named ”MENTORSHOPPEN” (MS). MS is an NGO that facilitates volunteers to become mentors to young fragile or insecure individuals that have difficulties finding their way in choice of career or stand in this world. The founder of AP Services Allan Pedersen has committed himself to be a mentor for a young unemployed individual who is now a part of our team here at AP Services. The main focus is to help, guide and support this young employee so he will feel valued by the company and all of its employees as well as strengthening the young employee in a business environment. Read more about this initiative in the case description under SDG 3. We believe minorities like fragile young people who has not yet found their place in career choices has the right to be supported and motivated to find their own way. 05 ENVIRONMENT A core principle in AP Services which always should be our number one priority, is that people comes first. That does not mean that sustainable and responsible use of resources is not important to AP Services. Despite the relatively small size of AP Services, our company policy is to decrease our organizational footprint and have minimal negative impact on the environment. AP Services recognizes its responsibility to do everything possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and take steps, however small, to realize that aim. In accordance to danish legislation we ensure responsible conduct We have made a lunch agreement among the employees, so they take within the company in regard to the environment. We do believe it is turn to do groceries and prepare the meals. important to protect the environment for future generations as well. By doing this ourselves we minimize waste of food as we manage what we shop. Are there any leftovers at the weekend, our employees take Our product catalogue consists of high-quality, multi-usage products. it home. Furthermore, we have established a green garden on our preThe products are manufactured to be durable and achieve long limises, where we grow fresh organic vegetables. This also minimizes the fetime cycles. Thereby we conserve resources. When we obtain new waste of food and contributes to a green and non-toxic environment on products, we focus specifically on durability. We have initiated a susour premises. tainable project to reduce our footprint on the environment. AP services is re-using packing material and cardboard boxes multiple times. We have a high focus on minimizing waste. Therefor we reuse boxes for We are separating re-usable waste products from non-reusable. In our sending out our products. Also, our waste is being carefully sorted to newly restored warehouse we are using Air to Air heating solution to make sure that what can be reused, will be reused. minimize Co2 outlet. We use only organic Fairtrade coffee, our water bottles are made from recyclable cardboard paper, and our paper towels has the certificate: The Our belief is that even the smallest step makes an impact in the greaNordic EcoLabel. ter picture. Monthly energy readings are now being collected at hour head quarter in Denmark in association with our newly established Lastly, we are well aware that transportation of goods has a highly negaCO2 program. AP services has implemented a grass roof on our office tive impact on the environment and Co2 emissions. Therefor we strive to building with the aim of boosting biodiversity as well as Co2 collectimake as many in-house solutions as possible. That will minimize the use on. In our headquarter in Denmark we have light sensors at all locatiof external services that needs to be transported to us afterwards. ons, so no electricity is unnecessarily turned on. 06 CASE IN-HOUSE PRODUCTION New regulations will soon be implemented in the danish medical industry. It means that all medical equipment sold in Denmark, are required to contain a danish leaflet describing the use of the product. We have an in-house graphic designer, who translates these leaflets and make them ready for the danish market. However, these still have to be printed and shipped to us. Therefor we have invested in a label printer, so we are able to print them ourselves, thereby avoiding transport of having them delivered to our headquarters. It might be a small step at first glance, however in the long run it will reduce a huge amount of transportation and thereby Co2 emission. 07 ANTI CORRUPTION AP Services has a zero-tolerance policy in regard to bribery and corruption and our policy will guide us to protect the company against risks in relation to fraud, bribery, corruption and other forms of unethical business conduct. This policy applies for all of our employees and all of the company’s business relationships and in all those countries where we conduct and operate our business. It is AP Services policy to comply and obey all laws, rules and regulations that concerns anti-corruption and anti-bribery, wherever AP Services may conduct its business and operates. The company is committed to take actions and affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in any form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. If anyone should be in doubt, be uncertain or apprehensive in a specific situation, it is the duty of our employees to address and approach the managing director. AP Services will continuously support its employee’s knowledge and understanding of anti-corruption, the company’s policy and code of conduct and will continue the effort to reinforce every step necessary to prevent corruption and bribery. At no point have any areas of concern arisen regarding corruption and the ethical delivery of our services or products. The company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to corruption or bribery. 08 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 09 AP Services is committed to work for the UN Sustainability Goals internships. The municipality did however inform Jeppe about MS. (SDG). We have carefully picked out four of the overall 17 goals. TheAt once he took contact and faster than he could google `available se four goals are highly relevant to our business and we see them as jobs´, Jeppe received an offer to come work at AP Services. goals, where we can make the biggest impact and contribution to the overall goal. In the following we will present cases directly related to Jeppe now works in our warehouse and is doing an excellent job at the individual goals, to illustrate some of the ways we work with them maintaining and packing our products, getting them ready for shipand try to improve and contribute to the overall movement. ping. The employment at AP Services has given Jeppe a breather. It has given him a safety net, a stable income and room to focus on figuring out what he should do in his career life. Jeppe was lucky to GOAL 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING contact MS right before the outbreak of Covid-19, as thousands of peOur core business is located within this goal. As we, everyday, provide ople have lost their jobs, Jeppe has found stability and security. `I have and create products that will increase well-being and health, and save learned to think more creatively and how to solve a problem on my lives of people in danger or in vulnerable situations, we stand to proviown´ Jeppe says and continues: `I know that my managers are always de good health and well-being. Besides the obvious reasons, why we there for me and ready to help me. They have given me a place to be have picked Goal number three, we would like to present a concrete me, and for that I am always very thankful´. case as an example. Jeppe is now dreaming of starting an education as an industrial technician when possible. CASE MENTORSHOPPEN (MS) One thing is to save lives, but there is also another quite important GOAL 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND thing, namely, to ensure a life that is meaningful and creates value for PRODUCTION the individual person. AP Services aim to save lives everyday with our As already described, we find it highly important to reduce the negatiproducts, but we also want to take a stand and create value for indive footprints on the climate in our production. Therefore Goal 12, with viduals while living. Therefore, AP Services supports the local NGO its subgoals about reducing waste of food, reducing waste in general `MENTORSHOPPEN´ (MS) for young individuals who are either stuck in and motivation of acting sustainable within businesses, are all goals life, feel vulnerable or has not yet found their right spot in their career that we see ourselves working for. choice. Being young today means being faced with an overload of possibilities, at one hand a privilege, at the other hard to manoeuvre in. AP Services want to take an active part in helping young individuals CASE GIVE AND TAKE finding their goals in life and the right choice of career. When running a production company, footprints will undoubtedly be left on nature. Therefor the founder of the company Allan Pedersen has taken on the AT AP Services we believe that when we take something, we also need role of mentoring a young man named Jeppe, who was not sure what to give something back. We are working to reduce the impact produceducation to choose or what direction his career should take. Jeppe tion have on our climate and biodiversity, and while we do so, we have had tried to apply for several jobs without luck and he was becoming a decided to start giving. part of a system, where the municipality placed him in various 10 AP Services have therefor invested in a large piece of land. The land GOAL 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG includes a protected lake, where biodiversity has its best terms. We INSTITUTIONS aim to use this land to plant trees. Trees are the best tool to get CO2 out of the atmosphere, an increase in trees will create clean water, We have chosen goal 16 as one of our main focus points within the SDmore space for animal and insects to live in and a richer life for plants. G´s, as we have a zero tolerance for corruption, extortion and bribery. And for every 2 ton of Co2 AP services admits into the atmosphere AP Services has developed a Code of Conduct that we expect our we plant a tree. The calculation of Co2 admittance will be based upon constituencies to follow when we work together. The Code of Conduct project Zeros co2 calculator. contains the expectations that we have towards our suppliers, to obey the anti-corruption laws and regulations. It is important to us that we and our constituencies all abide by these regulations to ensure a more GOAL 13 CLIMATE ACTION fair and sustainable trade/business. The Code of Conduct can be acClimate action is many things, even small steps can make a positive cessed on our website www.ap-services.dk. impact on the environment. Therefor everyone should play a part in changing our negative impact on the environment. AP Services is a small company with six employees, but we do still believe that the CASE TRANSPARENCY things we do also have a say in the big picture. Therefor we have choAP Services wishes to be a transparent business, we have nothing to sen Goal 13 as one of our main focus points. The following case will hide. We want our constituencies to be able to see us as trustworthy, describe an initiative that we will implement in our future environmentherefore we believe that transparency is a key. We have therefore tal effort. We are excited to see in a year, if we have succeeded and employed a communicator and media specialist that is establishing a how it has been. In the final chapter of this year’s report we have made marketing department. She will be in charge of documenting, showing a schedule that shows our future goals, especially focused on Goal 13 and creating this transparency for the company. The annual CoP report – Climate Action. is an excellent opportunity to be transparent and offers an opportunity to report about our successes and mistakes. AP Services is a company that offers lifesaving solutions and products, and it is therefore of great CASE INCREASING OUR IMPACT ON CO2 EMISSIONS value to us to be transparent in regards to our values and actions in We will, during the next year try, to implement a meatless day every regards of Global Compact and our SDG´s. It means so much to us, week in our lunchbreak. It is voluntarily for the employees whether that we have found it reasonable to create a fulltime position on this they want to participate or not, but we will highly motivate them to matter. take up the challenge. Food production is taking a large toll on our environment, and by reducing our use of meat, we hope to be able to take the first step towards reducing the CO2 emissions in regards of the food production industry. 11 FUTURE GOALS SHORT TERM GOALS LONG TERM GOALS One Meatless day per week Installation of solar panels in our headquarter In our lunch agreement we will strive to motivate all employees to inIt is our long term goal to be able to install solar panels in our HQ. We corporate a vegetarian/pescetarian meal per week. Every employee are would like to use the natures energy to run as much of our production responsible for planning and executing lunch every sixth week, by letas possible. ting the employee plan the lunch week themselves, we believe it will be more fun to come up with alternative lunch meals. Installing electric chargers for electric cars Planting trees and supporting biodiversity The danish Government are highly ambitious about electric transporFor every 2 ton of Co2 AP services admits into the atmosphere we plant tation. We therefore see it as a natural and responsible goal to install a tree. The calculation of Co2 admittance will be based upon project electric power stations for charging electric cars on our HQ-parking. Zeros co2 calculator. This will motivate employees to invest in electric cars. Invest in cardboard shredding machine for sustainable Avoid any chemicals in maintaining ground facilities packaging We will seek environmentally friendly solutions for maintaining our outWe will invest in more sustainable packaging solutions for fragile goods, door premisses. To make sure we do not poisen the underground. to avoid the use of bubblewrap. 12
