July 2020 LETTER FROM FBNHOLDINGS GROUP MD As we reﬂect on our business in 2019 and our view of the developments that will shape the new decade such as data analytics, digitalization, and artiﬁcial intelligence, our focus as a business has been geared towards the pursuit of dual objectives of enhancing the fundamentals of the business using these levers and ensuring that the institution continues to lead the market in sustainability. In furtherance of these objectives, I am pleased to report that we have fully automated the use of environmental, social, and governance management systems (“ESGMS”) framework in our operations and decision-making process. The automation of the ESGMS framework means that the journey of embedding sustainability within the Group is maturing and these eﬀorts would result in the eﬃcient and eﬀective screening of all transactions towards responsible lending and mitigate the associated environmental, social, and governance risks. For a business that has seen several evolutions in not just nationbuilding but human existence, we know that the requirements of yesterday's businesses are not the same as those in today's everevolving and increasingly connected world. Consequently, this process – which coincided with our 125th anniversary – is timely as it positions FBN Holdings to ensure the best possible value to its shareholders, clients, and other stakeholders. Our demonstrable stakeholder engagement and unwavering commitment to leading the agenda for nation-building also continue to pay oﬀ as shown by our 2019 sustainability results. This report highlights some of those commitments that are driven In driving the SPARK initiative, our employees through the Employee Giving & Volunteering programme have achieved a milestone of 40,000 hours of employees committing their time, skills, and resources to philanthropic activities. by our corporate responsibility & sustainability (CR&S) goals conservation. Some people might ask why the interest in across the various strategic platforms of Sustainable Finance & conservation? And what the environmental impact of our group Investments, People Empowerment, Community Support, and could be? It's because we acknowledge that ineﬃcient use of Environmental Sustainability. energy and paper however inconsequential some may consider it can be linked to climate change and its global eﬀects. As such, we We deepened our contributions in community support and are taking proactive steps to reduce our environmental impact in environmental sustainability through our values-based initiative our oﬃces and data centers whilst we continue to partner with the SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness). SPARK is the Nigeria Conservation Foundation (NCF), Nigeria's premier nonkey initiative of the Group that gets everyone truly busy during the governmental environment conservation foundation dedicated to CR&S. The CR&S as you may be aware is a week dedicated to giving nature conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria. and sharing by the entire staﬀ and stakeholders of the Group. This Since 1894, our objective of upholding the highest standards in is the third year since its inception and over 40 million people were corporate citizenship and creating value for the diverse reached; 50,000 lives in 8 countries impacted; while partnering stakeholder groups we serve has remained unchanged. with 50 charities /NGOs. Notwithstanding the results of our eﬀort in forging a better environment, we still strive to deepen innovative and inclusive In driving the SPARK initiative, our employees through the ﬁnancial solutions for our customers, enrich the lives of those in Employee Giving & Volunteering programme have achieved a the communities in which we operate, and minimize our milestone of 40,000 hours of employees committing their time, environmental impact in line with our goals as a corporate skills, and resources to philanthropic activities. organisation. Our commitment to improving the quality of life and ﬁnancial security of our customers and their families has remained Urum Kalu Eke undiluted in 2019. This positive impact is driven through GMD, sustainable products and services tailored to meet their needs in FBNHoldings line with our ﬁnancial inclusion goals. Contributing to environmental sustainability remains a key element of our CR&S strategic approach and at the heart of this drive is July, 2020 Human Rights 1. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE The Bank execute the career counseling through various activities PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED such as Youth Empowerment Series (3.0), UI Career Fair, etc. which are designed to equip school students with the knowledge HUMAN RIGHTS needed for career planning and fulﬁllment. Enhancing Human Rights through Financial Literacy and The Financial Literacy pillar is structured to empower secondary Collaborative Partnerships channeled towards Promoting students with the requisite ﬁnancial knowledge such as access Leadership and Ethics amongst Youths and Capacity Building for to quality ﬁnancial education to enable them make informed Stakeholders. choices on money matters and take eﬀective actions for their ﬁnancial wellbeing. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 26 underlines the signiﬁcance of education in the development of human Financial literacy is partly executed through our participation in personality. It also, underlines the signiﬁcance in the improvement the Global Money Week and World Savings Day. A day set-aside by of human rights and fundamental human freedom. In line with this the CBN, which is mandated to all banks to adopt over 30 fact, we have prioritized ﬁnancial education equipped in the assigned schools across the 6 geo-political zones in Nigeria to direction of personal growth. ensure ﬁnancial inclusion for the unbanked. The Bank delivers a teaching module in these schools to inculcate the savings culture We are committed to providing innovative ﬁnancial solutions to our in them which is designed by Junior Achievement Nigeria. customers. Our rich heritage and diversiﬁed businesses demonstrate our ability to evolve with our customers' ﬁnancial We partner with Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), a non-proﬁt needs, create value for our stakeholders and drive economic organisation to implement our FutureFirst programmme. JAN's growth across Africa. It is about continually putting our customers' programme aligns with FutureFirst's vision and based on the needs ﬁrst as well as enriching the lives of the communities where curriculum, we have positively assisted students in diﬀerent we live and work. It's about driving a sustainable business that locations across the country. contributes to the overall sustainable growth and development of the society while responsibly managing our environmental, social Through our partnership with JAN, senior secondary school and governance impacts in the process through the following students were provided with practical business experience under initiatives: three pillars of ﬁnancial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship. The FutureFirst Programme: There is no doubt that at FirstBank, the future is our most present priority. It is on this premise coupled The programme oﬀers an experiential supplement to the students' with our commitment to promote ﬁnancial inclusion in the country business and economics studies. It provides insights to how that we have consistently been implementing the 'FutureFirst” businesses are organised and operated; develop critical thinking, programme. It is a unique programme designed to ensure youth of speaking and leadership skills; understand the rewards of the free the nation are ﬁnancially independent through fulﬁlling careers and enterprise system; learn about career opportunities; and gain the right ﬁnancial knowledge. The programme is built around basic workforce-readiness skills. The programme also fosters a Career Counselling, Financial Literacy and Entrepreneurship. positive relationship between young people and the business community. The programme oﬀers an experiential supplement to the students to: Over the years, we have actively supported, participated and volunteered in the implementation of their various experiential Gain the tools and knowledge to make eﬀective and informed ﬁnancial management decisions and achieve programmes especially in the Company of the Year (COY) long-term ﬁnancial independence; Programme. Insights on how businesses are organized and operated; The COY programme brings secondary students together to form a company, choose a business name and elect company oﬃcers to Develop critical thinking, speaking and leadership skills and be oversee operations of the company for the program duration. It able to demonstrate the rewards of the free enterprise system; and teaches students to put theory into practice in order to fully understand what ﬁnancial literacy and entrepreneurship is. Make the right career choices and gain basic workforcereadiness skills. At the end of the program, the students that complete the program successfully will compete in the regional competition and will represent their school in the National Company of the Year The aim of the Career Counseling is to guide the students competition in Lagos. The winning school will go on to represent appropriately towards making the right career choices to prevent Nigeria in the African Regional Company of the year competition the wrong career move in future which could have long-term with other JA Member Nations in Africa. negative eﬀects. July, 2020 Consistently, the Bank has been sponsoring the National Company of the Year (NCOY) Competition as well as in the Africa level. The TC Achievers from Taidob College Abeokuta, Ogun state in Nigeria emerging as the winners of the Regional Company of the Year (RCOY) and the National Company of the Year (NCOY), competed with 10 other Junior Achievement member countries in Africa, notably from the Kingdom of Eswatini (Swaziland), Ghana, Zambia, Gabon, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Botswana, Kenya and South Africa at the COY Africa competition held in Accra, Ghana on Friday, December 6, 2019. The TC Achievers won four wards which includes Client Focus Award, Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, Facilitator of the Year Award and was second runner up, Company of the Year Award at the competition with an inventive Gas Leakage Detector which would go a very long way at solving the problem of ﬁre outbreaks due to gas leakages in homes, oﬃces, L-R: Simi Nwogugu, Executive Director, Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN); and industries. TC Achievers team; Enoch Vanderpuye, Country Team Lead, Marketing & Corporate Communications, FBNBank Ghana, subsidiary of FirstBank; TC Achievers team and staﬀ of JAN sponsored by FirstBank to represent Nigeria The FutureFirst programme has impacted over 85,000 secondary at the African Company of the Year (ACOY) competition held at Ghana. students, across the regions of the country including Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja with knowledge of ﬁnancial literacy and entrepreneurship. This programme recruited staﬀ volunteers from the Bank expending over 40,000 volunteering hours. This year, we joined JAN to celebrate a milestone -20 years – of II CFA UNIVERSITIES ETHICS CHALLENGE AND impact and the contribution they've made in promoting economic SAMUEL ASABIA CHAIR ON BUSINESS ETHICS growth and development in the country. We supported and participated in the activities to commemorate the day which are To demonstrate the Bank's values -EPICto Ethics, not limited to the Youth Leadership Conference as one of the Professionalism, Integrity and Customer Centricity to the inclusive speaker in a panel session. growth of Nigerians, as well as support youth education and drive nation building, the Bank has consecutively partnered with CFA Also, we were recognised of our continuous partnerships through Society for three years in its annual Universities Ethics Challenge. volunteering and donations, immense contribution to JAN's CFA Institute is a global, not-for-proﬁt association of investment success for over 20 years as a Board member. professionals is at the forefront of setting global standards and advocating for professional excellence that ultimately beneﬁts society by improving both investor protection and outcomes. The Ethics Challenge is one of the university outreach programs organised by CFA society Nigeria for university students. The competition embodies the mission of CFA institute to promote the highest standards of ethics, education, and professional excellence in the investment industry and this aligns with the CRS strategic approach and the objective of the Bank's Endowment programme – the Samuel Asabia Chair for Business Ethics at the University of Lagos. We believe that promoting ethics in business is not only important for the reputation of our brand, but also one of the solid pillars that eﬀectively support sustainable ﬁnancial institutions. CFA Institute's educational programs are designed to develop the Olufunke Smith, Group Head, Retail Banking, Lagos Island 1, FirstBank; (Second Left), Simi Nwogugu, ED, Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), next generation of investment professionals globally. The activities (Right); with the Winner, TC Achievers team and staﬀ of JAN at the National under the educational programs are carefully designed to promote Company of the Year (NCOY) competition held in Lagos. a high level of professionalism and ethical practices in investment research by students from universities and business schools through hands on mentoring and intensive training. Each participating university will be given an identical case study that focuses on ethical issues and problems that are prevalent in the local ﬁnancial market and the global best practices in dealing with ethical dilemma. The students will analyze the issues in the case study and provide recommendations. July, 2020 II CFA UNIVERSITIES ETHICS CHALLENGE AND 2. BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE SAMUEL ASABIA CHAIR ON BUSINESS ETHICS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. Our responsibilities to our people and stakeholders include The Ethics challenge Programme fosters unity amongst students protecting, respecting and upholding their rights. We believe our from participating universities in an avenue for networking, responsibilities go beyond legal compliance to moral obligations. discussion, analyzing of case study, problem solving and We ensure human rights are not abused and make it our recommending global best practices for the various case studies. responsibility not to get involved in the violations of human rights. The objective of this programme is to demonstrate the Bank's We are committed to dealing fairly with all our stakeholders which commitment to ethics, professional excellence, capacity building include our employees, customers, shareholders, government and inclusive growth of Nigerians and support for education agencies amongst others. amongst youths and the drive for ethical values. We do not encourage staﬀ to take advantage of each other or The Ethics Challenge held on Friday & Saturday, 15 -16 November manipulate one another based on superiority rather respect for 2019 in Abuja and Lagos for the regional and national levels each other's dignity is encouraged. Gender discrimination (as respectively at FirstAcademy, FirstBank's strategic platform for highlighted in our Diversity programme) and discrimination of competence development, knowledge management and workplace minority group is not allowed. Harassment of staﬀ in any form is culture change. The Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-ife strongly discouraged and culprits are usually handed over to the emerged the winner among 15 competing universities in Nigeria established disciplinary committees for sanctioning. with University of Lagos (UNILAG) and Covenant University coming ﬁrst runner up and second runner up respectively. Furthermore, the Bank maintains an organisational culture that encourages an open line of communication between superiors and subordinates. The Bank carries out induction for new staﬀ to acquaint them with values and vision of the Group so as to understand how to behave with other staﬀ in the course of their stay in the Bank. L-R: Ismail Omamegbe, Head, CR&S and Media & External Relations, FirstBank; Adeola Asabia, Member, Board of Trustees, Samuel Asabia Chair, Business Ethics, University of Lagos, FirstBank Endowment Programme; Banji Fehintola (CFA), President, CFA Society Nigeria at the regional level of the 2019 Ethics Challenge held in Lagos Chuma Ezirim, GE, e-Business and Retail Products, FirstBank, (fourth left) presenting to Mosunmola Adefarati, student, OAU and winner of the CFA Ethics Challenge 2019; Banji Fehintola, President, CFA Society Nigeria (second left); Folake Odunaiya, Ex-oﬃcio, CFA Society Nigeria (second right) and Quadri Lawal, Faculty Adviser, OAU (right) with other participating students of Obafemi Awolowo University, ile-ife at the CFA Award night held in Lagos. July, 2020 Labour Standards 1. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF etc). All these initiatives are strategically aimed at ensuring that ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF we have a workforce that is not only emotionally connected to our brand but also willing to eﬀortlessly champion the cause of the THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. brand. Also, as a matter of principle, the Group does not maintain Upholding Freedom of Association partnerships with any organization or group that uses forced or At FBNHoldings, we ensure that in everything we do, our people feel compulsory labour. We carry out intensive due diligence checks on a genuine sense of fairness, equality, freedom and participation. The our partners' employment policies before building relationships Group creates and sustains an environment that supports and with them. encourages human rights/freedom of association as well as collective bargaining. For instance, at FirstBank, employees have the 5. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION opportunities to belong to unions such as (ASSBIFI; NUBIFE) and OF CHILD LABOUR. the employees are at liberty to either become members or not. Management of the Bank hold quarterly meetings with the See principle 3 & 4 executives of these unions who are also representatives of staﬀ. 6. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF These meetings provide a platform for management and union to DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND discuss on all aspects of employees' employment relationship and OCCUPATION Empowering People and also serve as collective bargaining mechanism to resolve issues. Promoting Diversity and Inclusion FirstBank also practices a Pay for Performance Principle where The Group is committed to promoting and supporting diversity in bonuses are tied directly to staﬀ performance. the workplace. This includes cultivating an inclusive environment The Bank encourages staﬀ to hold regular meetings, engage in open that supports, accepts and values diﬀerences where everyone can discussions and consultations so as to engender ﬂow of information. achieve their potential. Across the Group, all employees get same remuneration regardless of gender or region. The Equal Opportunity Employer stance has been reinforced to guarantee employees the right to be treated without 2. BUSINESSES SHOULD ELIMINATE ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnicity, gender, age, COMPULSORY LABOUR disability, education, personalities, religion or experience. Furthermore, as part of the diversity management practice, several Elimination of All Forms of Forced labour training programmes and awareness sessions focused around In carrying out our day-to-day operations, we have a framework culture appreciation and building cross-cultural competence were designed to have the right people with the right skills doing the right oﬀered. In addition, religious and cultural holidays are job at the right time. We understand the importance of not only acknowledged and celebrated across the Group. having the right talents at the right places, but also an environment where people are willing to work without coercion. Staﬀ of the Group To this end, we ensured as reﬂected in our diversity policy that our are hired based on their free will and there is no forced, bonded or staﬀ are from diverse backgrounds. In addition, driving gender involuntary prison labour. Staﬀ are allowed to resign based on the equality remained a key aspect of the Group's culture and in 2018 terms in their contracts. We have been able to achieve this by we had male to female ratio at 55.6% and 44.4%. For 2019, we developing the right policies and frameworks, which have helped had male to female ratio at 61% and 39% at FBNHoldings ensure that our recruitment process is carried out in line with global best practice. This is devoid of all forms of bias such that potential Employee engagement is critical to our success as a Group and we employees make recruitment-based decision without fear. have established an engagement and commitment strategy, noting the peculiarities attributable to the industry and the various In the case of conﬂict amongst staﬀ, inquiries are made regarding locations of our individual entities. To ensure that employees the dispute or conﬂict. The outcome of this investigation is the basis internalise the right behaviours necessary for achieving the brand in which disciplinary committees of the diﬀerent companies within promise and ultimately, the strategic objectives of the the Group resolves such issues. Through this, the rights of staﬀ are organisation, some of the avenues for staﬀ engagement within the upheld and no single individual is treated unfairly. year 2019 are Group Synergy with executives; manpower planning and resourcing for critical roles in the Group as well as culture For existing employees, we have established a clear framework for change for the FBNHoldings Group. We also employ persons with escalation. Our people can freely relate with their Human Resource disabilities; one of them is the President of the Nigeria Association (HR) business partners on any issue around supervisor-subordinate of the Blind (NAB). We support the NAB's annual white cane and relationship. We have also reinforced acceptable workplace safety day where we donate white canes for the visually impaired behaviours through a series of campaigns (Jerk behavior campaign, and also participate in the Charity Walk through the Group's Employee Giving Volunteering Scheme. July, 2020 Our Employee Giving and Volunteering programme was set up to across the country which involve FirstBank staﬀ coordinating encourage employees to give something back to the community, sessions that will develop values that guide their personality and and to instil in them the integral corporate culture of giving. encourage students to develop and practice compassion, empathy The programme is structured around two elements: and giving; supporting women empowerment initiatives, as well as advancing social engagement by providing vision screening and Volunteering: this involves employees volunteering their time and aﬀordable eye glasses for women with low income during the skills to support philanthropic activities. This provides them with Giving Tuesday which was carried out across communities in opportunities to use their capabilities in varied contexts, develop Nigeria's six geo-political zones and the Bank's subsidiaries in new skills, partner with people within and outside the Bank, and United Kingdom and Middle Africa. The programme reﬂects the expand their horizons. FirstBank's brand promise to always put its customers ﬁrst while reinforcing the Bank's role in driving sustainable development in Giving: this involves employees donating material resources to the the communities where it operates. less privileged including cash. Our giving is mainly driven through a crowd funding approach. Crowd funding enables large numbers of The pillars of SPARK which include compassion; civility; charity; people to make small contributions or donations to a cause. and connection is ingrained in the DNA of the Bank's culture. Employee giving, and volunteering is open to all employees; for some projects, a subset of employees who possess the required Other initiatives supported by the Group in 2018 as part of the expertise are targeted. For example, the FutureFirst ﬁnancial Hope Rising programme amongst others includes: literacy and career counselling programme is driven by employees with the appropriate skills and knowledge. In addition, employees Support to Down Syndrome Foundation Inter House Sports are encouraged to begin and promote their personal initiatives and donation to Down Syndrome Foundation from Proceeds of such initiatives are often recognised and rewarded by the Bank for Gift Policy outstanding performance. Support to the Nigeria Society for the Blind for its 2018 May Hope Rising Progamme Ball Dinner & Dance Hope Rising Initiative is one of the key programmes of the Group designed to empower people living with disabilities. Its key Chinwe Bode-Akinwande Foundation (CBA): Fundraising objective is engendering inclusivity and diversity through Charity Walk Tagged Walk4Hope to Support Underprivileged education, advocacy and enlightenment; skills acquisition training; Widows & their Children as well as inclusive events. Our main focus is creating awareness on Down syndrome and how to live with Down syndrome. This is Pacelli School for Blind and Partially Sighted Children enhanced by the Hope Rising drama series which focuses on Support to Sickle Cell Foundation to commemorate the World highlighting the challenges of Down syndrome and exploring eﬀorts Sickle cell day 2019 at combating the disorder whilst providing the platform for advocacy and public enlightenment. Support to National Association of the Blind The CR&S week is designed to oﬀer employees and other Support to Rotary Club of Uyo on their humanitarian project stakeholders opportunities to give their time & resources to for the year ended 2019-2020 deﬁned causes. An ampliﬁcation of the Bank's Employee Giving & Volunteering Programme, the Week focuses mainly on activities to Support to Red Cross Clinic promote the SPARK initiative which includes; giving and visits to orphanage/less privileged homes/IDPs; Career Counseling Day. The Support of the Hope for Women in Nigeria Initiative on Youth maiden edition held in September 2017, the second edition took skills empowerment programme(YSAP) place in June 2018, while the third edition held in July 2019 with Support the Federal Nigeria Society for the Blind's 2019 May the following themes; “Promoting Kindness; Putting You First”, Ball “Touching lives; You First” and the 2019 'Ripples of Kindness, Putting You First' respectively. Support of the Nigerian Stock Exchange 2018 Edition of the Corporate Challenge The CR&S week is specially designed to show kindness in our society and the events are tailored towards re-orientating the Support to International Women Society (IWS) Widows Trust society along the right values; encouraging citizenry to Fund Annual January Feast & Fundraising Event intentionally create positive impact in their immediate environment. The wide range of activities of the 2019 FirstBank Support to Wesley School for the blind CR&S week underscores SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness), a values-based initiative by the Bank which focuses on Support to Little Saints Orphanage creating and reinforcing a conscious mindset of showing compassion, empathy as well as giving to others. It is aimed at Support to Arrows of God Orphanage inspiring people to make a diﬀerence as it is designed to promote Support the Bestman Games Limited on its 2019 children's kindness to one another. It is executed through a range of Finance Fair strategically designed activities include, Nice Comments day through consciously say nice things about others, driving welfare Support to over 600,000 internally displaced Persons in through giving and visits to orphanages/less privileged homes and North East and Benue ﬂood victims and over 22 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps. The Bank also charities/orphanage homes introduced the SPARK initiative to secondary school students July, 2020 World Savings Day: Tomoloju Tosin, Labour Prefect, Fiwasaye Girls Grammar School (left); Ademola Fagbelu, Group Head, Retail Banking L-R: Matthew Daniel, student of Wesley School; Olusegun Alebiosu, Chief Group, West 2, FirstBank (second left); Agbeyene Hope, Head Girl, Risk Oﬃcer, FirstBank; Seyi Olusanya, student of Wesley School; Dr. Fiwasaye Girls Grammar School (third left); Chuma Ezirim, Group Adesola Adeduntan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, FirstBank; Olayiwola Adeola, Executive, e-Business and Retail Products/Representative of CEO, student of Wesley School and Mr. Kehinde Alimi, Principal, Wesley School 1, FirstBank (fourth left); Olajuyigbe Folawewo (second right); Teniola during FirstBank's visit to Wesley School for the Hearing Impaired at Catherine (right), both counselors and other students of the school, Surulere, Lagos as part of activities marking FirstBank's CR&S week 2019. during the FirstBank visit to Fiwasaye Girls Grammar School, Akure, Ondo State, to commemorate the 2019 World Savings Day Celebration in promoting Financial Literacy. Staﬀ of VisionSpring handing the Branded eye glass to one of the beneﬁciaries during the free eye screening and distribution of glasses to widows in partnership with International Women's Society. L-R: Okereke Eucharia, one of the Beneﬁciary; Olabisi Alokolaro, ChairPerson, IWS/Widows Trust Fund; Bashirat Odunewu, Group Executive, Abdullahi Ibrahim, Executive Director, Public Sector Group, FirstBank; Energy and Infrastructure, FirstBank; Nkoli Ogbolu, President International Shehu Aliyu, Group Executive, Retail Banking Group (North), FirstBank Women Society Nigeria; Atinuke Adeyinka, Senior Executive ,VisionSpring during a courtesy visit to School for the Blind, Jabi, Abuja as part of the Nigeria; Aderomu Mary and Owolabi Esther, both beneﬁciaries; at the activities to celebrate the CR&S Week. FirstBank Commemoration of the global Giving Tuesday in partnership with the International Women Society and VisionSpring to carry out a free eye screening and distribution of eye glasses to 500 women held at IWS Skills Acquisition Centre in Lagos. July, 2020 Environment 7. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY We are constantly seeking opportunities to manage environmental APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES and social footprints through the use of alternative energy sources and the reduction of energy consumption for and from business activities and operations. These have included solar powered ATM Embedding Environmental Sustainability through Responsible machines. Lending Staﬀ of the Bank are also encouraged to engage in teleconferencing in order to minimize traveling and carbon The indirect impact of our activities focuses largely on responsible emission from vehicles. The Bank also invests in innovative lending. Responsible lending is about holding our customers to technologies that lead to higher carbon eﬃciencies and ﬁnancial account by ensuring that the customers we lend to minimize their savings. environmental impacts in their business operations through our environmental, social and governance management frameworks. FIRSTBANK CONSERVATION PROGRAMME To enable the Group drive responsible lending, we have put in place The FirstBank Conservation initiative is one of the key programmes an environmental, social and governance management system of the Group and is part of our long-term approach to promoting (ESGMS). This guide ensures that all transactions that FirstBank is sustainability which involves minimizing our direct and indirect considering funding include adequate provision for actions impacts on the environment. The conservation initiative employs necessary to prevent, control and mitigate negative impacts on the the tree planting and students' conservation clubs as vehicles to environment and communities, and to improve environmental drive environmental protectnio and conservation. quality. For eﬃciency, FirstBank is aligning the ESGMS process The key objectives are: with its new credit workﬂow. · To minimize carbon footprint through planting of trees. · To create awareness of the need to preserve wild life and The relevant implementation documents such as the biodiversity among school children. environmental, social and governance risks screening checklist (which is to be completed by a relationship manager and veriﬁed · To educate and build environmental-conscious students by analyst against the EIA report are currently in use which is in through partnerships with reputable NGOs and institutions. compliance with the local & international regulation and best practices. FirstBank Conservation Initiative is implemented in partnership with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation. We adhere to international guidelines for engaging in the three priority sectors, Agriculture, Power and Oil & Gas. Sustainability performance management and reporting is a key component of the sustainability strategy as it enables the Bank to eﬀectively 9. BUSINESSES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DIFFUSION measure, manage and report its sustainability performance and OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES also meet its NSBP obligations to report a wide range of metrics. While we haven't been able to kicks-start the performance Investing in Environmentally Friendly Technologies management, reporting and implementation tool to make reporting eﬃcient; more eﬀective, we have adopted clearly As part of our eﬀorts to encourage environmentally friendly deﬁned KPIs that align with international best practice such GRIs. technologies, we have been investing in Green IT initiatives. FirstBank has actively reduced the size of its data centre using rationalisation and virtualisation techniques. The Bank also has an on-going partnership with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation, 8. BUSINESSES SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO Nigeria's premier non-governmental environment conservation P R O M OT E G R E AT E R E N V I R O N M E N TA L foundation dedicated to nature conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria and actively supports its activities annually. RESPONSIBILITY Innovating for a sustainable green economy Initiatives to Promote Environmental Responsibility Part of the Group's long-term approach to sustainability is minimising its direct and indirect impact on the environment. This has informed our eﬀorts at conserving energy to reduce global warming by reducing its CO2 emissions; as well as conserving resources – a key aspect being through reduction in the use of paper in our business operations, anchored on our print optimisation programme. July, 2020 FirstBank Agric Expo 2019 In furtherance of FirstBank's commitment to the growth of the agricultural sector and its contribution to the nation's Gross Domestic Product. The FirstBank Agric Expo held on Friday, 30 August 2019 at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos. The 2019 edition – the third in the series – was themed “Agricultural Value Chain – Spotlighting Opportunities and Managing Risks” had Professor Benedict Oramah, President of AFREXIM Bank as the Keynote Speaker. The annual FirstBank Agric Expo, launched in 2017 provides the lead in national discourse on sustainable agriculture value-chain as a substantial source of Nigeria's economic development, improved contribution to her balance of trade as well as foreign exchange. The 2019 edition hosted over 600 delegates and over 60 exhibitors to display the latest technology in farm equipment, tools and machineries as well as packaged ﬁnished agricultural produce, logistics and supply, thereby keeping the participants and sundry agribusiness practitioners abreast with new opportunities in the Agricultural industry. Besides the plenary session, the expo featured three (3) Masterclasses with in-depth analysis on speciﬁc areas of Agribusiness, facilitated by enterprising Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). The Masterclass facilitators include Mr. Leonard Anyanwu, Group Executive Director, Saro International Limited; Mr. Segun Ogunwale, Team Lead, Kominity Digital and Mr. Bamidele Ayemibo Managing Director, 3T Impex Trade Centre, who provided insight as well as share success stories and experiences. Our consistency in convening the FirstBank Agric Expo, which is in its third consecutive edition, is a demonstration of our commitment to building the agribusiness economy which is capable of delivering sustained prosperity by meeting domestic food security goals, generating exports, supporting sustainable income and creating employment opportunities. Remi Oni, Executive Director, Corporate Banking Group, First Bank of Nigeria Limited (left); Babajide Sodipe, Representative of President/Chairman African Export Import Bank (AfreximBank) (second left); Emmanuel Ijewere, Representtative of Group Vice President, Dangote Industries Limited (third left); Gbenga Shobo, Deputy Managing Director, First Bank of Nigeria Limited (third right); Sabo Nanono, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and Adesola Adeduntan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, during the third annual FirstBank Agric Expo in Lagos. July, 2020 Anti-Corruption 10. BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST framework and also leveraging the quality of its workforce, the Group has experienced continued growth in its various business CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING operations in line with its strategic priority, which is 'to increase its EXTORTION AND BRIBERY share of the customer's wallet in the chosen market'. Among other things, the ability to deliver and sustain this mandate is dependent Corporate Ethics and Culture on staﬀ commitment, engagement and ability. In addition to staﬀ competence, the conduct of the Group's workforce remains The Group is committed to working against all forms of corruption professional, hinged on well-established ethical and code of including bribery and extortion. To demonstrate our commitment conduct frameworks that guide expected behaviour. to anticorruption, the code of ethics rolled out in FirstBank in 2007 remained in force during 2016. This is driven from senior leaders who have worked relentlessly to The board of directors, in conjunction with its committees, build/develop ethical culture within the Group. This ethical culture oversees compliance programmes by: is reinforced by rewarding employees who constantly embody the values and integrity which the Group upholds. Setting the tone at the top, both internally and externally, and promulgating a compliance charter or values statement Employees are regularly sensitised to express behavioural patterns through several internal campaigns aimed at ensuring that our Focusing attention on critical risk areas people operate in line with our approved standards. Ensuring the institutionalization of the whistleblower helpline process and taking active control when appropriate Working with management to incorporate leading practices (e.g., protocols for investigating complaints, helpline statistics, and internal reporting). To inﬂuence culture and tone, the board: · Reviews metrics and key performance indicators with respect to the company's compliance with law and policy · Maintains a deep understanding of the compliance monitoring, testing, and issue resolution processes · Assesses the adequacy of management's response to speciﬁc issues and areas of internal control weakness. Management takes the lead in developing tools to establish the company's culture, through messaging, updating, and distributing codes of conduct, communicating helpline processes, and carrying out annual cultural surveys to test the eﬀectiveness of the programme. The board and management, working together, have been able to strengthen ethics and compliance in the organisation, thus leading to higher-quality information, process optimisation, improved eﬀectiveness, a protected reputation, and reduced costs. The Group prides itself in having one of the most compliant and leading holding company structures in the industry. Its governance structure/framework is unparalleled with Board and management appointments, including transitions at executive levels, made with ease and devoid of rancour and business disruptions. Our approach to doing business in the group is based on high ethical standards and strict adherence to all provisions of the code of conduct guidelines. With an enviable corporate governance July, 2020 Customer Complaints and Resolution A business is nothing without its customers. Recognising this, we In 2019, payment reversals relating to failed airtime recharges were aim to provide customer experience that exceeds expectations. In successfully introduced within an approved threshold of N0line with our commitment, we continue to review and innovate, N5,000, which was subsequently upgraded to N0-N10,000, as introducing new initiatives to improve our customer service this forms the bulk of the complaints in this category. delivery. The following initiatives were introduced in 2019: Platform Upgrade: Our Customer Relationship Management Self-Service Machines: Faster transaction time is a key driver tool, CRM 365, was upgraded with an enhanced case management for improving customer experience. Over 70% of our customers module. This tool provides improved notiﬁcation and escalation want to make cash deposits of less than N200,000. To meet this functions. In addition, the Business Performance Management need, self-service machines were introduced for quick deposits. System platform was upgraded, resulting in reduced log time for The Teller Cash Recyclers (TCRs) are automated cash deposit failed transactions. machines that oﬀer instant deposit functions. In 2019, to facilitate faster customer deposits and reduce customer waiting Complaints Handling Framework: Our review of the time, 97 TCRs were installed across our branches. In 2020, the framework increased Line Executives' awareness of issues plan is to build on this success by installing additional TCRs. impacting customers, especially cases involving large ﬁnancial transactions. Mobile Notiﬁcations: Customer security is taken seriously; as such, customers are required to safeguard their account details British Standards Institute Recertiﬁcation: In line with our and ensure up-to-date identiﬁcation details. However, in some commitment to improving standards, FirstBank was recertiﬁed as cases, not all details are updated. In compliance with the banking ISO 9001:2015 Complaints Quality Management Systemsregulations, aﬀected customer accounts are expected to be compliant for another two years. frozen, with a complicated manual process required to unfreeze the accounts. To avert this, our customers are notiﬁed in advance through our FirstMobile app when their account details require Complaints can be lodged to the Bank updates. Early notiﬁcation reduces complaints relating to frozen in one of the following ways: accounts and improves customer experience. · By completing a Complaints form on our website Real-Time Branch Experience Surveys: All our 615 branches www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com and 144 quick service points in Nigeria can now be surveyed directly using real-time feedback from customers on our quality of · By calling First Contact on 0700FIRSTCONTACT service. This is an add-on to our mystery shopping exercise to (0700-34778-2668228), 01-4485500, 0708-062-5000 provide real-time feedback from customers on their experience. · By writing to us: Complaints Management Unit To improve the complaints handling process in 2019, several First Bank of Nigeria Limited initiatives were successfully implemented such as; 35 Marina P.O. Box 5216 Reversing Failed Transactions: Through our e-channels, Lagos, Nigeria FirstBank processes over 4 billion transactions, totaling over N1bn daily. These channels have consistently contributed signiﬁcantly to · SMS: Send an SMS to 30012 the Bank's bottom line. Furthermore, the e-channels have signiﬁcantly reduced the number of customer visits to our · Social Media: branches, thereby reducing congestion, and encouraging online Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ﬁrstbankofnigeria banking transactions from customers' comfort zones. If Twitter: @ﬁrstbankngr transactions fail on our e-channels, it can cause dissatisfaction to Instagram: @ﬁrstbanknigeria our customers, especially if the funds are not reversed quickly. This can lead to increased customer complaints and a return to branch visits for future transactions. In line with our commitment to delivering outstanding customer service, we are actively exploring the reasons for transaction failures, and developing solutions that will eliminate such, thereby improving customer experience. Quick resolution of complaints relating to failed airtime recharges and bill payments can be complex. However, resolution is key, as adverse social media comments can impact the reputation of a company. July, 2020 Whistle Blowing Procedure At FBNHoldings, a culture where people can speak up is promoted. The whistleblower, whether internal or external, may elect to Individuals are encouraged to raise concerns about perceived disclose information directly to any of the listed regulatory bodies wrongdoing or unethical conduct. such as the Central Bank of Nigeria (anticorruptionunit@cbn.gov.ng), the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Whistleblowing is a process of raising concerns about wrongdoing, Corporation (info@ndic.org.ng/helpdesk@ndic. org.ng), the illegal actions or unlawful conduct such as fraud, corruption, Securities and Exchange Commission (sec@sec.gov.ng), the bribery or theft. The Group guarantees conﬁdentiality, noting that Nigeria Insurance Commission (info@ naicom.gov.ng), the National there are circumstances where people need to raise concerns Pension Commission (info@pencom.gov.ng) and the Nigerian Stock discreetly without fear of harassment, intimidation, victimisation, Exchange (x-whistle@nse.com.ng). reprisal or retaliation. The Board of FBN Holdings Plc attaches importance to high ethical standards and integrity and expects its employees and oﬃcers to do the same in all their dealings. The Group's Whistleblowing Policy applies to both internal whistleblowers (staﬀ, contract employees, management, or directors) and external whistleblowers (customers, service providers, applicants, auditors, consultants, regulators and other stakeholders). Reports made through this policy should not be based on mere speculation, rumours or gossip, but on factual knowledge. The full version of the Group's Whistleblowing Policy can be viewed on the website: www.fbnholdings.com/whistleblowing/ The whistleblower can report through any of the following, either by declaration or in conﬁdence/anonymously: Formal letter to the Group Managing Director, FBN Holdings Plc and/or Head, Internal Audit FBN Holdings Plc; Dedicated phone number as contained on the website, www.fbnholdings.com; 0817 597 8505; and Dedicated email address: FBNHoldingsWhistleBlowing@fbnholdings.com The phone lines are 01-9054583, 01-9054543 & 01-6054525 and the email address for the public is ﬁrstcontact@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. Members of staﬀ may contact Adeyemi.O.Ogunmoyela@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com or Internalaudit.Head@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. In addition, whistle-blowers can also log onto www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com and click on the whistle blowing portal to report misconduct. Other avenues open to whistle-blowers are through a letter to the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive or directly to the Chief Internal Auditor. Any issue raised should include all relevant background information (including dates) as well as the reason(s) why the whistleblower is particularly concerned about the situation. The Policy was developed by the Group to protect whistleblowers who disclose concerns in good faith and without frivolity, malice or mischief. The concern raised is thoroughly investigated and reported to the appropriate authorities, including the Chairman, Board Audit and Risk Assessment Committee. 13 July, 2020 W W W . f b n h o l d i n g s . c o m
