2019 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Period covered by this Communication on Progress: 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER November 28, 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Nutrien reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Chuck Magro President & CEO Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 1 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights We believe that we can, and should, play an important role in increasing opportunity for people to thrive in the workplace and communities we touch. We are committed to respecting and observing all human rights, in accordance with applicable law and the principles set forth in applicable international standards, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) and the United Nations (UN) such as the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN’s Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We diligently seek not to infringe, directly or through complicity in acts of others, on the human rights of our employees, workers in our supply chain, members of the communities where we operate, or others who are affected by our activities. We expect our suppliers and business partners to act responsibly and ethically and to respect human rights when doing business with us or on our behalf, and to ensure that its own supply network does the same. Our efforts include: • A Code of Ethics and annual training for all of our employees globally. Individuals working in higher risk areas and jurisdictions receive additional online and in-person training on key legal and compliance risks. • A Respect in the Workplace Policy that encourages respect for the rights, culture, diversity and dignity of all individuals. Nutrien is committed to equal opportunity and promoting diversity in the workplace, including all aspects of recruitment and selection. • A confidential, externally administered Compliance Hotline that employees, suppliers, customers or anyone else can access via telephone or web portal and in their preferred language, anonymously if desired. • Independent auditing of our ethics training and Compliance Hotline records conducted by Nutrien’s external auditor. • A Supplier Code of Ethics that all of our suppliers must comply with, including requirements covering: o Health and safety of employees o No toleration for abuse, harassment or discrimination o Commitment to not participate in forced compulsory labor or human trafficking o Commitment to reflect the diversity of the communities in which their business operates to grow opportunities for Aboriginal, minority and women-owned businesses o Not to employ persons below the minimum age permitted by local law and the core conventions of the ILO including ILO Convention 138 and in no circumstances engage in the “worst forms of child labor” contrary to ILO Convention 182. • Procurement Diversity and Inclusion Procedures designed to ensure fair consideration to all potential suppliers, giving diverse suppliers and their communities opportunity and support. This includes our Aboriginal Content Playbook. In each of the above and other practices, we put special emphasis on the rights of the most vulnerable groups that may be impacted by our operations, including indigenous peoples, women, and children. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 2 Wherever we operate, we engage with communities to build strong and healthy relationships with the goal that communities are better off as a result of our presence. Our due diligence process with respect to human rights and compliance with the Code of Ethics and Supplier Code of Ethics are overseen by our Chief Integrity Officer and managed by our Compliance and Procurement Departments. We expect our employees, contractors and suppliers, as well as community members, to bring human rights concerns to our attention through our confidential Compliance Hotline or local site-level feedback mechanisms available. We take all concerns seriously and promptly investigate the allegations. Where our investigation substantiates an allegation, we will undertake corrective remediation measures and implement solutions to prevent reoccurrence. In addressing allegations, we will be mindful of the laws in the country where an allegation arises. Read more about Nutrien’s actions and performance regarding: • Ethics and anti-corruption o 2020 ESG Report, pages 47 and 58. • Diversity and inclusive growth o 2020 ESG Report, pages 35-36 o Diversity and Inclusive Growth webpage as part of our Sustainability Strategy o Diversity and Inclusion webpage as part of our Careers section. • Responsible supply chain o 2020 ESG Report, pages 38-39. Safety and Environment Our overriding concerns are safety of people and protection of the environment. At Nutrien, safety is more than just a priority, it is a core value which becomes an inseparable component of all we do at work, at home and as an example to others. Our goals simply stated are: No harm to people and a relentless pursuit of minimizing our environmental impacts. The drive to achieve these goals motivates us every day to find better ways to operate safely, to ensure no harm to our people and to continuously reduce our environmental impact. Please see our Safety, Health and Environment Policy. In all our activities and operations, we will: • Ensure that all our employees, contractors and others are well informed, well trained, engaged, attentive and committed to the Safety, Health & Environment (SH&E) processes. All Nutrien employees and contractors have a responsibility to work safely and protect the environment. • Recognize that safe operations depend not only on technically sound plants and equipment, but also on competent people and a culture of caring, that values safety and the protection of the environment. No activity is so important that it cannot be done safely and without creating undue environmental risk. • Comply fully with all regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. • Strive to minimize our environmental footprint, including waste, emissions and discharges from our operations. • Provide a secure working environment by protecting ourselves, our assets and our operations against risk of injury, loss or damage. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 3 • Regularly provide assurance that the safety and environmental protection processes in place are working effectively. • Maintain public confidence in the integrity of our operations. We will actively communicate and consult with people outside Nutrien to improve our understanding of SH&E related issues associated with our operations. • Actively participate in hazard identification and safety, health, environmental and security compliance audits, voluntary efforts and reporting of SH&E performance results. • Actively encourage and enable our employees to make healthy lifestyle choices at work and at home. • Continuously seek opportunities to improve safety processes in our contractor relationships, emphasizing product stewardship and the safe transport of our products. Nutrien’s Supplier Code of Ethics specifies that our suppliers must: • Comply with all applicable health, safety and environmental regulations. • Provide a work environment that promotes the highest standards of health, safety and environmental behavior. • Manage and communicate the health, safety and environmental risks associated with provided goods or services by including such information as Material Safety Data Sheets, operating instructions, personal protective measures and safeguards, etc. as necessary. • Maximize environmental protection through efficient use of energy and natural resources. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding: • Our environmental footprint in the 2020 ESG Report, pages 11-28 • Our safety initiatives in the 2020 ESG Report, pages 30-34. Labor Nutrien is a global Company that is committed to compliance with the ILO Declarations including the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 86th Session in 1998. Working standards based on fundamental principles including a discrimination-free environment, the freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, and the abolition of child labor are paramount at Nutrien. Our commitment is captured in various policies including Nutrien’s Code of Ethics, the Supplier Code of Ethics, and Respect in the Workplace Policy. Maintaining positive relations with unions is important to our business. Our employees can join an employee association or trade union, consistent with national or regional laws and practices. We strive for productive relationships with the unions representing our employees. Our relationship with labor unions is critical to the reliable operation of our facilities, and we successfully renegotiate union contracts regularly. Nutrien has entered into 16 collective bargaining agreements with labor organizations representing 17 percent of our total employees. Seven of these are currently under negotiation. We believe we have an effective working relationship with our employees, and the unions representing them. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 4 According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, Nutrien suppliers must: • Not directly or indirectly participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor. • Not require workers to surrender, as a condition of employment, any government-issued identification, passports, work permits or any other documents necessary for free movement and termination of employment. • Allow workers to leave work and freely terminate their employment (taking into account legal notice period requirements). • Not directly or indirectly participate in any form of human trafficking. • Not employ persons below the minimum age permitted by local law and the core conventions of the ILO including ILO Convention 138. • In no circumstances engage in the “worst forms of child labor” contrary to ILO Convention 182. • Where local laws impose less restrictive obligations, adhere to the applicable ILO Convention. • Ensure that all applicable labor and employment laws are followed, and ensure that all working conditions, including but not limited to wages and hours of work are respected and adhered to at all times. • Uphold employees’ right to freedom of association, and the rights to collective bargaining and to form and join trade unions, in accordance with local laws. • Provide employees with equal pay for equal work, timely pay, and periodic holidays with pay. Anti-Corruption Nutrien operates in a wide range of jurisdictions and is vigilant and proactive in preventing and detecting corruption. Our Anti-Corruption Policy requires those who work on behalf of Nutrien to ensure that their own conduct fulfils the corporate commitment to compliance with the laws in each applicable jurisdiction. It applies to Nutrien’s directors, officers, employees, representatives, consultants, and other agents of Nutrien subsidiaries and in every country where we do business. Nutrien maintains an anti-corruption due diligence program that includes: • An Anti-Corruption Policy which prohibits any form of public sector or commercial bribery. • Identifying high risk third parties, including acquisition targets and potential joint venture partners, and conducting diligence. • Incorporating anti-corruption clauses in contracts or obtaining certifications that include anticorruption language for high risk third parties. • Requiring anti-corruption training and other risk mitigation steps where appropriate, such as annual certification or continued monitoring to identify and address any potential issues. According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, all Nutrien suppliers must abide by all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and never directly or indirectly practice or tolerate any form of corruption, bribery, kickbacks, money-laundering, fraud, facilitation payments, embezzlement or extortion. Bribery includes bribery of a government official, and commercial bribery of one of our employees or a third party who is engaged to act on Nutrien’s behalf. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding ethics and anti-corruption in our 2020 ESG Report, page 47. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 5 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Please see Nutrien’s 2019 Performance Table in our 2020 ESG Report, pages 54-59. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 6
