UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 02 Contents Statement of Continuing Support Statement of Continuing Support 02 The Fung Group of Companies (the “Group”) is pleased to publish its 2019 Highlights 03 Communication on Progress for 2019. This report outlines the steps Fung Group of Companies 05 that we have taken to promote the United Nations Global Compact Fung Group Sustainability Strategy 07 (UNGC) Principles within our Group Approaches to Sustainability 08 of Companies, as well as throughout our supply chains and among our UNGC Principles in our Policies and Processes 13 stakeholders. Safe and Fair Workplaces 16 Fung Group remains committed to the principles of the Global Compact. We Environmental Resilience 24 aim to operate sustainable businesses that provide useful goods and services, create decent jobs and Sustainable Products 31 contribute to the economic, environmental and social wellbeing UN Sustainable Development Goals 35 of our communities. These commitments will be more important than ever as the world seeks to recover from the global COVID-19 Awards 41 crisis, which is expected to strain public resources and exacerbate inequalities, especially in the developing world where many of our operations are based. Considering these challenges, we believe our businesses must use the Global Compact principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to drive collective action and collaboration, and we are committed to doing our part to promote an inclusive and sustainable recovery in the months ahead. Left – Li & Fung’s Logistics business formed a strategic partnership with leading bespoke solar developer and asset management company, NEFIN. Middle Meiyume’s Collection brand’s genderless ‘You Do You’ campaign Victor Fung Bottom Upcycled yarn from Cobalt Fashion Group Chairman, Fung Group 03 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 04 2019 Highlights Company Company • Over 9,000 colleagues from Li & Fung, Cobalt, Living Style and Global • Fung Group joined forces with 32 leading fashion companies to sign the Environmental Safe and Fair Brands Group trained to end modern slavery Fashion Pact, committing to reducing the environmental impact of the Resilience and Workplaces Sustainable fashion industry • Fung Group launches its updated Global Anti-Discrimination and Products AntiHarassment Policy • Li & Fung reduced absolute waste generation by 46% and increased its capture of recyclables by 16%, over a baseline year of 2017, for operations in • Meiyume’s Collection brand launches genderless ‘You Do You’ range of Hong Kong. make-up Communities and the Supply Chain Communities and the Supply Chain • Fung Group staff spent over 5,100 hours on environmental activities, • Convenience Retail Asia (CRA) donated 400,000 safe-to-eat surplus food including collecting waste from coastlines and cityscapes, and building products to charitable organizations fighting hunger firebreaks in national parks. • The Li & Fung Foundation “Make Life Better” volunteer recognition • Fung Group is one of the largest adopters of the Higg Facility Environmental program has funded 483 entrepreneurs, 85% of whom are female, across 40 Module (FEM) with 1,023 suppliers reporting environmental data countries • Meiyume identified over 50% material footprint reduction opportunities for • Updated Fung Group Supplier Code of Conduct with strengthened its plastic products since launching the Magic Drawer Life Cycle Assessment provisions on human and labor rights, including inclusion and diversity and (LCA) ending modern slavery • Cobalt and Meiyume both launched a Responsible Recruitment Policy for • Fung Group Business Ethics and Integrity Program has reached 25 suppliers to ensure all workers are recruited fairly Locations and over 7,300 colleagues through digital learning since its inception in 2017 Anti-corruption • Li & Fung received an award for Sustainability Excellence at the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Excellence Awards 2019 led by the Chamber of Hong Kong Listed Companies (CHKLC). The award recognizes our Sustainability Strategy and longstanding commitment to enhancing our integration of responsible environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices in our global operations 05 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 06 Fung Group of Companies LI & FUNG LIMITED LH PEGASUS Owned with GLOBAL BRANDS GROUP FUNG RETAILING LIMTIED Privately-held Entity Hony Captial SEHK 787 Privately-held Entity CONVENIENCE SUPPLY OWNED & MEIYUME RETAIL ASIA CHAIN LICENSED (Beauty) LIMITED SOLUTIONS BRANDS SEHK 831 COBALT BRAND LOGISTICS FASHION MANAGEMENT KIDS & TOYS (Sweaters) CAA-GBG FASHION LIVING STYLE ONSHORE APPAREL & GROUP WHOLESALE OFF-PRICE (Furniture) RETAIL Fung Group is a multinational group headquartered in Global Brands designs, develops, markets and sells Privately, the Group also has a number of centrally Victor and William Fung Foundation, which Hong Kong whose companies are engaged in supply products under a diverse array of owned and licensed managed entities that promote knowledge, learning, promotes leadership development through chain solutions, logistics and the distribution and brands and a wide range of product categories. In innovation and philanthropy for the Group. These scholarships and fellowships, as well as thought retailing of consumer products. addition, Global Brands is the global leader in the include: leadership with thinktanks and tertiary education brand management business through its joint venture, institutions. The Victor and William Fung Foundation The Group’s trading and logistics operations are CAA-GBG The Fung Academy, which equips the Fung Group nurtures future world leaders by supporting operated by the publicly-listed Li & Fung Limited 1 for business success by supporting it to develop university students to experience different cultures (Li & Fung). Li & Fung offers end-to-end supply chain The Group’s retailing operations include a publiclyknowledge and strategies needed to compete in a and environments early in their careers. Across 31 solutions from product design and development, listed entity, Convenience Retail Asia Limited (CRA), rapidly changing global business environment. The universities worldwide, the Fung Scholars Program raw material sourcing, factory selection, production which operates convenience stores, bakeries and a Academy also operates Fung Business Intelligence, supports more than 6,000 Fung Scholars and Fung management and quality control to customers. The fast-fashion eyewear chain in Hong Kong, Macau and Fung Group’s knowledge bank and internal think tank, Fellows. company also provides in-country logistics, global Southern China. which provides research and consultancy on sourcing, freight management and e-logistics services that span supply chain and retail industries in China and globally In total, Fung Group employs approximately 34,000 the time the product leaves the factory to the time The Group also has a number of privately-held retail to support the Group’s strategic development. people across over 50 countries, with a total revenue it reaches the hands of the consumer. The Company businesses, including investments in Toys ‘R’ Us Asia, of over US$17.7 billion as of December 2019. While our aspires to build the Supply Chain of the Future to help Trinity Limited, and Branded Lifestyle Holdings. Explorium, located in Shanghai and Hong Kong, aims commitment to uphold the UNGC Principles and our customers navigate the digital economy and make life The Group also operates three product verticals under to foster learning, experimentation and innovation on approach to sustainability applies to the whole Group, better for a billion people in the supply chain. LH Pegasus, a joint venture with Hony Capital, focusing the opportunities and business models that will shape the performance data in this report focuses primarily on beauty products under Meiyume, sweaters under the future of retail and supply chains. on the three publicly-listed entities of the Group: The Group’s distribution businesses are run by the Cobalt Fashion and furniture under Living Style Li & Fung Limited; Global Brands Group Holding publicly-listed Global Brands Group Holding Limited Group. Li & Fung Foundation is dedicated to engaging all Limited; and Convenience Retail Asia Limited. (Global Brands), one of the world’s leading branded Fung Group colleagues by encouraging awareness apparel, footwear and fashion accessories companies. and efforts towards improving physical and mental wellbeing, environmental resilience and supporting local communities. 1 Effective May 2020, Li & Fung was privatized and delisted from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The Fung Family retains 60% of the voting shares. 07 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 08 Fung Group Sustainability Strategy Approaches to Sustainability Sustainability is a business and global imperative. We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact Our approach to managing sustainability is built on revision of the Supplier Code of Conduct to reflect since 2002 and have aligned our strategies with its 10 a strong foundation of corporate governance, which the latest changes in applicable laws and regulations, Our aim is to build sustainable supply chains that Principles and the 2030 United Nations Sustainable operates both at the Fung Group and company levels. international standards, customer values and support healthy economies, societies and ecosystems, Development Goals (SDG), particularly in the four requirements. contributing to the global effort to build an inclusive, areas where we can have the greatest impact: Good Fung Group sustainable future for all. Health and Wellbeing, Decent Work and Economic In 2019, Fung Group increased resources dedicated to Convenience Retail Asia Limited (CRA) Growth, Reduced Inequalities and Responsible sustainability to enhance our collective sustainability The CRA Board of Directors (“the Board”), the Group’s To achieve this, we create sustainable products and Consumption and Production. vision, shared goals and knowledge at the group level. highest governing body, is ultimately accountable for solutions, support safe and fair workplaces and build leading and overseeing sustainability of the Group. environmental resilience all along the supply chain. We oversee a range of initiatives that bring our Key activities in 2019 included: The Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) We do this through our business strategies and the customers, industry partners and communities Steering Committee (the “Committee”), headed by the • Raising awareness on key sustainability trends, operations of our companies, and by engaging with together to effect change in our three focus areas: Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer, organizing employee engagement events and our business partners and in communities where we safe and fair workplaces; environmental resilience has been set up to oversee the Group’s strategies, facilitating topic-specific working groups to foster a operate. and sustainable products and solutions. policies, initiatives and performance on sustainability stronger sustainability culture matters, principally in the areas of employment, • Creating opportunities for companies to showcase community involvement, product responsibility and their sustainability leadership and implement environmental protection. In 2019, the Committee had innovative solutions through industry partnerships two meetings to review the overall strategies, goals, • Supporting companies to accelerate their plans, actions and results. sustainability strategies in alignment with the Fung Group values and key industry commitments The CRA Working Committee coordinates • Facilitating collaboration and knowledge sharing sustainability activities across the Group, supported across functions and companies with senior-level by four working teams formed within various business representation from across Fung Group. In units, namely the Environment Team, the Social Team, 2019, the Sustainability Committee met four the Training and Workplace Safety Team, and the Food times and discussed topics ranging Safety and Supply Team. It reports to the Committee from health and safety, inclusion and diversity, on a regular basis its actions, performance and responsible recruitment, circular economy, climate achievements. The Committee is thus able to make change, and sustainable materials. relevant recommendations to the Board and facilitate the decision-making process. Li & Fung Limited At Li & Fung Limited, Risk Management & Sustainability Global Brands Group (GBG) Committee was established in 2001. Chaired by GBG’s Board of Directors has responsibility for the Honorary Chairman, the committee provides sustainability oversight. Sustainability strategies are recommendations to the Board on risk management set centrally, while implementation is carried out and internal control systems and reviews its practices through the business in coordination with the Social & on corporate responsibility and sustainability. Environmental Affairs team, which reports to the CEO. The committee met four times in 2019 and topics included sustainability, overall supply chain management and partnerships, including the risk mitigation strategy for modern slavery, as well as the 09 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 10 Engaging Key Stakeholders At Fung Group, engaging stakeholders is crucial to We participate in a range of initiatives that bring Global Fashion Agenda (GFA) Alongside the launch, GBG COO Patrick Ho joined a understanding the sustainability issues of concern our customers, industry partners and communities Since 2016, Fung Group has been a strategic partner roundtable with key players from industries, such to them. Li & Fung, along with other Fung Group to in our focus areas to the Global Fashion Agenda (GFA). We support this as logistics, transportation, software and chemicals, companies, has established regular and open channels safe and fair workplaces ; environmental leading organization in its mission for the fashion who play a critical part in fashion’s supply chain and for engaging its key stakeholder groups throughout resilience and sustainable products and solutions. industry to prioritize sustainability. We also contribute are important stakeholders in securing a sustainable the year, as outlined below. supply chain expertise to GFA’s thought leadership, future. The discussion highlighted the need to Examples of our strategic industry and community including input to the Pulse of the Fashion Industry “Redesign Growth” for a business model that supports partners are highlighted below. performance updates, and the CEO Agenda that economic prosperity while reducing reliance on Employees sets priorities to align the industry towards a more natural resources. Patrick emphasized the importance • Annual conference, town halls, sustainable future. In turn, we leverage these materials of the supply chain community working together to company intranet communications to evolve our sustainability strategy. ﬁnd are and in and • Annual employee engagement surveys the role Fung Group can play. Customers We also support GFA’s Policy Engagement work, which • Annual Voice of the Customer surveys advocates for to • Face to face meetings accelerate the shift to a circular economy. Suppliers and workers Fung Group leaders engage in GFA’s annual • Annual supplier conferences, meetings and trainings Copenhagen Fashion Summit, which convenes • Online vendor portal industry leaders and experts to set bold sustainability Investors goals and drive solutions forward. The 2019 Summit • Communication, brieﬁngs and investor conferences began with a call to action that led to the launch of the • Feedback through social media and email (ir@lifung.com) Fashion Pact in August 2019. Industry partners The Fashion Pact • Dialogue and meetings • Industry collaboration initiatives Non-governmental and community organizations • Dialogue and meetings • Partnership and projects with the supply chain partners Government We engaged in GFA’s Copenhagen Fashion Summit to set • Through industry groups and direct dialogue Fung Group joined forces with 32 of world’s biggest bold sustainability goals and drive solutions forward. fashion and textile brands to sign The Fashion Pact in Academia Fung Group: Launch of CEO Agenda 2020 at August 2019 at the G7 Summit. The signatories have • Partnership and projects with academic institutions World Economic Forum in Davos committed to improving sustainability standards in the fashion industry by taking action to stop global Media In January 2020, Fung Group convened with fashion industry leaders at the World Economic Forum in warming, restore biodiversity and protect the oceans. • Communications, meetings, press conferences • Feedback through email (media@lifung.com) Davos, Switzerland for the launch of GFA’s CEO Agenda 2020. 11 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 12 Business Environment Council Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social As a signatory to the Business Environment Council Fung Group has been part of EMF’s Make Fashion ETI is an alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs Responsibility (CCR CSR) (BEC) Low Carbon Charter, Fung Group contributes Circular initiative since its launch in 2017. The initiative working collaboratively through projects, research and Fung Group is a member of CCR CSR, a Hong Kongto the collective commitment towards Hong Kong’s drives collaboration and innovation between industry advocacy to drive the application of ETI’s principles in based organization that specializes in helping decarbonization and the targets and strategies in leaders and other stakeholders to create a new textile international supply chains. Headquartered in the UK, companies improve their direct and indirect impact support of the Climate Action Plan 2030+ of the HKSAR economy aligned with the principles of a circular ETI is one of the leading multi-stakeholder initiatives on children and accordingly, further responsible Government. Fung Group is a signatory to the Charter economy — one that ensures clothes are made from operating in the area of human rights at work. Its businesses and supply chains. CCR CSR works in a along with 67 other major companies in Hong Kong. safe and renewable materials, new business models Base Code is an internationally-recognized set of growing number of Asian countries including China, increase their use, and old clothes are turned into new. labor standards founded on the conventions of the Hong Kong, Myanmar, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Laos, ILO. A critical aspect of ETI membership is reporting Malaysia and Indonesia. ILO and IFC’s Better Work program on progress in implementing the ETI Base Code and Li & Fung and Global Brands Group engage closely principles across the supply chain, so that ETI can with Better Work, a partnership between the monitor progress over time and ensure continuous International Labour Organization (ILO) and the improvement. As a new Foundational member of ETI, International Finance Corporation (IFC), to support Li & Fung submitted its first report in January 2020, improved social impact in global supply chains. Better graduating to full membership. Work offers a comprehensive program for its member factories that includes an in-depth social compliance Mekong Club assessment with regular advisory services to support Fung Group is a member of the Mekong Club, the sustainable improvement of key findings. a Hong Kong-based, non-governmental organization Ocean Conservancy Arctic Shipping Pledge committed to ending modern slavery within the Li & Fung’s Logistics business signed the Arctic private sector by raising awareness and providing Shipping Corporate Pledge in October 2019, practical tools to address the problem within supply launched by Nike and the Ocean Conservancy. As chains. a signatory, Li & Fung is one of 20 consumer goods and shipping logistics companies that commit to not intentionally ship goods through the Arctic Passage, an environmentally-sensitive route. Better Work’s program engages closely with workers throughout its assessment and advisory process. Li & Fung and Global Brands Group had a total of 192 factories in the supply chain engaged with the Better Work program in 2019. We are one of 20 consumer goods and shipping logistics companies to commit to not intentionally ship goods through the Arctic Passage. 13 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 14 UNGC Principles in our Policies and Processes The Fung Group of companies is committed to bribery laws. The Policy covers the following: the UNGC’s Ten Principles and has integrated the • Scope of persons or companies and extended to UNGC’S Ten Principles framework into both our companies and supply chains. persons or companies who perform services for Li & Fung or on its behalf anywhere in the world Human rights • Forms and examples of bribery Fung Group’s Code of Conduct and Business • Bribery laws concerning public officials Ethics 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Reporting channel for any suspected or actual cases The Fung Group and Group Companies’ Code of internationally proclaimed human rights; and of bribery Conduct and Business Ethics (Code) requires all employees to embed the Ten UN Global Compact • Consequences for employees committing bribery, 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principles along with other key international standards which include dismissal or termination of into business operations. Policies and key operating employment, and criminal sanction by guidelines (KOGs) for addressing the Code are governmental authorities (such as integrated into all our existing and new business imprisonment and unlimited fines in many Labor acquisitions and through our recruitment, training, jurisdictions) if applicable performance assessment, disciplinary and grievance 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; processes. Li & Fung’s Business Ethics and Integrity Education Working Group, established in 2017, includes members 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; The Code also requires all employees to work with from Learning & Development (L&D), Legal, Corporate 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labor; and suppliers to ensure human and labor rights are Governance, Digital Learning, HR and business units. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment upheld throughout the supply chain. For ease of Following the workshops held for senior leaders in and occupation. 2018, Li & Fung introduced a train-the-trainer program, reference and as a constant reminder, the Code and its accompanying policies and guidelines are available enabling the “Do the Right Thing” workshops to reach on One Family, our internal communications platform, over 4,000 colleagues of all levels in 25 locations in and externally on our website. Compliance with the 2019. With the accompanying e-learning module, Environment Code is overseen by Human Resources (HR), Legal and/ Li & Fung has enabled colleagues to enhance their or Corporate Governance divisions. skills and knowledge for putting our policies into 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to practice. By the end of 2019, 7,367 colleagues environmental challenges; Li & Fung and LH Pegasus: https://www.lifung.com/ completed the digital learning resource, nearly wp-content/uploads/2018/03/LF-Code-of-Conduct8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental doubling the 4,038 colleagues that were reached in responsibility; and and-Business-Ethics.pdf 2018. Mandatory business ethics training will continue 9 Encourage the development and diﬀusion Global Brands Group: https://ir.globalbrandsgroup. to be rolled out, along with refresher courses, to of environmentally-friendly technologies. com/corporate-governance/ethics.pdf reinforce high expectations for ethical behavior in all business activities. Convenience Retail Asia: http://www.cr-asia.com/ eng/business/code_of_conduct.pdf Anti-corruption The Li & Fung Anti-Bribery Policy (the Policy) clearly outlines Li & Fung’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, and commitment to complying with all applicable antiincluding extortion and bribery. 15 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 16 Since 2017, the Business Ethics & Integrity We provide regular onboarding training to new Program has reached: factories and our colleagues so they understand the key principles of the Code and the consequences of Over 4,000 colleagues via workshops in non-compliance. In 2019, Li & Fung hosted 51 training sessions in key sourcing countries for colleagues and 25 locations suppliers. The training highlights all key changes, their potential impact and requirements for adherence. 10,927 colleagues through Compliance against the code is assessed by the Group companies, external auditors and/or independent Safe and Fair Workplaces digital learning industry organizations. Suppliers are required to address non-compliances identified from the assessment with time-bound corrective actions. The Supplier Code emphasizes a zero-tolerance approach Fung Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct for any kind of bribery, use of child or forced labor Managing supply chain risk starts with the Fung Group or serious health and safety issues. Factories with Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code), which is systemic zero-tolerance issues that have not been adopted and branded by most Fung Group companies properly remediated are discontinued, and business is (Li & Fung Trading, Global Brands Group, LH Pegasus). terminated with a responsible exit plan. In 2019, new provisions were added to the Supplier Li & Fung and LH Pegasus: https://www. We are committed to creating safe Code related to responsible recruitment and ending lifung.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/LF_ modern slavery, diversity and inclusion as well as CodeOfConduct_2Oct2019.pdf and fair workplaces and work closely more stringent requirements related to chemical with our suppliers, industry peers and management and the treatment of hazardous Global Brands Group: https://s3.amazonaws.com/ wastewater. external partners to achieve this. We content.stockpr.com/globalbrandsgroup/files/pages/ about/corporate-responsibility/GBG_Supplier_ focus our initiatives on three pillars The principles enshrined in the Supplier Code are Principles.pdf Safety, Health and Wellbeing, Ending based on the Ten UN Global Compact Principles along with other key international standards, including Convenience Retail Asia: Supplier Code of Conduct is Modern Slavery, and Inclusion and the International Labour Organization (ILO)’s 1998 shared with suppliers during the company’s supplier Diversity, which are driven by policies Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights qualification process at Work, as well as local law. The Supplier Code is and programs targeting our people and available to suppliers in multiple languages and its our operations, our supply chain and accompanying standards incorporate guidelines on our communities. social, environmental and security standards, as well as practical resources for implementing standards within factory operations. All suppliers must commit to adhere to these minimum standards as a condition of doing business with us. 17 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 18 digital platform that enables two-way communication Li & Fung Social Dialogue Project between workers and factory management and In partnership with Just Solutions, Li & Fung developed engages workers through surveys, announcements the Social Dialogue 2.0 program to strengthen and educational content about finance, gender, the relationship between factory workers and personal hygiene, wellbeing and other topics. It also management through constructive dialogue. Running helps factory management better understand workers’ since 2018 in 20 factories in Bangladesh, it builds on needs and expectations of the work environment so the success of the first version of the program, which that the factory can improve conditions and ultimately, yielded a reduction in employee turnover rate to 3.16% workers’ loyalty and satisfaction. from 4.13%, a decline in absenteeism by 8%, and 96% positive feedback from participants. Training has since been provided to over 700 participants that aims to evolve the dialogue a step further by creating an atmosphere of trust between employees and management. Social Dialogue 2.0 will run through to November 2020 to help ensure the benefits of social dialogue are realized in accordance Safety, Health and Wellbeing – Our People their learning progress. An e-course for Circle K store with the Bangladesh Labor Act and Labor Rules. An and Operations employees was first introduced, sharing knowledge impact assessment is planned for 2020 to review the Fung Group Health & Wellbeing Campaign about the company’s background, store operations, progress made by the participating factories. safety procedures, point-of-sale system and the app In 2019, the Li & Fung Foundation and the Inclusion “OK Stamp IT”. For Saint Honore store employees, & Diversity teams organized a four-month Health & Li & Fung – Worker Safety in Vietnam and e-courses to share knowledge on festive products and Wellbeing campaign to bring different topics including To date, we have successfully launched the LF Bangladesh the customer service experience were provided. Going fitness and nutrition, mental health, emotional WorkerApp to 57 factories in four production Li & Fung is a founding member and sits on the forward, the platform will offer new e-courses on wellbeing and health awareness to colleagues and countries, reaching over 20,800 workers in English, steering committee of the Life & Building Safety topics including sustainability and whistleblowing, with to highlight the importance of each to their daily life. Vietnamese, Bahasa, Hindi, Kannada, Tamil and Initiative (LABS), an industry-driven initiative to interactive elements for staff. The campaign also featured a variety of interactive Bengali. The app aims to help factory management mitigate preventable fire, electrical and structural and educational activities, including a panel session engage workers through surveys, announcements and building safety risks in key apparel and footwear Safety, Health and Wellbeing – on health and wellbeing, slow yoga lessons and educational content on health, safety and productivity producing countries. The Sustainable Trade Initiative Communities and Supply Chain professional health consultations, which enabled our topics. Key achievements in 2019 include: (IDH), facilitates the establishment and operation colleagues to benefit from learning how to incorporate Fung Group Empowering and Educating • Number of average monthly active users in 2019 has of LABS in targeted countries to work towards a mindfulness into their lives and to relax and meditate Workers through the WorkerApp increased by 433% over 2018 harmonized safety standard for apparel and footwear in the workplace. Over 45 health and wellbeing events Fung Group is embracing the rise of digital factories. • Partnered with MasterCard to offer financial literacy were held across the globe. technologies, the Internet of Things and big data to lessons to workers using the app, accumulating over deliver technology-enabled programs and solutions Since August 2019, Li & Fung has supported IDH’s 3,000 views in the last three months Convenience Retail Asia Mobile Learning that contribute to the wellbeing of our people and rollout of the program in Vietnam to both mitigate • Enhanced the app’s functionality by adding Solution for Remote Workforce the sustainable growth of the communities where we risk and encourage a safety mindset within factories. survey tools and dashboards to allow for enhanced Convenience Retail Asia launched an e-learning operate. It includes an initial safety assessment to identify risk communication between workers and management platform to provide easy-to access training and provide factories with a clear, timebound CAP, and opportunities to employees at different locations. The The WorkerApp2 , created by Li & Fung and the Fung access to a safety hotline. platform enables colleagues to attend courses, learn Academy and launched in 2018, aims to improve the in a more interactive and interesting way and record lives of factory workers through technology. It is a free, 2 Effective July 2020, the WorkerApp has been transferred to Elevate Global Limited. 19 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 20 Li & Fung also worked closely with the Alliance for End Modern Slavery and Child Labor In November 2019, as a part of ETI’s “Ethical In 2019, the app was further enhanced to include Bangladesh Worker Safety (The Alliance) to conduct Fung Group – E-Learning on Modern Slavery Recruitment as Prevention of Involuntary Work” additional data analysis features and four more detailed engineering inspections in the areas of project, three Fung Group companies (Li & Fung, languages (bringing the total number of available In January 2019, Fung Group developed an e-learning structural, electrical and fire safety to assess risk Cobalt and Meiyume) piloted a Learning Map with languages to eleven). Li & Fung tested Apprise in training to educate colleagues on modern slavery. The at factories in our supply chain and support the various resources, including China Recruitment 22 factories in Bangladesh, Malaysia, Thailand and e-learning takes around 25 minutes to complete and remediation of issues in alignment with the industry. Practice Survey Findings, Guidelines on Ethical Vietnam with more Fung Group companies set to test addresses key concepts of modern slavery, including Recruitment and Forced Labour in China, and videos it in 2020. risk indicators and best practices for prevention The Alliance completed its mandate in 2018, with related to modern slavery. in China, and videos related and remediation. It was rolled out to all apparel and a majority of factories, including 118 in Li & Fung’s to modern slavery. The Learning Map is easily available Fung Group Responsible Recruitment Policy footwear sourcing teams as mandatory training. The supply chain, having fully remediated identified critical to suppliers via their mobile phone and over 170 One of the greatest drivers of modern slavery in e-learning is available in English and Chinese, and will issues. In 2019, Nirapon was launched to support the suppliers of all three companies have accessed the all economic sectors is the exploitation of migrant be translated into Bengali. ongoing industry effort to conduct safety monitoring training content to date. workers occurring at the hands of some unscrupulous and training of suppliers and to oversee helpline recruitment agencies and/or labor brokers. Abusive activities. As a Nirapon member, Li & Fung supports Mekong Club – Apprise Audit and Virtual Due recruitment practices, including a worker’s payment of the organization’s ongoing efforts towards sustainable Diligence excessive recruitment fees and related costs, are the solutions that ensure worker safety is prioritized. One tool we are using to enhance our due diligence most common entry point for modern slavery. In 2019, is the Apprise platform, developed by the Mekong the ILO issued General Principles and Operational Li & Fung worked closely with the Accord on Fire & Club and the United Nations University Institute in Guidelines for Fair Recruitment stating that Building Safety in Bangladesh (The Accord) throughout Macau (UNU). It is an innovative voice app that enables companies should include “human rights due diligence its term. While the Accord’s initial tenure in Bangladesh more workers to be engaged during an audit in a assessments of recruitment procedures and should finished in May 2018, Li & Fung continues to offer safe, effective and anonymous way. During a typical address adverse human rights impacts with which on-the-ground support to factories in the Accord factory audit, the auditor has limited time to interview they are involved.” In addition, Li & Fung and Global Over 9,000 colleagues from Li & Fung, program. workers. There may also be confidentiality concerns Brands Group, along with 140 other brands, retailers Cobalt, Living Style and Global Brands Group from workers, or language barriers. This is even more and suppliers, are signatories to the American Apparel completed the e-learning on modern slavery, Convenience Retail Asia Fighting Hunger and challenging in the engagement of migrant workers. and Footwear Association (AAFA) Commitment to with further roll-out planned for 2020. Reducing Food Waste Apprise uses a mobile app to ask workers questions Responsible Recruitment. Convenience Retail Asia’s Saint Honore has established in their local language via a headset, which has been a program to donate all surplus safe-to-eat food Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI): Modern Slavery specially developed to uncover red flags for forced In line with these commitments, Li & Fung, Global products to various charitable organizations fighting Working Group and Learning Map labor in line with the ILO indicators . 3 Brands Group and LH Pegasus updated the Supplier hunger in Hong Kong, including Foodlink Foundation, Code of Conduct to include stronger provisions on As a member of the ETI, Fung Group companies gain Feeding Hong Kong and the Women Service responsible recruitment and drafted a policy to ensure access to the expert knowledge and support from Association. In 2019, 400,000 units of bread and that Responsible Recruitment is implemented across ETI’s dedicated Modern Slavery Strategy Unit, which packaged cakes were donated through this program, their businesses and supply chains. covers emerging risks and best practice solutions. which supports feeding those in poverty in local As part of the working group, Fung Group provided communities and also reduces unnecessary food input to the ETI’s response to the UK Government’s waste. public consultation on proposed changes to the Modern Slavery Act (2015), which followed the 2019 independent review of the Modern Slavery Act. 3 ILO indicators of Forced Labour (2012): https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---declaration/documents/publication/ wcms_203832.pdf 21 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 22 In 2019, Fung Group also partnered with the NGO to their parents and factory owners had a happier and Inclusion and Diversity Fung Group – Global Inclusion & Diversity Verité to organize a two-day training for factory staff more productive workforce. The Fung Group of companies operates in more than in Taiwan. 16 factories from Li & Fung and Meiyume 50 countries with approximately 39,900 people. attended the workshop to learn about the common In 2019, Fung Group started working with CCR CSR risks and challenges in third-party recruitment and the to develop an e-learning to raise the awareness of As a global business, it is critical to understand, employment of foreign migrant workers, and shared key staff on child rights and child labor prevention embrace and operate in a multicultural world – both in experiences and best practices on how to improve and remediation, which will be finalized in 2020. our own operations and in the supply chain. visibility and minimize risk in the recruitment process. Fung Group companies also worked with CCR CSR to distribute “Summer Preparedness” leaflets to suppliers We are committed to building an inclusive workplace, on the risk of child labour, particularly in the summer where diversity of gender, ethnicity, thought, sexual months. The leaflet is available in Chinese, Vietnamese, orientation and ability are valued A refreshed campaign emphasizing inclusion was introduced Bangla, Burmese and Bahasa Indonesian. in 2019 to focus on invloving and respecting the differences Li & Fung in people, ideas and cultures For non-compliances that involve underage workers, Male 59% we work in partnership with CCR CSR to develop Launched in July 2017, our Global Inclusion and Male responsible remediation plans that are in the best 50.4% Diversity (I&D) initiative emphasizes our culture Management long-term interests of the child and which consider of respect for all individuals and of valuing our All the educational, social and economic needs of any Employees differences and similarities. Our objective is to educate Female Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social child concerned. Child labor remediation is usually 41% and create awareness among our colleagues, creating Female Responsibility Advocating for Children’s accompanied by in-factory responsible recruitment 49.6% a collaborative working and learning environment. Rights and Ending Child Labor training for factory management. Training increases GBG Fung Group signed a memorandum of understanding factories’ awareness of, and ability to prevent, child As Fung Group continues to learn and evolve on this Female with the Center for Child Rights and Corporate labor from occurring. Through this multi-layered 52% journey and recognizing that an inclusive workplace Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) to embed child rights approach, we support sustainable management is a precondition to furthering diversity, a refreshed Male Management throughout our business to prevent and remediate practices to prevent underage recruitment. 48% campaign emphasizing inclusion was introduced Male All child labor in the supply chain. 31% Employees in 2019 to focus on involving and respecting the Global Brands Group ChildHope Female differences in people, ideas and cultures. Highlights in 69% Li & Fung’s Miles division supported CCR CSR’s Child To support global communities, Global Brands 2019 include: CRA Friendly Spaces program in 2019, collaborating Group raised funds for its ongoing partnership Male • A Global Anti-Harassment & Anti-Discrimination with two factories in China that employed a high with ChildHope, an organization providing access 55% Policy was renewed with training for HR teams and Male percentage of migrant to education and basic healthcare to over 72,000 34% compulsory e-learning modules for all managers Management worker parents. The children globally, including those in many of our key and employees. You can follow this link to read our project created a sourcing countries such as Bangladesh and India. All anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy Female Employees childcare room inside GBG offered financial support and clothing donations 45% • 31 “I&D Ambassadors” across the world came the facility and CCR to a Grambangla Unnayan Committee project in Female together to communicate and diligently advance our CSR helped to identify Bangladesh that ensures child, adolescent and female 66% Others journey and build our practices of I&D and train the childcare waste pickers are equipped with knowledge and Female 49% providers. The program skills to help improve their lives and their health. Male was a win-win; parents Additionally, through trivia nights, raffles, sample sales 40% Male Management worked knowing that and a charity swim, our global offices raised funds, 51% their children were in a safe environment, children had including a matching donation from the Li & Fung All Employees the opportunity to spend their summer vacation close Foundation. Female 60% 23 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 24 • Ongoing monthly articles on our intranet, Fung Group Funding for Seng Girls Vocational OneFamily, accompanied by informative Training School videos to foster an environment of learning and In Qinghai China, nomadic tribal beliefs are deepopen communication about I&D. In 2019, we rooted and being born a girl is widely considered to covered issues such as International Women’s Day, be penance for wrongdoings in a previous life. Many Black History Month, Health Awareness, Pride girls are orphaned or abandoned and end up in poor Month and Emotional Wellbeing conditions where they are badly treated. Even though • Over 60 workshops engaging 1,000 employees on education is available for many of them, it is not a “Unconscious Bias” to open the doors of realistic option. Over US$275,000 has been raised by communication • Introduced LGBT+ Inclusion workshops with pilot Fung Group colleagues, including a matching donation from the Li & Fung Foundation, to support a brighter future for girls at the Seng Girls Vocational Training Environmental Resilience sessions in our Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai offices School. Li & Fung Skills Development Program in Bangladesh In collaboration with the Li & Fung Foundation, Addressing climate change and building Li & Fung developed a program to support Dhakabased contract cleaners. Mostly young men from environmental resilience is critical to disadvantaged communities, the curriculum is our world’s sustainable future, and focused on improving English language skills and businesses must rise to this challenge. providing training on the business, etiquette, health & safety and life skills. The aim of this program is to The Fung Group of companies has support participants, enabling them to complete their integrated the principle of pollution education and gain greater career opportunities. prevention into our operations and Global Brands Group partnership with supply chains and we responsibly Ellevate manage our environmental footprint Global Brands has partnered with the Ellevate Network, an organization of professional women as we work to mitigate global climate focused on helping each other grow and succeed change. in their careers. Through this partnership, nearly 100 female GBG employees became Ellevate members, giving them access to various professional We will discuss our initiatives for development tools and resources, including a 12-week resource efficiency and climate action, peer mentoring program. as well as responsible emission and waste management in this section. 25 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 26 Li & Fung – GHG Footprint showcasing 336 pieces of shingled modules together Scope 1 comprises emissions from the consumption of with monitoring and control systems. It will produce diesel and petrol by company-owned vehicles, natural an estimated 145,000 kWh per annum of electricity to gas for heating and of refrigerants by chillers. Scope 2 the grid, which will avoid approximately 86.6 tonnes emissions arise from purchased electricity. of carbon dioxide equivalent per year that would have been emitted from local energy generation. This is In 2019, Li & Fung’s electricity consumption and equivalent to planting 4,165 trees a year!2 GHG emissions increased in absolute quantities and intensities over 2018 and its baseline year of 2017. The increases are primarily a result of the substantive expansion of the Logistics’ business and an overall increase in both the number of locations entering data into the online environmental management system and the capture of resource consumption data. Given these shifts, Li & Fung did not achieve its Three-Year Plan intensity reduction targets of 10% for Efficient Resource Use – Our four walls greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), energy, water and both electricity consumption and GHGs emissions, Fung Group Our Environmental Footprint paper consumption, and specific waste streams. despite ongoing investments in efficient equipment, The table below outlines performance against key Global Brands Group – GHG Footprint We operate an environmental management system technologies, systems and vehicular fleets, and environmental metrics for Li & Fung, Global Brands to measure the Group companies’ performance initiatives to support behavioral change. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or Group and Convenience Retail Asia. across a number of environmental metrics, including controlled sources like natural gas combustion onsite Li & Fung reduced absolute waste generation in 2019 for heating. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions by 46% and increased the capture of recyclables by from the generation of purchased energy. All locations Fung Group 2018-19 Environmental Data 16%, over a baseline year of 2017, for operations in over which Global Brands has operational control on Li & Fung Convenience Retail Asia Global Brands Group Hong Kong. In addition, Li & Fung is investigating the the last day of the current fiscal year are captured in 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 substantive challenge of capturing GHG emissions the GHG Scope 1 and 2 accounting. GHG scope 1 along its supply chain and Logistics business’ 4,434 7,337 8,327 2,888 4,206 5,898 350 119 325 (tCO2e) distribution network, with the aim of reporting Scope 3 Operational control, as defined by the standards GHG scope 2 emissions and preparing to set Science-based Targets. of the GHG Protocol, is present in locations where (tCO2e) 52,678 44,058 55,544 36,157 35,705 38,353 5,096 2,370 3,774 Global Brands has the full authority to introduce and Electricity In 2019, Li & Fung’s Logistics business formed a 15implement its operating policies at the operation.[1] For 93,662 88,640 99,398 62,682 63,911 66,326 13,345 5,695 9,341 (’000kwh) year strategic partnership with leading bespoke solar locations where Global Brands was unable to acquire Water 418,127 448,091 497,952 188,737 209,886 181,140 5,378 62,212 6,965 developer and asset management company, NEFIN, all utility invoices, the company either extrapolated or (m3) to set a new benchmark for sustainability. NEFIN used intensity factors from the United States Energy Paper has over a decade of expertise in solar development Information Administration (US EIA) Commercial 212,964 306,758 171,333 11,650 8,760 29,763 2,611 6,388 (Reams) and is currently developing artificial intelligence Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS)[2] to Packaging solutions to monitor and manage renewable estimate energy use. materials 1,376 1,370 1,193 (tons) energy assets more efficiently and effectively. This collaboration with NEFIN involves the installation of a solar photovoltaic (PV) system on the rooftop of LF Logistics’ headquarters, the LiFung Centre in Shatin, 27 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 28 Global Brands will use FY2020 as a baseline moving improvement among our supply base. In addition, the the goods are even produced, which allows them consumables in both CRA factories and in stores. The forward for all scope 1 and 2 emission goals. A data we collect via the Higg Index continue to improve the option to select the style which offers the lowest team is responsible for studying plastic inventory, baseline was not previously established due to the our understanding of our indirect environmental environmental impacts. conducting an in-depth analysis of plastic items organization’s significant evolution over the last impacts, supporting the development of a baseline for targeted for reduction, developing action plans and several years . 4 our own continuous improvement. Meiyume – Life Cycle Assessments reduction targets and raising awareness within stores. The Meiyume Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) initiative In 2019, CRA implemented both the “Go Plastic-Free” Convenience Retail Asia (CRA) – GHG Footprint was launched in late 2019 to assess the environmental initiatives at its Saint Honore retail stores and a “No In 2019, CRA experienced an increase of total footprint of the products created by Meiyume. With Straw Day” at Circle K retail stores. Collectively these emissions compared to the preceding year. This the LCA data obtained, Meiyume seeks to drive initiatives have recorded a reduction of 15% on the increase in overall consumption was driven by the footprint reduction through product design, material use of single-use plastic products, compared to that of higher use of electricity and refrigerants in factories as selection and production process optimization. 2018. CRA expanded its frozen dough supply chain in Hong Kong and the Mainland. By working with strategic suppliers in 2019 and 2020, Global Brands Group started 2019 with CEO-led Meiyume is on track to complete a pilot LCA for all sustainability townhalls across offices that included a CRA is now reviewing its production processes its product categories by the end of 2020. Since screening of the film “A Plastic Ocean”. The townhalls and the choice of equipment, with the objective of the launch of the initiative, Meiyume has identified were an important step to escalate the organization’s enhancing efficiency in both production and resource opportunities of over 50% material footprint reduction commitment to environmental sustainability, starting Li & Fung: Technology to Support Energy and with a single-use plastic ban across all operations. consumption. CRA also added technical staff to look for its plastic products. Water Reduction after the maintenance of its cold chain system. Li & Fung is using new a new software tool called The policy adoption resulted in an estimated reduction Environmental Impact Measurement (EIM) to measure, in office waste of 1.28 tonnes of plastic utensils and At Saint Honore factories in Hong Kong and Shenzhen, track and reduce the environmental footprint of the coffee straws, single use cups, plates, bowls, and automatic washing machines for cleaning kitchenware denim washing and finishing processes. Developed by bottled water in the past year. To support this effort, and tools were introduced to enhance water use Jeanologia, a world leader in sustainable and efficient Global Brands provided reusable utensils, water efficiency, and a Saint Honore factory in Shenzhen finishing technologies for the textile industry, the bottles, bamboo coffee mugs and reusable shopping implemented a system to recycle greywater from EIM provides quantitative information at the product bags to employees. washing basins and reuse it for flushing toilets. Solar level about energy and water consumption, as well as panels were also installed at a Saint Honore factory in qualitative information on chemicals used and health In 2019, Li & Fung announced that it would phase in Shenzhen to produce cleaner and renewable energy. and safety hazards for workers. changes that would lead to a ban on single-use plastic Efficient Resource Use – Supply Chain by 2020. A detailed review was undertaken to identify The tool was leveraged in 2019 to reduce energy Responsible Chemical and Waste all the types, quantities, use and frequency of singleSustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) and water in the production of denim products, a Management – Our People and Operations use plastic in our operations, as well as alternatives As a founding member of the SAC, Fung Group has traditionally waterand energy-intensive finishing with reduced environmental impact, ranging from been pleased to collaborate with industry leaders Fung Group Reduction in Single-use Plastics process. The software allows all parties involved in reusable serving ware, cups, glasses and cutlery towards a more sustainable industry and contribute In 2019, Fung Group signed The Fashion Pact, which the development of the product to view its overall to non-fossil fuel-based, biodegradable options. to the rollout of the Higg Index. We continued to includes commitments to protect the oceans. environmental impacts, while also creating a baseline Furthermore, a roadmap for replacing existing stock focus on broad adoption of the Higg Environmental Initiatives taken to reduce single-use plastic across the against which teams can measure future projects. with preferred alternatives was developed. A global Module in 2019, with 1,023 of Li & Fung’s suppliers Fung Group are outlined below. It has now become a systematic requirement within campaign was then launched to raise awareness of the reporting, including those in the supply chains of the denim team that each new development provide global climate and plastic waste crisis, to share tips on Global Brands Group and Cobalt. This recognizes that Convenience Retail Asia (CRA) established a new an EIM score, which is benchmarked against the 2019 how to take action and to inform colleagues of the ban measuring supply chain environmental impacts at cross-business team to explore sustainable packaging baseline. Select Li & Fung customers are now also able on single-use disposable plastic. scale via the Higg Index is critical to driving continuous solutions and actions to reduce plastic packaging and to see the product’s environmental footprint before 4 https://www.greenfreightasia.org/ 6 http://nefinco.com/en/home-en/ 29 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 30 Responsible Chemical and Waste inventory without the need for testing. In 2019, the environment and cleaning up communities: beaches, Management – Communities and results of the pilot included: waterways, shorelines, parks, trails, mountains, and Supply Chain • Chemicals at high risk of containing restricted cities. Li & Fung Better Chemical Management substances or with no proof of chemical compliance Program were reduced by 23% In 2018, we introduced the RETHINK Challenge, a campaign which challenged our colleagues and The use of hazardous chemicals in the global textile, • Chemicals certified and accepted by a leading members of the public to stop using single-use apparel and footwear industry affects the health and chemical standard increased by 22%. disposable containers for one week. Through wellbeing of the people who wear clothing, those who • Suppliers improved their chemical management this challenge, people from over 24 countries and produce it and the environment. To address this risk, practices by implementing recommendations territories pledged to ditch single-use disposable Li & Fung launched the Better Chemical Management in the areas of chemical management plastic and opt for more sustainable alternatives. As a Program (BCM) to monitor, reduce and ultimately systems, chemical compliance assurance, result, RETHINKERS developed sustainable habits that eliminate hazardous chemicals in its supply chain. Li & awareness and knowledge of restricted chemical continued long after the challenge. Fung partnered with sustainability accelerator GoBlu requirements, sustainability capabilities, and on a pilot program to eliminate key chemicals from wet overall environmental management practices processing facilities in the supply chains of its private As brands, retailers, end consumers and label business. stakeholders increasingly demand cleaner fashion and reasonable prices, the BCM program enables Li & Fung to build a supply chain that can meet these needs. Fung Group – Caring for our Environment At Fung Group, we encourage colleagues to build awareness of environmental issues and to take action to care for our environment. The Better Chemical Management Program focuses on tracking and managing chemical inventories using GoBlu’s digital platform, providing full visibility on chemical risk to brands and retailers. The program, which was initiated in 2017, focuses on tracking and managing chemical inventories using GoBlu’s digital platform, BHive. The BHive platform allows a facility to efficiently upload its chemical inventory on a mobile device. The platform provides feedback on the risk of these chemicals including Since its launch in 2012, our Clean Up Our World whether they meet leading chemical standards such campaign has brought together over 18,500 as ECO PASSPORT9, GOTS, bluesign® and the ZDHC colleagues, friends and family members in support MRSL10. This information can be shared with brands of almost 300 environmentally-beneficial activities, and retailers for full visibility into a facility’s chemical including raising awareness, improving the 31 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 32 Sustainable Products Circularity Cobalt: Circular Leap Asia Circular economy is a methodology to reduce waste In collaboration with Forum for The Future, an and produce more environmentally-responsible international NGO that assists businesses to be more Fung Group seeks to convene our products. A circular economy seeks to eliminate waste sustainable, Cobalt explored the development of customers, business partners and throughout a product’s lifecycle and re-capture its services to help retailers manage their reverse supply influence our industry to create resources at the end of its use, as opposed to the chains. Together with Cobalt’s sustainable design and traditional linear model of ‘take, make, dispose’. In sustainable packaging capabilities, the program aims more sustainable products. Our March 2020, the European Commission proposed the to enable customers to adopt circular economy and initiatives focus on taking steps to ‘Circular Economy Action Plan’ as part of the European launch ‘circular’ products effortlessly. Green Deal to boost the development of circular establish circularity initiatives in our business models. Fashion is one of the industries supply chain; procuring and sourcing highlighted by the Action Plan to reduce its sheer higher volumes of sustainable amount of waste. materials, products and packaging in However, businesses often struggle to adopt a circular our direct and indirect supply chains; business model. One key obstacle is to establish the necessary reverse supply chain – taking waste back and improving the environmental from customers and transforming it into useful raw health of our communities. materials. This is difficult for a few reasons: (1) high reverse logistics cost; (2) poor visibility into products returned; and (3) costly labor resources to process the goods. These obstacles must be addressed to scale circular economy. 33 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 34 Raw Materials 3D knitting service offering features high-definition transportation and reduce wastage from the sample agility during the design process allows the companies Global Brands Group Sustainable Materials virtual sampling and simulation technology, allowing and product production processes. In 2019, the to quickly react to and meet customers’ and suppliers’ designers to visualize their designs and create detailed Fung Academy and Masters’ students from the Hong needs, while avoiding the environmental impact Effective 1 January 2019, Global Brands Group prototypes down to the exact color, style and material, Kong University of Science and Technology studied associated with physical samples, travel and waste in committed to abstain from sourcing fur for any and all entirely online, without creating a single the economic, environmental and social impact of the product development process. products as part of its animal welfare policy to ensure physical sample. 3D design technology for two garments, from initial responsibly-sourced raw materials of animal origin. design to the final sample stage. Results showed 22 Factor, a knitwear lifestyle start-up powered by The policy also includes using only down and feathers Li & Fung’s sourcing team undertook an analysis in that the use of digital sampling reduces the overall Cobalt Fashion, a leading knitwear specialist in certified by the Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down 2019 of all the fiber materials sourced for customers’ lead time by 45%, reduces cost by 69%, and reduces the knitwear industry, has unveiled an on-demand Standard (RDS), not using wool from mulesed sheep, garments to identify the impacts along its supply chain environmental impact by 55% with substantive 3D knitting service offering. The offering takes an and not sourcing angora or ostrich. and alternatives that could be sourced with reduced reductions in GHG emissions and water consumption. eco-responsible digital approach, revolutionizing environmental and social impacts. Each material traditional knitwear manufacturing and allowing In addition, GBG’s North America apparel division was prioritized based on the results of lifecycle Global Brands Group and Li & Fung use 3D design designers and brands to produce garments in smaller launched bNY, “a responsible and conscious brand, assessments using resources and data available and sampling across the business, enabling real time quantities and minimize excessive production. rooted in sustainable and eco-friendly practices”. on various low impact fibers through the Textile collaboration on concepts, designs, materials and Products are made with Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Exchange, certification schemes such as GOTS and BCI product attributes with customers and suppliers. This cotton, recycled polyester and Lenzing™ Tencel”. BCI and the Higg Material Sustainability Index. cotton brings together all value chain partners in a unique global community committed to developing BCI Design and Packaging as a sustainable mainstream commodity. BCI reduces the amount of water used due to better irrigation Environmental Attributes in Sourcing and the processes, and increases yield for farmers, leading Adoption of Virtual 3D Design to higher profits. Tencel, lyocell and modal fibers are produced by environmentally-responsible processes from sustainably-sourced natural wood. Cobalt – 22 Factor 3D virtual design avoids environmental impacts from travel and transportation and reduces wastage from the sampling and product production processes. Fung Group companies are committed to meeting and encouraging customer requests for sustainablysourced materials and products with reduced environmental impact from well-managed factories. Cobalt’s 22 Factor brand uses upcycled virgin yarn Virtual 3D design and sampling for our customers from luxury fashion brands to create premium quality not only enables us to quickly share concepts, perfect knitwear at a fraction of the price. Its on-demand designs, select materials and tweak product attributes, but to avoid environmental impacts from travel and 35 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 36 UN Sustainable Development Goals Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs Fung Group welcomes the opportunity to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We focus our attention SDGs Sustainability (2019) and action on four global goals (SDG 3, SDG 8, SDG 10 and SDG 12) that are particularly aligned with our business, Priorities given our operational and geographical footprint; however, our work contributes to all seventeen goals. End Modern Responsible recruitment Our People and Operations Slavery and Child policies implemented in our 1. Fung Group – E-Learning on Our efforts in contributing towards these seventeen goals and our priorities in accomplishing the Group’s Labor own operations and core Modern Slavery sustainability roadmap are summarized in this section. SDG 17 on partnerships for the goals is embedded factories in our supply chain Communities and Supply Chain throughout each of our priority areas as outlined below. in key countries, providing 1. ETI – Learning Map and greater protection for workers Working Group Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs during the recruitment 2. Mekong Club – Apprise Audit SDGs Sustainability (2019) phase, both by Fung Group 3. Updated Supplier Code Priorities businesses and suppliers and new Responsible Safety, Health and Measurable improvement Our People and Operations Recruitment Policy (RRP) 9,000 Fung Group staff and Wellbeing in safety, health and 1. Fung Group Health & 4. CCR CSR’s Child Friendly core suppliers in China, wellbeing in all Fung Group Wellbeing Campaign Spaces and Child Labor Malaysia and Taiwan with companies globally and 2. CRA Mobile Learning Remediation Program increased understanding on in core factories in key Solution for Remote modern slavery identification 5. Global Brands Group countries Workforce and prevention ChildHope Communities & Supply Chain 1. Fung Group WorkerApp 2. Li & Fung Social Dialogue Inclusion and All Fung Group businesses Our People and Operations Project Diversity have improved their working 1. Updated Global Antienvironment to ensure all Discrimination and Harassment 3. Li & Fung Worker Safety individuals are treated with Policy in Vietnam and Bangladesh respect and dignity and can (LABS, Alliance and ACCORD) 2. Fung Group I&D campaign contribute fully, with equal 4. Saint Honore’s Fighting • 31 “I&D Ambassadors” globally opportunities Hunger and Reducing Food • Awareness raising campagn on Waste Program One Family and social media More open communication • 60 Unconcious bias workshops through a cohort of 1,000 • LGBT+ Inclusion workshops employees with increased awareness of the impact of 3. Global Brands Group unconscious bias partnership with Ellevate Communities and Supply Chain 1. Li & Fung Skills Development Program in Bangladesh 2. Fung Group Funding for Seng Girls Vocational Training School 37 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 38 Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs SDGs Sustainability (2019) SDGs Sustainability (2019) Priorities Priorities Efficient resource All of our owned and Our People and Operations Responsible All of our owned and Our People and Operations use operated buildings 1. Environmental Management chemical, emission operated buildings are 1. Fung Group – Initiatives to are actively working System Tracking and waste actively working to improve Reduce Single-use Plastics to improve their 2. LF Logistics’ Rooftop Solar management their environmental Communities and Supply Chain environmental System performance with metrics 1. Clean Up Our World campaign performance with metrics related to chemical, 3. Saint Honore factories’ 2. RETHINK campaign related to energy, water emission and waste, with measures to enhance water 3. Li & Fung Better Chemical and waste,with established established baselines use efficiency Management Program baselines 4. Solar panels at Saint Honore The ability to transparently factory in Shenzhen The ability to transparently collect and share data on collect and share data Communities and Supply Chain resource use in the supply on resource use in the 1. Sustainable Apparel Coalition chain and support suppliers supply chain and support and Higg FEM adoption with responsible chemical, suppliers with resource 2. Li & Fung and the emission and waste efficiency programs Environmental Impact mangement programs Measuring (EIM) tool 3. Meiyume’s Lifecycle Assessment Initiative 39 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2019 | 40 Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs SDGs Sustainability (2019) SDGs Sustainability (2019) Priorities Priorities Circularity Preand post-consumer 1. Cobalt: Circular Leap Asia Design and Reduced waste 1. Global Brands Group, Li & waste reduced through packaging and adoption of Fung and Cobalt – 3D Design circularity environmentallyand Sampling responsible packaging alternatives Designers with an increased understanding of sustainable and circular design concepts Raw materials Procurement and sourcing 1. Global Brands Group – volumes of sustainable Sustainable Materials materials, products and 2. obalt 22 Factor packaging increased in the 3. Li & Fung – material impact direct and indirect supply analysis chains 41 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 Awards and Indices Fung Group Li & Fung received an award for Sustainability 11th Floor, LiFung Tower Excellence at the Hong Kong Corporate Governance 888 Cheung Sha Wan Road Excellence Awards 2019 led by the Chamber of Kowloon, Hong Kong Hong Kong Listed Companies (CHKLC). The award www.funggroup.com recognizes its Sustainability Strategy and longstanding commitment to enhancing the integration of responsible environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices in global operations. Li & Fung was again recognized as a Caring Company by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service (HKCSS) with the 15-year plus Logo. Global Brands Group has supported Delivering Good’s work in the community since 2005. As a founding member of the organization, Global Brands was among a group of industry leaders that received recognition for its contributions to the One Million Pairs of Socks campaign, which was honored with the charity’s Delivering Good Impact Award. Convenience Retail Asia received a special mention in the Non-Hang Seng Index (Small Market Capitalization) Category at the Best Corporate Governance Awards 2019, by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Circle K (Hong Kong) received a Joint Energy Saving Award 2019 in the Smart Energy Award program by CLP and Saint Honore (Hong Kong) received a Platinum Award of Charter on External Lighting from the HKSAR Environment Bureau. Both companies received the 2018/2019 Caring Companies Logo, by HKCSS, with Circle K receiving it for 15 years plus and Saint Honore receiving it for 10 years plus.
