1 SIG United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 We support the United Nations The table below sets out our approach to upholding each of the principles, Global Compact’s 10 principles highlighting specific progress and outcomes in 2019 where applicable. This summary, taken together with our Corporate Responsibility Update 2019, is our on human rights, labour, annual Communication on Progress for 2019. Both are published on our website environmental protection at www.waybeyondgood.com. and anti-corruption. For more information on the way we manage human rights, labour, environmental protection and anti-corruption, see our full Corporate Responsibility Report 2018. This also includes information on our contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 1: Businesses should support and We are committed to respecting human rights in our business and our supply chain through our Code Code of Conduct respect the protection of internationally of Conduct and our Business Ethics Code for suppliers. Business Ethics Code for suppliers proclaimed human rights Regular Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) of our business help to ensure that we uphold high standards on human rights. All our production sites completed Principle 2: Businesses should make sure audits in 2019. that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the We respect the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and our Business Ethics Code Business Ethics Code for suppliers freedom of association and the effective for suppliers requires suppliers to uphold these rights too. A significant proportion of our employees recognition of the right to collective are covered by collective labour agreements and, in Europe, many are represented by works councils. bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold We do not tolerate forced, compulsory or child labour and we require the same commitment from Business Ethics Code for suppliers the elimination of all forms of forced and suppliers through our Business Ethics Code for suppliers. compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 2 SIG United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the We do not tolerate discrimination of employees or suppliers’ workers based on race, religion, national Code of Conduct elimination of discrimination in respect of origin, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age or any other relevant category. Business Ethics Code for suppliers employment and occupation Diversity and inclusion emerged as a material issue for SIG for the first time in 2018. This year, we launched a communications campaign to raise awareness of diversity and inclusion. We have also developed a tool to help specific regions or functions focus on the aspects of diversity and inclusion that are most relevant to them. Principle 7: Businesses should support We comply with applicable environmental legislation across our operations and we require our Code of Conduct a precautionary approach to suppliers to do the same. We take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges such as Business Ethics Code for suppliers environmental challenges climate change by proactively identifying and managing emerging risks. This applies across our value chain and specific policies also address environmental risks associated with sourcing of our three key Liquid Paper Board Purchasing raw materials: liquid packaging board, polymers and aluminium. Policy Principle 8: Businesses should Environmental responsibility is an integral part of our business strategy. We aim to minimise Code of Conduct undertake initiatives to promote greater our environmental impacts and we are striving for a net positive footprint by contributing more Business Ethics Code for suppliers environmental responsibility to the environment than we take out across our value chain. www.sciencebasedtargets.org We are accelerating the timeline to cut carbon from our operations, with a stretching new 60% goal for 2030. Our climate goals have been approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative as in line with the latest science to keep global warming below 1.5°C. This year, we continued to source 100% renewable energy for production and cut our operational greenhouse emissions by 47% from the 2016 baseline. We have also reduced our Scope 1, 2 and 31 emissions per litre of food packed by 9% from the 2016 baseline. We demand high standards of environmental responsibility from our suppliers. Our Business Ethics Code for suppliers requires them to run their business in a way that protects and preserves the environment. We also encourage suppliers to adopt their own net positive commitment and one of the main suppliers of liquid packaging board for our packs, the Stora Enso Consumer Board Division, is a fellow member of the Net Positive Project. We are partnering with stakeholders to improve infrastructure for collecting and recycling used beverage cartons, and encourage consumers to recycle cartons after use. In 2019, we engaged in new recycling partnerships with NGOs in Brazil, with customers in Indonesia and Mexico, and with industry associations in India, the USA and Vietnam. We established a new Global Recycling Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (GRACE) with industry partners, we are a founding member of the 4evergreen alliance to boost the role of fibre-based packaging in a circular economy, and building has begun on a new industry-funded facility for recycling polymers and aluminium foil from used beverage cartons in Germany. 1 Target covers the three most material Scope 3 categories: from goods and services, use of our products (filling machines) and end of life treatment (cartons). 3 SIG United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 9: Businesses should encourage Our corporate purpose sets out our commitment to partner with customers to deliver food and SIG CR Update 2019, pages 10, 12, the development and diffusion of beverages to consumers across the world in a sustainable way. We aim to offer the most sustainable 14 and 23 environmentally friendly technologies food packaging solutions on the market. In 2019, uptake of our most sustainable products increased. EcoPlus has now surpassed 1 billion packs sold. SIGNATURE PACK 100 and SIGNATURE PACK Full Barrier, which both use polymers linked to up to 100% forest-based renewable material,2 hit the shelves in several new markets. We launched the world’s first aseptic carton packs with all three key materials from certified sources – FSCTM paperboard, ISCC PLUS plant-based polymers and, for the first time, ASI aluminium. And we introduced the first paper straw solutions for use with beverage cartons – first straight and then U-shaped. We have also announced a partnership with a supplier that will enable us to offer the world’s first beverage cartons made with recycled polymers produced from post-consumer plastic waste.2 Principle 10: Businesses should work We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in any form. Our anti-corruption policy is included in Code of Conduct against corruption in all its forms, our Code of Conduct and reinforced through training. In 2019, we provided in-depth training on areas including extortion and bribery of compliance for more than 200 employees in high-risk roles. We encourage people to report any concerns about bribery, corruption or any other ethical issues via our ethics and compliance hotline. We investigate any suspected breaches and take disciplinary and other appropriate actions accordingly. 2 Via a mass balance system.
