2019 Sustainability Report MOVING INTO THE FUTURE A Message from our Chief Executive Officer The role of business in society has become more relevant globally. At GCC, our responsibility is related to our impact on the environment and in the communities where we operate. We believe our responsibility as a supplier and producer of cement, concrete, aggregates and construction-related services is extraordinary. Therefore, we must deliver value financially, socially and for the planet. Sustainability is an integral element of our business strategy. GCC’s sustainability strategy focuses on environmental responsibility, climate protection, the circular economy and ensuring the permanent availability of resources. We pledged to implement global best practices related to sustainability by adopting the United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals which provide the foundation for our 2030 sustainability targets and action plans. This pledge dovetails with GCC’s focus on energy efficiency Enrique Escalante, CEO initiatives, blended cements and the use of alternative fuels. This year, GCC committed to the Science-Based Target Initiative in line with the goals of the U.N. Paris Accord. This complements our existing actions as a member of the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). We also joined GCCA’s Research Network, Innovandi, to ensure we are on the leading edge of innovation. We made considerable progress this year toward a more sustainable future. For the second consecutive year, the Pueblo Plant achieved ENERGY STAR® certification, earning one of the highest scores in the cement industry. We also entered into long-term agreements with renewable energy suppliers for electricity at our Mexico operations and at the Odessa and Rapid City cement plants. In 2019, we achieved record U.S. cement volumes; Mexico’s performance was also above expectations. Our solid financial position, combined with our strong operating track record, was evidenced in our improved credit rating to BB+ by Fitch Ratings. In addition, GCC stock was included for the first time in the FTSE index and FTSE BIVA. Key to our success is building trust among employees and creating a high-performance environment. We work to strengthen diversity and to provide opportunities for our teams to grow. We received the “Great Place to Work” designation for the first time in the U.S. and increased our ranking in Mexico to 14th from 30th place last year. By focusing on growth, evolving our strategy and building upon our success, GCC can be responsive to the many changes happening in the world around us. Today, GCC is well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that the future will bring. 2 ABOUT GCC GCC is an international company founded in 1941 in Chihuahua, Mexico. We are a vertically-integrated company with assets in Mexico and the U.S. We produce gray Portland cement, mortar, ready-mix concrete, concrete blocks, plaster, aggregates, other construction materials and innovative solutions such as specialty cements. Our sales territory also includes Canada. Cement Plants Cement Terminals Ready-Mix Territory Coal Mine Corporate Offices Distribution Centers Chihuahua, Mexico Denver, Colorado, U.S. 3 TOTAL CEMENT CAPACITY 2.28 3.57 5.86 million metric tons million metric tons million metric tons CEMENT 3 5 TOTAL 8 Odessa, Texas PLANTS Chihuahua, Chih. Juarez, Chih. Pueblo, Colorado Rapid City, South Dakota Samalayuca, Chih. Three Forks, Montana Tijeras, New Mexico Cement / Concrete Shipped Cement (million metric tons) Shipped by Division 2017 4.19 2018 4.36 71.7% 2019 4.57 48.7% Shipped Concrete (million cubic meters) 28.3% 2017 1.87 51.3% 2018 1.82 2019 1.85 4 Mission PHILOSOPHY To be the supplier of choice in cement, concrete and innovative solutions. Vision Our customers recognize us as a business partner that generates the most value for their construction projects. We are a growing company, a great place to work and a solid investment for our shareholders. Code of Ethics We are committed to managing with integrity, so it is vital that all our employees and vendors follow our Code of Ethics. Our code guides our decisions and actions. The code is based on the philosophy of the organization our mission, vision and values. We extended the Code of Ethics to our suppliers. We have established several reporting channels, specifically the Human Resources Department, the Corporate Audit, email, an anonymous hot line and the Legal Department. The seven members of the Ethics Committee resolve complaints and conflicts of interest. Values Our corporate values are present throughout our day-to-day activities, our decision-making and serve as guides to achieve our vision. HEALTH AND SAFETY SERVICE INTEGRITY We perform our jobs Our customers are a priority. Our behavior is ruled by responsibly and minimize risks We anticipate and search for honesty, respect and ethics. that could endanger the safety optimal solutions that satisfy We responsibly uphold and of our employees and other our customer’s needs. Doing honor our commitments; we people who interact with our business with GCC is easier. are aligned in our thoughts operations. and our actions. We are open-minded to the ideas and reasonings of others. TEAMWORK INNOVATION EXCELLENCE Our internal and external We create value by We feel proud of what we relationships are guided by developing new products, propose and do. We establish the creation of synergies. We services and processes that goals based on common search for mutually beneficial translate into better solutions. agreement and commit to solutions through continuous, We encourage innovation achieving results. In the quest transparent dialogue. and the implementation of for perfection, we execute Collaboration is fundamental improvements as if they were our goals with passion, to achieving our objectives. our own. wholeheartedness and commitment. 5 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES OUR COMPANY 6 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES 2019 Game Changers At GCC, we are embracing our part of the By 2030, GCC is committed to achieving a Renewable Energy Contracts challenge to build a more sustainable planet. We 25% fuel substitution rate to move away from GCC entered into long-term agreements with are adapting faster to the changes presented conventional fuels toward alternative fuels such solar and wind energy suppliers to reduce to us and creating better strategies across all of as fossil and carbon-neutral biomass fuels. More CO2 emissions and energy costs and to our business units. than 65% of our electrical energy will come from mitigate energy price fluctuations in Mexico. renewable sources, and 70% of our kilns will Energy Group be fired by natural gas, thereby reducing our Twenty percent of total electricity consumed GCC created a new team to oversee the dependence on coal. by GCC’s Mexico operations will be provided corporate strategy for energy to help reach our by a Mexico-based solar energy supplier. Using sustainability and economic goals. Under the This group will lead the way on sourcing and solar energy will provide $2.5 million in annual direction of the newly formed Energy Group, delivery of energy to our plants to ensure we savings and reduce annual CO2 emissions by GCC will continue to transition toward more have a positive impact both on the company and 21,000 metric tons. That’s roughly equivalent renewable energy sources for both thermal and surrounding communities. to 4,600 passenger vehicles driven for one electrical energy for our plants. year, based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates. Power supply under this agreement is expected to start in the first quarter of 2021. Starting July 2020, 100% of electric power consumed at the Odessa, Texas, cement plant will be supplied by a U.S.-based solar and wind energy supplier. The 10-year, fixed-price agreement reduces electricity costs by 22%, provides $4.6 million in savings over the next 10 years and reduces annual CO2 emissions by 45,000 metric tons. That’s approximately equivalent to 9,500 passenger vehicles driven for one year, based on U.S. EPA estimates. 7 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Corporate Technical and Innovation Group Innovandi Operations Office GCC’s focus on GCC joined the newly formed Global Cement GCC’s Corporate Technical and Operations innovation supports and Concrete Research Network, Innovandi. Office (CTOO) was created in 2019 to the United Nations Innovandi is an industry-led effort to connect strengthen processes and support sustainable sustainable the cement and concrete industry with growth. It’s a team made of varied and development goal for scientific institutions to drive new ways of complementary disciplines such as health and industry innovation working and supporting effective innovation safety, engineering, technology and process, and infrastructure, SDG with actionable research. raw materials and high-performance systems. 9, to build resilient infrastructure and foster innovation. Innovandi will research the areas of process CTOO’s purpose is to reduce operational risk technology and products, including the by: The Innovation group develops new products impact of co-processing, efficiency of clinker and processes tailored to our customers’ production and the implementation of carbon • Developing a healthy and safe work challenges. Our research and development is capture utilization and environment focused on creating cements with lower clinker storage technologies. • Securing and enhancing raw materials factor which will help meet our CO2 reduction This includes reserves and the timely and economic targets. understanding the procurement of supplies for operations impact of clinker • Anticipating and acting on technology, The Innovation group also works with substitutes and technological trends and disruptions geologists to locate natural materials with alternative binders in that can affect GCC’s competitiveness features that make them attractive for blended concrete, low carbon • Maintaining and upgrading equipment, cements and works with operations to adapt concrete technology, and the manufacturing process to incorporate and the impact of CO2 • Developing a culture of data-based alternative raw materials. reduction through redecision making and critical thinking. carbonation. The Innovation group is working diligently to CTOO’s focus is sustainable operation and identify and vet CO2 capture technologies to GCC’s membership in Innovandi ensures growth; the team provides guidance across further GCC’s long-term commitment to reduce we are on the leading edge of innovation, all disciplines, makes sure resources and our carbon footprint. benefiting from global research and actions competence increase, and closely monitors for a sustainable future. Innovandi members performance and guidelines fulfillment. include cement and concrete manufacturers, admixture specialists and equipment suppliers from around the world. 8 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Sustainability Strategy GCC’s sustainability strategy focuses on environmental responsibility, climate protection, fosters social responsibility and ensures economic sustainability for our generation and future generations. Our strategy was developed to reduce our overall impact on surrounding communities and the environment while creating value for all our stakeholders. Sustainability is an integral element of GCC’s business strategy, which is defined by the board of directors and the senior leadership team. A member of the board of directors heads the Sustainability Committee and is responsible for establishing the sustainability strategy. The vice president of energy and sustainability implements the operational tactics that achieve sustainability targets and goals. Each of GCC’s divisions take responsibility for implementing the sustainability strategy, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. This also includes the required capture and reporting of production, operating, consumption and emissions data as well as voluntary commitments made as a member of the Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). At the site level, plant managers are responsible for energy consumption, use of alternative fuels, health and safety and a plant’s overall environmental performance. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2018, our sustainability strategy was redesigned 2030 Sustainable Development Performance Targets to better align with GCCA’s Sustainability Guidelines. Environment & Nature GCC’s sustainability pillars Climate & Energy Circular Economy Social Responsibility are: Climate & Energy, Circular Health & Safety Economy, Health & Safety, Concrete Environment & Nature and Social Responsibility. In 2019, GCC focused on three pillars: Climate & Energy, Circular Economy and Health & Safety. We committed to 2030 sustainable targets within those pillars. Triple Bottom Line Strategy & Execution 9 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Climate and Energy 2030 Cement production is an energy intensive process that releases CO2 emissions into the 22% reduction in atmosphere. The desire for the industry to move to a low carbon economy has resulted in CO2 emissions from focused efforts to reduce our overall carbon footprint by using alternative fuels, producing Target 2018 baseline blended cements and reducing energy consumption by switching to renewable energy sources. GCC committed to accept our share of the worldwide responsibility in keeping the global rise in temperature to less than 2°C. Circular Economy 2030 GCC works with local and regional companies to use their waste materials as alternative raw materials and fuels for the production of cement. Technicians who 25% substitution rate for understand cement production and can think outside the box, are responsible for alternative fuel and raw sourcing and procuring these alternative fuels and raw materials. Target materials from 2018 baseline Health and Safety Occupational health and safety is one of GCC’s top priorities. We use targeted measures to improve technical and organizational safety standards and raise awareness of safe working practices by sharing best practices within the company and the industry. We take seriously not only the health and safety of our employees, but also that of our customers and third parties at our facilities and job sites. Environment and Nature The quarrying of raw materials and the production of cement utilize natural resources which we must protect for future generations. Biodiversity and water consumption are of extreme importance to GCC and to the surrounding communities. Reclamation plans exist for quarries to enhance our work in the environment and nature pillar. 10 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Social Responsibility GCC is a member of various associations that represent member interests in sustainability. These memberships promote an exchange with other companies and organizations with a common determination to achieve greater sustainability. Topics addressed focus on challenges specific to each division and include industrial policy for the secure supply of raw materials, environmental protection, energy conservation, occupational health and safety, and social and labor issues. A key factor for sustainable growth is contributing to the society and communities where we operate. GCC is actively involved in programs that foster culture, education, sports and welfare for employees and the community. In Mexico, the GCC Foundation is the cornerstone of our community collaboration, investing in communities through education and other programs. In the United States, each facility selects community partners to represent the employees and GCC. GCC strives to be an integral part of the community where our employees live and where we do business. At home, we invest our time and money to improve quality of life. At work, we invest in our most important resource our people. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations’ SDGs address global challenges the world faces: poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice. The United Nations defines 17 goals with 169 targets to be reached by 2030. GCC identified 11 SDGs that align with our 2030 sustainability targets and ways that we contribute to global sustainability goals. GCC currently focuses on five: Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7), Industry Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11), Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG 12) and Climate Action (SDG 13). The SDGs provide the foundation for our 2030 sustainability targets and action plans. Our focus on these SDGs present a real opportunity for GCC’s sustainability program to foster new opportunities, build relationships with stakeholders, contribute to the resolution of societal challenges and protect the environment. 11 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Products GCC quarries, manufactures and sells products with different applications to meet the needs of our customers. CEMENTS Cement is the main ingredient of ready-mix concrete. GCC offers a wide range of cement products for a variety of uses and industries. SPECIALTY & As we help build sustainable communities, we work to reduce the CO2 produced in the BLENDED manufacture of our product. Our suite of lower CO2/ton products provide long-term durability CEMENTS for our customers. READY-MIX Ready-mix concrete is a mixture of cement, stone aggregates and water. Concrete may contain CONCRETE chemical or mineral additives. PRECAST Precast concrete provides the support infrastructure for commercial and industrial buildings. CONCRETE CONCRETE A concrete block is a precast prism with at least one hollow core. Concrete blocks are used in BLOCKS (MX) simple and/or structural masonry systems. The coal we mine is used in our cement plants, and we sell it to other cement companies. COAL (U.S.) In a concerted effort to reduce our CO2 emissions, we are pursuing alternative fuels for our manufacturing process. AGGREGATES Aggregates such as stone, sand and gravel are added to concrete for the final product. 12 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES SUPPLIERS ALTERNATIVE QUARRY FUELS GYPSUM & COAL (U.S.) AGGREGATES CEMENT PLANT From Quarry READY-MIX PLANT CEMENT TERMINALS to Construction These are the main elements in our READY-MIX CONCRETE BLOCKS PRECAST PLANT DISTRIBUTION TERMINALS PLANT (MX) (MX) CENTERS (MX) supply chain, activities, products and services. CUSTOMERS RETAIL INDUSTRIAL INFRASTRUCTURE COMMERCIAL EXTERNAL BUSINESS SUPPORT (MX) RESIDENTIAL READY-MIX 13 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Our Stakeholders At GCC, we are committed to building and maintaining a healthy, educated and happy workforce. We are part of each community where we do business. When we collaborate with our employees, customers and surrounding communities, we become stronger together. GCC Family Our employees are the most important asset at GCC. Their expertise and commitment give us the competitive advantage. We invest in our employees through on-the-job training, GCC University, as well as safety and wellness programs. Some of our employees are represented by trade unions. Community Throughout GCC’s history, we have partnered with organizations promoting education, social welfare, infrastructure and culture. In Mexico, the GCC Foundation is the cornerstone of our community collaboration. In the U.S., each facility chooses community partners to represent the employees and GCC. Suppliers We are proud to contract with the highest quality suppliers in the industry. Each supplier abides by our Code of Ethics. Because we are a vertically-integrated company, we can largely ensure that GCC upholds human and labor rights throughout our supply chain. Government Relations and NGOs Our company observes a strict code of ethics internally and externally. In the U.S., each of our five cement plants seeks the advice and cooperation of citizen advisory groups. In both countries, we work with local, state and regional regulatory agencies and governments to protect our people, efficiently run our operations and protect the environment. Customers Our mission is to be the supplier of choice. We strive to exceed our customers’ expectations by anticipating their needs. We use only the most effective methods in customer service, quality and product delivery. Investors Our shareholders are represented through the Board and at the annual shareholder meeting. GCC provides quarterly reports to stockholders. The Audit and Corporate Practices Committee analyzes data to properly handle risk management and to implement good governance practices. 14 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Stakeholder Engagement KEY METHODS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF AREA(S) RESPONSIBLE OUTCOMES GCC Family ENGAGEMENT • Meetings • Negotiations Human Resources, • One-on-one meetings Employee Education, • Newsletters Corporate • Corporate website As Required Employee Retention & • Team meetings Communications and • Surveys • Project assignments Engagement Industrial Relations Community • Participation in • Citizen advisory local events groups (U.S.) As Required Multiple Community Issues • Site tours • Permitting processes • Website • Donations (money & • Public meetings time) Suppliers • Surveys • Corporate website • Information requests Transparency and • Negotiations Daily Procurement Contract Performance • RFP/RFQ Government • Presentations • Multi-stakeholder Relations and NGOs • Website forums • Permitting processes Transparency, Human & • Meetings • Industry • Lobbying As Required Multiple Labor Rights, Regulatory associations • Public meetings Compliance, Growth • Audits • Participation in local events Customers • Surveys • Corporate website • Industry • Product information Commercial associations • One-on-one Daily Area and Senior Customer Relationship • Formal market engagement Executives research Investors • Annual general • Investors conferences meeting • Road shows As Required, Transparency and • One-on-one • Website Quarterly & Investor Relations • Quarterly reports and Business Performance meetings Annually • Telephone calls conference calls 15 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Vendor and Contractor Relations At GCC, we are proud of the good relationships we have with our suppliers. One of the foundations of Proportion of Spending on Local Suppliers our business success is the quality of the goods and services we receive from them. We have a vendor MEXICO UNITED STATES base of more than 4,000 global, regional and local suppliers. We recognize our responsibility along our supply chain and have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct that we consistently communicate to our 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 suppliers. They are obligated to act in line with the principles defined in the Code. ACTIVE SUPPLIERS 1,719 1,739 1,688 3,009 3,375 2,999 LOCAL SUPPLIERS # 1,128 1.159 1,140 1.991 2,432 2,051 In 2019, GCC procured goods and services LOCAL SUPPLIERS % 65.6% 66.6% 67.5% 66% 72% 68.4% totaling $343.47 million from local providers. This SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS % 43.7% 48.6% 47.9% 57.5% 62.7% 64% corresponds to 58.9% of total expenditures. These costs are distributed among the various categories like raw materials, consumables, energy and logistics. Vendor Development Program In alliance with the Competitiveness Center, The benefits of this program are: Chihuahua Chapter, GCC implemented the Vendor • Application of successful business Development Program making an extensive practices that accelerate the growth of commitment across our supply chain in Mexico. vendors The purpose of this program is to strengthen the • Promote the culture of competitiveness competitiveness of our suppliers by promoting and • Strengthen the supply chain between facilitating the development of their capacities and GCC and vendors infrastructure. The program communicates and promotes responsible business practices. 16 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GCC Recognized for Integrating Socially Contractor Training and Certification Responsible Management In alliance with the Mining Association in the state of Chihuahua, we launched a program to train and certify all our into its Supply Chain contractors in health and safety. Some available courses and certifications are: For the 14th • Working in Confined spaces consecutive • Working at Heights year, the • Material Handling Hazards Mexican Center • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for Philanthropy and the • Tools — Hand and Power Mexican Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility recognized GCC’s commitment to implementing socially responsible management practices in its supply chain. Social responsibility within the supply chain starts when a company understands the social responsibility criteria and guidelines within its production chain and implements programs to forge alliances with commercial partners that are governed by the principles of ethics and social responsibility. GCC is committed to sharing its experience in responsible business management with other companies from the value chain, especially smalland medium-sized companies from the state of Chihuahua. 17 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Market Development Efforts Earn Award Dave Gray won the John P. Gleason, Jr., Leadership award for his market development efforts to build awareness of using concrete overlays on existing asphalt surfaces. The Gleason award honors Portland Cement Association (PCA) members who exhibit industry leadership by advancing key Association programs and initiatives. Gray partnered with professionals from the National Ready Mixed Concrete Association (NRMCA) and a concrete construction company to overlay existing asphalt parking lots with concrete. The use of concrete overlays provides cost-effective rehabilitation of aging urban asphalt paving and can extend the service life of a roadway 15 to 30 years. In addition, overlays can meet rapid construction requirements and require little maintenance over its service life, resulting in reduced life-cycle costs. Working at the customer level, Gray raises awareness of the potential gains for cement and concrete in a broad range of construction markets, helps companies and associations create successful promotion initiatives and is instrumental in educating decision makers in the industry on concrete overlays. 18 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES ECONOMICS 19 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GCC Governance BOARD MEMBERSHIP Board of Directors -INDEPENDENCEThe management of GCC is entrusted to the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors. The Board of Directors establishes guidelines and the overall strategy to direct the 20 NON-INDEPENDENT 8 INDEPENDENT business, shares perspectives, provides advice, and monitors and assesses management’s implementation. GCC’s Board of Directors consist of 11% women and 89% men, all originating from Mexico. There are eight independent members There are 14 primary board members with 14 alternates. of the board which exceeds GCC’s bylaw requirement of 25%. Our Code of Ethics encourages diversity for both its governance and the team. The Company’s Code of Ethics promotes labor inclusion regardless of gender in the composition of its BOARD MEMBERSHIP governing bodies and among employees. G E N D E R D I V E R S I T YProtection of shareholder value is as central to Board discussions as is creating long-term value. We have a 25 MALE coordinated, comprehensive approach to overseeing the enterprise-wide risk management responsibilities — identifying, 3 FEMALE assessing, monitoring and managing risk exposure. The Board regularly reviews strategic threats, opportunities and risks (including credit, market, liquidity, product, operational and cybersecurity risk). Leadership is fully engaged in risk management and has made it a fundamental aspect of company strategy, operations and culture. 20 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES The Board receives updates from the following committees which advise board members on economic, environmental and social impacts to the Company. These topics are discussed at each meeting of the Board. The CEO reviews and approves this report; the vice president for energy and sustainability ensures that material topics are covered. Committees Sustainability Committee Established by the Board of Directors, the Sustainability Committee identifies and manages the impacts, risks and opportunities that may arise in the social and environmental fields. The CEO-led committee develops the annual sustainability strategy to ensure GCC is up to date with the implementation process of social and environmental practices. The committee is composed of key leaders from both divisions. The members consider implications of governmental regulations in Mexico and the U.S. and develop strategy to maximize resources and technologies to reach our sustainability goals (see page 9). In 2019, the Sustainability Committee developed the Company’s new sustainability strategy focusing on CO2 reduction to meet worldwide targets by 2050. Furthermore, the committee expanded on the six pillars of the sustainability strategy to find common ground and areas of opportunity among the various business segments. Audit and Corporate Practices Committee The Audit and Corporate Practices Committee consists of three independent members assigned by the Board of Directors, except for the chairman who is elected by GCC’s shareholders. GCC adheres to safeguarding the interests of stockholders by providing information and results that boost their confidence and demonstrate that their investment is being properly managed through the analysis of effective risk management processes made. Likewise, the Committee is responsible for implementing the best practices of corporate governance. Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee is made up of seven members assigned by the Board of Directors. The Committee is responsible for ensuring proper disclosure and enforcement of the Code of Ethics by promoting values and behaviors encouraged by the organization, channeling cases, being a consultation party and defining corrective measures. The Committee has quarterly meetings where they analyze concerns, suggestions, complaints and inquiries submitted by the employees through email, an anonymous hotline, an independently managed website, or through the departments of human resources, legal and corporate audit. 21 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Remuneration The company’s long-term share-based incentive plan (LTIP), which is reviewed by GCC’s Audit Committee and affirmed by shareholders, is a component of the management and executive compensation program. The LTIP is tied to the Company’s long-term success and strikes an appropriate balance between short-term compensation and longer-term incentives. It is aimed at fostering retention, aligning management’s interest with those of GCC’s stakeholders, and recognizing and rewarding performance for individual contributions. The Company regularly conducts compensation comparisons against similar companies to ensure equity for its employees. This helps GCC attract and keep top talent. GCC Improves Ethics Score For the third consecutive year, two Mexican non-governmental organizations (NGOs) “Mexicans Against Corruption and Impunity” and “Mexican Transparency” published Corporate Integrity 500: a review of the integrity policies of the 500 most important companies in Mexico according to Expansion magazine. In the 2019 edition, GCC obtained 82.35 out of 100 points, improving its score by 6 points in a year-onyear comparison. GCC is now ranked 106. During 2019, GCC improved communication regarding its policies and guidelines to promote ethics and integrity through its website, helping make them more accessible for its stakeholders. 22 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Financial Performance and Growth GCC is poised to grow and capitalize on improving market conditions with a disciplined Net Sales by Year (millions) approach to acquisition and growth. Opportunities stem from our leading competitive $1,200 position, efficient operations and a solid financial standing. $900 $934 GCC faces fragmented competition with no one producer operating in the same markets. $824 $883 We hold a leadership position in the center cut of the U.S., $600 Net Sales by Region and we are the sole producer of cement and the leading producer of ready-mix concrete in the State of Chihuahua, $300 (millions) Mexico. The Permian Basin oil patch is growing into the largest oil patch in the world and GCC’s centralized 2017 2018 2019 operations provide a strong base to meet that increasing demand in Texas and New Mexico. $682 All stages of GCC’s cement and ready-mix supply chain are vertically integrated. GCC owns the limestone quarries needed to supply cement and ready-mix. Our cement plants are close to raw materials sources and supply the product used in our ready-mix operations. GCC’s King II coal mine provides fuel for cement plants, which lowers our costs and reduces fuel price volatility. GCC state-of-the-art production facilities and logistics provide an important competitive advantage. GCC’s robust distribution network enables us to place cement inventories closer to customers’ delivery times and allows us to better meet $252 customer needs. Net Sales by Business (millions) Operational efficiency levels supported a 13.9% 2017 2018 2019 increase in EBITDA growth CEMENT $539 $591 $628 to $292 million, while net CONCRETE $168 $175 $193 leverage (Net Debt/EBITDA) was reduced 1.1 times. Net CONCRETE BLOCK $12 $11 $12 financial expenses decreased 18.4% to $36.3 million due to lower interest rates, reduction in fees paid for bank AGGREGATE $27 $22 $19 debt refinancing, lower debt and a higher cash balance. OTHERS (coal, asphalt and building materials) $78 $84 $82 GCC’s free cash flow increased 28.8% to $137 million. TOTAL $824 $883 $934 With our financial flexibility due to increased liquidity, 23 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GCC remains committed to prudent capital allocation priorities. GCC’s strong balance sheet enables us to prioritize the strengthening of our core businesscement either organically or inorganically, aligned New Plant Extends with our strict merger and acquisition criteria. GCC’s Footprint In 2019, Fitch Ratings upgraded GCC’s global credit Due to increasing demand for concrete in and corporate debt rating from BB to BB+. The upgrade is a result of a Iowa’s Crawford County region, GCC installed stable outlook due to increased demand for oil well cement, an expected a re-purposed ready-mix plant and new facility accelerated decline in financial leverage, solid operating performance with to distribute concrete to customers. Since projected increased demand, the Company’s ability to generate solid free coming on line in May 2019, the facility has cash flow with relatively high profitability, and its market share leadership in shipped 15,000 cubic yards with the potential the State of Chihuahua and a large market share in Colorado, North Dakota, to grow over time. This greenfield plant South Dakota, New Mexico and West Texas. extends our service area by 75 miles, enabling us to serve new customers and provide faster GCC stock was included for the first time loading times. in the FTSE index and FTSE BIVA. FTSE is an index of companies listed on the London Stock Exchange with the highest market capitalization. The FTSE BIVA Index reflects the performance of liquid Mexican companies which are constituents of the FTSE Mexico All Cap Index. GCC also is included in the benchmark S&P BMV IPC Index that measures the performance of the largest and most liquid stocks listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange, and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index family which represents the performance of largeand mid-cap securities in 26 emerging markets, covering approximately 85% of the free float-adjusted market capitalization in each country. 24 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Financial Implications, Other Risks & Opportunities due to Climate Change Severe weather, rising seas, higher temperatures and other effects that may be attributable to climate change could have an adverse material effect on GCC through: • An increase in price of raw materials • An interruption in the supply of raw materials • Decreased construction activity could decrease demand • Cancellation or delay of projects • Disruption in transportation logistics • Damaged GCC infrastructure and production facilities • New environmental laws and regulations GCC maintains a risk management policy to monitor, analyze and mitigate risk exposures. For example, GCC internally sources a significant portion of its fuel requirements through its own coal mine and sources a significant portion of other raw materials from quarries and mines that the Company either owns or leases. In addition, GCC’s vertically integrated supply chain helps manage costs; a sophisticated distribution network leverages a contiguous market footprint that reduces the risk of supply disruption and provides operational flexibility. Climate-related opportunities for GCC stem from the adoption of new technologies and products: • To mitigate volatile and high energy costs, GCC implemented technical improvements in cement plants that provide the option to use coal or alternative fuels in clinker production. GCC’s cement plants can use natural gas for clinker production if natural gas pricing is more favorable, or if coal supply is interrupted or its quality becomes an issue. • Blended cement which increases our product offering and enables us to meet anticipated customer demand. • In 2019, GCC signed a long-term agreement with a solar energy supplier to cover approximately 20% of the total energy consumed at the Mexico operations. This will reduce energy costs and CO2 emissions, mitigate price fluctuation, and translates into approximately $2.5 million in annual savings. • Also in 2019, GCC signed a long-term agreement with a leading U.S.-based energy provider to supply solar and wind energy for 100% of the electrical power consumed at the Odessa, Texas, cement plant. The agreement reduces electricity costs by 22%, providing $4.6 million in savings over the next 10 years and mitigates related price fluctuation. A complete list of risks is available in GCC’s 2019 Annual Report. 25 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Economic Value Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed (millions) GCC plans to expand organically and 2017 2018 2019 through acquisition and integration REVENUE $824.1 $883.2 $934.1 of new businesses. The table shows economic value generated and OPERATING COSTS, ADMINISTRATIVE AND SALES GENERAL EXPENSES $494.3 $558.7 $580.1 distributed accrued to 2019, including EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS $169.0 $154.7 $170.5 the basic components for global PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL $75.6 $52.7 $47.3 operations such as revenue, operating PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT $9.5 $13.4 $15.3 costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to capital providers and COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS $0.7 $0.9 $1 governments, and donations. ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED $75.0 $102.8 $119.9 Indirect economic impacts that positively For further details on our financial performance, please see the 2019 Annual Report. affect productivity stem from creation of the Corporate Technical and Operations Office, a division that will support the Company’s growth strategy, strengthen operations and guide GCC’s continued expansion. GCC complies with all local, state and federal taxes in Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. In 2019, income tax totaled $25.1 million. Fort Stockton Terminal Improves Efficiency Due to increasing demand for concrete in the Permian Basin oil fields, a new phase one terminal was installed in Fort Stockton, Texas. The Permian Basin is growing into the largest oil patch in the world and GCC is preparing to meet the increasing demand for cement. This new terminal relieves shipping pressure on the Odessa, Texas, shipping facility and increases our ability to ship Type C class cement to southwest Texas. The new Fort Stockton terminal shipped 26,000 tons in 2019, with the potential to grow over time. Phase one terminals have been a big part of GCC’s growth with the installation of 14 new phase one terminals over the last 10 years, providing faster loading times and better customer service. 26 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Infrastructure Investments and Services Supported (millions) 2017 2018 2019 Over the past five years, GCC has invested $541 million in infrastructure and services to TRIDENT CEMENT PLANT ACQUISITION $74 meet increasing demand for products and to RAPID CITY CEMENT PLANT MODERNIZATION $32 $54 $10 strengthen our logistics network. This includes REGULATORY COMPLIANCE IN CEMENT PLANTS $19 $36 $28 acquisition of new facilities, products and TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT $18 $14 $12 equipment, upgrades to existing plants and improvements to our information systems. COAL MINE IMPROVEMENTS $5 $6 $2 AGGREGATES PLANTS $2 $1 In 2019, GCC spent $59 million on the INFORMATION SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT $1 $1 $1 preservation, maintenance and modernization DISTRIBUTION CENTERS $2 $1 of its cement plants. GCC implemented a data storage software and updated the Company’s LOTS AND BUILDINGS $4 $5 enterprise planning software. TOTAL $77 $192 $59 27 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES ENVIRONMENT 28 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GCC sustainability goals focus on implementing practices that Energy Consumption for Cement Production mitigate negative impacts on the environment. We aim to protect the health and safety of our UNIT 2017 2018 2019 employees and contractors as well as build strong communities. SPECIFIC ELECTRICAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION MWh 519,330 552,680 571,048 Economically, we seek to be a THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TJ 13,917 15,694 15,884 profitable and growing company FOSSIL FUEL THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TJ 12,399 14,273 14,437 that creates jobs and provides ALTERNATIVE FUEL THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TJ 1,518 1,421 1,447 benefits to our shareholders. Energy Consumption GCC strives to improve operational performance by ensuring equipment is operating at predetermined levels for both electrical and thermal energy requirements. In 2019, both total electrical and thermal energy consumption increased for clinker and cement production when compared to 2017 and 2018. The increase from 2017 energy consumption is a result of the integration of a new cement plant in Montana. The increase in total energy consumed from 2018 is due to the increased operation time at the Pueblo and Rapid City plants, resulting in both an increase in clinker and cement production. Total cement production increased 3% as we produced more specialty cement in Mexico to meet market demands in the U.S. Total alternative thermal energy consumption increased in 2019 from the use of more tire-derived fuels at the Pueblo Plant. For the second consecutive year, the Pueblo Plant achieved ENERGY STAR® certification with one of the highest scores in the cement industry. 29 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Energy Star® Certification For the second consecutive year, the Pueblo, Colorado, cement plant earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR certification for superior energy performance. ENERGY STAR certified plants must perform in the top 25% of similar facilities across the nation. By meeting ENERGY STAR’s strict standards, the Pueblo Plant is saving energy, saving money and helping protect the environment. ENERGY STAR’s industrial program provides industry-specific energy benchmarking tools and other resources to enable plants to compare their energy performance with others in the same industry. In 2019, 95 industrial plants earned the ENERGY STAR certification. 30 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Specific Electrical Specific Electrical Energy Consumption Power Consumption (KWh/metric ton cement) In 2019, specific electrical power consumption was 126.5 kWh per metric ton of cement, 200 including electric power consumed by the reception of raw materials into the cement 150 silos. 100 126.2 126.5 124.2 Total electric power consumption was 571,000 MWh across all cement plants. Energy consumption increased in 2019 at the Chihuahua and Samalayuca plants by 3% and 5%, 50 respectively, driven by the production of well and CP40 cements to meet market demand 0 in the U.S. However, even with this increase of power consumption in Mexico, the 2017 2018 2019 electrical energy consumption remained flat due to both Pueblo and Rapid City plants decreasing their power consumption by 5% and 12%, respectively. In 2019, GCC entered into long-term agreements with solar and wind energy suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions and energy costs, and to mitigate energy price fluctuations in Mexico operations and at the Odessa, Texas, cement plant. Solar energy will provide 20% of the energy used at the Juarez cement plant, ready mix and aggregate operations and at GCC’s Mexico corporate offices, providing $2.5 million in annual savings and reducing annual CO2 emissions by 21,000 metric tons. One hundred percent of electric power consumed at the Odessa Plant will be supplied by a U.S.-based solar and wind energy Specific Thermal Energy company, reducing electricity costs 22%, providing $4.6 million in savings over the next 10 Consumption years, and reducing annual CO2 emissions by 45,000 metric tons. (MJ/metric ton clinker) Thermal Energy Consumption 2019 3,893 Total specific thermal energy in 2019 was 3,893 MJ per metric ton of clinker, 2.5% lower 2018 3,997 than the previous two years. The decrease in thermal energy consumption is due to improved operational efficiencies at U.S. plants. The commissioning of the new kiln at the Rapid City Plant, along with increased clinker production at the Pueblo Plant reduced 2017 3,987 consumption by 11% and 3%, respectively. Cement plants in Mexico showed a slight increase in thermal energy consumption due to the production of well clinker at the 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Chihuahua plant and reduced clinker production at the Samalayuca plant. 31 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Transforming Waste into Energy In order to increase co-processing use and its technology, GCC, in partnership with the Mexican government on Organic Fraction of Waste for Energy Efficiency (FROEE, its acronym in Spanish), initiated research and development on alternative fuels at our Chihuahua and Samalayuca plants. Co-processing is the use of materials that would otherwise be discarded as an energy source. FROEE is an engineered fuel made from non-hazardous plastics, wood and fabric that can replace 33% to 45% of the conventional fuel used in the kiln for clinker production. Sourcing these waste materials from local businesses diverts waste from landfills, decreases CO2 emissions by substituting waste for fossil fuels and reduces our dependency on non-renewable energy sources. Waste includes materials like plastics, textiles, paper, cardboard and wood, mostly sourced from recycling plants and/or maquiladoras (factories) in the area. The material we burn in the kilns would otherwise go into a landfill because it cannot easily be reused or recycled. For example, we use the leftover plastic from molded automobile steering wheels, wood pallets and fabric from seat belts. To date, the Samalayuca Plant has co-processed more than 400,000 metric tons of waste. At the Chihuahua Plant, 2,600 metric tons of industrial waste is co-processed every month, using waste such as pecan shells. Alternative Fuels Fossil Fuel Substitution Alternative fuels used 16% include used tires, GCC is replacing the use of conventional fuels with alternative industrial discards such fossil and carbon-neutral biomass fuels to heat the cement kiln. 12% as plastics and nut The use of fuel alternatives is key to reducing the carbon intensity shells. In 2019, more 8% 10.9% 9.1% 9.1% of cement production by conserving natural resources, reducing than 9% of traditional CO2 emissions, delivering financial efficiencies and supporting the 4% fuel was substituted circular economy. Cement production is ideal for co-processing for alternative fuels. of non-recyclable materials which might otherwise end up in 0 The Pueblo Plant landfills. We work with regulatory authorities, producers and other 2017 2018 2019 increased its alternative stakeholders in order to develop optimal co-processing solutions. fuel utilization by 28%. Best practices are shared among plants, and we work with The Chihuahua Plant now uses more waste-derived fuel after stakeholders to increase our fuel substitution rates. We monitor air commissioning a new main burner. emissions in order to comply with regulations. 32 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Railroad Ties as Fuel Beneficial use of material that otherwise goes to waste is an important part of GCC’s alternative fuel strategy. There are many common materials that are rarely thought of as viable kiln fuel, but nonetheless, make a valuable contribution to fuel requirements when managed properly. At the same time, their beneficial reuse can solve a disposal problem and further offset GCC’s reliance on natural resources. In 2019, GCC used 66,874 metric tons of plastics, wood, fabric and pecan shells as alternative fuel in its Mexico cement plants. At the Pueblo Plant, 11,152 metric tons of waste tires were consumed in the kiln. Major railroads in the United States produce more than 25-million scrap ties per year. An overwhelming majority of railroad ties are made of wood, often hardwood, treated with creosote as a preservative. Since 2011 the EPA has recognized railroad ties as an alternative fuel in cement kilns, and the major railroads are increasingly averse to creating waste. The lifespan of a railroad tie in service is approximately 15 years. Some old ties may be reused in rail switch yards or sidings. The remaining ties are stripped of metal and a few are sorted out as landscape timber. The metal is recycled, but the remaining ties are often dumped in landfills. To test the potential of railroad tie chips, GCC procured 1,000 metric tons of scrap railroad ties from the Burlington-Northern railroad yard near the Pueblo Plant. Ties were prepared for the kiln by chipping and shredding using GCC’s own alternative-fuel processing equipment. The wood chips were then introduced into the Pueblo kiln in a carefully designed, controlled and monitored trial. Results of the trial showed that preparation efficiency was favorable and there is a direct offset of coal required on a heat-value basis with no adverse impact on emissions. The success of the trial led us to pursue chipped and shredded railroad ties as a long-term, large-volume consistent fuel source. Two of GCC’s U.S. plants now hold permits to burn railroad ties. 33 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Raw Materials Raw Materials Used for Cement Production (thousand metric tons) Raw materials used in the production of clinker 2017 2018 2019 and cement include limestone, shale, clay, NON-RENEWABLE RAW MATERIALS 6,611 6,932 7,115 sand, iron and gypsum. Coal and natural gas are the traditional fuels. The use of alternative RECYCLED RAW MATERIALS 139 144 148 raw materials is a driving aspect of our circular PERCENTAGE OF RECYCLED RAW MATERIALS 2.1% 2.03% 2.08% economy strategy. RENEWABLE MATERIALS 39 44 40 To reduce dependence on non-renewable NON-RENEWABLE FUEL (COAL) 423 413 452 materials, we continuously seek alternative raw RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS (RESIDUES) 81 78.4 78 materials and fuels such as anhydrite, iron ore CLICKER/CEMENT RATIO 87.9% 87.8% 88.1% and ash. We also use secondary raw materials resulting from other industrial processes. Our Samalayuca cement plant in Mexico uses Climate Change anhydrite from a neighboring industrial plant to make cement, which helps conserve resources and reduces waste disposal problems faced by the municipality and the industrial company. In 2019, our raw material substitution rate increased to In 2019, GCC decided to join more than 850 companies globally 2.08%, using 148,000 metric tons of discarded material to take action for low-carbon from other industrial processes. and future-proof growth by 2030 establishing science-based GCC Mexico plants have the highest usage of alternative 22% reduction in targets. Science-based targets raw materials because they are close to material CO2 emissions from provide companies with sources and have different cement standards and regulatory oversight. Target 2018 baseline a clearly defined pathway to future-proof growth by specifying how much and how Clinker is the main ingredient in cement. We are quickly they need to reduce exploring reducing the clinker proportion used per their greenhouse gas emissions. Our 2030 sustainability goals metric ton of cement by using more fillers and other alternative include a 22% reduction in net CO2 emissions compared to our materials. Extending the clinker helps optimize clinker mineralogy 2018 baseline year, as outlined in Science-Based Target Initiative (which improves product quality), develop blended cement guidelines. The road map to reach 2030 sustainability goals products and reduce CO2 emissions. includes increasing use of alternative fuels, increasing production of blended cements to reduce our clinker ratio, and optimizing use of electric and thermal energy. 34 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES CO2 Emissions GCC is committed to reducing greenhouse CO2 Direct and Indirect Emissions (thousand metric tons) gas emissions through energy optimization, by relying less on traditional UNIT 2005 2017 2018 2019 fuels and by producing blended cements. Our goal is to reduce net CO2 emissions GROSS CO2 EMISSIONS metric tons 3,128 3,397 3,358 3,483 9% by 2020, as compared to our 2005 NET CO2 EMISSIONS metric tons 3,119 3,352 3,324 3,436 baseline. Between 2005 and 2019, we ENERGY INDIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS metric tons 297 395 399 426 reduced the specific net CO2 emissions by 8.8% to 744 kg per metric ton of cement. In CEMENTITIOUS PRODUCT metric tons 3,825 4,473 4,449 4,619 2019, we achieved a 3.8% reduction from CO2 EMISSIONS REDUCTION / BASE YEAR % 8.1% 8.5% 8.8% 2018 levels. This reduction was achieved by utilizing more alternative fuels in our Pueblo Plant, increasing production of blended cements and optimizing our operations for heat and energy consumption. CO2 emissions increased with the acquisition of the Trident Plant and restarting kilns at the Chihuahua Plant. However, operation of the new kiln at the Rapid City Plant offsets the increase in emissions, and we are confident we will achieve the 2020 commitment. We report CO2 emissions according to the Getting the Numbers Right Reporting protocol developed by the Cement Sustainability Initiative and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. That protocol’s guidance on Net Specific CO2 Emissions the integration of new cement plants results in the year-on-year differences in the (Kg CO2/metric ton cement) 2017 and 2018 reports. 900 800 Other Air Emissions 700 816 In addition to CO2, the kiln combustion process emits other substances such as 749 746 744 nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and particulate matter (PM). NOx and SOx 600 are a product of the combustion of fuels used to produce clinker. PM emissions are 0 from quarrying, open storage of materials, transfer of materials through uncovered 2005 2017 2018 2019 conveyors, loading and unloading operations, and numerous other activities within the cement plants. 35 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES For these emissions, we exceed regulatory mitigation requirements. Mitigation Absolute Atmospheric Emissions actions include using more efficient filters in our dust collectors for PM emissions, (metric ton/year) ammonia injection for NOx emissions, and hydrated lime injection for SOx emissions. 2017 2018 2019 GCC monitors stack emissions, invests in abatement technologies and regularly NOx 3,726 3,768 3,883 maintains emissions equipment used in the manufacturing operation. Continuous SOx 288 325 464 monitoring equipment is utilized in U.S. plants to monitor emissions. For plants Dust 20 22 33 in Mexico, measurements are taken with precise tests for monitoring. For this report, we use the approach established by the Cement Sustainability Initiative, “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting in the Cement Industry.” The emissions listed in this report represent U.S. plants where continuous emission monitors are in use. Three of five cement plants in the U.S. are equipped with selective non-catalytic Specific Atmospheric Emissions reduction (SNCR) equipment to reduce NOx emissions. GCC’s U.S. cement (grams/metric ton clinker) plants lead the cement manufacturing industry in 2017 2018 2019 improving visibility due to haze and in optimizing the NOx 1,643 1,654 1,540 use of ammonia to control SOx 127 143 184 NOx emissions and stay Dust 8.8 9.6 13.1 below our target limits. GCC cement plants are among the lowest emitters of SOx in the U.S. cement industry, with two out of the five cement plants equipped with hydrated lime systems. In 2019, specific NOx emissions decreased 6.8% due to implementation of a SNCR system at the Odessa and Trident plants and the commissioning and operation of Rapid City’s new kiln. Specific SOx emissions increased due to the operation of the new kiln at Rapid City. PM emissions rates increased; however, they remain under regulatory limits. 36 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Trident Plant Reduces NOx Air Emissions In 2019, GCC focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and ammonia usage at the Trident Plant by installing an engineered burner pipe and indirect fuel firing system. These installations, along with the previously installed selective non-catalytic reduction (SNCR) pollution-control device, are continually fine-tuned to reduce NOx emissions and improve the surrounding area’s visibility. The installed SNCR system includes a 30,000-gallon aqueous ammonia storage tank, a pump skid and injection lances with adjustable spray nozzles. The SNCR process injects an aqueous ammonia solution into the pyroprocess to react with both the thermal and fuel NOx. Optimally, we want to destroy as much NOx and use as little ammonia as possible. Because many factors affect kiln operational stability and NOx generation rates, an automatic control loop is programmed to adjust the ammonia injection rate based on actual emissions and minimize the amount of ammonia released to the atmosphere. To further reduce consumption of ammonia, we adjusted the engineered burner and indirect firing of solid fuels to create a reduction zone within the kiln. Before the SNCR system, Trident operated at a NOx emission level of 10 to 11 pounds per metric ton of clinker. With SNCR, NOx emissions were reduced 30% in 2018. In 2019, we reduced NOx emissions at the Trident Plant 3% while reducing consumption of ammonia. With continued focus and optimization of our processes and fuels, we expect to be able to reduce, or eliminate, the use of ammonia at the Trident Plant. 37 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Biodiversity Quarry Reclamation GCC is currently reclaiming 27 acres at Tijeras’ Quarry 1, the oldest and most From the Environment and Nature visible quarry in the mining area. The post-mine land use for this area is sustainability pillar, GCC is working to align designated as a wildlife habitat so GCC is taking measures to provide supporting quarry plans to GCCA guidelines with 2030 habitats for reptilian, avian and smaller mammalian wildlife populations and targets developed for Biodiversity and to re-establish the natural ecosystem. The large pond adjacent to Quarry 1 Water consumption. GCC operates quarries collects storm water and will provide a local water source for wildlife. at all cement plants and, where required, maintains reclamation plans. Reclamation activities at this location are challenging due a high volume and rate of storm water throughput at the lowest point of the mine. Therefore, we are using a “geomorphic” style reclamation to minimize erosion and create natural water management areas. Geomorphic Mine Refuse Pile reclamation slows the flow of storm water and emphasizes blending with background The process of mining coal creates and undisturbed landscapes. waste that is disposed of in piles around the mine site, commonly referred to as Reclamation began in 2019 with the design a refuse pile. In 2019, GCC’s King II coal and initial earthwork. Over the next four mine gained approval to expand and years, GCC will remove a visible hilltop and update its permitted refuse pile under a rock slide to blend contours of the location technical revision to the permit. into the natural surrounding area. Parts of the existing permitted refuse Material collected from removal activities will be used as fill material for the pile will be reconfigured, extending the rest of the reclamation phases. That will further reduce our emissions because disturbed area 0.65 acres and placing hauling won’t be needed. Additionally, native seeds can establish more quickly refuse on top of the existing pile. Refuse by reusing the topsoil from the hilltop. is placed in layers, sloped and then compacted to ensure water is captured The completed geomorphic reclamation will promote recreational activities, in the settling ponds. wildlife re-establishment and native plant regrowth and provide the community with an improved view that blends naturally into the beautiful Pinion Juniper This updated practice significantly landscape. improves efficiency for managing refuse and water drainage at the coal mine. 38 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES PEOPLE & COMMUNITY 39 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Health and Safety Occupational health and safety are our top priorities and All GCC business units maintain a Health and Safety Improvement are integral to GCC’s values. At GCC, we perform our jobs Plan. The plan is reviewed and updated regularly by the unit’s responsibly and minimize the risks that could endanger the management who monitor progress against targets. The directors safety of our employees and other people who interact with sign the policy, ensure it is relevant to their business unit and our operations. We continuously pursue the reduction of health communicate the policy to all staff and stakeholders. and safety risks and exceed government regulations. In 2019 GCC implemented a health and safety management process to Our focus is on establishing a demonstrate our commitment and zero-incident culture, driving reinforce expectations for the entire standardization, creating a culture organization. The focus of this process that promotes active employee is on behavior-based safety training, engagement and operating in a safety committee improvements, sustainable manner to secure our enhanced regulatory compliance and long-term success. creating synergies between U.S. and Mexico operations. The Health and Safety Committee creates and manages strategic In order to ensure that health and work plans to maintain employee safety is top of mind with employees safety and well-being. A Health and stakeholders, GCC regularly and Safety functional organization provides training and education as is defined for each division, down well as communicates health and to the site level. In addition, every safety topics through various channels. plant has a health and safety committee to achieve the safest possible performance on every job site and protect employees, Health and safety topics and case studies are featured in contractors, customers and the public against any potential newsletters and on communication stations. hazards related to our operations. 40 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Pueblo Earns ISO Certification GCC’s Pueblo Plant earned the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certification in the Quality (9001), Environmental (14001) and Occupational Health & Safety (45001) Management Systems. ISO is about continuous improvement and follows the Plan Do Check Act cycle. It standardizes business processes, ensures companies are in legal compliance and creates customer satisfaction for both internal and external customers. The team standardized documents, procedures and forms. That helped facilitate training of the workforce in a more systematic and organized manner. Each operational team performs daily inspections in designated areas of the plant. The checklists include Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S), Environmental and Quality criteria to ensure our processes run smoothly and environmental compliance mistakes are avoided. Developing and improving safety procedures has been a high priority. Based on the Pueblo OH&S risk register, we initially generated 30 safety procedures to mitigate the highest ranked risks such as mobile equipment operation and cleaning of the preheater tower. Many safety procedures now include pictures for clarification of the task. These safety procedures are an excellent basis for training new employees and fulfilling U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration legal compliance. In addition, the team identified all of the environmental aspects (risks) and impacts associated with the activities at the plant. They then ranked the aspects/impacts and created objectives to further reduce environmental risks. “The Integrated Management System (IMS) gives us peace of mind. We now have a systematic way to follow the IMS policy and achieve our objectives, which are aligned with GCC goals,” said Alex Alarcon, plant manager. “It is an efficient way of complying with our obligations, integrating training, improving communication and having the correct and current documentation.” 41 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES 2019 Lytx® Driver of the Year Award DeAnn Martwick won third place in the worldwide 2019 Lytx Driver of the Year awards for the waste/construction category. Winners were selected from more than 850,000 drivers worldwide who use the Lytx Driver Safety Program. Lytx is a global leader in video telematics, analytics, productivity and safety solutions for commercial and public sector fleets. DeAnn has driven for GCC since 2007 and has a flawless safety record with the U.S. Department of Transportation. In the two years and 98,000 miles that GCC has used the Lytx DriveCam safety technology on its trucks, DeAnn hasn’t had any scored or coachable events. According to Lytx, they want to award drivers who demonstrate that “a deep-seated commitment to safety can have a positive impact on every individual, company and community they serve.” DeAnn made this difference on America’s roadways in the spring of 2018, stopping her rig to call 911 when she spotted a pickup truck overturned by the side of a bridge. DeAnn found a young man lying in the ditch with a broken leg, the bone sticking out of his skin. He had used his belt as a tourniquet. In the seven hours this motorist had been lying next to his truck unable to find his phone, only DeAnn stopped to help. She even waited with him for more than an hour until paramedics took him to the hospital and the police had a statement. It is no wonder DeAnn’s co-workers describe her as kind, a motivator, a role model and a small package of tremendous joy. Luke Henrich, aggregate manager, wrote, “When DeAnn is put on a project, I don’t have to worry about things not getting accomplished. She is very efficient, and from her experience she really gets the big picture. DeAnn shows pride in what she does.” 42 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Klinkenberg Earns International Safety Certification John Klinkenberg, health and safety manager at GCC Sun City Materials, earned the designation of Certified Mine Safety Professional (CMSP) from the Society for Mining, Metallurgy & Exploration and the International Academy of Mine Safety & Health. CMSP is the premier, accredited safety certification for the worldwide mining industry. CMSP designation signifies that the health and safety professional has the experience in and knowledge of best practices and is dedicated to elevating those best practices on the job. “I decided to pursue certification to confirm my understanding of mine safety so that I could help the people I work with,” John said. John worked on the certification for four years. Earning the certification requires determination. Candidates must have 10 years of mining experience (two in mine health and safety), be employed in a mining health and safety position, study the mine safety profession Body of Knowledge, pass the exam and pledge to abide by the CMSP Code of Conduct. With more than 22 years in the industry, John began his career as fleet transportation manager in El Paso, Texas. Tijeras Welding Strong Eight Tijeras Plant employees earned welding certifications. An in-person, six-week class culminated with students receiving the certification and an auto-darkening welding hood. Course completion also provides opportunities for employees to earn more money and achieve higherlevel career challenges or leadership roles. 43 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Employee Relations GCC assesses the performance of salaried employees through a Employees by Region program that sets objectives and annual goals. In addition, GCC’s Talent Management Program ensures we have a succession path for high potential and high performers for 48 key positions. The program promotes employee development, encourages growth from within the company and creates opportunities for special assignments, projects or to study with subject matter experts. Talent committees, under the 1,432 1,333 direction of the senior leadership team, identify staff for the program and create individual development plans to ensure they have the appropriate training. Since the program’s inception, more than 250 employees have participated, roughly 25% of our salaried staff. GCC provides professional development opportunities to all employees and fosters a culture of continuous improvement and high performance through GCC University. GCC Employees by Gender University offers online, bilingual courses and workshops in three areas: institutional education, career development and technical training. In addition, GCC has a skills certification program to promote professional development in Mexico. In 2019, GCC 266 University provided almost 22,000 hours of training. MALE GCC supports workers’ rights to New Hires by Age, Gender and Region FEMALE exercise freedom of association 2,499 and collective bargaining and maintains productive relationships MEXICO UNITED STATES with union boards. Approximately 33% of our total workforce is unionized. Employees in three AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE U.S. plants are represented by trade unions: Rapid City, Odessa and Trident. Trade unions representing those UNDER 30 126 13 66 4 employees include United Steelworkers, North America’s largest industrial union, 30 TO 50 108 3 116 14 and the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers. In Mexico, the three cement OVER 50 5 0 42 0 plants (Chihuahua, Juarez and Samalayuca) are unionized. These unions are part 239 TOTAL 16 224 18 of the national Cement Industry Workers Union. Formal agreements with trade unions include health and safety topics. RATE 8.6% 0.6% 8.1% 0.7% 44 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GCC Ranked Top Employer in US & Mexico GCC was recognized for the fourth consecutive year as one of Mexico’s best companies by the Great Place to Work® Institute, an organization considered to be a global authority in workplace culture. GCC Mexico’s Great Place to Work ranking increased to 14th from 30th place last year, and from 70th two years ago. In 2019, the U.S. Division was certified for the first time. This is a strong affirmation of our success in strengthening diversity, work/life balance, growth opportunities, corporate culture and a positive work environment. The Great Place to Work® Institute evaluates a company with surveys and audits of corporate culture. Information is obtained about the level of trust that employees experience in their leaders, the level of pride they have in their jobs and the extent to which they enjoy their colleagues. Community Socially Responsible Throughout GCC’s history we have contributed to the Company Award communities where employees live and work. We believe it is our responsibility to give back to local, regional and For the 15th consecutive year, GCC received the Socially national charities because they affect each and every one of Responsible Company Award from the Mexican Center for us. We partner with community organizations that promote Philanthropy (Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía, Cemefi) and education, social welfare, infrastructure and culture. AliaRSE. Latin American companies that meet the standards of corporate social responsibility, including economic and In Mexico, the GCC Foundation is the cornerstone of our environmental areas, are considered for the certification. The community collaboration. The GCC Foundation invests award is based on selfin communities through education and programs that analysis of 120 indicators transform society where GCC has a presence. For example, as documented by the the Foundation donates to educational institutions. In the company and verified by United States, each facility selects community partners to the Cemefi. represent the employees and GCC. 45 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Reading, Writing and Robotics More than 100 fifth-grade students from Belle Fourche School District toured the Rapid City Plant to learn about cement production. The tour included visiting the cement lab and the control room where students could see the lab robot and the control room screen showing the inside of the kiln. Students learned about raw materials used to make the cement, how the kiln works, processing the clinker, and shipping cement to customers. Before the tour started, students were given a safety talk and were outfitted with personal protective gear. Students could also explore a semi truck and trailer as well as a ready-mix truck. Some even played with the raw materials used to make cement. 46 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Giving Back Sandbagging in South Dakota The spring of 2019 saw record flooding throughout much of the Midwest. GCC came to the aid of our friends and neighbors in Aberdeen, South Dakota, during the floods. GCC provided sand for sandbags to protect people’s homes and businesses. We helped fill more than 1,000 sandbags distributed throughout the area. Nicole Monanian Northern State University Swim Club Chihuahua, New Mexico and Texas With the publication of “Chihuahua, Nuevo México y Texas” in 2019, GCC is well into its second decade of highlighting the history and culture of Chihuahua and its people. This book chronicles the history and development of this binational border region and showcases what makes the area special. The history comes from the chronicles that account for life in that region of New Spain during the viceroyalty. The region took on a new configuration after the war between Mexico and the United States in 1847; it was then that its binational character first appeared. From the second half of the 20th century, significant changes took place in the economic, social and cultural arenas of this strip of land that brings together the three states. “Chihuahua, Nuevo México y Texas” enlightens us all on the shared history, its binational nature, the livestock corridor and the agriculture impact. 47 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Trident on a Roll with Bike Trail Trident Plant’s quarry supervisor Nate Allen and his crew worked with a local hauler to donate gravel for a parking lot at the head of a mountain biking trail. Copper City Trails is a project by the Southwest Montana Mountain Bike Association (SWMMBA) in partnership with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The plan calls for approximately 18 miles of bike-optimized trails open to hikers and trail runners. The project encompasses a wide range of trails including beginner-friendly trails, technical ridge trails, flow trails and two downhill-only bike-only trails. A youth-focused skills park with dirt jumps and a pump track catering to all ages and abilities is planned. Nate worked with the BLM and the SWMMBA for more than a year on the project. While locals use the trails frequently, the trails are also a destination for mountain bikers and hikers from across the country. The trails can usually be accessed year-round which is unusual in the area. The land holds a special place in Nate’s heart. He grew up nearby and hikes and hunts on the land. Trident Plant environmental engineer Greg Gannon and quarry supervisor Nate Allen check out the project. 48 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Let’s Plant Together A volunteer program, Let’s Plant Together, was created by GCC ready-mix employees in the Juarez, Chihuahua, facilities to improve and protect communities by planting trees in schools, parks and around GCC’s facilities. The first phase of the program was the donation of trees through an outreach campaign on GCC ready mix’s Facebook page in Mexico. Participants were asked to post a photo with an explanation on why they wanted to plant a tree. The winning submissions were from two children who asked to plant trees at parks in their neighborhoods. The second phase involved employees inviting community members to participate in planting 70 trees at GCC’s ready-mix plants. Students from CONALEP, the National College of Professional Technical Education, the Technology Hub, neighbors and Red Cross members participated. The third phase was the donation and planting of 40 trees at Technical High School No. 95, in collaboration with the State Ministry for Rural Development. More than 200 volunteers participated, including employees and members of civil society organizations, Alianzas Educativas and Comunidad de Cambios Ecológicos. By involving the community in this inclusive and collaborative program, GCC’s builds stronger relationships with neighbors. 49 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES ANNEXES 50 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES About This Report We present to the GCC stakeholders the annual Sustainability Report that provides the corporation’s main results as well as our progress toward achieving sustainability goals from January 1 December 31, 2019. This report has been formally reviewed and approved by our CEO and was released publicly at the April 2020 Shareholders Meeting. Aligned to the Global Reporting Initiative This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option, without external verification. GRI principles for defining content include stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. We strive to be at the vanguard of sustainability reporting and continually refine our reporting process to strengthen this area of our communication strategy. GCC’s Sustainability Committee, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for the content of this report. To ensure the accuracy of report, the Committee analyzes and approves each topic. GCC welcomes any feedback or questions from stakeholders regarding this report. Please contact us via email at corporate.communication@gcc.com. 51 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Associations Global The Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) is the globally trusted, authoritative platform and voice for Cement and the cement and concrete industry. The aim of GCCA is to drive responsible industry leadership in the manufacture and use of cement and concrete, to improve the global, social and environmental impact of the sector’s activities Concrete and products, and to foster innovation and collaboration with industry associations and inspiring architects, Association engineers and innovators along the length of the built-environment value chain. All full members comply with (GCCA) GCCA’s Sustainability Charter. The Private Sector Studies Commission for Sustainable Development (CESPEDES) was founded to face the challenges of sustainable development posed by the incorporation of Mexico into global markets. CESPEDES is the Mexican chapter of the Business Council for Sustainable Development, WBCSD (World Business Council CESPEDES for Sustainable Development) and belongs to the Business Coordinating Council (CCE). CESPEDES represents a variety of extraction, manufacturing and consumer businesses that have a common interest in facing the challenges of sustainable development. As the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, the United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact is a voluntary United initiative based on CEO commitments to implement universal sustainability principles and undertake steps to support U.N. goals. The Compact requires companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles Nations on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to take actions that advance societal goals. As a Global participant in the U.N. Global Compact, a company sets in motion changes to business operations so that the Compact Compact and its principles become part of strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Associate members communicate with their stakeholders on an annual basis about its progress. The national Mexican Chamber of Cement (CANACEM) is an autonomous body designated by the Mexican Mexican Secretary of Economy to represent, promote and defend the interests of the cement sector and adopt programs that contribute to the development and expansion of economic activities, safety, sustainability and innovation. Chamber of CANACEM serves as a consultative and collaborative body for the needs, problems and activities of the cement Cement industry, as well as the design and execution of policies, programs and instruments that facilitate and promote the expansion of general economic activity. 52 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES The Portland Cement Association (PCA) is the premier policy, research, education and market intelligence Portland organization serving America’s cement manufacturers. PCA members represent 91% of U.S. cement production Cement capacity with facilities in all 50 states. PCA promotes safety, sustainability and innovation in all aspects of Association construction, fosters continuous improvement in cement manufacturing and distribution, and generally promotes economic growth and sound infrastructure investment. National The National Ready Mixed Concrete Association (NRMCA) is the leading industry advocate for ready-mix concrete, Ready Mixed providing research, education and advocacy to its members. NRMCA has several committees where members and Concrete professional staff work together to support the mission and develop sustainability initiatives to uphold principles of Association sustainable development. For 15 years, GCC has been recognized by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) and the Alliance for Socially Corporate Social Responsibility (AliaRSE) as a socially responsible business. The voluntary and publicly committed Responsible ESR® distinction is given to organizations with socially responsible management and continuous improvement as Company part of their culture and business strategy. The ESR® distinction is given every year to ensure companies maintain a culture of social responsibility. 53 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Materiality Climate change and energy Health and safety Human rights Economic value We use a materiality analysis management creation to determine how important HIGH Innovation Corporate governance individual sustainability issues are for GCC’s stakeholder Others air emissions Employee relations engagement STAKEHOLDER CONCERN groups. The analysis helps us Logistics and identify and evaluate issues and transportation Ethics and Stakeholder engagement trends that are critical for our transparency success today and in the future. Water management Circular economy MEDIUM Biodiversity management To determine relevant topics for GCC, we considered our Supply chain management Customer relations and strategic objectives, compared customer satisfaction sustainability topics in the Employee development cement industry, identified Market position the topic series of the GRI Standards and examined the Sustainable products relevance of other industry requirements to the business. LOW Risk management This resulted in 20 action areas that we structured, consolidated and allocated to the relevant GRI topic areas. LOW MEDIUM HIGH We conducted an analysis from the stakeholder perspective IMPORTANCE TO GCC and determined the social, economic and environmental impact of our business activities. Governance Economic Environmental Social 54 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Performance Occupational Health and Safety Data 2017 2018 2019 NUMBER OF FATALITIES (DIRECTLY EMPLOYED) 0 0 0 The information in this table was compiled using the Key FATALITY RATE (DIRECTLY EMPLOYED) 0 0 0 Performance Indicators from the NUMBER OF FATALITIES IN CONTRACTORS (INDIRECTLY EMPLOYED) 0 0 0 Global Cement and Concrete NUMBER OF FATALITIES IN THIRD PARTIES 0 0 0 Association. LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (DIRECTLY EMPLOYED) 12.81 10 8.68 LOST TIME INJURY SEVERITY RATE (DIRECTLY EMPLOYED) 299.95 197.68 267.57 LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (INDIRECTLY EMPLOYED & CONTRACTORS) NA NA NA Emissions Monitoring and Reporting UNIT 2017 2018 2019 ABSOLUTE NOX EMISSIONS metric ton NOx/year 3,726 3,768 3,883 SPECIFIC NOX EMISSIONS grams NOx/metric ton clinker 1,643 1,654 1,540 ABSOLUTE SO2 EMISSIONS metric ton SO2/year 288 325 464 SPECIFIC SO2 EMISSIONS grams SO2/metric ton clinker 127 143 184 ABSOLUTE PARTICULATE MATERIAL EMISSIONS metric ton PM/year 20 22 33 SPECIFIC PARTICULATE MATERIAL EMISSIONS grams PM/metric ton clinker 8.8 9.6 13.1 OVERALL COVERAGE RATE OF CLINKER PRODUCED WITH MONITORING OF ALL POLLUTANTS % 81% 84% 100% COVERAGE RATE CONTINUOUS MEASUREMENT OF CLINKER % 62% 58% 62% PRODUCED WITH CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF MAIN POLLUTANTS 55 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Fuels and Materials Use UNIT 2017 2018 2019 SPECIFIC HEAT CONSUMPTION OF CLINKER PRODUCTION MJ/ton clinker 3,987 3,997 3,893 ALTERNATIVE FUELS RATE % 3.5% 2.6% 3.6% BIOMASS FUEL RATE % 6.2% 6.5% 5.5% ALTERNATIVE RAW MATERIALS RATE % 2.1% 2.03% 2.08% CLINKER/CEMENT RATIO % 87.9% 87.8% 88.1% CO2 and Energy Management 2019 UNIT 2017 2018 TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS GROSS million metric tons/year 3.4 3.36 3.48 TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS NET million metric tons/year 3.35 3.32 3.44 SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS GROSS kg/metric ton cementitious material 759 755 754 SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS NET kg/metric ton cementitious material 749 747 744 Water UNIT 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL WATER DISCHARGE = WATER CONSUMPTION m3/year 758,420 1,102,514 1,183,377 AMOUNT OF WATER CONSUMPTION PER UNIT OF PRODUCT liters/metric ton of cementituous 203.9 258.4 262.2 56 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE COMMENT General Disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Core Name of the organization Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.B. de C.V. 102-2 Core Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 4, 12 102-3 Core Location of headquarters Chihuahua, Chihuahua, Mexico 102-4 Core Location of operations 3 Mexico, United States 102-5 Core Ownership and legal form Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.B.de C.V. 102-6 Core Markets served 3 102-7 Core Scale of the organization 4, 23, 44 102-8 Core Information on employees and other workers 44 102-9 Core Supply chain 13 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organization and its supply 7, 27 chain 102-11 Core Precautionary Principle or approach 12 GCC is committed to mitigating the environmental impacts from our operations by managing emissions, biodiversity and water 102-12 Core External initiatives 7, 8, 11, 30 102-13 Core Membership of associations 52, 53 STRATEGY 102-14 Core Statement from senior decision-maker 2 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 25 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 5 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 5 57 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GOVERNANCE 102-18 Core Governance structure 20 102-19 Delegating authority 16, 17, 33 The President of the Board of Administration delegates authority for economic, social and environmental issues to the General Director 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 21 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 21 and social topics workers 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 20-21 committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 21 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 20 vices 102-25 Conflicts of interest 5 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 5, 20 values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body See Annual Report: Members of the Management Board have experience in economic, environment and social affairs 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Information on performance assessment unavailable 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 20 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes workers Managed by the Risk Management and Internal Audit 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics The management team and shareholders meet monthly to review progress on economic, environmental or social initiatives 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability The Chairman of the Board evaluates and approves the reporting and its supply chain Sustainability Report 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Board of Directors meetings held monthly to address critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 20 102-35 Remuneration policies There is no policy; remuneration agreement is established for individual compensation 58 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE COMMENT 102-36 Process for determining remuneration and its supply The Directors establish remuneration based on responsibilities chain 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration The Directors establish remuneration based on responsibilities 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups 14-15 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements 14 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns raised 15 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See Annual Report 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic boundaries 51 102-47 Core List of material topics 54 102-48 Core Restatements of information We had environmental, social and economic effect restatement of information by Trident Plant acquisition 102-49 Core Changes in reporting Because of our acquisition of the Trident Plant, we have (or are in the process of) recalculating all base criteria. 102-50 Core Reporting period 51 102-51 Core Date of most recent report 51 102-52 Core Reporting cycle 51 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report 51 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the 51 “In accordance” core option. GRI Standards 102-55 Core GRI content index 57 102-56 Core External assurance 51 59 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 54 103-2 The management approach and its components 19, 28, 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19, 28, 40 Economics ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 26 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 25 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement GCC has implemented procedures to meet retirement plan goals plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Financial support is available on select projects from Mexico’s CONACYT agency MARKET PRESENCE 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared GCC makes no gender distinction. Currently, there are no posito local minimum wage tions earning minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 20 community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 27 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts See Annual Report PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption All of our subsidiaries are ruled by the Federal Law of Prevention and Federal Law for Identification of Operations with Resources from Illegal Origin 60 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 5 policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken All of our subsidiaries are ruled by the Federal Law of Prevention and Federal Law for Identification of Operations with Resources from Illegal Origin ANTI-COMPETITVE BEHAVIOR 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and See Annual Report monopoly practices Environment MATERIALS 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 34, 56 301-2 Recycled input materials used 34, 56 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Information unavailable ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 29, 31, 56 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization No energy consumption outside the organization 302-3 Energy intensity 31 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 31 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and Information unavailable services WATER AND EFFLUENTS 303-1 Water withdrawal 38, 56 303-2 Water discharge 38, 56 No affected water sources have been identified to date 303-3 Water consumption 38, 56 Recycled water is used for irrigation and control of particulate emissions. BIODIVERSITY 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent 38 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 61 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on There is an impact on biodiversity at cement plant quarries biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 38 Reclamation plans exist for cement plan quarries IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 species with habitats in areas affected by operations EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 35 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 35 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Information unavailable 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 35 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 35 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) No ODS is produced 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 36 significant air emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 47 Majority of water is discharged to municipal sewage 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method A consolidated report of the waste generated is unavailable 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills during reporting period 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not available 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff No impacts to bodies of water by discharge or runoff ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant non-compliance 62 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental Procurement Department is working on the new agreements to criteria add environmental criteria and measure this indicator. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Corporate Procurement Department is also working on measuring actions taken this type of indicators People & Community EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 44 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not proHealth insurance, wellness program, supplementary insurance, vided to temporary or part-time employees seniority awards, retirement program, scholarships, employee discounts 401-3 Parental leave Human Resources Department is also working on measuring this type of indicators LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GCC complies with notice periods defined in bargaining agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees 40 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 40 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases The Organization is working on occupational health to identify related to their occupation such diseases 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Health and safety issues are covered in labor agreements with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee A consolidated report of hours of training is unavailable 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 44 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 44 63 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 20 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Information unavailable NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents of discrimination during reporting period FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Information unavailable association and collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Information unavailable child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Information unavailable forced or compulsory labor SECURITY PRACTICES 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or Human rights addressed in Code of Ethics, which applies to all staff procedures RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous No incidents related to rights of indigenous peoples peoples HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Information unavailable reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures All employees receive training on Code of Ethics 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that Information unavailable include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 64 OUR COMPANY ECONOMICS ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE & COMMUNITY ANNEXES LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 45-47 assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative No significant negative impacts to local communities during impacts on local communities reporting period SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Information unavailable 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Information unavailable taken PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions No political contributions were made CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product PRO-NOM-OO6-STPS-2017 is currently under assessment for and service categories materials handling 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and No incidents during reporting period safety impacts of products and services LOCAL COMMUNITIES 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Cement sack labeling requirements in Mexico labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and No incidents during reporting period service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing No incidents during reporting period communications CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of No substantiated complaints during reporting period customer privacy and losses of customer data SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social No incidents of non-compliance during reporting period and economic area 65
