Communication on Progress For Year 2019 PT. TANDAN SAWITA PAPUA 2020 STATEMENT OF CONTINOUS SUPPORT Jakarta, 29 January, 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PT. Tandan Sawita Papua reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henderi Djunaidi Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Scope of Policies and UNGC Principles Business Actions Taken SDGs Governance Influence Human Rights Principle 1 Business should Employees, Internal  Implement any support and Investors, policies (core Government regurespect the Contractors values, vision lation regarding protection of and mission), Human Rights internationally Code of proclaimed human Conducts and  It is clearly stated rights Company’s in the company’s Regulations regulation that any human rights abuses will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any human rights issues  Training and awareness for staff and stakeholders on human rights aspects  Attanding BHRWG discussions/forums Principle 2 Business should Employees, Internal  To make sure that make sure they are Investors, policies (core no complicit in not complicit in Contractors values, vision human right human rights and mission), abuses within all abuses Code of activities Conducts and Company  Give more Regulations opportunities to local community and other potential worker to joint with the company aligned with company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  Continuing to socialize and implement the company’s regulation regarding the Human Rights, Labour and Environmental Policies to the employee Labour Principle 3 Business should Employees, Internal  Facilitating the uphold the freedom Investors, policies (core establishment of of association and Contractors values, vision worker’s the effective and mission), association recognition to Code of collective Conducts and  Supported the bargaining Company labour activities Regulations such as custom ceremony Principle 4 The elimination of Employees, Internal  No case of forced all form of forced Investors, policies (core and compulsory and compulsory Contractors values, vision labour in PT. TSP labour and mission), Code of  To ensure fair Conducts and payment for wages Company based on Regional Regulations Minimum Wage  Conducting the Training program for local labour  Implementing Performance Development Review Principle 5 The effective Employees, Internal  Whereby we abolition of child Investors, policies (core committed to labour Contractors values, vision support the and mission), abolition of child Code of labour by ensuring Conducts and that there are no Company children in the Regulations working areas  To ensure that there are no children in the working areas which will potentially lead to child labour, some actions have been taken: 1. Put more Sign Board/Warning Signs on the sites 2. Clearly stated in our company regulations the minimum age for workers 3. Intensively communication to local workers not to bring their children to work sites Principle 6 The elimination of Employees, Internal  Give more discrimination in Investors, policies (core opportunities to respect of Contractors values, vision local community employment and and mission), and other potential occupation Code of worker to joint Conducts and with the company Company aligned with Regulations company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  New job position/required published on Newspaper/Job Consultant  Continuous New Trainee Assistant Program  Cleary declared with updated agreement with recruitment agencies Environment Principle 7 Business should Employees, Internal  It is clearly stated support a Investors, policies (core in the company’s precautionary Contractors values, vision vision: “to be a approach to and mission), dynamic plantation environmental Code of company of choice challenge Conducts and reputed for its Company distinct socioRegulations economic and sustainability values”.  Continuous socialization of the company's regulation regarding Environment Policies to all employee  Fulfilled the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) and Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) requirements Principle 8 Undertake Employees, Internal  Socialized & initiatives to Investors, policies (core implemented the promote greater Contractors values, vision company’s environmental and mission), regulation responsibility Code of regarding Conducts and Environmental Company Policies to the Regulations employee  Fulfilled the ISPO and RSPO requirements regarding the environment issues  Conservation Area/preservation on High Conservation Value (HCV) area, Water Way Buffer Zone already identified  Implementation of plantation best practice management Principle 9 Encourage the Employees, Internal  Implementing development and Investors, policies (core minimum tillage diffusion of Contractors values, vision environmentally and mission),  Implementing the friendly Code of use of beneficial technologies Conducts and plant and barn owl Company Regulations  Implementing Reuse and Recycle policies  Plan to utilize POME for Biogas Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should Employees, Internal  Give training on work against Investors, policies (core ethical behaviors to corruption in all Contractors values, vision its stakeholders form its forms, and mission), and promoting the including extortion Code of importance of and bribery Conducts and integrity Company Regulations  Implementing open tender  Internal Audit PT. TSP CORPORATE SOCIAL INITIATIVE PROGRAMS In Year 2019, PT. Tandan Sawita Papua carried out various Corporate Social Initiative Programs such as education, health, planting program and involving in disaster relief program. 1. Education Program Conducting education programs will enhance the knowledge and expertise of the local community and improve their living standards. Activities related to education held by PT Tandan Sawita Papua were providing school books, school bus facility and awarding scholarship. SDGs Cover by the program: 2. Improving Quality of Health Health facilities or access to health care is a privilege for local community especially who lives in remote areas. Health initiatives were taken such as medical treatment, nutrition and immunization for children and fogging for eradicating mosquitoes. Other activity such as blood donor in cooperation with Government Hospital also carried out by PT Tandan Sawita Papua in August 2019. SDGs Cover by the program: 3. Community Empowerment and Development The main objective of community development program is to empower local community by providing the necessary skills to improve their welfares. Previous program such as fishery program, animal husbandry and handicraft activity still carried out in Year 2019. SDGs Cover by the program: 4. Culture Preservation and Religious Activities PT. TSP facilitated Christmas up to 21 churches in villages close to its working area, such as Kriku, Amyu, Pikere and Pitewi Villges. SDGs Cover by the program: 5. Planting Program In year 2019, PT. TSP introduced Nutmeg (Myristica fragrans) to local communities as new commodity in generating their household income. The nutmeg seedlings in still in preparation and will be to be distributed to them, and so as technical assistance will be provided. It means to be a long term program, not only in providing household income but also to create better environment. In order to utilize marginal soil, PT. TSP also introduces the cultivation of Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus) which has high economic value and can be use in prevention malaria. It is still in seedlings preparation, and will be distributed to local communities about January 2020. SDGs Cover by the program: 6. Disaster Relief Activities In June 2019, a flood occurred in the Sentani and Jayapura Districts which left many houses inundated and even residents must be displaced. In order to reduce the impact on the affected families, PT TSP in collaboration local government and BNPB (Indonesian National Board for Disaster Mangement) with has provided aids in kind food, cloths, etc. PT. TSP also provided Cacao (Theobroma cacao L.) seedlings for affected people. SDGs Cover by the program: GALLERY Figure 1, 2. Nutmeg Seedlings in Nursery, PT. Tandan Sawit Papua Figure 3. Citronella Seedlings Preperation, PT. Tandan Sawit Papua Figure 4. Citronella Seedlings, PT. Tandan Sawit Papua Figure 5, 6. Cacao Seedlings Aids for Affected People by Sentani Flood Figure 7, 8. Fish Pond Contruction, Amyu Village
